Early Palliative Care for Patients with Advanced Pancreatic Cancer.
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is one of the deadliest cancers. Patients with pancreatic cancer experience marked physical suffering, psychological distress and resource-demanding care at the end-of-life. Therefore, an urgent need exists to evaluate the early specialized palliative care model in a comparative study and across multiple care settings to define quality of life and survival benefits in patients with pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
OTHER: Early Palliative Care
Adjusted mean change in global health status/QoL score at 12 weeks, Adjusted mean change from baseline in global health status/QoL score from the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire at 12 weeks., 12 weeks
Overall survival, Overall survival after randomization, defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., 1 year|Adjusted mean change from baseline in global health status/QoL at 6 and 24 weeks., Adjusted mean change from baseline in global health status/QoL score from the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire at 6 and 24 weeks., 24 weeks|Adjusted mean change from baseline in functional and symptom scales at 6, 12 and 24 weeks, Adjusted mean change from baseline in functional and symptom scales from the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire at 6, 12 and 24 weeks., 24 weeks|Chemotherapy dose intensity., Chemotherapy dose intensity., 24 weeks
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is one of the deadliest cancers. Approximately half of the patients diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer die within 2 months from the diagnosis. Patients eligible for systemic treatment have a median survival of less than one year and often receive limited benefit from chemotherapy, usually with progression of disease after only a few months of treatment. Patients with pancreatic cancer experience marked physical suffering, psychological distress and resource-demanding care at the end-of-life. Complications such as pain, fatigue, malnutrition, cachexia, exocrine insufficiency and diagnosis itself lead to a poor quality of life and are associated with high rates of depression and anxiety.

These invalidating symptoms are best alleviated by attachment to specialized palliative care and by starting this support early in the course of the disease and not just in the terminal phase. Early implementation of specialized palliative care is not a standard of care in Denmark.

Thus, an urgent need exists to evaluate the early, integrated palliative care model in a comparative study and across multiple care settings to define quality of life and survival benefits for patients with pancreatic cancer in Denmark.