Osimertinib and Bevacizumab as Treatment for EGFR-mutant Lung Cancers
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of combining the drugs osimertinib and bevacizumab at different dose levels. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, taking osimertinib and bevacizumab has on the patient and lung cancer. This study will try to find the best dose of osimertinib and bevacizumab given together that does not cause significant side effects. Once the investigators determine that combining osimertinib and bevacizumab is safe, they want to see if the combination is effective in treating lung cancers with the EGFR mutation.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|EGFR-mutant Lung Cancers
DRUG: osimertinib|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Osimertinib Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) (Phase I), The MTD (maximum tolerated dose)/recommended phase 2 dose will be the highest dose level at which \<1 DLT is detected in the first cycle for 6 treated patients. If only 3 patients are treated at a dose level being considered for the MTD, an additional 3 patients will be enrolled., 1 year|Bevacizumab Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) (Phase I), The MTD (maximum tolerated dose)/recommended phase 2 dose will be the highest dose level at which \<1 DLT is detected in the first cycle for 6 treated patients. If only 3 patients are treated at a dose level being considered for the MTD, an additional 3 patients will be enrolled., 1 year|Progression-free Survival (Phase II), Tumor response will be assessed using RECIST 1.1. A CT chest/abdomen/pelvis will be performed to demonstrate all known areas of measurable disease. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 12 months
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of combining the drugs osimertinib and bevacizumab at different dose levels. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, taking osimertinib and bevacizumab has on the patient and lung cancer. This study will try to find the best dose of osimertinib and bevacizumab given together that does not cause significant side effects. Once the investigators determine that combining osimertinib and bevacizumab is safe, they want to see if the combination is effective in treating lung cancers with the EGFR mutation.