The LINFU® U.S. Registry for the in the General Population Without Risk Factors
Adenocyte has developed LINFU®, (Low Intensity Non-Focused Ultrasound excitation of the pancreas) as a method of identifying early, asymptomatic pancreatic cancer and its noninvasive precancerous lesions.. In this study, LINFU® will be evaluated in the general population with no risk factors and who exhibit no signs or symptoms of disease, This study will help determine if LINFU® can be used to help identify early, asymptomatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) or their precursor lesions (PanIn-2, PanIn-3).
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Dysplasia
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: LINFU®
The number of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified with LINFU®, The total number of asymptomatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions (PanIn-2, PanIn-3) identified with LINFU® by analysis of pancreatic fluid will be recorded., 5 years|The change in size of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified with LINFU® will be determined long term, Patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified with LINFU® will be monitored long- term (5 years) by EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS to assess whether these tumors increase in size (measured in mm) and to determine how many require medical or surgical intervention., 5 years
Determine the number of patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified with LINFU® that require medical or surgical intervention, Patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified with LINFU® will be monitored long- term (5 years) by standard imaging studies (EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS) to assess whether these tumors increase and to determine how many require medical or surgical intervention., 5 years
Yearly survival rate of patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas or their noninvasive precursor lesions identified with LINFU®, Patients will be followed by standard imaging studies (EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS) and yearly survival rates of patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified with LINFU® will be recorded., 5 years
Adenocyte has developed a proprietary pancreatic cancer detection method, LINFU®, (Low Intensity Non-Focused Ultrasound excitation of the pancreas) to increase the sensitivity of pancreatic juice cytology. LINFU® consists of analysis of pancreatic fluid collected with the help of low intensity non-focused ultrasound excitation of the pancreas. A contrast agent will be used to create bubbles and possibly increase the number of pancreatic cell we collect for the study. Secretin is also used to increase the number of pancreatic cell excretion to maximize the number of cells collected. A neural network-based computer-assisted system may be used to enhance the analysis of specimens.

In this registry, LINFU® will be studied in patients with no risk factors and who exhibit no signs or symptoms of disease. In this registry, a standardized Case Report Form will be completed for every subject enrolled. Information obtained at baseline will include patient history, clinical and demographic information. The results of all diagnostic tests, surgeries, and biopsies performed after the LINFU® technique for a period of 5 years will be recorded and maintained as clinical registry data. This includes testing and procedures received since enrollment including endoscopic ultrasound-fine-needle aspiration (EUS- FNA),magnetic resonance imaging / magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRI/MRCP), endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), computed tomography (CT), contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS), treatments performed, pathology results, and pancreatic disease history since enrollment.

The registry case report form is the primary data collection instrument for the registry. All data requested on the form must be recorded and these forms will be monitored carefully by the sponsor to ensure they are completely filled out properly.