Osteosarcoma With Resectable Pulmonary Metastasis: A Retrospective Study
According to EURAMOS-1, 17% of osteosarcoma patients were considered to have metastases at diagnosis. In this selected cohort, the reported 5-year EFS from diagnosis of 28% compares well to previous results reported from unselected cohorts of patients with only lung metastases. Resection of pulmonary metastases from osteosarcoma is a treatment option which has been shown to correlate with survival benefit and cure in select individuals. These patients are best addressed in a multidisciplinary fashion, with the involvement of a thoracic surgeon with experience in pulmonary metastasectomy. At the same time, the goal of surgical resection of pulmonary metastases from osteosarcoma is to render the patient completely disease free. "Tumor debulking" or "cytoreductive surgery" with incomplete resection has not demonstrated any survival benefit for patients with pulmonary metastases. Thus open thoracotomy is more preferred than VATS. However over the last decade in China, thoracotomy has not been adopted generally. More patients had chosen VATS or even hypo-fractionation radiotherapy, such as gamma knife, cyber knife and so on as a local treatment method. This study aims to investigate the survival of consecutive patients who had achieved a first complete surgical remission (CR) during combined-modality therapy on neoadjuvant or adjuvant PKUPH-OS protocol so as to discuss reasonable local therapy for resectable pulmonary osteosarcoma metastatic lesions.
Osteosarcoma Metastatic|Pulmonary Disease|Resectable Sarcoma|Survival
PROCEDURE: resection group|RADIATION: radiotherapy group
event-free survival, from local therapy of the pulmonary nodules to any events of progression of disease/last follow-up, 2 year
local recurrence rate, from local therapy of the pulmonary nodules to local recurrence/last follow-up, 2 year|overall survival, from local therapy of the pulmonary nodules to death/last follow-up, 5 year
According to EURAMOS-1, 17% of osteosarcoma patients were considered to have metastases at diagnosis. In this selected cohort, the reported 5-year EFS from diagnosis of 28% compares well to previous results reported from unselected cohorts of patients with only lung metastases. Resection of pulmonary metastases from osteosarcoma is a treatment option which has been shown to correlate with survival benefit and cure in select individuals. These patients are best addressed in a multidisciplinary fashion, with the involvement of a thoracic surgeon with experience in pulmonary metastasectomy. At the same time, the goal of surgical resection of pulmonary metastases from osteosarcoma is to render the patient completely disease free. "Tumor debulking" or "cytoreductive surgery" with incomplete resection has not demonstrated any survival benefit for patients with pulmonary metastases. Thus open thoracotomy is more preferred than VATS. However over the last decade in China, thoracotomy has not been adopted generally. More patients had chosen VATS or even hypo-fractionation radiotherapy, such as gamma knife, cyber knife and so on as a local treatment method. This study aims to investigate the survival of consecutive patients who had achieved a first complete surgical remission (CR) during combined-modality therapy on neoadjuvant or adjuvant PKUPH-OS protocol so as to discuss reasonable local therapy for resectable pulmonary osteosarcoma metastatic lesions.