Intravenous Tranexamic Acid and Intramyometrial Desmopressin Effect on Blood Loss During Laparoscopic Myomectomy.
To evaluate the effect of intravenous tranexamic acid plus intramyometrial desmopressin administration on perioperative blood loss and blood transfusion need in laparoscopic myomectomy operation.
Leiomyoma, Uterine|Intraoperative Blood Loss
DRUG: Tranexamic acid|DRUG: Saline
Perioperative blood loss, The amount of perioperative bleeding will be calculated by measuring the blood volume in the suction device and subtracting the irrigation fluid from the total amount., At the end of the surgery.|Preoperative and postoperative hemoglobin change, Preoperative and postoperative hemoglobin values will be recorded., On postoperative day 0 and day 2
Need for postoperative blood transfusion, Patients who received postoperative blood transfusions will be recorded., Postoperative day 1|Operation time, Operation time will be recorded., At the end of the operation.|Postoperative thrombosis symptoms, Postoperative thrombosis symptoms will be recorded at postoperative first week and 3rd month., At postoperative first week and 3rd month.
Although complication rates such as bleeding are observed to be low in surgeries performed by experienced surgeons, sometimes severe bleeding that may require emergency blood transfusion can be encountered during myomectomy operation. Therefore, various medical treatments such as vasopressin, misoprostol, ascorbic acid are still being sought to reduce the amount of intraoperative bleeding. Tranexamic acid is a lysine-derived drug with an antifibrinolytic effect, which has been used for a long time, especially in orthopedic and cardiovascular surgeries, to stop bleeding and reduce the need for blood transfusions, and is often well tolerated and has few side effects. It has a good safety profile with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Pregnancy Category B and is a drug frequently used in postpartum hemorrhage. It is also used to reduce bleeding in bleeding observed in many gynecological surgeries such as hypermenorrhea, bleeding in intrauterine device application and cervical conization. In the investigator's clinic, intramyometrial desmopressin administration is routinely used in most cases. Although the application of various intraoperative medical treatments in laparoscopic myomectomies has been examined in the literature, there are not enough prospective studies investigating the administration of desmopressin and intravenous tranexamic acid. In the investigator's study, investigators plan to evaluate the effect of the combined use of these two drugs on intraoperative bleeding and the need for blood transfusion compared to placebo.