Suppression of Ovarian Function With Either Tamoxifen or Exemestane Compared With Tamoxifen Alone in Treating Premenopausal Women With Hormone-Responsive Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Estrogen can stimulate the growth of breast tumor cells. Ovarian function suppression combined with hormone therapy using tamoxifen or exemestane may fight breast cancer by reducing the production of estrogen. It is not yet known whether suppression of ovarian function plus either tamoxifen or exemestane is more effective than tamoxifen alone in preventing the recurrence of hormone-responsive breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial studies ovarian suppression with either tamoxifen or exemestane to see how well they work compared to tamoxifen alone in treating premenopausal women who have undergone surgery for hormone-responsive breast cancer.
Estrogen Receptor Positive Breast Cancer|Progesterone Receptor Positive Tumor|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer
DRUG: Exemestane|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Oophorectomy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Tamoxifen|DRUG: Triptorelin
Disease-free Survival, Estimated percentage of patients alive and disease-free at 5 years from randomization, where disease-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to the first appearance of one of the following: invasive breast cancer recurrence at local, regional, or distant site, invasive contralateral breast cancer, second (non-breast) invasive cancer, or death without cancer event; or censored at date of last follow-up., 5-year estimates, reported at a median follow-up of 67 months.
Breast Cancer-free Interval, Estimated percentage of patients alive and disease-free at 5 years from randomization, where breast cancer-free interval is defined as the time from randomization to invasive breast cancer recurrence at local, regional, or distant site, or invasive contralateral breast cancer; or censored at date of last follow up., 5-year estimates, reported at a median follow-up of 67 months.|Distant Recurrence-free Interval, Estimated percentage of patients alive and disease-free at 5 years from randomization, where distant recurrence-free Interval is defined as the time from randomization to invasive breast cancer recurrence at distant site, or invasive contralateral breast cancer; or censored at date of last follow up., 5-year estimates, reported at a median follow-up of 67 months.|Overall Survival, Estimated percentage of patients alive at 8 years from randomization, where overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause; or censored at date last known alive., 8-year estimates, reported at a median follow-up of 8 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the disease-free survival, breast cancer-free interval, distant recurrence-free interval and overall survival of premenopausal women with endocrine-responsive breast cancer when treated with tamoxifen + ovarian function suppression (by triptorelin, oophorectomy, or ovarian irradiation) or exemestane + ovarian function suppression vs. tamoxifen alone. The primary comparison is ovarian function suppression with either tamoxifen or exemestane vs. tamoxifen alone.
* Compare the quality of life, including late side effects of early menopause, of patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating center, prior adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no), and number of positive axillary and/or internal mammary lymph nodes (0 vs 1 or more) and intended initial method of ovarian function suppression (triptorelin vs oophorectomy vs ovarian irradiation). Treatment duration is 5 years. Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 5 years, and then annually thereafter. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 4 years.