Prevention of Chemotherapy Induced Nausea and Vomiting in Breast Cancer Patients.
For breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy regimens, the use of a validated emesis (nausea and vomiting) risk calculator will provide superior anti-emetic (nausea and vomiting) control compared with "standard" anti-emetic regimen. The risk calculator has the potential to provide more individualized anti-emetic regimen by decreasing the use of toxic/costly anti-emetics in patients at low risk and possibly more importantly enhancing the appropriate anti-emetic regimen in patients at high risk.
Emesis
DRUG: Dexamethasone, Ondansetron, Aprepitant|OTHER: Arm A: Standard Anti-emetic regimen
Incidence of change in acute emesis (nausea and/or vomiting) in both study arms, The modified FLIE questionnaire is a patient-reported measure of the impact of chemotherapy induced emesis on daily life. It is a short, self administered instrument containing two domains-one for nausea (9 items) and one for vomiting (9 items). The modified FLIE questionnaire will be administered before the initiation of chemotherapy and on days 1 and 6, and prior to each cycle while on study. Responses to each question are scored on a 1- to 7-point scale as described in the FLIE Scoring Manual. For this study, "minimal or no impact of CINV on daily life" is defined as an average score of more than 6 on the 7-point scale. Additional data will be collected to assess physician anti-emetic prescribing habits as compared to published guidelines., Prior to each chemotherapy cycle every 3 weeks, at 24hrs post chemotherapy and at day 6 post chemotherapy for a total of 12 weeks
Incidence of change in the delayed emesis (nausea and/or vomiting) in both study arms, The modified FLIE questionnaire is a patient-reported measure of the impact of chemotherapy induced emesis on daily life. It is a short, self administered instrument containing two domains-one for nausea (9 items) and one for vomiting (9 items). The modified FLIE questionnaire will be administered before the initiation of chemotherapy and on days 1 and 6, and prior to each cycle while on study. Responses to each question are scored on a 1- to 7-point scale as described in the FLIE Scoring Manual. For this study, "minimal or no impact of CINV on daily life" is defined as an average score of more than 6 on the 7-point scale. Additional data will be collected to assess physician anti-emetic prescribing habits as compared to published guidelines., Prior to each chemotherapy cycle every 3 weeks, at 24hrs post chemotherapy and at day 6 post chemotherapy for a total of 12 weeks
Difference in breakthrough anti-emetic use in the emesis risk model group compared to the standard arm; i.e.: requirements for additional oral and parenteral anti-emetics during a single chemotherapy cycle, The modified FLIE questionnaire is a patient-reported measure of the impact of chemotherapy induced emesis on daily life. It is a short, self administered instrument containing two domains-one for nausea (9 items) and one for vomiting (9 items). The modified FLIE questionnaire will be administered before the initiation of chemotherapy and on days 1 and 6, and prior to each cycle while on study. Responses to each question are scored on a 1- to 7-point scale as described in the FLIE Scoring Manual. For this study, "minimal or no impact of CINV on daily life" is defined as an average score of more than 6 on the 7-point scale. Additional data will be collected to assess physician anti-emetic prescribing habits as compared to published guidelines., Prior to each chemotherapy cycle every 3 weeks, at 24hrs post chemotherapy and at day 6 post chemotherapy for a total of 12 weeks
For breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy regimens, the use of a validated emesis (nausea and vomiting) risk calculator will provide superior anti-emetic (nausea and vomiting) control compared with "standard" anti-emetic regimen. The risk calculator has the potential to provide more individualized anti-emetic regimen by decreasing the use of toxic/costly anti-emetics in patients at low risk and possibly more importantly enhancing the appropriate anti-emetic regimen in patients at high risk.