FID-007 in Treating Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of PEOX-based polymer encapsulated paclitaxel FID-007 (FID-007) in treating participants with malignant neoplasms that have spread to other places in the body and do not respond to treatment. FID-007 is a packaged form of the chemotherapy drug paclitaxel, and uses a polyethylozaxoline (PEOX) polymer which may allow the drug to reach deeper into tumors and less into normal cells by being smaller.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: PEOX-based Polymer Encapsulated Paclitaxel FID-007|OTHER: Pharmacokinetic Study
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of PEOX-based polymer encapsulated paclitaxel FID-007 (FID-007), Will be evaluated according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03 and summarized by dose level, cycle, organ system and type., After first cycle (28 days)|Incidence of adverse events, Will be reported using the CTCAE version 4.03., Up to 2 years
Clinical anti-tumor response (Complete Response [CR] and Partial Response [PR]), Will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of FID-007 and the recommended phase II dose (RP2D).

II. To determine the pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel, (free and total) in patients treated with FID-007.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the safety and tolerability of FID-007 by assessing toxicities per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.)4.3.

II. To obtain a preliminary assessment of anti-tumor activity of FID-007 via objective radiologic tumor response using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate in a preliminary fashion the serum concentration of total paclitaxel and free paclitaxel, and explore potential associations with serum concentrations, efficacy and toxicity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

Participants receive FID-007 intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up periodically.