Mobile Health Intervention to Support Oral Chemotherapy Adherence in Adolescents and Young Adults With Leukemia
This is a small-scale micro-randomized clinical trial of a new mobile just-in-time adaptive intervention (JITAI) designed to promote oral chemotherapy adherence in adolescents and young adults (AYA) with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The goals of this study are to determine intervention feasibility and acceptability.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Lymphoblastic Lymphoma
BEHAVIORAL: ADAPTS (ADherence Assessments and Personalized Timely Support).
Technical Difficulties, Number of technical glitches and errors experienced in implementing the intervention, 28-day intervention period|Retention Rate, Number of AYA (and caregiver) subjects who complete the intervention, out of the total number of subjects enrolled in the study (target of 75% or more), Up to 12 months|Screening Rate, Number of AYA patients (and matched caregivers) referred and screened for the study, Up to 12 months|Intervention Engagement, Number of 1) viewed and 2) acknowledged micro-randomized text messages, 28-day intervention period|Recruitment Rate, Number of AYA patients (and matched caregivers) enrolled in the study out of those who were eligible and invited to participate (target of 75% or more), Up to 12 months|Intervention Acceptability, 5-point numerical Likert scale; ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (completely) to rate intervention acceptability (including satisfaction, appropriateness, perceived positive effects, potential for future use)., At completion of 28-day intervention period
This is two-month study involving a 28-day run-in period (no intervention), followed by a 28-day micro-randomized pilot trial (i.e., a sequential factorial design) of a just-in-time adaptive intervention (JITAI) called ADAPTS (ADherence Assessments and Personalized Timely Support). ADAPTS is an app that integrates contextually-tailored mobile messages designed to promote adherence to an oral chemotherapy called 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP). Participants in the study will electronically-monitor 6-MP adherence with eCAPs for 28 days (approximately one month to establish baseline adherence before introducing the intervention). On approximately Day 29, they will download and use the app while continuing to monitor their adherence for the next 28 days. ADAPTS is an app that is available for Android and Apple devices, and has an Adolescent/Young Adult (AYA) version (i.e., the primary user) and a Caregiver version. ADAPTS delivers ecological momentary assessment (EMA) surveys each afternoon to AYAs and caregivers, at the same time prior to the evening 6-MP dose, for the 28-day period. Based on EMA responses, ADAPTS sends contextually-tailored mobile messages to AYAs (e.g., based on self-reported fatigue, mood) and objective data (e.g., weekend vs. weekday). After receiving a contextually-tailored message, AYAs will be asked to acknowledge receipt of the message by pressing a "thumbs up" or "thumbs down" button, to indicate whether or not they liked the message, or a "snooze" button indicating that it was not a good time to receive the message. Some features in ADAPTS are designed for AYAs and their caregivers to use together, such as a medication calendar that syncs with the eCAP and can be viewed by both members of the dyad. Following the 28-day intervention period, eCAPS will be returned and downloaded during the clinic appointment. AYAs and caregivers will complete a brief acceptability survey electronically via REDCAP, rating ADAPTS on a 5-point Likert scale to assess satisfaction, perceived appropriateness, perceive positive effects, perceived demands, and potential for future use. Exit interviews will also be conducted, audio-recorded, and transcribed to further assess acceptability. For feasibility, the following variables will be tracked: (1) screening rates, (2) recruitment rates, (3) % acknowledged micro-randomized messages, (4) technical difficulties (e.g., micro-randomized messages received when intended), (5) retention rates, and (6) completed assessments (EMA, eCAPS, post-measures).