Study of First-line Camrelizumab With or Without Chemotherapy for Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Camrelizumab or Camrelizumab plus chemotherapy in patients with untreated, advanced ESCC with PD-L1 CPS≥10 ,who have been achieved PR and CR after treated with Camrelizumab.
Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Camrelizumab
DOR, DOR was defined as the time from the first documented a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) to progressive disease (PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of ≥1 new lesions was also considered PD) as assessed using RECIST v1.1.Median DOR as assessed by blinded independent central review per RECIST 1.1 is presented for participants who receive Camrelizumab with or without chemotherapy for advanced esophageal squamous cell cancer with a PD-L1 CPS ≥10., Up to 12 months
PFS, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of ≥1 new lesions was also considered PD. Median PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review per RECIST 1.1 is presented for participants who receive Camrelizumab with or without chemotherapy for advanced esophageal squamous cell cancer with a PD-L1 CPS ≥10., Up to 12 months|OS, OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Median OS in participants who receive Camrelizumab with or without chemotherapy for advanced esophageal squamous cell cancer with a PD-L1 CPS ≥10., Up to 24 months|ORR, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) as assessed using RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants with SCC of the esophagus who experienced a CR or PR is presented., Up to 12 months
Standard 1L chemotherapy for advanced or metastatic esophageal squamous cell cancer(ESCC) results in poor OS(median\<1year).Camrelizumab provided superior OS versus chemotherapy in heavily pretreated advanced/rucurrent ESCC.PD-1 antibody +chemo showed promisng antitumor activity in 1L advanced or metastatic ESCC.PD-L1 expression by CPS at cutoff≥10 has shown better enrichment for efficacy fo checkpoint inhibitors in ESCC.Recently, two clinical trials on Pembrolizumb have attracted our attention,KEYNOTE-181 and KEYNOTE-590.The median duration of response was 9.3 months in pembrolizumab monotherapy (KEYNOTE-181) ,and 8.3 months in Pembrolizumb plus chemotherapy (KEYNOTE-590). We hypothesis that administration of the PD-1 inhibitor will significantly prolong survival compared to PD-1 inhibitor combined with chemotherapy, when used as maintenance therapy in patients sensitive to PD-1 inhibitors.