Olaparib and High-Dose Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Lymphomas Undergoing Stem Cell Transplant
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of olaparib when given together with high-dose chemotherapy in treating patients with lymphomas that have come back or does not treatment and are undergoing stem cell transplant. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as olaparib, vorinostat, gemcitabine, busulfan, and melphalan, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving olaparib and high-dose chemotherapy together may work better in treating patients with relapsed/refractory lymphomas undergoing stem cell transplant than with chemotherapy alone.
Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Olaparib|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|OTHER: Pharmacokinetic Study|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Vorinostat
Dose limiting toxicities (DLT), All adverse events will be tabulated by dose, and a Bayesian DLT curve will be fit., Up to 30 days
Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier. Participants without an event at the analysis time point (2 years) will be censored., At 2 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS will be estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier. Patients without an event at the analysis time point (2 years) will be censored. EFS is the time to relapse, secondary hematological malignancy, death, whichever occurred first, or last follow-up., At 2 years|Objective response (OR), OR will be tabulated by dose, and a Bayesian DLT curve will be fit., Up to 100 days|Complete response (CR), CR will be tabulated by dose, and a Bayesian DLT curve will be fit., At 100 days|Incidence of adverse events, All adverse events will be tabulated by dose, and a Bayesian DLT curve will be fit., At 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of olaparib combined with vorinostat/gemcitabine/busulfan/melphalan with autologous stem-cell transplant \[ASCT\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the 2-year event-free survival (EFS). II. 2-year overall survival (OS). III. Complete remission (CR) rate. IV. Overall remission rate (ORR). V. Describe the toxicity profile. VI. Describe changes of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage response and repair, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibition and downstream cellular effects in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and, when available, malignant lymphocytes obtained by fine needle aspiration (FNA) of peripheral lymph nodes.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of olaparib.

Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -11 to -3, vorinostat PO on days -10 to -3, gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 4.5 hours on days -9 and -4, busulfan IV over 3 hours on day -9 to -6, melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -4 and -3, and undergo peripheral blood stem cell transplant IV over 30-60 minutes on day 0. Patients with CD20+ tumors also receive rituximab IV over 3-6 hours on day -10.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 1-2 days for 30 days and then every 2 weeks for up to 100 days.