Multimodal Prehabilitation in Colorectal Cancer Patients
Postoperative complications can occur in up to 50% of individuals undergoing colorectal resection and are associated with poor prognosis, increased costs, and lower health-related quality of life. Even in the absence of complications, after major surgery, patients reduce their physiological and functional capacity by 20-40% and show a higher level of fatigue for 6-8 weeks. Many of these negative effects can be decreased by applying specific ERAS (Enhanced Recovery After Surgery) programs which, by attenuating the neuro-endocrine response induced by surgical trauma, accelerate patients\&#39; post-operative convalescence and facilitate their return to functional activities.

In this study, the research group hypothesizes that a prehabilitation program based on physical exercise, nutritional optimization and psychological support (trimodal) carried out by patients in the 4 weeks before elective colorectal resection surgery can determine: 1) better physical performance 8 weeks after surgery (measured by the 6-minute walk test), 2) a possible decrease in postoperative complications, and 3) a reduction in in-hospital (direct) and post-hospital discharge (indirect) costs.
Colon Cancer|Prehabilitation
OTHER: Trimodal prehabilitation
Postoperative functional capacity, The primary outcome for functional capacity was measured by the 6-Minute Walking Test (6MWT), chosen as a validated, objective measure of colorectal surgery recovery integrating all components of physical activity., From enrollment to the end of treatment at 8 weeks after surgery
Post-operative complications, To evaluate post-operative complications, the Clavien-Dindo classification has been used as a combined measure of morbidity and mortality., Within 30 days after surgery|Hospital length of stay, To evaluate the length of postoperative hospital stay, Within 30 days after surgery
This study aims to determine the effect of prehabilitation on patients\&#39; functional capacity and postoperative complications. It is a randomized trial including 112 patients undergoing colorectal surgery for cancer. Patients will be allocated to intervention group receiving 4 weeks trimodal prehabilitation (N=56) or control group receiving no prehabilitation (N=56). After surgery, both groups will follow 8 weeks rehabilitation based on Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) guidelines. The primary endpoint is functional capacity, secondary outcomes include postoperative complications and a cost-effectiveness analysis. Multimodal prehabilitation is expected to increase functional capacity and lower postoperative complications.