Evaluate the Safety and Effectiveness of Intranasal Administration of Temozolomide in Patients With Glioblastoma
The purpose of this pilot study is to determine the safety, tolerability, and the maximum tolerated dose intranasal administration of temozolomide (TMZ) as a single agent in Treatment on the patients with GBM.

Intranasal administration is a new method of treating brain tumours for the direct administration of drugs, inhibitors or viruses, with minimal involvement of the BBB. The investigators know the orally prescribed standard chemotherapy temozolomide (TMZ) is widely used to treat glioma tumours.

Received evidence of safety and efficacy in a full cycle of preclinical trials (on GLP Standart) and tests of calculated doses of intranasal administration of TMZ in healthy volunteers.

Intranasal administration of temozolomide is considered as GBM therapy, which provides direct access to a therapeutic dose of the drug into the brain (to the neoplastic process) with low toxicity
Glioma, Malignant|Gliosarcoma|Astrocytoma of Brain
DRUG: Intranasal Modified Temozolomide
The randomized study to determine the safety of Intranasal Administration of modified Temozolomide., Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events will be estimated by the number of participants with Glioblastoma or Gliosarcoma according to the NCI CTC (5.0) with adverse events (AE) in all cohorts., up to 60 days (or withdrawal of consent or another discontinuation criterion) from date of randomization
The maximum tolerated therapeutic dose (MTD) of modified Temozolomide for intranasal administration, In the present study, the maximum dose of modified Temozolomide for intranasal administration is 200 mg / M2 a single daily intranasal administration in a course of 5 days. The frequency of adverse events, unacceptable toxicity, or haematological reactions is estimated on a scale the NCI CTCAE (v. 5.0), up to 90 days (or withdrawal of consent or another discontinuation criterion) from date of randomization
Percentage of Participants Alive 6 Months After Start of Treatment of Temozolomide for intranasal administration, Overall survival (OS) will be determined as the time in days from the start of treatment ( randomizations day ) to death due to any cause was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method.

If it was not known for certain that the participant to die, time will be censored at the last date the participant with GBM or Gliosarcomawas known to be alive, date of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), etc, - assessment, which will be defined as the latest among the date of the last visit., 180 days|The effectiveness of intranasal administration of modified Temozolomide, The effectiveness of the intranasal administration of modified Temozolomide will be evaluated by four MRIs with perfusion (first MRI performed one day before randomization day). The results of all MRI in dynamics will be appreciated by a consultation of radiologists., up to 90 days (or withdrawal of consent or another discontinuation criterion) from date of randomization
The investigators are trying to evaluate a clinically potentially effective intranasal way of delivering TMZ to the brain, taking into account the anatomical structure of os ethmoidal.

The most important factor in the effectiveness of the drug is the achievement of an adequate amount of the active agent in its unbound state with albumin on the blood of a patient and the exposure time to the tumour process. Failure to comply with this requirement (difficulties in overcoming the BBB) was identified as the main obstacle to the successful treatment of all types of brain tumours. Translation to improved clinical outcomes in a patient with GBM has not yet been realized. The investigators will use modified temozolomide (without changing the chemical formula) to exclude as much as possible Anosmia, Hyposmia and other violation of the identification of odours with participants.