Endoscopic Pancreatic Duct Stenting for Relief of Obstructive Pain in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer
This research is being done to assess the effects of pancreatic duct stenting on relief of obstructive pain (pain due to outflow obstruction of main pancreatic duct) caused by pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
DEVICE: Pancreatic Duct Stent Placement
Abdominal pain severity score (Efficacy), The severity of abdominal pain assessed by visual Analog Scale (VAS) score ranging from 0 (no pain)-10 (the most severe pain). This will be measured at baseline (before procedure), and at 1 week, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, and 6 months after procedure, 6 months|Complications (Safety), Related complications within 30 days of endoscopic therapy will be recorded., 6 months
Pain relief, Categorized as: ''complete pain relief,'': the patient has no residual pain; ''major pain relief,'': the patient still experiences weak or occasional episodes of pain, with a maximum of 3 of 10 on the pain scale, or a reduction by at least 3 points on the same scale compared with before the procedure; and ''absence of pain relief,'': there is only minor or no improvement of the pain pattern, 6 months|Pain free duration, Defined as pain free days after procedure. This will also be defined prior to the procedure., 6 months|Quality of life (QOL), Determine improvement in QOL of patients after PD stenting. QOL will be assessed using a specific instrument for patients with pancreatic cancer, the EORTC-QLQ-Pan26 instrument, at baseline, 4 and 12 weeks and 6 months after procedure., 6 months|Opioid dose, Required opioids dose will be documented before and 1, 4, and 12 weeks after procedure. Both scheduled and PRN (as needed) doses will be recorded before and after procedure. Dose adjustment will be carried as per standard clinical practice., 6 months|Intervention time, Time required from introduction of the upper endoscope until placement of the PD stent., Intra-procedural|Technical success, Success of stent placement in the desired location as determined endoscopically and radiographically., Intra-procedural|Patency of PD stenting, Determine PD patency which is defined as time period between stent placement and need for re-intervention due to stent obstruction or stent migration., 6 months|Post-ERCP pancreatitis, The severity of pancreatitis will be classified according to Cotton's criteria as: mild if additional hospitalization for 1-3 d is required; moderate if additional hospitalization for 4-10 day is required; and severe if hospitalization for more than 10 d is needed, as well as in cases of hemorrhagic pancreatitis, phlegmon, or pseudocyst, 6 months|Need for surgery, Any need for operation after endoscopic therapy., 6 months|Survival, Patient's survival after PD stenting, 6 months
Although most people with pancreatic cancer (80-85%) suffer distressing pain, it is poorly controlled. Currently, medical management has been focused on frequent use of opioid painkillers (narcotics) which are associated with several complications. Pain in pancreatic cancer is mainly caused by tumor invasion to nerves near pancreatic gland, but in certain patients with pancreatic cancer, pain is believed to be obstructive in nature and is due to outflow obstruction of main pancreatic duct (PD) which extracts pancreatic secretions. This kind of pain is specifically marked by pain occurring after eating. With this respect, decompression of pancreatic duct has been associated with pain relief in people with chronic inflammation of pancreas due to obstruction of its main duct (chronic pancreatitis). Therefore; we think that it might be beneficial in the management of obstructive pain in people with pancreatic cancer.

Endoscopic stenting of pancreatic duct is a way for decompression and appears to be effective and safe palliative (pain relief) treatment for pain management in patients with chronic pancreatitis. Besides safety, pancreatic stenting seems to be associated with a significant decrease in amount of required opioids and analgesic drugs (and their side effects) for pain management, and may improve patients' quality of life. There are only a few old reports about beneficial effects of endoscopic pancreatic duct decompression for relief of obstructive pain in pancreatic cancer. Currently, we have improved stents. Since prior clinical practice has shown that pain improves, we plan to place stents with the expectation that pain will improve. We hope that it will decrease need for recurrent hospitalizations for pain control and decrease in need for medications (narcotics) and medication side effects, and also will improve the quality of life. Specific instruments will be applied as research tools to monitor pain score and quality of life before and after pancreatic duct stenting in this study.