Clinical Study of Redirected Autologous T Cells With a Chimeric Antigen Receptor in Patients With Malignant Tumors
A single arm, open-label pilot study is designed to determine the safety, efficacy and cytokinetics of CAR T cells in patients with malignant tumors with positive antigen targets.

CAR T cells are genetically engineered to express single-chain variable fragment (scFv) targeting indication-specific antigens.

The investigational CAR T cells and proposed indications are as follows:

CAR-CD19 T cells for B cell leukaemia/lymphoma; CAR-BCMA T cells for myeloma; CAR-GPC3 T cell for hepatocellular carcinoma; CAR-CLD18 T cells for pancreatic carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of esophagogastric junction.
B Cell Lymphoma|B Cell Leukemia|Myeloma|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Pancreatic Carcinoma|Adenocarcinoma of Esophagogastric Junction
GENETIC: CAR-CD19 T cell|GENETIC: CAR-BCMA T cell|GENETIC: CAR-GPC3 T cell|GENETIC: CAR-CLD18 T cell|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Number of participants with CRA T-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.03, Number of participants with study related adverse events which are defined as laboratory toxicities and clinical events that are possible, likely or definitely related to study treatment at any time from the infusion until week 24, including infusion related toxicity and any toxicity possibly related to CAR T cells., 24 weeks
Engraftment, Duration of in vivo survival of CAR T cells is defined as "engraftment". The primary engraftment endpoint is the number of DNA vector copies per mL blood of CAR T cells at regular intervals through 24 hours following the initial infusion. PCR for CAR T vector sequences will be performed until any 2 sequential tests are negative, documented as engraftment of CAR T cells., 2 years
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Determine anti-tumor responses to CAR T cell infusion by the length of time during and after the treatment of the malignancy that the patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse., 5 years for BCMA, 2 years for GPC3, CD19 and Claudin 18.2|Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), Determine anti-tumor responses to CAR T cell infusion by time to tumor progression., 5 years for BCMA, 2 years for GPC3, CD19 and Claudin 18.2|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Determine anti-tumor responses to CAR T cell infusion by proportion of patients who demonstrate response to treatment., 2 years|Objective Remission Rate (ORR), Determine anti-tumor responses to CAR T cell infusion by percentage of patients who have achieved complete response or partial response., 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Determine anti-tumor responses to CAR T cell infusion by time from study enrollment until death., 5 years for BCMA, 2 years for GPC3, CD19 and Claudin 18.2|Number of DNA copies of CAR T cells in tissue samples, The number of DNA copies of CAR-BCMA T cells in lymph node samples or bone marrow samples at regular intervals through 24 hours following the initial infusion., 2 years|Anti-drug antibody, Detect positive rate and titer of anti-drug antibody (ADA)., 2 years|Changes of cell subsets for CAR T cells against T cells, Observe the changes of cell subsets for CAR T cells against T cells (Tcm, central memory T lymphocytes; Tem, effector memory T lymphocytes; Treg, regulatory T-lymphocytes)., 2 years
This study is designed to determine the safety, tolerability and engraftment potential of lentivirus-transduced CAR T cells in patients with malignant tumors.

Primary objectives:

1. Determine the safety and tolerability of CAR T cells (autologous T cells transduced with chimeric antigen receptors recognizing CD19, BCMA, GPC3 and Claudin18.2) in patients with malignant tumors (B-cell lymphoblastic leukaemia/lymphoma, myeloma, hepatocellular carcinoma, pancreatic carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of esophagogastric junction).
2. Observe the cytokinetics of CAR T cells.

Secondary objectives:

1. Observe the efficacy of CAR T cells in patients with malignant tumors.
2. Make an evaluation on the distribution and in vivo survival of CAR T cells in targeted tissues.
3. Observe the immunogenicity of CAR T cells, and determine if there are anti-scFv cellular immune response and anti-scFv humoral immune response.
4. Observe the changes of cell subsets for CAR T cells against T cells (Tcm, central memory T lymphocytes; Tem, effector memory T lymphocytes; Treg, regulatory T-lymphocytes).