Single Agent Versus Combination Chemotherapy to Treat High-risk Elderly With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This study will enroll elderly patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer who are at high risk of developing chemotherapy toxicity (side effects). Patients will receive treatment with either a platinum-based doublet chemotherapy with carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel or single agent nab-paclitaxel of chemotherapy. Response to treatment and treatment toxicity will be compared in the two treatment groups to determine the best treatment strategy for this group of patients.
Carcinoma, Non-small Cell Lung
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Treatment Failure-free Survival, 90 days
Overall Response Rate, start of treatment to disease progression/recurrence, up to 12 months|Progression-free Survival, start of treatment to disease progression, up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Up to 12 months|Grade 3-5 Adverse Events, Adverse events were characterized using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Up to week 13|Symptom Assessment (Measured by FACT-L Symptom Assessment Scale), The FACT-L is measure of symptoms associated with lung cancer. The higher the score, the greater the symptoms. A maximum score of 136 could be obtained., baseline|Symptom Assessment (Measured by FACT-L Symptom Assessment Scale), The higher the score, the greater the symptoms. The FACT-L is measure of symptoms associated with lung cancer. The higher the score, the greater the symptoms. A maximum score of 136 could be obtained. Symptoms were measured following 2 21-day cycles of chemotherapy., week 6|Symptom Assessment (Measured by FACT-L Symptom Assessment Scale), The FACT-L is measure of symptoms associated with lung cancer. The higher the score, the greater the symptoms. Symptoms were measured following 4 21-day cycles of chemotherapy., week 12
The primary objective of this trial is to compare the treatment failure-free survival rate in high-risk elderly patients, identified by geriatric assessment, treated with either a platinum-based doublet chemotherapy with carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel or single agent nab-paclitaxel in advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Treatment failure-free survival is the most appropriate primary outcome as it captures excessive toxicity due to chemotherapy in addition to death and disease progression.

The secondary objectives are to evaluate grade 3-5 toxicities, overall response rate, progression free survival, symptom assessment, and overall survival between the two randomization arms.