Comparison of Transvaginal Paracervical and Transperitoneal Approaches in Lymphadenectomy During v-NOTES Surgery for Patients Diagnosed With Endometrial Cancer
The aim of this study is to compare two types of lymphadenectomy (transperitoneal vs. paracervical) during the lymphadenectomy phase of endometrial cancer staging surgery performed using V-NOTES, a new and advanced technique. This study seeks to optimize the V-NOTES technique for endometrial cancer staging. This randomized, prospective, controlled study will include patients diagnosed with endometrial cancer via histology, following physical examination and imaging, and who are electively scheduled for the V-NOTES endometrial cancer staging procedure. Patients will be randomized into two groups: the transvaginal paracervical lymphadenectomy group and the transperitoneal lymphadenectomy group. The parameters related with surgical and functional outcomes will be compared in both groups.
Endometrial Cancer|Lymphadenectomy|Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy|Minimally Invasive Surgical Procedures|Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery
PROCEDURE: Extraperitoneal(transvaginal paracervical sentinel lymphadenectomy) group lymphadenectomy|PROCEDURE: Transperitoneal lymphadenectomy
Total operation duration, The total duration of the operation in minutes, During surgery|Duration of right and left lymphadenectomy, The duration of lymphadenectomies in minutes, During surgery|Number of lymph nodes excised, Lymph node count in the pathology report, Postoperative second week|number of positive lymph nodes, Sentinel positive lymph nodes in the pathology report, Postoperative second week|Hospitalization duration, Number of days patients stayed at the hospital postoperatively, During hospital stay|Total bleeding volume, Measured by the suction bottle's volume and number of surgical gauzse used during surgery, During surgery|Difference between pre- and postoperative hemoglobin values, Hemoglobin level (g/dL), Postoperative 1st day|Surgical complications, Clavien dindo scale of surgical complications, During hospital stay|Location o SLN, The area that sentinel lymph node detected internal iliac, external iliac ,bifurcation or obturator fossa, During surgery|Preoperative and postoperative hematocrit values, Hematocrit level (%), During hospital stay|Tumor's patological features, Histophatology, grade, lymphovascular invasion, tumor diameter(cm), myometrial invasion, stage, total positive lymph node count, Postoperative second week|Management of complications, intraoperative and postoperative complication's management, through study completion|Duration of lateral colpotomy, at transvaginal retroperitoneal procedure ; before the lymphadenectomy we are making and incision to the lateral of cervix .this time describes the time that to reach the obturator fossa to pick the nodes., During surgery|Duration of hysterectomy, minutes, During surgery|Sentinel lymphnode's side and number, number, Postoperative second week
Postoperative pain, visual analogue scale, higher scores indicate worse pain, 3rd and 6th month after operation|Sexual function, assessed by Female Sexual Function Index, higher scores indicate greater satisfaction, at postoperative 3rd and 6th month|Timing of passing gas, Bowel function, During hospital stay|Demographic features, Age, gravidity, parity, previous vaginal delivery, body-mass index, Postoperative second week|Previous abdominal surgery, Medical history, Preoperative day|Initiation of mobilization, After operation the time (hour) that paient is avaliable to mobilize out from the bed, During hospital stay|6th hour and 24th hour VAS score, The visual analog scale (VAS) is a validated, subjective measure for acute and chronic pain. Scores are recorded by making a handwritten mark on a 10-cm line that represents a continuum between "no pain" and "worst pain.", postoperatively 6th and 24th hours score
Surgical staging is often the primary management strategy for endometrial cancer. Sentinel lymph node (SLN) procedures are considered an alternative standard of care in the treatment of significant uterus-confined malignancy. Both accurately estimate nodal status and reduce the surgical morbidity associated with complete lymphadenectomy. Laparoscopic surgery for endometrial cancer has been associated with equal or better quality of life, less blood loss and similar cancer-related outcomes. A new innovation, natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES), has been developed to further reduce morbidity and scarring associated with laparoscopic surgery. NOTES utilizes the natural orifices of the human body for access to the peritoneal cavity when performing endoscopic surgery.

However, there is no standardization in vNOTES SLN mapping and lymph tracers are diverse. Many procedures and tracers have been reported, such as intra- or retroperitoneal surgery, a range of vaginal surgeries, SLN exposure method, and indocyanine green or methylene blue injection, and they lack comparative studies. This study will evaluate feasibility and surgical outcomes by comparing transvaginal paracervical and transperitoneal mapping in vNOTES hysterectomy with SLN procedure in endometrial cancer.

The study is an observational study with a prospective design. It will be implemented in a single institution, specifically Diyarbakır Gazi Yaşargil Training and Research Hospital, which functions as a tertiary cancer treatment facility.

Between March 2025 and December 2025, patients with newly diagnosed clinical early stage (FIGO 2023 stages 1 and 2) endometrial cancer who will be treated with laparoscopic surgical staging with SLN mapping.

According to inclusion and exclusion criteria, the patients will be randomized into two groups: the transvaginal paracervical lymphadenectomy group and the transperitoneal lymphadenectomy group.

Surgical Procedure of transvaginal paracervical sentinel lymphadenectomy group:

All patients(26) will receive V-NOTES with transvaginal paracervical sentinel lymph node (SLN) mapping followed by V-NOTES hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO).

Transperitoneal sentinel lenfadenectomy group's Surgical Procedure:

All patients (26) will receive vNOTES hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) followed by transperitoneal vNOTES sentinel lymph node (SLN) mapping.