Individualized Treatments in Adults With Relapsed/Refractory Cancers
A personalized cancer medicine approach would address therapy resistance, cancer metastasis, and limited options after standard of care is exhausted in advanced cancer participants. This approach may reduce the barriers to approved therapeutic assignment currently limited to a particular cancer type or patient demographic.
Refractory Cancer|Relapsed Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Drug Sensitivity Test (DST)
Treatment recommendation feasibility, Primary objective is to determine feasibility of providing treatment recommendations to relapsed and refractory adult cancer patients based on ex vivo drug sensitivity testing (DST). Feasibility will be demonstrated if it is possible to recommend treatment within 4 weeks in at least 22 of 36 participants (62.5%)., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Treatment recommendation feasibility, Primary objective is to determine feasibility of providing treatment recommendations to relapsed and refractory adult cancer patients based on genomic profiling. Feasibility will be demonstrated if it is possible to recommend treatment within 4 weeks in at least 22 of 36 participants (62.5%)., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
Treatment responsiveness, Treatment responsiveness will be measured by comparing individual outcomes of adult participants with relapsed and refractory cancers treated with DST-guided therapy to non-DST guided (conventional) therapy. To address this goal, the overall response rate will be calculated. A responder to the treatment will be defined as any patient who achieves a best response of "partial response" or "complete response" during the study period. Evaluable patients who demonstrate a complete or partial response confirmed by physician's review will be considered a responder. All other evaluable patients will be considered non- responder. Outcomes will be observed during treatment and follow-up for one year post-treatment or until disease progression, death, or withdrawal, whichever occurs first., Up tp 1 year post-treatment|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival will be measured by comparing individual outcomes of participants with relapsed and refractory cancers treated with DST-guided therapy to non-DST guided (conventional) therapy. DFS will be defined as time from start of treatment to even (treatment failure, relapse, second malignancy, death) or last follow-up for those who are event-free. Outcomes will be observed during treatment and follow-up for one year post-treatment or until disease progression, death, or withdrawal, whichever occurs first., Up tp 1 year post-treatment|Progression-free survival ratio, We will assess changes in progression-free survival from each patient's previous treatment versus their progression-free survival from the treatment assigned during the trial. Assessments will be made both in the DST-guided cohort and the non-DST-guided (conventional) cohort. Analysis will include both the raw ratio as well as the number of incidences of 30% improved PFS on trial versus previous regimen (PFS2/PFS1 \> 1.3x)., Up to 1 year post-treatment
Treatment itself will not be given as part of this trial. The results of the drug sensitivity test (DST) and genomic screening will be used to inform treating physician about participant-specific drug sensitivity or resistance guiding best therapy choices. The physician will decide the most appropriate treatment for each case, with the option to add one or more personalized (assay-guided) drug(s) from the investigational platform. All participants will need to be consented separately for any subsequent investigational treatment if no standard treatment options are available.