Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Monotherapy for Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer (MK-3475-086/KEYNOTE-086)
This is a two-part study of pembrolizumab monotherapy in participants with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC). Part 1 of the study will examine the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab monotherapy as first line or above treatment in participants who have received either no prior systemic treatment or at least one prior systemic treatment for metastatic breast cancer. Part 2 of the study, if done, will expand the investigation of pembrolizumab treatment in a subgroup of participants from Part 1 and will only start after enrollment in Part 1 has been completed. There will be no hypothesis testing in this study.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by Central Imaging Vendor (CIV) in All Cohort A Participants, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: ≥30% decrease in sum of diameters \[SOD\] of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 by CIV. ORR was estimated by Agresti-Coull (A-C) method. The percentage of participants who had CR or PR is reported here as the protocol-specified ORR, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation and analyzed by Cohort, for all participants in Cohort A. Per protocol final ORR analysis in all Cohort A participants was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis, with a 10-November (Nov)-2017 cutoff. Per protocol ORR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in all Cohort A participants was planned and conducted as a pre-specified primary outcome analysis. Per protocol ORR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in all Cohort B participants was analyzed separately as a pre-specified secondary outcome analysis and reported later in the record., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|ORR Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in Subgroup of Cohort A Participants With Programmed Cell Death- Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Positive Tumor Expression, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (≥30% decrease in SOD of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 by CIV. ORR was estimated by A-C method. The percentage of participants who had CR or PR is reported here as the protocol-specified ORR, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation and analyzed by Cohort for the subgroup of Cohort A participants with tumor immunohistochemistry (IHC) defined-PD-L1 positive expression (PD-L1+). Per protocol final ORR analysis in the Cohort A PD-L1+ subgroup was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff. Per protocol all Cohort B participants were PD-L1+ and ORR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in all Cohort B participants was analyzed separately as a pre-specified secondary outcome analysis and reported later in the record., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a pre-existing condition that is temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product is also an AE. Per protocol the number of participants who experienced at least one AE, for the first pembrolizumab course, was assessed from enrollment/treatment initiation of a participant and analyzed by Cohort and is reported here for all participants in Cohort A and Cohort B who received ≥1 dose of study drug., Up to ~31 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Drug Due to an AE, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a pre-existing condition that is temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product is also an AE. Per protocol the number of participants who discontinued study drug due to an AE, in the first pembrolizumab course, was assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation of a participant and analyzed by Cohort and is reported here for all participants in Cohort A and Cohort B who received ≥1 dose of study drug., Up to ~31 months
ORR Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in All Cohort B Participants, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (≥30% decrease in SOD of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 by CIV. ORR was estimated by A-C method. The percentage of participants who had CR or PR is reported here as the protocol-specified ORR, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation and analyzed by Cohort for all participants in Cohort B. Per protocol final ORR analysis in all Cohort B participants was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis, with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff. Per protocol ORR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in all Cohort B participants was planned and conducted as a pre-specified secondary outcome analysis. Per protocol ORR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in all Cohort A participants was analyzed separately as a pre-specified primary outcome analysis and reported earlier in the record., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in All Cohort A and Cohort B Participants, For participants who had CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (≥30% target lesion SOD decrease) per RECIST 1.1 by CIV, DOR was defined as time from first documented CR or PR until progressive disease (PD: ≥20% target lesion SOD increase, ≥5 mm absolute SOD increase; PD is also ≥1 new lesion appearance) or death. DOR for those who didn't progress/die at time of analysis was censored at last tumor assessment. Per protocol DOR for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation, estimated by Kaplan-Meier (KM) method and analyzed by cohort is reported here for all participants in Cohort A and Cohort B who had CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV. Per protocol final DOR analysis in all Cohort A and Cohort B participants was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|DOR Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in Subgroup of Cohort A Participants With PD-L1 Positive Tumor Expression, For participants who had CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (≥30% target lesion SOD decrease) per RECIST 1.1 by CIV, DOR was defined as time from first documented CR or PR until PD (≥20% target lesion SOD increase, ≥5 mm absolute SOD increase; PD is also ≥1 new lesion appearance) or death. DOR for those who didn't progress/die at time of analysis was censored at last tumor assessment. Per protocol DOR for first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation, estimated by KM method and analyzed by Cohort is reported here for subgroup of Cohort A participants with tumor IHC defined-PD-L1 positive expression (PD-L1+) and CR/PR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV. Per protocol final DOR analysis in Cohort A PD-L1+ subgroup was done at time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff. Per protocol all Cohort B participants were PD-L1+ and DOR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in all Cohort B participants was analyzed separately and reported earlier in the record, Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in All Cohort A and Cohort B Participants, DCR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (≥30% target lesion SOD decrease) or SD (not sufficient shrinkage for PR or sufficient increase for PD \[≥20% target lesion SOD increase, ≥5 mm absolute SOD increase; PD is also ≥1 new lesion appearance\]) for ≥24 weeks per RECIST 1.1 by CIV. Per protocol percentage of participants who had CR, PR or SD per RECIST 1.1 by CIV is reported here as DCR, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation, estimated by A-C method and analyzed by Cohort, for all participants in Cohort A and Cohort B. Per protocol final DCR analysis in all Cohort A and Cohort B participants was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis, with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|DCR Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in Subgroup of Cohort A Participants With PD-L1 Positive Tumor Expression, DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who have CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (≥30% target lesion SOD decrease) or SD (not sufficient shrinkage for PR or sufficient increase for PD \[≥20% target lesion SOD increase, ≥5 mm absolute SOD increase; PD is also ≥1 new lesion appearance\]) for ≥24 weeks per RECIST 1.1 by CIV. Per protocol percentage of participants who had CR, PR or SD per RECIST 1.1 by CIV is reported here as DCR for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation, estimated by A-C method and analyzed by Cohort for subgroup of Cohort A participants with tumor IHC defined-PD-L1 positive expression (PD-L1+). Per protocol final DCR analysis in Cohort A PD-L1+ subgroup was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff. Per protocol all Cohort B participants were PD-L1+ and DCR per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in all Cohort B participants was analyzed separately and reported earlier in the record., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in All Cohort A and Cohort B Participants, PFS was defined as the time from first dose of study drug to the first documented PD per RECIST 1.1 by CIV, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1 PD was defined as ≥20% increase in SOD of target lesions and absolute SOD increase of ≥5 mm. Appearance of ≥1 new lesion is also PD. PFS was estimated by KM method. Per protocol PFS, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation and analyzed by Cohort is reported here for all participants in Cohort A and Cohort B. Per protocol final PFS analysis in all Cohort A and Cohort B participants was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified final statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|PFS Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in Subgroup of Cohort A Participants With PD-L1 Positive Tumor Expression, PFS was defined as the time from first dose of study drug to the first documented PD per RECIST 1.1 by CIV, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1 PD was defined as ≥20% increase in SOD of target lesions and absolute SOD increase of ≥5 mm. Appearance of ≥1 new lesion is also PD. PFS was estimated by KM method. Per protocol PFS, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation and analyzed by Cohort is reported here for the subgroup of Cohort A participants with tumor IHC defined-PD-L1 positive expression (PD-L1+). Per protocol final PFS analysis in the Cohort A PD-L1+ subgroup was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff. Per protocol all Cohort B participants were PD-L1+ and PFS per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in all Cohort B participants was analyzed separately and reported earlier in the record., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|Overall Survival (OS) in All Cohort A and Cohort B Participants, OS was defined as the time from the first dose of study drug to death due to any cause. OS was estimated by KM method. Per protocol OS, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation and analyzed by Cohort is reported here for all participants in Cohort A and Cohort B. Per protocol final OS analysis in all Cohort A and Cohort B participants was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|OS in Subgroup of Cohort A Participants With PD-L1 Positive Tumor Expression, OS was defined as the time from the first dose of study drug to death due to any cause. OS was estimated by KM method. Per protocol OS, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation and analyzed by Cohort, is reported here for the subgroup of Cohort A participants with tumor IHC defined-PD-L1 positive expression (PD-L1+). Per protocol final OS analysis in the Cohort A PD-L1+ subgroup was done at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff. Per protocol all Cohort B participants were PD-L1+ and OS in all Cohort B participants was analyzed separately and reported earlier in the record., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)|Odds Ratio of Association Between PD-L1 Tumor Expression and Objective Response (OR) Per RECIST 1.1 by CIV in Cohort A Participants, OR comprises CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (≥30% target lesion SOD decrease) per RECIST 1.1 by CIV. PD-L1 expression is assessed by IHC-defined combined positive score (CPS). Association between (b/w) PD-L1 CPS and OR was assessed by odds ratio using a logistic regression model and was calculated as ratio of odds of OR per unit CPS increase in a single arm (odds ratio=1: no association; odds ratio\<1: negative association \[increase in CPS lowers odds of OR\]; odds ratio \>1: positive association \[increase in CPS raises odds of OR\]). Per protocol odds ratio, for the first pembrolizumab course, assessed from enrolment/treatment initiation and analyzed by Cohort is reported here in a single arm of Cohort A participants with PD-L1 CPS available. Per protocol odds ratio was analyzed at the time of final statistical efficacy analysis with a 10-Nov-2017 cutoff. Per protocol odds ratio of association b/w PD-L1 expression and OR was not planned or done in Cohort B participants., Up to ~28 months (through pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 10-Nov-2017)
Qualified participants who complete up to \~2 years of pembrolizumab treatment but progress after discontinuation may be eligible for a second course of pembrolizumab for up to \~1 additional year, at the Investigator's discretion. Per protocol, response or progression during this second course will not count towards efficacy outcome measure and adverse events during this second course will not count towards safety outcome measures.