Parent Willingness to Participate in Tobacco Trials in the Pediatric Clinical Setting
Little is known about what factors influence parental decisions to participate or to decline participation in tobacco trials offered in the pediatric clinical setting. Further, it is unclear what proportion of parents treated in our setting would elect to receive formal assistance with quitting smoking or consider alternative approaches that could facilitate eventual smoking cessation. While the recommendation to parents is generally to quit smoking, some may be unwilling or unable to quit and prefer more achievable alternative treatment goals. Some parent smokers may be unlikely to participate in an intervention aimed only at cessation but would be willing to participate in an intervention focused on establishing smoke-free environments for their child. Parents are typically not offered a choice regarding the type of intervention they receive and many interventions are not tailored to their readiness to quit smoking or designed to reach multiple family members in the home who may also smoke. Quitting smoking and establishing smoke-free homes and cars are distinct, yet challenging, goals for parents and families. Both approaches can directly, or indirectly, help parents to quit smoking, reduce the child's exposure to second-hand smoke (SHS), and initiate an important dialogue with families about tobacco control. How parental acceptability of smoking interventions is affected by the context of their child's treatment for cancer or SCD, as well as survivorship, warrants further study.
Smoking|Cancer|Sickle Cell Disease
OTHER: Questionnaire
Proportion of parents willing to participate in tobacco trials, The proportion of parents who are willing to participate in a tobacco trial will be determined by affirmative responses to at least one of three questions that assess willingness to participate in a research study focused on smoking cessation, adoption of a smoke-free home and car, and/or enforcement and maintenance of a smoke-free home and car., Once, at enrollment
Following a Behavioral Ecological Model (BEM), this study will assess factors that influence parent's willingness to participate in tobacco trials that emphasize cessation or promotion of smoke-free homes/cars while identifying barriers for implementing these strategies. Information will be obtained from questionnaires completed by parents. This information will be used to suggest an appropriate emphasis for intervention, refine our recruitment strategies, design interventions that maximize participation rates and retention, and better direct our resources and future tobacco control efforts for patients and their families.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

* To estimate the proportion of smoking parents of children with cancer, children with sickle cell disease (SCD), and childhood cancer survivors who are willing to participate in tobacco trials offered in the context of their child's medical care.