Mass Spectrometry in Single Bladder Cancer Cells
The study is a pilot study in the feasibility of a diagnostic technique. There is no current data on detection of cisplatin in cancer cells derived from human urine. This study will generate preliminary data so that future studies may be done with more definitive end points in mind.
Bladder Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: mass spectrometry
Measurement of the intracellular concentration, An instrument to determine the concentration of therapeutic agent will be used. Results of the test will be used to determine feasibility of this technique for application in personalized chemotherapy dosing and treatment monitoring in the future. For each patient sample, the concentration of cisplatin will be measured in several different cells, as many as 10 depending upon the characteristics of the sample. The results of each individual run of the test will be recorded for the purpose of verifying internal consistency of the technique. Measurement will be first in relative mass of the agent to other known controls which will be used to calculate the approximate cellular concentration of cisplatin. Refining the technique for estimating the concentration is one of the goals of the project., 4 years
The aim of this study is to determine the feasibility of using a novel mass spectrometry instrument to measure the intracellular concentration of chemotherapeutic drug within an active tumor cell. If successful, this technique could be applied to dosage streamlining in patients and customization of dosage based on individual tumor characteristics. It also opens the door to research on novel chemotherapy agents or agents not typically used in a specific malignancy to determine if therapeutic levels can be obtained in tumor cells.

Personalized chemotherapy is an evolving field with the underlying goal being minimization of side effects of treatment while maximizing net patient benefit for therapy. A key difficulty in personalized chemotherapy is that the determination of therapeutic benefit comes well after the administration of treatment has been completed. For most forms of chemotherapy there does not exist a laboratory study that can determine the concentration of therapeutic agent within the tumor itself and as such, real time dose adjustments are based only on toxicity, not on tumor penetrance.