Exemestane Versus Anastrozole as First Line Hormone Therapy in Postmenopausal Metastatic Breast Cancer Patients
This is a pivotal phase II, multicenter, open-label trial, designed to compare the efficacy of exemestane versus anastrozole as a first line treatment for advanced breast cancer. One hundred postmenopausal patients, with metastatic, positive hormone receptor breast cancer will be enrolled in this trial.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Anastrozole
Overall Response Rate (ORR) in both arms, Complete response plus partial response, up to 12 months
Time to progression, Time from last patient included to progression disease, From date of randomization until the date of new documented progression, assessed up to 24 months|Time to progression after crossover, Time from crossover (2nd line) to progression disease, From date of crossover until the date of new documented progression, assessed up to 5 months|Clinical benefit (1st line), Completed response (CR) plus Partial Response (PR) plus Stable Diasease (SD) lasting ≥6 months, up to 6 months|Clinical benefit after crossover (2nd line), Completed response (CR) plus Partial Response (PR) plus Stable Diasease, up to 6 months|Survival, Time from randomization of last patient included until death whatever cause., up to 36 months|Survival after crossover, Time from crossover until death whatever cause., up to 24 months|The Number of Participants Who Experienced Adverse Events (AE), Patients who will receive at least one dose of Exemestane or Anastrozole will be evaluated for safety and toxicity. Safety will be assess by recording all clinical adverse events at each patient., Until 30 days after the end of last patient study treatment (1st line)|Toxicity after crossover, Patients who will receive at least one dose of Exemestane or Anastrozole will be evaluated for safety and toxicity. Safety will be assess by recording all clinical adverse events at each patient., Until 30 days after the end of last patient study treatment (crossover: 2nd line)
The primary study endpoint is objective response rate. The study has been designed following Simon's test, with a p1-p0=0.15. p1 is the optimum level of activity of the experimental treatment (exemestane), and p0 is the minimum expected activity. In this study, p1 is 25% (25% of RR) and p0 is 10% (10% of RR). With an alpha error of 0.05 and a beta error of 0.1, Simon test establishes a first step of 21 patients per treatment arm. If at least 2 objective responses are observed in exemestane arm, recruitment will continue until 100 patients have been recruited. After this second recruitment phase, at least 7 objective responses must be observed to confirm the expected exemestane level of activity.