BH4 in the Prevention and Treatment of Radiation-induced Skin Reactions for Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (Including Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma)
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (include nasopharyngeal carcinoma) is one of the most common malignant tumor in China, and radiotherapy is the main treatment method. Radiation-induced dermatitis is one of the most common complications of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma patients during radiotherapy. Severe radiation dermatitis will cause secondary infection, severe pain, and even lead to the interruption of radiotherapy. On the one hand, it will affect the efficacy of tumor treatment, which may affect the long-term survival of patients, and on the other hand, it will also seriously affect the quality of life of patients. Tetrahydrobiopterin（BH4）, also known as sapropterin, has been shown not only to reduce the severity of acute radiation dermatitis but also to enhance the repair of skin injury in animal experiments. It may be a new approach and method for the prevention and treatment of radiation-induced dermatitis
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets
Radiation dermatitis grading change from the baseline to the 4 weeks after radiotherapy, Radiation dermatitis is assessed according to the CTCAE 5.0 radiation dermatitis grading scale, Assessment is performed two weeks before radiotherapy, once a week during radiotherapy, the day at the end of radiotherapy, once a week for 4 weeks after radiotherapy.
Subjects' quality of life score change from the baseline to the 4 weeks after radiotherapy, Subjects' quality of life is assessed according to the Spitzer Quality-of-Life Index (SQLI), Assessment is performed two weeks before radiotherapy, the day at the end of radiotherapy, 2 weeks after radiotherapy, 4 weeks after radiotherapy.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (include nasopharyngeal carcinoma) is one of the most common malignant tumor in China, and radiotherapy is the main treatment method. Radiation-induced dermatitis is one of the most common complications of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma patients during radiotherapy. Severe radiation dermatitis will cause secondary infection, severe pain, and even lead to the interruption of radiotherapy. On the one hand, it will affect the efficacy of tumor treatment, which may affect the long-term survival of patients, and on the other hand, it will also seriously affect the quality of life of patients. Tetrahydrobiopterin（BH4）, also known as sapropterin, has been shown not only to reduce the severity of acute radiation dermatitis but also to enhance the repair of skin injury in animal experiments. It may be a new approach and method for the prevention and treatment of radiation-induced dermatitis