Flavopiridol in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of flavopiridol in treating patients who have relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Stage I Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: alvocidib
Confirmed response (CR, VGPR, or PR) defined as a patient who has achieved response and maintained it on two consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart., Ninety percent confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated assuming a binomial distribution., First 3 months of treatment
Overall survival time, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Time to disease progression, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma treated with flavopiridol.

II. Determine the disease-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with this drug.

III. Correlate disease response with t(11;14)(q13;q32) rearrangement, p16 methylation status, and BCRP expression in patients treated with this drug.

IV. Correlate disease response and drug treatment with cell cycle status and effects on apoptosis and apoptosis regulatory proteins in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive flavopiridol IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 12 months, patients achieving at least a partial response may continue treatment in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 6 months for 1 year.