Open Label Phase Two Trial of Radium Ra 223 Dichloride With Concurrent Administration of Abiraterone Acetate Plus Prednisone in Symptomatic Castration-Resistant (Hormone-Refractory) Prostate Cancer Subjects With Bone Metastasis
This is an open label study designed to examine the effects on concurrent administration of Radium Ra 223 dichloride and Abiraterone Acetate plus Prednisone in subjects with symptomatic castrate resistant prostate cancer and with bone metastases, in both the pre- and post- chemotherapy setting. Both medications are approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for this indication.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Concurrent use of Radium Ra 223 dichloride and Abiraterone Acetate plus Prednisone
Number and Percentage of Participants With Clinically Meaningful Improvement (Between Baseline and End of Treatment) in Quality-of-Life Determined by the Minimum Increase From Baseline in Scores as Per the QOL CMI Criteria, Following Quality of Life questionnaires were given at each visit:

FACT-P assesses symptoms/problems related to prostate carcinoma and its treatment. It is a combination of the FACT- General + the PCS (Range 1-156, higher scores better).

The FACT-General (FACT-G) is a 28 item QOL measure that provides a total score as well as subscale scores: Physical (0-28), Functional (0-28), Social (0-28), Emotional (0-24) Well-being, and Satisfaction with Treatment was not assessed for this study (The total range was between 1-108, higher scores better)

FACT-TOI is derived from the sum of the Physical Well-Being, Functional Well-Being, and Prostate Cancer subscale scores; a sensitive measure of patient-reported health (Range 1-104, higher scores better)

PCS is a 12-item prostate cancer subscale that asks about symptoms and problems specific to prostate cancer (Range 0-48, higher scores better)., Subjects were evaluated at the screening visit, monthly during the study, and 30 days after the last dose of Radium Ra 223 dichloride, which will be approximately 32 weeks after the screening visit of evaluable subjects.|Number and Percentage of Participants With Clinically Meaningful Improvement (CMI) in Pain (Between Baseline and End of Treatment), Improvement in Bone Pain was assessed using the Bone Pain Inventory (BPI)

1. Pain Severity: Pain severity is the composite of scores of worst pain, least pain, average pain, and pain now. CMI criteria: Decrease \>30% at two consecutive visits in Pain Severity Score in 24 hours without an increase in analgesic use.
2. Pain interference: Pain interference is the composite scores on general activity, mood, walking ability, normal work, relationships with others, sleep and enjoyment of life. CMI criteria: Decrease by 1.25 points or more compared with baseline at two consecutive visits.
3. Transient Pain Flare: Based on the work of Atkinson et al, a transient pain flare was assessed by pain at its worst in 24 hours. CMI criteria: \> 2 points on the BPI-SF Worst Pain scale and subsequent reduction after initiation of Ra-223 and during the first 3 cycles., Subjects were evaluated at the screening visit, monthly during the study, and 30 days after the last dose of Radium Ra 223 dichloride, which will be approximately 32 weeks after the screening visit of evaluable subjects.
Safety Data Was Analyzed and Summarized in Subjects Who Receive at Least One Infusion of Radium Ra 223 Dichloride. Number of Adverse Events Are Being Reported., All adverse events relevant to advanced mCRPC subjects as well as adverse events of interest for both Abiraterone Acetate plus Prednisone and Radium Ra 223 dichloride will be reported., Subjects were evaluated at the screening visit, monthly during the study, and 30 days after the last dose of Radium Ra 223 dichloride, which will be approximately 32 weeks after the screening visit of evaluable subjects.|Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP) and Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Levels Before and After Treatment, \[Not specified\], Baseline and End of Treatment (EOT), approximately 32 weeks from Baseline|Radiologic Assessment Mean Number of Bone Lesions Before and After the Treatment, \[Not Specified\], Baseline and End of Treatment (EOT), approximately 32 weeks from Baseline
Bone Imaging Response (Number of Participants With Progression and Stable Disease), Bone imaging response was assessed at baseline and at EOT visit. Progression was defined as two or more additional lesions in comparison to the baseline., Baseline and End of Treatment (EOT), approximately 32 weeks from Baseline|Overall Response Rate, Determination of measurable disease progression or response was based on modified RECIST criteria. Reported is the number of participants with either a partial or complete response, and who had radiological extraskeletal progression., Baseline and End of Treatment (EOT), approximately 32 weeks from Baseline
Approximately 40 subjects will be enrolled to obtain 30 evaluable subjects. All subjects will receive Radium Ra 223 dichloride every 4 weeks for a total of 6 doses over 24 weeks and concurrent Abiraterone Acetate plus Prednisone for a minimum duration of 26 weeks.

Subjects will be evaluated 30 days after the last dose of Radium Ra 223 dichloride. All adverse events deemed to be study related will be followed until resolution. Including screening, the total duration of the study is 32 weeks.