Safety Study of Bevacizumab Plus Chemotherapy To Treat Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
To assess the safety profile of bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: bevacizumab
Incidence, nature and severity of adverse events of special interest, Gastrointestinal perforation, thromboembolic event, wound healing complication, bleeding, hypertension and proteinuria, Four years|Incidence, nature and severity of bevacizumab related serious adverse events, Four years|Onset time of adverse event associated with bevacizumab, Four years|Laboratory parameters, Complete blood cell count, electrolytes, hepatic and renal function, coagulation parameters, urinalysis or urine protein, Four years
Overall survival (OS), Time from the diagnosis of colorectal cancer to death due to various causes. Patients who do not die at the end of study will be truncated when they do not die at the last collection., Four years|Overall response rate (ORR) of treatment line, The best overall response status determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria is defined as the best response status recorded from the enrollment to disease progression (the minimal measurement from baseline assessment is used as the reference for progression). ORR includes complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). The value of change will be summarized according to different treatment lines., Four years|Progression-free survival (PFS) of treatment line:, Time from the enrollment to disease progression or death due to various causes, whichever is earlier (Disease progression is according to RECIST 1.1 criteria for tumor assessment). Patients who do not have disease progression or death at the end of study will be truncated at the last tumor assessment. The value of change will be summarized according to different treatment lines., Four years|One-year disease-free progression rate of treatment line, The proportion of patients without disease progression within one year since enrollment or with death for other reasons based on analytical population. The value of change will be summarized according to different treatment lines., One year|One-year survival rate of treatment line, The proportion of patients without death within one year since enrollment based on analytical population. The value of change will be summarized according to different treatment lines., One year|Overall survival (OS) of treatment line, Time from the enrollment to death due to various causes. Patients who do not die at the end of study will be truncated when they do not die at the last collection., Four years
This is a multi-centre, observational, non-interventional study. Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer eligible for Bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy treatment will be enrolled in this trial.