Asian Phase II Study of INC424 in Patients With Primary Myelofibrosis (MF), Post-PV MF or Post-ET MF
The objective of this study was to determine the efficacy of INC424 as assessed by reduction in spleen volume in patients with primary myelofibrosis (MF), post-polycythemia vera (PV) MF, or post-essential thrombocythemia (ET) MF. The safety and tolerability of INC424 and the effects of INC424 on patient reported outcomes and the duration of response as assessed by reduction in spleen volume was also assessed.
Primary Myelofibrosis (MF)|Post-Polycythemia Vera (PV) MF|Post-Essential Thrombocythemia (ET) MF
DRUG: Ruxolitinib
Percentage of Participants With at Least 35% Reduction in Spleen Volume From Baseline at Week 24, The primary measure of spleen size was by MRI. MRIs were performed with a body coil because the objective was to measure organ volume only, not to assess for lesions. MRIs were performed by local radiologists who were instructed not to provide a quantitative measure of spleen volume, but could provide a qualitative assessment such as enlarged, smaller, larger, etc. The scans from an individual patient were to be read by a central reader upon transfer from the site radiologist., 24 weeks
Percentage of Participants With at Least 35% Reduction in Spleen Volume From Baseline at Each Scheduled Time Point - Best Response, The best response rate was defined as the proportion of patients achieving a ≥ 35% reduction in spleen volume from baseline at any post-baseline assessment. The best response rate was estimated with an associated 95% confidence interval., Weeks 24, 36, 48, 72, 96, 120, 144, 168, 192, 216, 240, at any time point|Kaplan Meier Estimates of Duration of Response of at Least ≥ 35% Reduction From Baseline in Spleen Volume Per Kaplan Meier Estimates, For patients who had at least one ≥ 35% reduction in spleen volume from baseline at postbaseline, the duration of response was calculated. The start date of the duration was defined as the first spleen volume measurement that was ≥ 35% reduction from baseline, and the end date of the response duration was defined as the earliest of the following: death, A ≥ 25% increase in spleen volume by MRI (or CT in applicable patients) compared to baseline, Splenic irradiation, Leukemic transformation as defined by a bone marrow or a peripheral blood blast count of ≥ 20%, Splenectomy. Duration of response is calculated only for participants who achieved at least one measured \>= 35% reduction in spleen volume at any time., Weeks 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 96, 120, 144, 168, 192, 216, 240|Change in EORTC QLQ-C30 Scores From Baseline in at Week 24, Patient reported outcomes regarding the impact of MF on patients were assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30. Data from the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire was analyzed using the standardized scores. There were 2 categories to this scale: Functional/QOL scale and Symptom and Other items scale. For each sub-scale, the raw scores were standardized in order to obtain scores ranging from 0 to 100. For Functional/QOL subscales: a higher score represents a higher/better level of functioning. For Symptoms and Other items subscales: a higher score represents worse level of symptoms. The absolute change from baseline was calculated for each scale and summarized descriptively by scheduled visit., Baseline, Week 24|Change in Total Symptom Score From Baseline at Week 24 as Measured by Seven-day Modified MFSAF v2.0, The Seven-day modified MFSAF v2.0 is a 7-item PRO instrument based on the modified MFSAF v2.0 diary administered at specified visits. Symptoms of myelofibrosis (MF) were assessed using this instrument \& included filling up quickly/early satiety, abdominal discomfort, pain under the ribs, night sweats, itching, bone/muscle pain \& inactivity. The first 6 items assessed MF symptom severity at its worst as recalled \& the seventh captured MF-related inactivity in the 7 days prior to the clinic visit assessment. All 7 items asked subjects to record their answers on an 11-point numeric rating scale (NRS) (0=Absent, 10=Worst Imaginable). The first 6 items of the instrument focus on MF symptoms \& are summed to create a Total Symptom score, defined as the sum of the 6 individual symptom scores other than the inactivity score (each with 0-10 point scale) collected on the same week. The total symptom scale ranges from 0 -60 where higher score indicates a worse level of the condition., Baseline, Week 24
The objective of this study was to determine the efficacy of INC424 as assessed by reduction in spleen volume in patients with primary myelofibrosis (MF), post-polycythemia vera (PV) MF, or post-essential thrombocythemia (ET) MF. The safety and tolerability of INC424 and the effects of INC424 on patient reported outcomes and the duration of response as assessed by reduction in spleen volume was also assessed.