Feasibility of Auricular Acupressure for Appetite and Weight in Patients With Stage II-IV Gastric, Esophageal, and Pancreatic Cancer
This clinical trial evaluates the feasibility and acceptability of acupressure to the ear (auricular) to address appetite and weight in patients with stage II-IV gastric, esophageal, or pancreatic cancer. Cancer anorexia, the abnormal loss of appetite, directly leads to cancer-associated weight loss (cachexia) through malnourishment, reduced caloric intake, treatment side-effects, and other modifiable risk factors. Cachexia prolongs length of hospital stay for patients, negatively impacts treatment tolerance and adherence, and reduces overall patient quality of life. Auricular acupressure is a form of micro-acupuncture that exerts its effect by stimulating the central nervous system using adhesive taped pellets applied to specific locations on the external ear. The use of these pellets to deliver auricular acupressure has been shown to improve pain, fatigue, insomnia, nausea and vomiting, depression, and quality of life in both cancer and non-cancer settings. Auricular acupressure is a safe, inexpensive, and non-invasive approach to addressing cancer-related symptoms and treatment side-effects and may be effective at improving appetite and weight loss in stage II-IV gastric, esophageal, and pancreatic cancer patients.
Clinical Stage II Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Acupressure Therapy|OTHER: Best Practice|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Accrual (feasibility), Accrual will be measured by the average rate of participants-per-month enrolled into both groups with the goal of 5 patients/month over a 15-month period., Up to 15 months|Retention (feasibility), Retention will be measured by the number of participants who remain in the trial and provide data at the closeout visit., Up to 8 weeks|Intervention adherence (feasibility), Adherence will be measured in the intervention group by the number of applied auricular acupressure treatments, with the total possible being 8., Up to 8 weeks|Intervention fidelity (feasibility), Fidelity will be assessed by study team adherence to symptom query and appropriate ear seed point modifications to the standard protocol and accuracy of seed placement according to photographic analysis., Up to 8 weeks|Acceptability (feasibility), Acceptability will be assessed using a random convenience sample of participants and providers through semi-structured interviews., Up to 16 weeks
Change in appetite, As measured by the Functional Assessment for Anorexia/Cachexia Treatment Subscale. Analyses will assess change in each outcome as a change from baseline to week 4., Baseline to week 4|Change in appetite, As measured by the Functional Assessment for Anorexia/Cachexia Treatment Subscale. Analyses will assess change in each outcome as a change from baseline to week 8., Baseline to week 8|Change in body weight (kg), Analyses will assess change in each outcome as a change from baseline to week 4., Baseline to week 4|Change in body weight (kg), Analyses will assess change in each outcome as a change from baseline to week 8., Baseline to week 8
OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo auricular acupressure in addition to their usual care on study. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples on study.

ARM II: Patients receive usual care on study. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients in Arm II are followed up at 8 weeks after active treatment ends.