Barrett's Dysplasia Detection Pilot Trial Using the NvisionVLE® Imaging System
The NvisionVLE® Dysplasia Detection Pilot Study is a prospective, non-randomized trial for participants who have a prior biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of BE with dysplasia and are scheduled to have an endoscopic evaluation of your esophagus for BE surveillance by a standard procedure called EGD (esophagogastroduodenoscopy) as well as an imaging procedure called VLE (volumetric laser endomicroscopy).
Barrett's Esophagus
DEVICE: NvisionVLE with Real Time Targeting|PROCEDURE: esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)
Performance of manually identified VLE features in predicting biopsy defined dysplasia, To determine the per-biopsy performance of a multivariable model consisting of manually-identified VLE features for predicting biopsy-defined dysplasia, Up to 2 years post data collection
Per Patient Sensitivity and specificity for detecting dysplasia, 1. To determine the absolute per-patient sensitivity and specificity of a multivariable model consisting of manually-identified VLE features for predicting biopsy-defined dysplasia., Up to 2 years post data collection|Per Biopsy Sensitivity and specificity for detecting dysplasia, 2. To determine the absolute per-biopsy sensitivity and specificity of a multivariable model consisting of manually-identified VLE features for predicting biopsy-defined dysplasia., Up to 2 years post data collection|Per Biopsy performance of VLE compared to standard-of-care for detecting dysplasia, 3. To compare, on a per-biopsy basis, the performance of VLE and standard-of-care to standard-of-care alone in detecting dysplasia., Up to 2 years post data collection
The NvisionVLE® Dysplasia Detection Pilot Study is a collection of data for research. Participation is completely voluntary and does not affect the patient's medical care that chooses not to participate. The purpose of this Study is to determine the performance of the NvisionVLE® Imaging System in determining features of dysplastic Barrett's Esophagus (BE). This is done by the collection and analysis of the medical record information, imaging data, and pathology results. The information is then stored and may be used at a later time for various future analyses and publications. Any future analyses involving this Study will only use the information collected in this Study. No further involvement or additional informed consent of participants will be needed if future analyses are performed.

This Study is designed for participants who have a prior biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of BE with dysplasia and are scheduled to have an endoscopic evaluation of your esophagus for BE surveillance by a standard procedure called EGD (esophagogastroduodenoscopy) as well as an imaging procedure called VLE (volumetric laser endomicroscopy).

The NvisionVLE® Imaging System is cleared for use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

Patients who undergo an endoscopic evaluation of the esophagus with the NvisionVLE® Imaging System at participating hospitals will be invited to participate in this Study. The Study is taking place at up to 4 hospitals, and as many as 100 patients may participate in this Study.