Treatment of Chemotherapy Refractory Human Epidermalgrowth Factor Receptor-2( HER-2) Positive Advanced Solid Tumors
RATINALE: Placing a tumor antigen chimeric receptor that has been created in the laboratory into patient autologous T cells may make the body build immune response to kill cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is to study genetically engineered lymphocyte therapy in treating patients with HER-2 positive advanced solid tumors,such as breast cancer, gastric cancer, hepatic carcinoma, endometrial cancer and ovary cancer.
Advanced HER-2 Positive Solid Tumors|Chemotherapy Refactory|HER-2 Antibody Inhibitor Therapy Refactory
BIOLOGICAL: CART-HER-2
Occurrence of Study related adverse events, Until week 24
Anti-leukemia response to CART-HER-2 cell infusions, up to 24 weeks
In vivo existence of CART-HER-2, 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I.Determine the safety and feasibility of the chimeric antigen receptor T cells transduced with anti-HER-2 vector(referred to as CART-HER-2 cells).

II.Determine duration of in vivo survival of CART-HER-2 cells. RT-PCR(reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction)analysis of whole blood will be used to detect and quantify survival of CART-HER-2 TCR zeta:CD137 and TCR(T-cell receptor) zeta cells over time.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I.For patients with detectable diseases, measure anti-tumor response due to CART-HER-2 cell infusions.

II.Estimate relative trafficking of CART-HER-2 cells in tumor bed.

III.Determine if cellular or humoral host immunity develops against the murine anti-HER-2, and assess correlation with loss of detectable CART-HER-2(loss of engraftment).

IV.Determine the relative subsets of CART-HER-2 T cells (Tcm,Tem,and Treg).

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 group according to order of enrollment. Patients receive anti-HER-2-CAR (coupled with CD137 and CD3 zeta signalling domains)vector-transduced autologous T cells on days 0,1, and 2 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed intensively for 6 months, every 3 months for 2 years, and annually thereafter for 13 years.

Estimate relative trafficking of CART-HER-2 cells in peripheral blood.