Watch and Wait as Treatment for Patients With Rectal Cancer
A national cohort study with all patients scheduled for neoadjuvant treatment with (chemo)radiotherapy or short course radiotherapy with delayed surgery 6-8 weeks) for rectal cancer staged as cT4bNX/anycTanycN and cMRF+/anycTanycN and lateral lymph nodes on MRI (and patients that have been offered short course raditotherapy with delayed surgery due to various reasons). The tumours are positioned midrectal or low and are palpable with the finger. The patients offered this treatment after recommendations on their local multidisciplinary tumour board will be will be informed and offered to participate in the study. Patients scheduled for short course radiotherapy with immediate surgery cannot be included.
Rectal Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: endoscopy|PROCEDURE: Surgery|DEVICE: MRI
3-year disease free survival., Thus this includes patients that have had regrowth and been operated for their tumour. Includes metastastic surgery as well, 3 years
Percentage re-growth during follow-up, Endoscopic or MRI indication of regrowth, 10 years|Local recurrence after salvage surgery due to regrowth, Local recurrence as shown by MRI, endoscopy or digital examination, 10 years|Results after surgery for re-growth, Complications and mortality after surgery, 10 years|Long-term survival, Overall survival, 10 years|Number of patients with no response, partial response and complete response., Number of patients in each group - no response, partial response and complete response, Accrual period - probably 4 years|Anorectal function measured by LARS score, Anorectal function measured by LARS and then compared to patients operated., 5 years|Quality of life measured by a clinometric approach, QoL measurments sent to patients, up to 24 months|Health economic evaluation, A cost efficiency analysis, 5 years
• Biopsies and blood from patients with rectal cancer subject to neoadjuvant treatment with (chemo)radiotherapy or radiotherapy 5x5 Gy with at least 6-8 weeks wait until surgery. All patients will be asked to answer a QoL questionnaire (appendix C) to cover their experiences of the neaodajvuant treatment. (Answered at diagnosis and at evaluation of treatment and decision of surgery or inclusion in the Watch and Wait part of the study).

All patients will undergo scheduled (chemo)radiotherapy according to national guidelines. The patients with chemoradiotherapy will be evaluated at 8-10 weeks after completed treatment (25) with pelvic MRI. After this evaluation at 8-10 weeks patients with suspected complete response or near complete response will examined according to the protocol below.

All patients that are considered to have complete response will be offered a "Watch and wait" approach with follow-up according to the protocol. They will then be followed at one of the Regional University Hospitals within their catchment are.

All patients with a palpable rectal cancer staged as cT4bNX/anycTanycN and cMRF+/anycTanycN and lateral lymph nodes on MRI (and patients that have been offered short course raditotherapy with delayed surgery due to various reasons) that does not achieve complete response will serve as control and will be treated with surgery as planned prior to initiation of (chemo)radiotherapy.

Patients with indication of complete response on follow-up MRI will undergo endoscopy, and digital rectal examination to ascertain complete response. MRI together with documentation from endoscopy will be reviewed at the Regional University Hospital to extablish agreement regarding interpretation. All the below mentioned criteria must be fullfilled to be considered complete response:

1. No suspicious metastatic lymph nodes or evidence of remaining tumour on MRI. In the majority of cases a complete response on MRI will be seen as areas of homogeneous fibrosis. Absence of any remaining pathological tissue is seen in a minority of cases.
2. Endoscopic examination with light/white mucosa or scar, telangiectasies. Prescence of fibrosis and oedema.
3. No palpable tumour on clinical examination (26).

In the spring of 2023 200 pts included. An amendment was sent to the ethical review board to enable continued inclusion while the initial 200 pts are analyzed. This has been approved and the study has thus planned continuation for another 2-3 years.