Vatalanib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Progressive Meningioma
RATIONALE: Vatalanib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor and by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well vatalanib works in treating patients with recurrent or progressive meningioma.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors|Sarcoma
DRUG: vatalanib
Number of Patients Who DID NOT Experience Disease Progression or Death by 6 Months After Starting Treatment., Patients were assessed with imaging techniques (MRI) during screening/baseline and then every 2 months after starting treatment. Survival status and disease status were recorded. The number of patients who did not experience an event (defined as either death for any reason or progression of their disease) by 6 months after starting treatment were counted., From the date the first patient began treatment until the date the last patient has disease progression, becomes deceased, or completes 6 months of treatment
Determine Efficacy (Radiographic and Clinical Improvement), Efficacy will be assessed by MRI scan and neurological exam upon study entry, every 2 weeks for 2 months, then every 8 weeks while on treatment, At baseline, every 2 weeks for 2 months, then every 8 weeks while on treatment|Best Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall Response Rate (ORR) will be as assessed by MRI scan every 2 months while on study treatment and follow-up for up to 1 year after discontinuation of study treatment. The RR is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression (PD) where the following definitions apply.

Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. No new lesions.

Partial Response (PR): Greater than or equal to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable disease. No new lesions.

Stable/No Response: Does not qualify for CR, PR, or PD Progressive disease (PD):25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) worsening of evaluable disease, new lesions, clinical worsening OR failure to return for evaluation due to death/deteriorating condition, Every 2 months for up to 1 year after study treatment.|To Correlate the Response Rates With Expression of Certain Types of Genes, Correlation of response rates with the expression of certain types of genes will be assessed by examining tissue samples taken from previous surgery and testing for certain genes, At the end of study treatment|Safety of Vatalanib in Patients With Recurrent of Progressive Meningiomas, Safety of vatalanib will be assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria of Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) 3.0 and graded using the following:

Grade 1 = Mild Grade 2 = Moderate Grade 3 = Severe Grade 4 = Life threatening Grade 5 = Fatal, Every week while on study treatment until 30 days after last treatment.|Number of Months Patients Survive After Being Treatment on the Study., From the date the first patient began treatment until the date the last patient became deceased.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival will be measured from the first treatment on study until death of any cause., Every 2 months for up to 1 year after study treatment.
Develop Data Concerning Certain Genes That Cause Tumors to Grow New Blood Vessels, Data concerning certain genes that cause tumors to grow new blood vessels will be examined by MRI scan with MR Perfusion done before treatment and then every 2 months while on study treatment, MRI with MR Perfusion will be done before treatment and then every 2 months while on study treatment|To Use the FACT BR Questionnaire to Measure Quality of Life, FACT BR questionnaire will be used to measure quality of life at baseline and then every time an MRI scan is performed while on study treatment, At baseline and then every time an MRI is performed while on study treatment.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the efficacy of vatalanib, in terms of radiographic improvement and clinical improvement, in patients with recurrent or progressive meningioma.

Secondary

* Determine the 6-month progression-free survival of these patients.
* Describe the response rate and overall survival of these patients.
* Determine the safety of vatalanib in these patients.
* Correlate the response rates with expression of vascular endothelial growth factor, epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor, and HER2.
* Develop exploratory data concerning surrogate markers of angiogenic activity in vivo using magnetic resonance perfusion.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral vatalanib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study.