Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy and Vertebroplasty in Treating Patients With Localized Spinal Metastasis
RATIONALE: Stereotactic body radiation therapy may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue. Vertebroplasty may help prevent fractures and spinal cord compression caused by spinal metastasis. Giving stereotactic body radiation therapy together with vertebroplasty may help lessen pain and improve quality of life of patients with spinal metastasis.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving stereotactic body radiation therapy together with vertebroplasty works in treating patients with localized spinal metastasis.
Metastatic Cancer|Pain|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
RADIATION: radiation
Pain Response as Measured by VAS at 3 Months, Pain reduction as measured by Visual Analogue Scoring System (VAS) at 3 months

Patient pain was recorded on a 10-point scale (0: no pain, 10: most severe pain). At baseline patients were required to have a pain score of 4 or higher associated with spine metastases. Pain response was recorded again during follow-up visits to determine the pain response:

A pain score of 0 represents a complete response A decrease in the pain score by at least 2 points represents a partial response VAS scores were used to determine the number of patients with a partial pain response, with a complete pain response, and without a pain response, 3 month
Pain Response, Duration of pain response as measured by VAS at 1 month

Patient pain was recorded on a 10-point scale (0: no pain, 10: most severe pain). At baseline patients were required to have a pain score of 4 or higher associated with spine metastases. Pain response was recorded again during follow-up visits to determine the pain response:

A pain score of 0 represents a complete response A decrease in the pain score by at least 2 points represents a partial response VAS scores were used to determine the number of patients with a partial pain response, with a complete pain response, and without a pain response, 1 month|Overall Survival, Overall survival measured from the date of accession to the date of death. Median times will be reported., 5 year|Daily Function, Time to functional decline as measure by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) at baseline. BPI has two sections that are scored- pain severity and pain interference. For each of these a numeric scale from 0-10 is used, with 0 being the worst pain and 10 being the worst pain., Baseline|Quality of Life Questionnaire Responses, Number of participants who filled out the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- General (FACT-G) and the European Quality of Life Five Dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaires at baseline, 1, 3, 6, and 12 months, 12 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the efficacy of stereotactic body radiotherapy in reducing pain at 3 months in patients with localized spinal metastasis.

Secondary

* To determine the duration of pain response at the treated site(s) scored as the time of maximal pain relief to an increase of 2 points on the Visual Analogue Scoring System.
* To determine the functional preservation of improvement as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory.
* To prospectively assess quality of life using the FACT-G and EQ-5D questionnaires.
* To determine the long-term stability of the treated vertebral bone (e.g., fracture, sclerotic change, vertebral body height, or malalignment) as measured by MRI, CT scan, and plain radiographs.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups according to prior radiotherapy to the planned treatment site(s).

* Group 1 (prior radiotherapy): Patients undergo 5 fractions of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) over 30-90 minutes each.
* Group 2 (no prior radiotherapy): Patients undergo 1 fraction of SBRT over 30-90 minutes.

Within 1 month after the initiation of SBRT, patients in both groups undergo percutaneous vertebroplasty.

Patients complete pain and quality-of-life questionnaires at baseline and periodically during study. Patients also undergo MRI and CT scan at baseline, at 1, 3, and 6 months, and then every 6 months for 3 years to assess changes in vertebral bone strength and stability.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 2 weeks, at 1, 3, and 6 months, and then every 6 months for 3 years.