Telemedicine in the Management of Pain in Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas is a major public health issue because of its disastrous prognosis. The symptomatology of locally advanced or metastatic forms, particularly painful, is often major and difficult to balance, impacting both the quality of life of patients (and those around them) and the course of treatment (chemotherapy).

The objective of this study is to evaluate the interest and feasibility of telemedicine in the management of pain in patients undergoing treatment for advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer.
Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Cancer Metastatic|Pain
OTHER: Telemedicine
Satisfaction of patients with advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer of the impact of telemedicine in the management of their pain., Satisfaction is measured using the Patient Global Clinical Impression of Change (P-GIC) questionnaire.

The questionnaire consists of a single question posed to the patient via the application asking the patient what impact he or she believes telemedicine has had on the overall management of his or her pain. The patient has the following 8 propositions among which he must indicate the one that best corresponds to the perceived change: Don't know, Very strongly positive, Strongly positive, Slightly positive, No change, Slightly negative, Strongly negative, Very strongly negative., at one month, 3 months and 6 months post-inclusion
Observed feasibility of telemedicine, Feasibility will be assessed by collecting :

Number of weekly connections actually made and validated up to 3 months post -inclusion.

Number of weekly connections actually made and not validated up to 3 months post-inclusion.

Number of emergency connections actually made and validated up to 3 months post-inclusion.

Number of emergency connections actually made and not validated up to 3 months post-inclusion.

A validated connection means that the patient has answered all the questions defined for the type of weekly or emergency connection chosen and that the application has acknowledged the connection., 3 months post-inclusion.|Satisfaction of healthcare professionals with the use of telemedicine in the management of patients' pain., Satisfaction is measured using the healthcare professionals Global Clinical Impression of Change (C-GIC) questionnaire. The questionnaire includes a single question asked to the medical staff taking care of the patient (Nurse pathway coordinators and oncologists or algologists) asking them to estimate the impact of telemedicine on the overall pain management of patients. They are given the following 8 propositions, among which they must indicate the one that best corresponds to the perceived change: Don't know, Very strongly positive, Strongly positive, Slightly positive, No change, Slightly negative, Strongly negative, Very strongly negative., at 6 months post-inclusion|Number of "unscheduled" consultations recorded of each patient., at 3 months and 6 months post-inclusion|Number of unscheduled hospitalizations recorded of each patient., at 3 months and 6 months post-inclusion
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas is a major public health issue because of its disastrous prognosis. The symptomatology of locally advanced or metastatic forms, particularly painful, is often major and difficult to balance, impacting both the quality of life of patients (and those around them) and the course of treatment (chemotherapy).

The objective of this study is to evaluate the interest and feasibility of telemedicine in the management of pain in patients undergoing treatment for advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer.