A Safety and Tolerability Study of ARGX-113 in Patients With Myasthenia Gravis Who Have Generalized Muscle Weakness.
This is a Long-Term, Single-Arm, Open-Label, Multicenter Phase 3 follow-on trial of the ARGX-113-1704 study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ARGX-113 in patients with gMG. Patients who have completed at least 1 cycle of treatment and at least 1 year of trial ARGX-113-1705 and have started Part B are eligible to enroll in the open-label trial ARGX-113-2002 to receive efgartigimod by SC administration.
Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
BIOLOGICAL: ARGX-113
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Treatment-Emergent Serious AEs, TEAEs Leading to Study Drug Discontinuation and Fatal TEAE in AChR-Positive Participants, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. Any clinically significant abnormal laboratory test results (hematology, clinical chemistry, or urinalysis) or other safety assessments (electrocardiogram \[ECG\], radiological scans, vital signs measurements) were collected as AEs. All AEs starting on or after first dose administered and until completion of participant's last visit were considered as TEAEs. A serious AE (SAE) was any AE that resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital abnormality, or was medically significant., TEAEs were collected from the start of first administered study treatment (Day 1) up to end of follow-up, approximately up to 3 years
Number of Participants With TEAEs, Treatment-Emergent SAEs, TEAEs Leading to Study Drug Discontinuation and Fatal TEAE in the Overall Population, Overall population included both AChR-Ab seropositive and AChR-Ab seronegative participants. An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. Any clinically significant abnormal laboratory test results (hematology, clinical chemistry, or urinalysis) or other safety assessments (ECG, radiological scans, vital signs measurements) were collected as AEs. All AEs starting on or after first dose administered and until completion of participant's last visit were considered as TEAEs. An SAE was any AE that resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital abnormality, or was medically significant., TEAEs were collected from the start of first administered study treatment (Day 1) up to end of follow-up, approximately up to 3 years
This is a Long-Term, Single-Arm, Open-Label, Multicenter Phase 3 follow-on trial of the ARGX-113-1704 study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ARGX-113 in patients with gMG. Patients who have completed at least 1 cycle of treatment and at least 1 year of trial ARGX-113-1705 and have started Part B are eligible to enroll in the open-label trial ARGX-113-2002 to receive efgartigimod by SC administration.