Skeletal Muscle Expression of Myostatin and Cancer of Digestive System Associated Cachexia
Cancer cachexia is responsible for the death of approximately 20% of patients. Myostatin is a master negative regulator of skeletal muscle mass. If the role of myostatin in cancer cachexia is now well established in murine models, no study has focused on muscle expression of Myostatin in relation to the degree of cachexia. the hypothesize is that muscle Myostatin a biological marker of cachexia in patients with cancer of digestive system. The main objective is to compare skeletal muscle Myostatin messenger RiboNucleic Acid (mRNA) level as a function of cachexia in cancer of digestive system patients. Myostatin messenger RiboNucleic Acid (mRNA) level will be determined in a muscle sample taken during the resection under general anaesthesia. Skeletal muscle index will be determined before surgery, 3 and 6 months after surgery. Muscle strength of the lower and upper limbs will be determined before resection, at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months postoperatively. Blood sampling will also be performed on these 4 occasions.
Cancer of Digestive System
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Height and weight|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blood samples|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Skeletal muscle force|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Skeletal muscle index|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Muscle biopsy
Correlation between skeletal muscle and degree myostatin, Evaluate correlation between skeletal muscle force/index and degree myostatin. Skeletal muscle force/index will be determinated by skeletal muscle force/index results.

Degree myostatin will be determinated by blood samples with Enzyme Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA) method., Day 1
Correlation between skeletal muscle force and index before resection surgery, Evaluate Correlation between skeletal muscle force and index before resection surgery to estimate the extent of cachexia-induced muscle dysfunction by results tests., Baseline from 7 months|Correlation between level of myostatin muscular expression and degree myostatin, Evaluate correlation between level of myostatin muscular expression and degree myostatin.

Level of myostatin muscular expression will be determinated by muscle biopsy. Degree myostatin will be determinated by blood samples with Enzyme Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA) method., Month 2|Correlation between level of myostatin muscular expression and skeletal muscle force and index after resection surgery, Determinate correlation between level of myostatin muscular expression and skeletal muscle force and index after resection surgery., Month 2|Correlation between level of myostatin muscular expression and skeletal muscle force and index after resection surgery, Determinate correlation between level of myostatin muscular expression and skeletal muscle force and index after resection surgery., Month 4|Correlation between level of myostatin muscular expression and skeletal muscle force and index after resection surgery, Determinate correlation between level of myostatin muscular expression and skeletal muscle force and index after resection surgery., Month 7|Analysis level of myostatin muscular expression and blood samples results, Analysis level of myostatin muscular expression and blood samples results according to cancer stage, neoadjuvant treatment and chemotherapy., Month 2
Cancer cachexia is responsible for the death of approximately 20% of patients. Myostatin is a master negative regulator of skeletal muscle mass. If the role of myostatin in cancer cachexia is now well established in murine models, no study has focused on muscle expression of Myostatin in relation to the degree of cachexia. the hypothesize is that muscle Myostatin a biological marker of cachexia in patients with cancer of digestive system. The main objective is to compare skeletal muscle Myostatin messenger RiboNucleic Acid (mRNA) level as a function of cachexia in cancer of digestive system patients. Myostatin messenger RiboNucleic Acid (mRNA) level will be determined in a muscle sample taken during the resection under general anaesthesia. Skeletal muscle index will be determined before surgery, 3 and 6 months after surgery. Muscle strength of the lower and upper limbs will be determined before resection, at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months postoperatively. Blood sampling will also be performed on these 4 occasions.