A Study on a Blood-based Dual-target Test for CRC Detection
To evaluate the effectiveness and accuracy of the ctDNA dual-target test kit in a large case-control cohort for the detection of colorectal cancer and advanced adenomas.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Adenoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Test of methylated NTMT1 and MAP3K14-AS1|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: FIT
Sensitivity, Sensitivity (for CRC and\\or advanced precancerous neoplasm) of this blood-based methylation dual-target test. A diagnostic colonoscopy procedure is the reference method. Lesions will be confirmed as malignant or precancerous by histopathologic examination. Other clinically acceptable diagnostic criteria for non-intestinal diseases., Through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Specificity, Specificity (for CRC and\\or advanced precancerous neoplasm) of this blood-based methylation dual-target test. A diagnostic colonoscopy procedure is the reference method. Lesions will be confirmed as malignant or precancerous by histopathologic examination. Other clinically acceptable diagnostic criteria for non-intestinal diseases., Through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Accuracy, Accuracy of the kit for methylation detection. Validation of the methylation status of MTNT1 and MAP3K14-AS1 by Sanger sequencing., Through study completion, an average of 1 year.
Combined sensitivity, Sensitivity when combined the blood-based methylation dual-target test with FIT, Through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Combined specificity, Specificity when combined the blood-based methylation dual-target test with FIT, Through study completion, an average of 1 year.
Usually, colorectal cancers (CRCs) diagnosed in their early stages are curable, especially precancerous lesions (adenomas, polyps) that can be removed during a colonoscopy.However, due to low patient compliance and limited resources, colonoscopy is not feasible for screening the average-risk population. gFOBT/FIT are limited by their low sensitivity and high false-positive rate. Compared to colonoscopy and stool DNA tests, blood-based methylation tests showed greater patient compliance and convenience. Hypermethylated NTMT1 and MAP3K14-AS1 were found in multiple cohorts of CRC samples in our previous study. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and accuracy of the ctDNA dual-target(NTMT1 and MAP3K14-AS1) test kit in 5 tertiary hospitals around china for the detection of colorectal cancer and advanced adenomas. Fecal immunochemical test (FIT) will also privided to participants in the study. Sanger sequencing would be performed to evalute the accuracy of the dual-target methylation detection test kit.