Efficacy and Safety of Modified Nab-Paclitaxel Plus Gemcitabine Chemotherapy for Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
Recently, a retrospective study reported the efficacy and safety of modified gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel (GnP), which were administered biweekly (on days 1 and 15). With 79 patients of metastatic pancreatic cancer, this study reported similar efficacy and improved toxicity profile compared with standard dose GnP (OS 10 months, PFS 5.4 months, Grade ≥3 Neutropenia 19%, Grade ≥3 sensory neuropathy 1.6%). Also, several studies reported that dose reduction of nab-paclitaxel in breast or pancreatic cancer treatment was not related of decreased survival, or related with prolonged survival and increased treatment exposure. However, this finding need to be evaluated in prospective clinical trial.

This phase II trial will evaluate the efficacy and safety of modified GnP, which omit the day 8 administration of nab-paclitaxel, in metastatic pancreatic cancer.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Modified Gemcitabine plus nab-Paclitaxel Combination Chemotherapy
Objective response rate, To evaluate treatment efficacy, computed tomography scan, magnetic resonance imaging, or 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (18F-FDGPET) scan will be performed every 8 weeks. Treatment responses according to the RECIST criteria will be reported by designated radiologists and final disease assessment will be independently made by the attending physician. The proportion of patients with the best response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) is defined as objective response rate., Every 8 weeks until dropout up to 104 weeks|Disease control rate, To evaluate treatment efficacy, computed tomography scan, magnetic resonance imaging, or 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (18F-FDGPET) scan will be performed every 8 weeks. Disease control rate is defined as the proportion of patients with the best response of CR, PR and stable disease., Every 8 weeks until dropout up to 104 weeks
Overall survival, The overall survival is defined as from the date of enrollment to the date of the last follow-up or death of all causes. In case of loss of follow-up, the censoring date will be the day on which the survival is confirmed before follow-up loss., Every 8 weeks from date of drug administration until the date of patient's death, loss of follow-up, or end of the trial up to 104 weeks|Progression-free survival, The progression free survival is defined as from the date of treatment initiation to the date of the event. The event is defined as the date of disease progression or patient's death, which occured first.

In case of loss of follow-up, the censoring date will be the day on which the survival is confirmed before follow-up loss., Every 8 weeks from date of drug administration until the date of patient's death, loss of follow-up, or end of the trial up to 104 weeks|Adverse event, Adverse events will be assessed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 4.03) before each cycle until study dropout., Until dropout from the trial up to 104 weeks
Gemcitabine-based combination therapy have been used to prolong survival for patient with pancreatic cancer. In early 2010s, gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel (GnP) combination regimen have been introduced based on the results of randomized phase III clinical trial that showed survival benefit than gemcitabine monotherapy. Nab-paclitaxel is a nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel that showed anti-tumor activity as well as synergistic effect in combination with gemcitabine.

In the Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Clinical Trial (MPACT), the maximal tolerated nab-paclitaxel dose (125 mg/m2) was administrated with 1000 mg/m2 of gemcitabine, on days 1, 8 and 15 for 4 weeks cycle. This combination therapy showed favorable treatment response, but notable severe adverse events were also reported. Grade 3 or higher neuropathy and neutropenia occurred in 17% and 38% of patients, respectively. Also, dose reduction was required in approximately half of the patients.

Recently, a retrospective study reported the efficacy and safety of modified GnP, which were administered biweekly (on days 1 and 15). With 79 patients of metastatic pancreatic cancer, this study reported similar efficacy and improved toxicity profile compared with standard dose GnP (OS 10 months, PFS 5.4 months, Grade ≥3 Neutropenia 19%, Grade ≥3 sensory neuropathy 1.6%). Also, several studies reported that dose reduction of nab-paclitaxel in breast or pancreatic cancer treatment was not related of decreased survival, or related with prolonged survival and increased treatment exposure. However, this finding need to be evaluated in prospective clinical trial.

This phase II trial will evaluate the efficacy and safety of modified GnP, which omit the day 8 administration of nab-paclitaxel, in metastatic pancreatic cancer.