Study of Anlotinib Hydrochloride and Toripalimab in Subjects With Unresectable or Metastatic Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma
The investigators hypothesize that combination anlotinib with toripalimab will improve progression-free survival relative to historical controls in patients with Unresectable or Metastatic Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma.
Soft Tissue Sarcomas|Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma
DRUG: Anlotinib|DRUG: Toripalimab|PROCEDURE: Blood Draw|PROCEDURE: Tumor Specimen Collection
Rate of Participants Achieving 3-Month Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Rate of participants who are progression-free at 3 months after the start of protocol therapy, using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria. Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from treatment initiation until documented disease progression or death (by any cause, in the absence of progression)., 3 Months after start of protocol therapy
Rate of Participants Achieving 6-Month and 12-Month Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Rate of participants who are progression-free at 6 months and 12-Month after the start of protocol therapy, using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria., 6 Months and 12 Months after start of protocol therapy|Rate of Participants Achieving Objective Response (ORR), Rate of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at 3, 6 and 12 months after the start of protocol therapy, according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., 3, 6, and 12 Months after start of protocol therapy|Rate of Participants Achieving Clinical Benefit (CBR), Rate of participants achieving complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) at 3, 6 and 12 months after the start of protocol therapy, according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., 3, 6, and 12 Months after the start of protocol therapy|Duration of Response（DOR）, Defined as the time between the first assessment of a tumor as PR or CR and the first assessment as PD or any cause of death，according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., up to two year|Time to initial Response（TTR）, Defined as the time between participant enrollment to the first assessment of a tumor as PR or CR，according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., up to two year|Overall Survival (OS), Defined as the time between participant enrollment to death or date of censoring., Through Study Completion, an Average of 12 months|Safety and Toxicity Profile: Rate of Toxicity in Study Participants, Rate of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and/or grade 3 or 4 serious adverse events (SAEs) in study participants up to 30 days after the end of protocol therapy. Toxicity will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 30 days after the end of protocol therapy
Change in quantity of CD3+ T-cells in Peripheral Blood and Tumor Tissue, The quantity of CD3+ T-cells in peripheral blood and in tumor biopsies at each timepoint (baseline, cycle 3, and off-study)., Baseline, cycle 3, and off-study, an Average of 12 months|Expression Category of T-cell subsets in Tumor Tissue, The expression category in tumor tissue (none (0%), low (\<5%), intermediate (5-50%), or high (\>50%) of PD-1, PD-L1, PD-L2, CTLA-4, TIM-3, LAG-3 at each timepoint (baseline, cycle 3, and off-study)., Baseline, cycle 3, and off-study, an Average of 12 months|Absolute Change in T-cell Marker Levels in Peripheral Blood and Tumor Tissue, The following T cell subsets will be studied in peripheral blood and tumor tissue: (CD4, CD8, T-reg, CTLA4, TIM3, LAG3, memory, naïve, PD-1, Ki67). For each marker, the absolute change in the marker(s) value will be calculated:

1. Cycle 3 marker value minus Baseline marker value
2. Progression marker value minus Cycle 3 marker value
3. Progression marker value minus Baseline marker value, Baseline, Cycle 3, Progression, an Average of 12 months|Description of the Relationship between tumor response according to RECIST 1.1 and tumor response according to alternative radiologic methods, Utilizing each of the alternative (non-RECIST) radiological criteria the investigators will categorize clinical benefit status (CR/PR/SD vs PD). CT and/or MRI with dynamic contrast enhanced sequences will be collected throughout the study at every disease evaluation and analyzed using Choi criteria, MRI volumetrics, and immune-related response criteria. PET/CT will be obtained at baseline, Cycle 3, and off-study and tumor response determined by Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (PERCIST 1.0)., Baseline, Cycle 3, off-study, an Average of 12 months|Change in Quantity of Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) in Peripheral Blood, The quantity of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in peripheral blood will be measured at three timepoints: baseline, cycle 3, and off-study., Baseline, Cycle 3, and Off-study, an Average of 12 months
This is a single-institution, open-label, single-arm Phase II study to determine the efficacy and safety of anlotinib in combination with Toripalimab compared with historical controls as first-line treatment in patients with Unresectable or Metastatic Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma.

Since the primary endpoint is survival outcome, progression-free survival (PFS) sample size calculation is based on a single-arm survival design. The investigators will employ early stopping rules for lack of efficacy, based on previously reported historical controls progression-free rate at 3 months was 57% in MFH and This study predicts that as the First-Line treatment of Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma, progression-free rate at 3 months is expected to reach more than 80%.

Patients will be treated with once a day dosing of anlotinib alone for the first 7 days, followed by concurrent anlotinib administered once a day at 12mg orally (PO), plus intravenous administration of toripalimab every 21 days. Patients will be assessed every six weeks for toxicity. After the first five patients are enrolled, the investigators will assess safety of the combination. If 2 or fewer patients exhibit dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the investigators will then proceed with intrapatient titration of anlotinib dosing at each cycle based on the presence or absence of predefined toxicities.

Correlative studies characterizing T-cells in tumor tissue and in peripheral blood will be performed at three timepoints: 1. pre-treatment, 2. on-treatment on cycle 3 day 1, and 3. off-study. Additional exploratory imaging investigations, and assessment of circulating tumor cells are included for all patients.

Trial therapy will last until withdrawal of consent, disease progression and/or unacceptable toxicity, whichever occurs first.