Enhancing Radioiodine (RAI) Incorporation Into BRAF Mutant, RAI-Refractory Thyroid Cancers with the BRAF Inhibitor Vemurafenib: a Pilot Study
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, a drug called vemurafenib, either alone or combined with another treatment called radioactive iodine, has on the patient and thyroid cancer. It is not known if vemurafenib works against thyroid cancer. This study will test in a small number of patients if it can be used with radioactive iodine to treat thyroid cancers. This type of study is called a pilot study. If the results are positive, a larger study with more patients may be done to further test this treatment.
Thyroid Carcinoma
DRUG: Vemurafenib|DEVICE: serial 124I PET/CT|DRUG: thyrotropin alpha
Response, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The duration of overall CR is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for CR until the first date that progressive disease is objectively documented., 1 year
objective response rate (ORR), To evaluate the effect of vemurafenib on enhancing 131I activity by determining the ORR by RECIST v1.1 criteria at 6 months following treatment with vemurafenib +/- 131I., 6 months|safety, Toxicities will be assessed through the NCI-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, individually reported and summarized. Monitoring for vemurafenib-related toxicities will be continued until 30 days after the last dose of drug therapy., 1 year
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, a drug called vemurafenib, either alone or combined with another treatment called radioactive iodine, has on the patient and thyroid cancer. It is not known if vemurafenib works against thyroid cancer. This study will test in a small number of patients if it can be used with radioactive iodine to treat thyroid cancers. This type of study is called a pilot study. If the results are positive, a larger study with more patients may be done to further test this treatment.