Clinical Study of Improved BEAM Conditioning Regimen for ASCT in Lymphoma
This is a single arm, open, single-center clinical study. The patients who are diagnosed with lymphoma and intend to undergo ASCT will be enrolled. The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of the conditioning regimen using mitoxantrone hydrochloride liposome, BCNU, etoposide and cytarabine for ASCT.
Lymphoma|Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
DRUG: Improved BEAM regimen
recurrence rate, The rate of lymphoma relapse, From date of treating with conditioning regimen until lymphoma relapse, the end of follow-up or the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.
AEs, adverse effects, From date of treating with conditioning regimen until the end of follow-up or the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, , assessed up to 36 months.|Time of neutrophil implantation, On the first day of three consecutive days, the peripheral blood neutrophil count (ANC) was ≥0.5×10\^9/L without blood transfusion., From date of the treatment with the conditioning regimen until the time of neutrophil implantation or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|Time of platelet implantation, On the first day of three consecutive days, the peripheral blood platelet count (PLT) was ≥20×10\^9/L without blood transfusion., From date of the treatment with the conditioning regimen until the time of platelet implantation or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|OS, Overall survival, From date of treating with conditioning regimen until the end of follow-up or the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, , assessed up to 36 months.|PFS, Progression free survival, From date of treating with conditioning regimen until the end of follow-up or the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, , assessed up to 36 months.
High-dose chemotherapy combined with autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) is considered the standard of care for patients with chemotherapy-sensitive relapsed/refractory (R/R) non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). BEAM regimen is the most commonly used conditioning regimen for ASCT in lymphoma. But its application is limited by the adverse drug reactions. This present project is a one-arm, open, single-center clinical study. It aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mitoxantrone hydrochloride liposome, carmostine, etoposide, and cytarabine as the conditioning regimen for ASCT in patients with lymphoma.