Trial of Vinflunine Plus Capecitabine in Advanced Breast Cancer
The increasing use of anthracyclines and taxanes in the adjuvant, neoadjuvant and first-line metastatic settings, led to a raise of patients presenting with metastatic breast cancer after treatment with these agents. Options for the treatment of patients who have progressed after an anthracycline and a taxane are limited. The high level of in-vitro synergy of vinflunine combined with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) together with the good tolerance and the encouraging response rate observed while combining IV vinflunine to oral capecitabine make it a promising combination to investigate further in a phase III trial. This phase III trial will evaluate the effectiveness and the safety profile of such combination for the treatment of patient with advanced breast cancer previously treated with or resistant to anthracycline and taxane resistant.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Vinflunine plus Capecitabine|DRUG: Capecitabine
Progression Free Survival, PFS is defined as time from date of randomization to date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression (according to the Independent Response Review Committee (IRC) and based on RECIST version 1.1) or death due to any cause.

The PFS was primarily analysed in the Intent-to-treat (ITT) population. Patients lost to follow-up, or without a known record of progression or death at time of analysis had the progression-free survival censored at the date of last tumour assessment or the date of last contact of a follow-up showing no progression, whichever occurs last., Baseline up to 2 years 7 months
Overall Survival, The overall survival (OS) was defined as the duration between the date of randomisation and the date of death from any cause. The OS analysis was performed in the ITT population and the eligible and per protocol populations once the required number of events (631 deaths) was observed Patients lost to follow-up, or without a known record of death at time of analysis had the OS censored at the date of last contact., Baseline upto 3 years 10 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR defined as documentation of complete or partial response that was subsequently confirmed to first documentation of disease progression or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., Baseline upto 2 years 7 months|Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate defined (DCR) as the sum of confirmed complete response, confirmed partial response and stabilisation rate., Baseline up to 2 years 7 months|Duration of Response, Measured from the first time that measurement criteria were first met for objective response (documented CR or PR) until recurrence/progression or death whatever the cause., Baseline up to 2 years 7 months
This multicentre, open-label, randomised, Phase III study will enrol 764 patients with advanced breast cancer who have previously been treated with or are resistant to an anthracycline and who are taxane resistant. Patients will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive vinflunine plus capecitabine (Arm A) or capecitabine alone (Arm B).

Randomisation will be stratified according to a minimization procedure:

1. Resistance to anthracyclines ("yes" versus "no"), Relapse ≤ 12 months in the adjuvant or neoadjuvant setting or progression ≤ 4 months in the metastatic setting,
2. Karnofsky performance status ("90-100" versus "70-80"),
3. Measurable disease ("yes" versus "no"),
4. The number of prior lines of chemotherapy in the metastatic setting ("0" versus "1" versus "\> 1") and,
5. Study site.

Patients randomised in Arm A will receive:

* Vinflunine at the dose of 280 mg/m² on day 1 of each cycle every 3 weeks, over a 20-minute i.v. infusion and,
* Capecitabine which will be self-administered by the patient in an outpatient setting. Patients will take 825 mg/m² twice daily per os for 14 consecutive days beginning on day 1 of each cycle followed by 1 week of rest. A cycle of therapy is defined as 3 weeks.

For patients randomised in Arm B, capecitabine will be self administered by the patient in an outpatient setting. Patients will take 1250 mg/m² twice daily per os for 14 consecutive days beginning on day 1 of each cycle followed by 1 week of rest. A cycle of therapy is defined as 3 weeks.

The doses and timing of treatment will be modified based on toxicities experienced by the patient.

Patients will be assessed for toxicity, tumour response and progression at regular intervals during treatment. Patients will be evaluated for safety if they received any study drug. Laboratory values, adverse events and other symptoms will be graded.

Tumour response, progression-free survival and duration of response will be evaluated for all randomised patients. Tumour assessment is to be performed every 6 weeks (+/- 3 working days) from randomisation (regardless of the timing of treatment cycles) until disease progression is documented. Patients who discontinue protocol treatment for reasons other than disease progression will have tumour assessments every 6 weeks until documented disease progression. Patients may continue to receive additional cycles of therapy until progressive disease or intolerable toxicity.

Quality of Life assessment, will be measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BR23 questionnaires, which will be completed by patients.

The primary endpoint for the trial is progression free survival calculated from the date of randomization until the date of progression or the date of death whatever the reason of death. The analysis of Progression-Free Survival is planned to take place when 615 progressions or deaths have been observed. One interim safety analysis is planned and will take place when 50 patients of each arm have completed at least one cycle of study treatment. It is anticipated that up to 170 active study centres will participate, and that accrual will be completed in approximately 30 months.