UCN-01 and Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining UCN-01 with gemcitabine in treating patients who have unresectable or metastatic pancreatic cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. UCN-01 may help gemcitabine kill more cancer cells by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug
Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: 7-hydroxystaurosporine|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Incidence of toxicity, Up to 4 years|Pharmacokinetic profiles, Weeks 1-6 for UCN-01 and weeks 1 and 4 for intracellular gemcitabine|Recommended phase II doses, 3 weeks
Frequency, extent, and duration of any tumor responses, Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and toxicity profile of UCN-01 when given in combination with gemcitabine to patients with unresectable or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.

II. To characterize the pharmacokinetic profiles of gemcitabine and UCN-01 when given in combination and to correlate various measurements of UCN-01 with intracellular concentrations.

III. To determine recommended doses of UCN-01 and gemcitabine in combination to be used in a planned subsequent phase II trial.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To record the frequency, extent, and duration of any tumor responses. II. To correlate serum alpha-1 acid glycoprotein (AGP) levels with UCN-01 pharmacokinetics and toxicity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 and 8 followed by UCN-01 IV over 3 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Sequential dose escalation of UCN-01 is followed by sequential dose escalation of gemcitabine.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of UCN-01 and then gemcitabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, at least 6 patients are treated at the recommended phase II dose.