Endobronchial Ultrasound vs Mediastinoscopy in NSCLC
Proper staging of Lung cancer is of paramount concern when determining a treatment regime. Currently the assessment of surgical candidacy is performed with the staging process, mainly the mediastinoscopy. A mediastinoscopy has the ability to access samples of the paratracheal lymph node stations (Levels 2R, 2L, 3, 4R, 4L), as well as the anterior subcarinal lymph node station (Level 7). In comparison, the EBUS-TBNA technique is a real-time procedure that has the potential to access the same paratracheal and subcarinal lymph node stations associated with the mediastinoscopy, but also extending out to the hilar lymph nodes (Levels 10 and 11). Because of the possibility of extended sampling range and a reduction in procedural invasiveness, EBUS-TBNA may represent a more efficient patient centered alternative to mediastinoscopy in the staging of lung cancer patients. Additionally, patients who are have lymph nodes in the N2 region frequently undergo chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy prior to surgery. Assessment of the lymph nodes after chemo/radiation is done using CT scans, as re-mediastinoscopy is a technically difficult procedure. These patients may benefit from EBUS-TBNA.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: Endobronchial Ultrasound Guided Transthoracic Needle Biopsy
Sensitivity, 1 day
Proper staging of Lung cancer is of paramount concern when determining a treatment regime. Currently the assessment of surgical candidacy is performed with the staging process, mainly the mediastinoscopy. A mediastinoscopy has the ability to access samples of the paratracheal lymph node stations (Levels 2R, 2L, 3, 4R, 4L), as well as the anterior subcarinal lymph node station (Level 7). In comparison, the EBUS-TBNA technique is a real-time procedure that has the potential to access the same paratracheal and subcarinal lymph node stations associated with the mediastinoscopy, but also extending out to the hilar lymph nodes (Levels 10 and 11). Because of the possibility of extended sampling range and a reduction in procedural invasiveness, EBUS-TBNA may represent a more efficient patient centered alternative to mediastinoscopy in the staging of lung cancer patients. Additionally, patients who are have lymph nodes in the N2 region frequently undergo chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy prior to surgery. Assessment of the lymph nodes after chemo/radiation is done using CT scans, as re-mediastinoscopy is a technically difficult procedure. These patients may benefit from EBUS-TBNA.