Study of Maintenance Temozolomide Versus Observation in Stable or Responding Stage III/IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients (Study P05146)
The main objective of this study is to investigate whether administration of maintenance temozolomide following standard treatment could possibly prevent or delay the onset of brain metastases in patients with controlled non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Adenocarcinoma|Carcinoma, Large Cell|Carcinoma, Squamous Cell
DRUG: Temozolomide
Number of Participants Who Had Brain Metastases, Brain Metastases were defined as radiological evidence of brain metastases on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)., Up to 12 months (as measured from day 1 of cycle 1 of standard first-line systemic chemotherapy)
Time to Radiological Central Nervous System (CNS) Progression, Defined as CNS progression as measured by MRI.

Time to CNS progression was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., from Cycle 1 Day 1 of Standard First Line Systemic Therapy to radiological progression or the last known CNS progression-free date|Time to Progression, The time to progression (per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors \[RECIST\]) was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method.

Definitions of response per RECIST:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions.

Partial Response (PR): A decrease of at least 30% in the sum of the longest

diameter of target lesions.

Progressive Disease (PD): An increase of at least 20% in the sum of the longest

diameter of target lesions.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease., from Cycle 1 Day 1 of Standard First Line Systemic Therapy to progression or up to 6 cycles (168 days) of study treatment|Overall Survival, The overall survival was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., from Cycle 1 Day 1 of Standard First Line Systemic Therapy to the last time of follow-up|Number of Participants With Brain Metastases at First Progression, Brain Metastases were defined as radiological evidence of brain metastases on MRI., from Cycle 1 Day 1 of Standard First Line Systemic Therapy to the last time of follow-up (up to 6 cycles (168 days) of study treatment)|Cancer-related Quality of Life (QoL) as Assessed by The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QoL Questionnaire C30 Version 3.0 (QLQ-C30), and the EORTC Lung Cancer Module (QLQ-LC13), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the QoL of cancer patients. Scores range from 0 -100. For functional and global QoL scales, higher scores mean a better level of function. For symptom-oriented scales, a higher score means more severe symptoms and a decrease in QoL. The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a 13-item questionnaire developed to supplement the EORTC QLQ-C30 in lung cancer patients. It has a score range 0-100 with higher scores representing an increase in symptoms., from Cycle 1 Day 1 of Standard First Line Systemic Therapy to the last time of follow-up (up to 6 cycles (168 days) of study treatment)|Tolerability of Maintenance Temozolomide, Tolerability was defined as number of participants with any adverse event leading to study discontinuation and/or study drug discontinuation., from Cycle 1 Day 1 of Standard First Line Systemic Therapy to the last time of follow-up (up to 6 cycles (168 days) of study treatment)
This is a Phase 2, open-label, randomized, multicenter study of maintenance temozolomide versus observation in subjects with stable or responding stage III/IV NSCLC to be conducted in conformance with Good Clinical Practices. Subjects will be randomly assigned to a study drug (temozolomide) or observation arm. The study drug will be administered at a dose of 75 mg/m\^2 PO daily for 21 consecutive days, followed by a 7-day rest period, until progression or up to a maximum of 6 cycles, whichever occurs first. Subjects completing 6 cycles of treatment will be followed up for incidence of brain metastasis for up to 2 years, or until progression.