Study on Effect of Robotic Versus Laparoscopic Surgical Technology on Genitourinary Function After Total Mesorectal Excision for Rectal Cancer
Intraoperative pelvic autonomic nerve (PAN) injury is the dominant reason for genitourinary malfunction after total mesorectal excision (TME), particularly in low rectal tumours. TME necessitates meticulous, sharp dissection with an awareness of the PAN pathway. In particular, laparoscopic TME (L-TME) is technically difficult and requires advanced laparoscopic surgical skills. Comparing with the conventional laparoscopic approach, 3D vision, surgeon-manipulated camera systems, and multi-degree-of-freedom robotic instruments facilitate identification and preservation of the PAN during robotic-assisted TME (R-TME), theoretically facilitating favourable recovery of postoperative genitourinary function. Previous studies have mostly focused on the impact of advanced robotic technologies on postoperative functions. However, in addition to robotic surgical technology, postoperative function is impacted by multiple other intricate factors, such as oncology, comorbidities, postoperative complications, and adjuvant chemoradiotherapy. Consequently, the superiority of robotic surgery in terms of recovery of postoperative genitourinary function has been controversial in previous studies. Hence, to comprehensively evaluate the effect of robotic technology on postoperative genitourinary function, we conducted a prospective controlled study comparing the conventional approach and robotic surgery.
Colorectal Cancer
DEVICE: clinical application of robotic technique
International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), evaluation of genitourinary function, preoperation，1、3、6、12 months after operation
International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), evaluation of genitourinary function, preoperation，1、3、6、12 months after operation|Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI), evaluation of genitourinary function, preoperation，1、3、6、12 months after operation|operative time, operative outcomes, perioperative|blood loose, operative outcomes, perioperative|conversion, operative outcomes, perioperative|retrieved lymph nodes, operative outcomes, perioperative|complete TME specimens, operative outcomes, perioperative|circumferential resection margins (CRMs), operative outcomes, perioperative|complication, operative outcomes, perioperative
Intraoperative pelvic autonomic nerve (PAN) injury is the dominant reason for genitourinary malfunction after total mesorectal excision (TME), particularly in low rectal tumours. TME necessitates meticulous, sharp dissection with an awareness of the PAN pathway. In particular, laparoscopic TME (L-TME) is technically difficult and requires advanced laparoscopic surgical skills. Comparing with the conventional laparoscopic approach, 3D vision, surgeon-manipulated camera systems, and multi-degree-of-freedom robotic instruments facilitate identification and preservation of the PAN during robotic-assisted TME (R-TME), theoretically facilitating favourable recovery of postoperative genitourinary function. Previous studies have mostly focused on the impact of advanced robotic technologies on postoperative functions. However, in addition to robotic surgical technology, postoperative function is impacted by multiple other intricate factors, such as oncology, comorbidities, postoperative complications, and adjuvant chemoradiotherapy. Consequently, the superiority of robotic surgery in terms of recovery of postoperative genitourinary function has been controversial in previous studies. Hence, to comprehensively evaluate the effect of robotic technology on postoperative genitourinary function, we conducted a prospective controlled study comparing the conventional approach and robotic surgery.