Power Morcellation Systems for Laparoscopic Hysterectomy and Myomectomy
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of insufflated bags for electromechanical power morcellation during laparoscopic hysterectomy and myomectomy for tissue removal and to observe the integrity of the bags throughout and after insufflation and power morcellation.

The hypothesis is the bags will remain in tact without leakage from the bags during and after power morcellation using the described contained system, confirming the safety and efficacy of the systems.
Leiomyoma
DEVICE: EcoSac 400 ECO-T
Number of Participants With Egg Albumin Leakage., After morcellation is complete, the bag was removed from the abdomen and taken out of the operating room to the frozen section room to inspect the integrity of the bag. Five hundred milliliters of egg albumin combined with 0.5 milliliters of methylene blue were placed into the bag to assess for any leakage.Visual inspection will be used to assess leakage from the bag with outcome measures of "yes" or "no.", Day 0 through the end of morcellation, approximately 30 minutes.
Morcellation Time, Time (in minutes) from insertion of the bag to removal of the bag, Day 0 through the end of morcellation, approximately 30 minutes.
Uterine leiomyoma (fibroids) are non-cancerous smooth muscle tumors that can cause heavy menstrual bleeding, pain, and pressure. Common surgical treatment modalities are hysterectomy (removal of the uterus) or myomectomy (removal of the fibroid). Minimally invasive surgical techniques (laparoscopy) are generally recommended due to improved recovery time, decrease infection risk, decreased bleeding risk and overall decreased morbidity and mortality risks.

In order to remove a large uterus or large fibroids laparoscopically, a power morcellator is often used to cut the specimen into smaller pieces that can be removed through small incisions. Due to the concern regarding spread of small amounts of tissue during power morcellation, many surgeons are advocating contained power morcellation, i.e. morcellation inside a specimen bag.

This study will be evaluating the efficacy of contained morcellation using a specific specimen bag. Morcellation will be performed in the designated bag. The bag will then be removed evaluated for any egg albumin leakage. If there is no leakage, it can be inferred that there is no tissue is spread during the contained morcellation process using this bag.