Dyadic Text-Messaging Micro-Intervention
The purpose of this study is to develop, refine, and pilot test a text-messaging micro-intervention focused on improving communication skills for couples in which one partner has gastrointestinal cancer.

For the pilot testing portion of the study, couples will be randomized (1:1) to receive the text-messaging communication micro-intervention or to a waitlist control group. All couples will be asked to complete questionnaires before randomization and 30 days post-randomization. Couples in the waitlist control group will be offered the text-messaging micro-intervention after completing the second set of surveys (30-days post-randomization).
Advanced Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Dyadic Text-Messaging Micro-Intervention
Assessment of acceptability of micro-Intervention, Acceptability of treatment will be measured using the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8); higher scores indicate higher satisfaction, Post-Intervention (30 days post randomization)|Changes in relationship satisfaction, Changes in relationship satisfaction measured by the Couples Satisfaction Index (CSI-4); higher scores indicate higher relationship satisfaction, Baseline (after informed consent, prior to randomization), Post-Intervention (30 days post randomization)|Changes in constructive communication, Changes in constructive communication measured by the Communication Patterns Questionnaire (CPQ-Short Form), Baseline (after informed consent, prior to randomization), Post-Intervention (30 days post randomization)
A cancer diagnosis requires patients and their intimate partners to communicate effectively to navigate illness-related challenges. Research indicates that couples who use effective communication strategies have better individual psychological adjustment and higher relationship satisfaction. However, many couples have difficulty communicating about cancer-related issues which can lead to poorer individual, relationship, and patient health outcomes.

While dyadic interventions to improve couple communication have proven efficacious, they are often time intensive and have limited reach. The challenges of recruiting couples into dyadic interventions are well-documented, with low recruitment rates especially among underserved couples.

Micro-interventions, which consist of brief educational materials and short activities delivered via text message or a mobile application, have significant potential to increase reach and participation in diverse groups of couples by increasing flexibility and reducing barriers to access. Previous studies have found micro-interventions to be effective in promoting health behavior change in a wide range of individuals and in enhancing dyadic functioning in community couples.

The proposed project aims to develop, test, and examine the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of a text-messaging communication micro-intervention for couples coping with advanced GI cancer.