Vaccination With Autologous Breast Cancer Cells Engineered to Secrete Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) in Metastatic Breast Cancer Patients
The purpose of this trial is to test the safety of a vaccine made from a patient's own breast cancer cells, and determine if this vaccine will delay or stop the growth of the cancer. The vaccine is made by genetically modifying a patient's own tumor cells to secrete granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) to activate the immune response.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous, Lethally Irradiated Breast Cancer Cells
Minimum Number of Vaccine Doses Created Using Participant Tumor Sample, Tumor samples were obtained via malignant effusion or a surgically accessible tumor nodule of 2 cm in greatest diameter. Tumor cells were processed to single cell suspension and transduced with adenoviral vector encoding human Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Then, the cells washed extensively and irradiated with 10,000 cGy. Over the next 14 days, sterility cultures were tested for endotoxin and mycoplasma contamination. Individual vaccine cell dose and number varied depending on the final cell yield from vaccine production. The minimal dose was 1 x 10\^5 cells and the maximal dose was 1 x 10\^7 cells., Vaccine doses created and banked soon after registration, up to 8 days.
Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, Number of participants with grade 3 or higher adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 58 Months|Number of Participants With RECIST Criteria Responses, Clinical outcomes as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. For target lesions, complete response (CR) is complete disappearance of all target lesions and partial response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. Progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in sum LD of target lesions (smallest sum LD reference), new lesions, and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Stable disease (SD) is defined as any condition not meeting the above criteria., Up to 14 Years
After the patient has given their consent to participate in the trial, a series of tests will be performed to determine if the patient is eligible. These tests may take place up to 21 days before the surgery to remove a tumor sample or cancer-containing fluid, which will be used to create the vaccines. The tumor cells or fluid is then brought to a special, certified laboratory where the vaccine is made. Specially trained laboratory technicians then use a method known as adenoviral mediated gene transfer, which adds a new gene to the cancer cells. This gene causes the cells to make GM-CSF, a powerful hormone that stimulates the immune system. The cells are then given radiation so that they will not grow. Participants will start receiving vaccine on day 1, 8, 15, 29, and then every two weeks until the supply of vaccine has run out. The amount of the vaccine depends upon the total amount of cells that are obtained from the breast cancer tumor or fluid. Each time the patient is vaccinated, they will be given injections that will be placed underneath the skin. A different place will be used for each injection. If there are enough cells from the patient's tumor sample, the patient will be given an injection of non-transduced irradiated cells (the gene was not added) . These cells will help to measure how the patient's immune system is reacting to the tumor cells. This is called Delayed-Type Hypersensitivity (DTH). With vaccine #1 and #5, the patient will also receive a DTH injection. Two to three days after the vaccine and DTH injection, skin biopsies will be taken of both sites. At week 10 in the study treatment, or earlier if necessary, the patient will have a chest, abdomen, and pelvic CT scan to determine if the vaccine therapy has had an effect on their disease. A brain MRI will be performed if there were any abnormalities on the first brain MRI or if new symptoms have developed. Patients may participate in this study until one of the following happens: All vaccine created from the tumor has been given to the patient; the patient's disease worsens; the patient experiences an unacceptable and/or harmful side effect; the patient is unable to follow the study plan; or the patient's doctor feels it is no longer in the best interest of the patient to continue.