Circulating Tumor DNA Testing in Predicting Treatment for Patients With Stage IIA Colon Cancer After Surgery
This phase II/III trial studies how well circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) testing in the blood works in predicting treatment for patients with stage IIA colon cancer after surgery. ctDNA are circulating tumor cells that are shed by tumors into the blood. Finding ctDNA in the blood means that there is very likely some small amounts of cancer that remain after surgery. However, this cancer, if detected, cannot be found on other tests usually used to find cancer, as it is too small. Testing for ctDNA levels may help identify patients with colon cancer after surgery who do benefit, and those who do not benefit, from receiving chemotherapy.
Colon Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Colon Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|OTHER: Patient Observation
Clearance of Circulating Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (ctDNA) (to Undetectable Levels) for the "Baseline ctDNA Detected" Patient Subset (Phase II), A two by two contingency table of clearance by treatment arm will be created. The one-sided Fisher exact p-value will be used to determine futility based on the rule specified. Degenerate tables where the Fisher p-value cannot be calculated (no patients clear on either arm or all patients clear on both arms) will count as a failure and a recommendation for early termination., Baseline up to 6 months|Recurrence-free Survival (RFS) the "Baseline ctDNA Detected" Patient Subset (Phase III), RFS will be compared by treatment arm using the logrank test with no stratification in the intent to treat (ITT) cohort. Kaplan Meier curves will be computed to describe the distribution of time to event. A summary hazard ratio and associated confidence interval will be computed from a Cox model with treatment arm as the only covariate., Time to recurrence or death, assessed up to 3 years
RFS, According to ctDNA marker status and treatment. Kaplan Meier analyses to describe the distribution of time to event for each marker-treatment combination., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), According to ctDNA marker status and treatment. Kaplan Meier analyses to describe the distribution of time to event for each marker-treatment combination. The unstratified logrank test will be used to compare treatments for patients ?ctDNA positive? at baseline and a Cox model will estimate the hazard ratio., Up to 3 years|Time to Recurrence (TTR), According to ctDNA marker status and treatment. Kaplan Meier analyses to describe the distribution of time to event for each marker-treatment combination. The unstratified logrank test will be used to compare treatments for patients ?ctDNA positive? at baseline and a Cox model will estimate the hazard ratio., Up to 3 years|Compliance With Adjuvant Chemotherapy and/or Active Surveillance, The duration of chemotherapy will be categorized as none, less than 3 months, and at least 3 months by treatment arm and baseline ctDNA status. Arms will be compared by a chi square test within each baseline ctDNA status., Up to 3 years|Incidence (Presence or Absence) of ctDNA in Blood Following Resection of Stage II Colon Cancer, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the rate of ctDNA clearance in "ctDNA detected" patients treated with or without adjuvant chemotherapy following resection of stage IIA colon cancer. (Phase II) II. To compare recurrence-free survival (RFS) in "ctDNA detected" patients treated with or without adjuvant chemotherapy following resection of stage IIA colon cancer. (Phase III)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the prevalence of detectable ctDNA in patients with stage IIA colon cancer following surgical resection.

II. To estimate time-to-event outcomes (overall survival \[OS\], recurrence-free survival \[RFS\], and time to recurrence \[TTR\]) by ctDNA marker status and treatment for patients with resected stage IIA colon cancer.

III. To estimate the rate of compliance with adjuvant chemotherapy and/or active surveillance for patients with resected stage IIA colon cancer.