Epidiolex (CBD) in Patients With Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this phase I/Ib study is to determine the safety profile of Epidiolex (CBD oil) in biochemically recurrent prostate cancer patients. The study consists of a dose escalation part and dose expansion part. The dose expansion part of the study will use the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) determined in the dose escalation part to assess the activity, safety and tolerability of the investigational product in patients with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer after localized therapy with either surgery or radiation.
Prostate Cancer Recurrent|Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Epidiolex Oral Liquid Product|DRUG: Epidiolex Oral Liquid Product|DRUG: Epidiolex Oral Liquid Product
Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicities (Treatment-related Adverse Events) as Assessed by the CTCAE v5.0, DLT was defined as grade ≥3 nausea, vomiting, diarrhea that persists \>72 h despite optimal anti-emetics and anti-diarrhea treatment, grade ≥3 hematological adverse events (AEs), or grade ≥2 suicidal ideation.Treatment-related adverse events are those that comprise a dose-limiting toxicity within 30 days after initiation of Epidiolex (i.e., acute DLT). Additionally, Treatment-related adverse events will continue to be monitored for a total of 90 days., up to 90 days
Participants With Biochemical Response., Biochemical response (25% change from baseline) will be determined by the measurement of PSA at baseline and approximately every 4 weeks during treatment., within 90 days|Change in PSA Velocity From Baseline Throughout the Treatment Period as an Indication of Biochemical Response., Biochemical response will be determined by measurement of PSA approximately every 4 weeks during treatment. PSA velocity is the calculation (PSA final measurement - PSA initial measurement) / number of years between measurements., within 90 days|Change in Testosterone Levels From Baseline Throughout the Treatment Period as an Indication of Biochemical Response, Biochemical response will be determined by measurement of total testosterone level approximately every 4 weeks during treatment., Baseline, Day 1 of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 4 weeks), Day 1 of Cycle 2, Day 1 of Cycle 3, and 1 month post treatment (up to 16 weeks)|Health-related Quality of Life (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30), The EORTC quality of life questionnaire (QLQ) 30 is a validated 30-item patient-reported questionnaire assessing quality of life among cancer populations. The quality of life questionnaire-C30 is the core QOL instrument, with 30 items that comprise five functioning scales (physical, social, role, cognitive, and emotional functioning), eight symptom scales (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, pain, dyspnea, sleep disturbances, appetite loss, constipation, and diarrhea), financial impact, and overall quality of life. All raw item scores are transformed to scale scores, linearly converted to range from 0 to 100. For the functioning scales and global QOL, higher scores indicate better functioning. For the symptom scales, higher scores indicate higher symptom burden., Baseline|Health-related Quality of Life (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30), The EORTC quality of life questionnaire (QLQ) 30 is a validated 30-item patient-reported questionnaire assessing quality of life among cancer populations. The quality of life questionnaire-C30 is the core QOL instrument, with 30 items that comprise five functioning scales (physical, social, role, cognitive, and emotional functioning), eight symptom scales (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, pain, dyspnea, sleep disturbances, appetite loss, constipation, and diarrhea), financial impact, and overall quality of life. All raw item scores are transformed to scale scores, linearly converted to range from 0 to 100. For the functioning scales and global QOL, higher scores indicate better functioning. For the symptom scales, higher scores indicate higher symptom burden., 12 weeks|Prostate Cancer-Specific Quality of Life (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-PR25), The EORTC quality of life questionnaire (QLQ)-PR25 is a validated 25-item patient-reported questionnaire which complements the EORTC QLQ-C30,core QOL questionnaire. The QLQ-PR25 comprises 25 items assessing sequelae specific to prostate cancer and its treatment, and thus, is intended to supplement the EORTC QLQ-C30. The 25 items comprise six prostate-specific scales: Urinary, Bowel, Use of Incontinence Aids, Prostate Cancer Treatment-Related Symptoms, Sexual Active and Sexual Function. Raw item scores are linearly transformed to a 0 to 100 scale (i.e., same unit of measurement used by the core QLQ-C30 questionnaire). For the QLQ-PR25, higher scores on symptom domains (e.g., urinary, bowel, etc.) indicate greater symptom burden. Higher scores on function domains (e.g., Sexual Function) indicate better functioning., Baseline|Prostate Cancer-Specific Quality of Life (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-PR25), The EORTC quality of life questionnaire (QLQ)-PR25 is a validated 25-item patient-reported questionnaire which complements the EORTC QLQ-C30,core QOL questionnaire. The QLQ-PR25 comprises 25 items assessing sequelae specific to prostate cancer and its treatment, and thus, is intended to supplement the EORTC QLQ-C30. The 25 items comprise six prostate-specific scales: Urinary, Bowel, Use of Incontinence Aids, Prostate Cancer Treatment-Related Symptoms, Sexual Active and Sexual Function. Raw item scores are linearly transformed to a 0 to 100 scale (i.e., same unit of measurement used by the core QLQ-C30 questionnaire). For the QLQ-PR25, higher scores on symptom domains (e.g., urinary, bowel, etc.) indicate greater symptom burden. Higher scores on function domains (e.g., Sexual Function) indicate better functioning., 12 weeks
Cannabinoids (CBD) have been widely used in medicines for centuries to control pain, nausea or vomiting, and to stimulate appetite, especially in cancer patients. Both cannabinoids receptor 1(CB1) and cannabinoids receptor 2 (CB2) were highly expressed in cultured prostate cancer cells compared to normal prostate cell lines. CBD inhibits tumor growth in xenograft model.

Clinicians have been challenged to improve the treatment of biochemically recurrent (BCR) prostate cancer in which prostatic specific antigen (PSA) rises without radiological or clinical progression years after localized treatment (radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy) with or without hormonal treatment. Approximately 50-90% of men with high-risk prostate cancer will experience a BCR. Based on the abovementioned preclinical observations of CBD's effect on prostate cancer and its safety data in two non-cancer populations, a phase I study of CBD in men with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer will be conducted.