Prototype DAA/TAA Vaccine Targeting MUC1 for Immune Interception and Prevention in Ductal Carcinoma In Situ
Post-menopausal women with biopsy-proven DCIS will be enrolled into two cohorts. One cohort will receive neoadjuvant therapy with an aromatase inhibitor alone for about 12 weeks prior to surgery at 12 weeks. The second cohort will receive neoadjuvant therapy with an aromatase inhibitor and MUC1 vaccination (MUC1 peptide + Hiltonol®) pre-operatively at baseline, and weeks 2 and 10, followed by surgery at about 12 weeks. Patients in the vaccine cohort will be offered an optional boost vaccine 6 months after surgery.
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ
BIOLOGICAL: MUC1 Peptide Vaccine|DRUG: Hiltonol®|DRUG: Aromatase Inhibitor
Immunogenicity (of MUC1 vaccine), Percentage of patients with a 2-fold or greater increase in serum anti-MUC1 IgG from screening date. Serum IgG is measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)., At Screening, Week 2, Week 4, Week 6, Week 10, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20, Up to 1 year
Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events Related to Treatment, Number of AEs and SAEs related to study treatment using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 (CTCAE v.5)., Up to 2 years|Feasibility (Time to planned surgery), Percentage of patients who experience a greater than 4-week variation in the time to planned surgery that is related to study participation., Up to 2 years
DCIS is frequently detected by screening mammography, and may develop into invasive disease. However, not all DCIS will progress to invasive breast cancer, and some patients are overtreated. Vaccines for DCIS might facilitate therapeutic de-escalation, and allow less aggressive therapy. The TAA MUC1 is expressed in DCIS, and vaccines specific for MUC1 are safe and decrease the rate of recurrence of high-risk premalignant lesions in colon cancer. This clinical trial is designed to evaluate mechanisms of immune activation and suppression in patients with DCIS, both within the peripheral blood and within the DCIS lesion, and will provide data to guide the development of larger trials to evaluate the impact of a MUC1 vaccine to prevent disease recurrence. Ultimately, vaccine success in intercepting the development of breast cancer will provide critical data for the application of these strategies in breast cancer prevention in high-risk individuals.