A Trial Comparing Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 (3w) Versus Docetaxel 50 mg/m2 (2w) in Combination With Darolutamide + ADT in mHSPC Patients
The purpose of this clinical phase 3 randomized trial is to compare two different dosing schedules of Docetaxel in combination with ADT and Darolutamide in subjects with mHSPC. The main question aims to compare grade 3-5 adverse events (AEs) in patients with mHSPC treated with 6 cycles of either Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks in a 3 week cycle or 6 cycles of Docetaxel 50 mg/m2 every 2 weeks in a 4 week cycle in combination with Darolutamide + ADT. The primary endpoint are Grade 3-5 AEs, followed by neutropenia grade 3/4 + grade 5 AEs to be analysed 28 weeks after last patient first Docetaxel dose (LPFD).
Metastatic Hormone-Sensitive Prostate Cancer (mHSPC)
DRUG: Standard ADT (androgen deprivation therapy)|DRUG: Standard Darolutamide|DRUG: Docetaxel
Rate of grade 3-5 AEs, Rate of grade 3-5 AEs, followed by rate of neutropenia grade 3/4 + grade 5 AEs t, 28 weeks after last patient first Docetaxel dose (LPFD)
PSA-response, PSA-response (PSA \<=0.2, \>0.2-4.0 und \>4.0 ng/ml) determined at week 28 after LPFD, 28 after LPFD|Time to castration-resistant prostate cancer, approx. every 90 days, defined as the time to PSA progression with serum testosterone being at castrate level \<0.50 ng/mL, or the time to progression by soft tissue/visceral lesions or time to progression by bone lesions whatever comes first;, approximately 42 months|Overall survival, defined as the time (in days) from date of randomization until death from any cause, approximately 42 months|Time to initiation of subsequent antineoplastic therapy, approx. every 90 days up to the date of first subsequent antineoplastic therapy for prostate cancer, approximately 42 months|Symptomatic skeletal event free survival (SSE), approx. every 90 days up to the first occurence of SSE, symptomatic skeletal event free survival, defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of SSE or death from any cause, whichever comes first. An SSE is defined as EBRT to relieve skeletal symptoms, or new symptomatic pathologic bone fracture, or occurrence of spinal cord compression or tumor-related orthopedic surgical intervention, whichever comes first., approximately 42 months|Time to first symptomatic skeletal event (SSE), approx. every 90 days up to the first occurence of SSE, defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of SSE. An SSE is defined as EBRT to relieve skeletal symptoms, or new symptomatic pathologic bone fracture, or occurrence of spinal cord compression or tumor-related orthopedic surgical intervention, whichever comes first., approximately 42 months|Time to pain progression, approx. every 90 days up to the first date a subject experiences a pain progression. Pain to be assessed with a patient reported questionaire, approximately 42 months|Time to worsening of physical symptoms of disease, approx. every 90 days up to the first date a subject experiences an increase in physical symptoms based on the NCCN-FACT-FPSI-17 questionnaire, approximately 42 months|Treatment emergent adverse events, all grade AEs until the end-of-study treatment visit (to be analysed 26 weeks after last patient first Docetaxel, all grade AEs until the discontinuation visit, all and Study drug-related SAEs until the end of Survival Follow-up, approximately 42 months
This is a randomized, open, controlled, multicenter phase III clinical trial. Approximately 250 patients with mHSPC who are candidates for docetaxel, darolutamide and ADT will be randomized (1:1 ratio) to one of the following study arms:

* Arm 1: 6 x Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks of a 3 week cycle
* Arm 2: 6 x Docetaxel 50 mg/ m2 every 2 weeks of a 4 week cycle Subjects will be stratified at randomization for the extent of disease and for Alkaline Phosphatase levels.

All subjects must receive ADT of Investigator's choice (LHRH agonist/antagonists or orchiectomy) and darolutamide as standard therapy. Six cycles of docetaxel are be administered after randomization according to either Arm 1 or Arm 2. After completion of study drug treatment, subjects will continue with the observation period. During the observation period all subjects will continue with Darolutamide+ADT until occurrence of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).