Phase I Trial of Valproic Acid and Epirubicin in Solid Tumor Malignancies
This is a Phase I dose escalation trial with escalating doses of Valproic acid and one dose escalation step of epirubicin. VPA will be escalated starting at a dose that is recommended for use as an anti-convulsant or to treat migraine headaches. Epirubicin will be given by infusion on day 3 after the last dose of divalproex. The study will determine the highest dose that these two drugs can be given together and as part of a multidrug regimen with 5-fluorouracil and cyclophosphamide.
Neoplasms, Advanced
DRUG: Valproic acid|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide.
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), MTD of Valproic acid in combination with Epirubicin. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be defined as the highest dose level at which less than 2 out of 6 patients (\<33%) experience DLT in Cycle 1. A dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as any one of the specific adverse events (AEs) outlined in the protocol, occurring during Cycle 1 when considered related to therapy that is part of this study., Up to 2 months
Pharmacokinetic Profile, To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of valproic acid and epirubicin in this combination., 6 months|VPA effects on Histone Acetylation, To determine VPA effects on histone acetylation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and VPA effects on histone acetylation and epirubicin induced DNA damage in biopsied tumors., 6 months|MTD for VPA and Epirubicin in Combination with 5-fluorouracil and Cyclophosphamide, To determine the MTD for VPA and epirubicin in combination with 5-fluorouracil and cyclophosphamide commonly known as a regimen called FEC100., 6 months|Utility of Topo IIα and IIβ as Predictive Factors for Response, To determine the utility of topo IIα and IIβ as predictive factors for response and their modulation as drug targets in patients with biopsied tumors and to document any responses to this combination., 6 months
This is a Phase I dose escalation trial with escalating doses of Valproic acid and one dose escalation step of epirubicin. VPA will be escalated starting at a dose that is recommended for use as an anti-convulsant or to treat migraine headaches. Recommended concentrations for seizure control is 15-60 mg/kg. Pharmacokinetic studies from healthy volunteers and patients suggested a linear increase in plasma concentrations. A daily dosing of 16 mg/kg divalproex (delayed-release VPA) resulted in a peak VPA plasma concentration of 127 μg/ml (\~0.9 mM) 27. The recommended Phase II dose of VPA was 60 mg/kg/d when given by a one-hour intravenous infusion twice daily for 5 days every three weeks.

Synergistic activity between VPA and epirubicin has been observed at 0.5 mM of VPA in our preclinical laboratory studies. Patients will receive an intravenous loading dose of VPA followed by divalproex in two daily doses for 5 doses. The loading dose of VPA will avoid a delay in peak plasma concentrations and excessive nausea. Epirubicin will be given by infusion on day 3 after the last dose of divalproex.

Once the MTD for this two drug regimen has been determined, the maximum tolerated dose will be determined as part of the FEC regimen (5-fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide).