Feasibility of Evaluating Gene Alteration Analysis Using Samples Obtained by EBUS-TBNA in Patients With Lung Cancer
Lung cancer is the leading cause of death in the world. Overall 5-year survival rate is fewer than 10% and the effectiveness of conventional chemotherapy is limited. The new knowledge shows the correlation between genetic alteration and effective of chemotherapy. Therefore non-surgical modalities to obtain tumor specimens for genetic alteration analysis are particularly critical in lung cancer, since many patients have advanced disease at the time of first presentation, and are therefore not eligible for radical surgery. Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) samples obtained during diagnosis of lung cancer can be used for molecular analysis that will predict response to treatment and prognosis. In this study, we will detect specific target molecules related to the effectiveness of treatment (surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy) and prognosis in patients with lung cancer using EBUS-TBNA samples and its combined with xenograft technology.
Lung Cancer
The primary objective of this study is to perform gene alteration analysis using samples obtained by EBUS-TBNA in lung cancer patients., 5 years
Lung cancer is the leading cause of death in the world. Overall 5-year survival rate is fewer than 10% and the effectiveness of conventional chemotherapy is limited. The new knowledge shows the correlation between genetic alteration and effective of chemotherapy. Therefore non-surgical modalities to obtain tumor specimens for genetic alteration analysis are particularly critical in lung cancer, since many patients have advanced disease at the time of first presentation, and are therefore not eligible for radical surgery. Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) samples obtained during diagnosis of lung cancer can be used for molecular analysis that will predict response to treatment and prognosis. In this study, we will detect specific target molecules related to the effectiveness of treatment (surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy) and prognosis in patients with lung cancer using EBUS-TBNA samples and its combined with xenograft technology.