The Transitions Project: Supporting Adults During the Shift From Cancer Treatment to Surveillance
This research study is designed to develop and test a new supportive care program to help individuals with lung cancer improve their quality of life after cancer treatment is over.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Small-cell Lung Cancer|Mesothelioma|Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
BEHAVIORAL: Run-In Sessions 1-5|BEHAVIORAL: RCT Transitions Program Sessions 1-5|BEHAVIORAL: RCT Control Session
Number of participants enrolled, Feasibility will be assessed by calculating the proportions of potential participants enrolled (≥35%), 12 Weeks|Number of participants retained, Feasibility will be assessed by calculating the proportions of potential participants retained (≥70%), 12 Weeks|Proportion of intervention arm participants who complete study visits, Feasibility will be assessed by calculating the proportion of intervention arm participants who complete study visits (≥70% attending ≥60% of sessions), 12 weeks
Acceptability of study, Participant concerns and recommendations will be used to guide the next trial with respect to intervention content and delivery. Participant responses to the exit interview will be summarized (descriptive statistics for quantitative items) and coded (content analysis for open-ended items), Week 12|Change in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung Cancer (FACT-L) score, This measure assesses multidimensional quality of life including physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, and lung cancer-specific concerns. Each item is answered on a scale of 0 (not at all) to 5 (very much). Total scores will be used, with higher scores indicating better quality of life., pre-baseline to 12 weeks|Change in Fear of Cancer Recurrence Scale 7 score, This measure assesses worry about the return of disease with 6 items measured on a 5-point scale and 1 item measured on a 10-point scale. Total scores will be used, with higher scores indicating greater fear of recurrence., pre-baseline to 12 weeks|Change in Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale score, This measure assesses depression and anxiety symptoms (7 items each), and mixed affect (all 14 items). Total scores will be used, with higher scores indicating greater distress., pre-baseline to 12 weeks|Change in Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support score, This measure assesses social support using 12 items on a 7-point Likert-type scale. Mean scores will be used, with higher scores indicating greater perceived support., pre-baseline to 12 Weeks
The aims of this pilot study are to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of a brief psychoeducational intervention for participants with cancer who are transitioning from active treatment to surveillance.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility.

This study consists of 2 parts. It is expected that about 45 people will take part in this research study.

* In the first part of this study, about 5 participants will complete survey questions and receive a 5-session program.
* In the second part of this study, about 40 participants will complete 3 surveys, and then will be randomly assigned to receive the 5-session program or to receive one study session (control).
* These sessions will focus on providing targeted support related to life after cancer treatment. The sessions will focus on skills for coping with uncertainty, managing symptoms, improving social support, and other topics important to the individual.