Reduced Craniospinal Radiation Therapy and Chemotherapy in Treating Younger Patients With Newly Diagnosed WNT-Driven Medulloblastoma
This phase II trial studies how well reduced doses of radiation therapy to the brain and spine (craniospinal) and chemotherapy work in treating patients with newly diagnosed type of brain tumor called WNT)/Wingless (WNT)-driven medulloblastoma. Recent studies using chemotherapy and radiation therapy have been shown to be effective in treating patients with WNT-driven medulloblastoma. However, there is a concern about the late side effects of treatment, such as learning difficulties, lower amounts of hormones, or other problems in performing daily activities. Radiotherapy uses high-energy radiation from x-rays to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide and lomustine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving reduced craniospinal radiation therapy and chemotherapy may kill tumor cells and may also reduce the late side effects of treatment.
Medulloblastoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lomustine|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS along with the confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. PFS will also be reported based on central radiology review., From the initiation of protocol treatment to the occurrence of any of the following events: disease progression or disease recurrence or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation profiling as real-time classification of WNT-driven medulloblastoma, Results will be compared to the results of the molecular screening tests. The sensitivity and specificity comparison between DNA methylation arrays and the standard methods (molecular screening tests for WNT using immunohistochemistry \[IHC\] and CTNNB1 sequencing) will be performed using McNemar's test., Within 32 days of definitive surgery|Change in neurocognitive function (cognitive, social, emotional and behavioral) according to Children Oncology Group Standard Neuropsychological Battery, Neurocognitive function will be measured at 9, 30 and 60 months post diagnosis and will be compared with the neurocognitive outcomes from an age and gender matched ACNS0331 cohort to the WNT patients treated on ACNS1422. Data for all assessments will be available as standardized t-scores. The change over time for each component of the neuropsychological testing will be estimated using the Generalized Estimating Equation (GEE) approach, with the standardized t-scores as the dependent variable and the assessment times as a covariate. Within the ACNS1422 cohort GEE models will also be used to explore associations of changes over time with factors such as gender, age at initiation of radiation therapy, tumor location, number of surgical interventions, etc., Baseline to up to 60 months post-diagnosis
DNA methylation profiling of medulloblastoma real-time" predictive classification scheme for the SHH, group 3 and group 4 medulloblastoma subgroups according to the Heidelberg classifier, The proportion of patients classified into each medulloblastoma subgroup will be reported., Within 32 days of definitive surgery|Audiologic and endocrinologic toxicities, The proportions of children who experienced audiologic, endocrinologic, and peripheral neuropathy toxicities per grade will be estimated along with 95% confidence interval based on an exact binomial distribution., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) of children \>= 3 years of age with wingless-type MMTV integration site family (WNT)-driven average-risk medulloblastoma using reduced craniospinal radiotherapy (CSI) (18 Gray \[Gy\]) with a limited target volume boost to the tumor bed of 36 Gy for a total of 54 Gy and reduced chemotherapy approach (no vincristine \[vincristine sulfate\] during radiotherapy and reduced-dose maintenance chemotherapy) and to monitor the PFS for early evidence that the outcome is unacceptable.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To prospectively test the hypothesis that deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation profiling will accurately classify WNT-driven medulloblastoma.

II. To prospectively evaluate and longitudinally model the cognitive, social, emotional, behavioral, and quality of life (QoL) functioning of children who are treated with reduced CSI (18 Gy) with a limited target volume boost to the tumor bed (to a total of 54 Gy) and reduced chemotherapy (reduced cisplatin, vincristine, and lomustine \[CCNU\]).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore whether DNA methylation profiling of medulloblastoma samples will result in a predictive classification scheme for the Sonic Hedgehog (SHH), Group 3, and Group 4 medulloblastoma subgroups according to the Heidelberg classifier. This will be addressed in a separate biology protocol.

II. To describe the audiologic and endocrinologic toxicities, as well as peripheral neuropathy, in children treated with reduced CSI (18 Gy) with a limited target volume boost to the tumor bed (to a total of 54 Gy) and reduced cisplatin and vincristine chemotherapy.

OUTLINE:

RADIATION THERAPY: Beginning 4-5 weeks after surgery, patients undergo craniospinal radiation therapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY (WEEKS 1, 3, 5, and 7): Beginning 4-6 weeks after completion of radiation therapy patients receive lomustine orally (PO) on day 1, vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) via minibag on days 1, 8, and 15, and cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY (WEEKS 2, 4, AND 6): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 2, mesna IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1 and 2, and vincristine sulfate IV via minibag on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 6 years.