Gleevec/Taxol for Patients With Uterine Papillary Serous Carcinoma
Objectives:

* To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of imatinib mesylate in combination with fixed dose paclitaxel in patients with stage IIIC, IV or recurrent uterine papillary serous carcinoma.
* To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of imatinib mesylate and paclitaxel in this cohort of patients.
* To determine the efficacy of imatinib mesylate and paclitaxel in patients with stage IIIC, IV or recurrent uterine papillary serous carcinoma whose tumor expresses either c-Kit, PDGFR or abl.
Uterine Cancer
DRUG: Imatinib Mesylate|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Number of Participants Who Experienced Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Oral Imatinib Mesylate in Combination with Fixed Dose Paclitaxel where MTD of Imatinib Mesylate (mg/m\^2 daily) to be determined with conventional 3+3 design, MTD is highest dose level in which 6 participants treated with at most 2 experiencing dose limiting toxicity (DLT). Study utilizes Common Terminology for Adverse Events Criteria (CTCAE) version 3.0 for adverse event reporting.

Following cohorts of 3 at lower dose levels until 1 of 3 patients experiences DLT; if 1 of 3 patients experiences DLT at dose level, enter 3 additional patients at dose level, if only 1 of 6 patients experiences DLT at dose level, proceed to next higher dose level with cohort of 3; If 2 of 3 or 3 of 6 patients experience DLT, MTD has exceeded. Once DLT exceeded, treat another 3 patients at previous dose if there were only 3 patients treated at that dose level. MTD is highest dose level in which treated 6 patients with at most 2 experiencing the DLT., Evaluated at 3 weeks (one cycle)
Number of Participants With Complete Response, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance lesions, no evidence new lesions documented by 2 disease assessments\> 4 weeks apart. Partial Response (PR):\>30% decrease in sum longest dimensions (LD) all target measurable lesions reference baseline sum of LD; No progression non-target lesions \& no new lesions; Documentation by 2 disease assessments \>4 weeks apart; Progressive Disease (PD) (ANY of following): \>20% increase in sum LD of target lesions reference smallest sum LD or appearance of new lesions within 8 weeks of study entry; Unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions, other than pleural effusions without cytological proof of neoplastic origin, within 8 weeks of study entry also considered increasing disease. Death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression; Global deterioration in health attributable to disease requiring change in therapy without objective evidence of progression. Stable disease: Any condition not meeting above criteria., 6 weeks to 18 weeks; Best response achieved since study entry where measurable disease defined as => 1 lesion accurately measured in at least 1 dimension (longest dimension to be recorded)|Time to Tumor Progression, Efficacy of Gleevec and Taxol in Participants defined by tumor progression for participants with measurable disease or recurrent non-measurable disease. Time to tumor progression defined as the time from date of initial treatment to first objective documentation of disease progression. Measurable disease is defined as at least one lesion that can be accurately measured in at least one dimension (longest dimension to be recorded). After two cycles (6 weeks), participants will undergo clinical and radiographic (participants with measurable disease) tumor restaging or confirmation recurrent non-measurable disease. Evaluation of tumor response (for participants who already have the disease) determined by CT scan or MRI and chest x-ray (participants with chest disease)., Evaluation at at 6 weeks, tumor restaging continued up to 6 cycles (18 weeks) or until disease progression, whichever comes first
Before possible study participants can receive treatment with imatinib mesylate and paclitaxel, their tumor tissue that was previously collected (at the surgery to diagnose your tumor) will be tested for the following three biomarkers: c-Kit, PDGFR-B, and Abl. Those participants who have at least one positive biomarker will be eligible for treatment on this study.

Paclitaxel is a chemotherapy drug used in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Imatinib mesylate is a medication that blocks several proteins that are important in the development of cancer.

Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam, routine blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons), an electrocardiogram (ECG--a test to measure the electrical activity of the heart). You will have an echocardiogram (an ultrasound test used to visualize the structures of the heart), a chest x-ray, and a CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

Routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) will be done weekly during treatment, and before each course of therapy, which is every 3 weeks. A complete checkup including evaluation of side effects, will also be done before each course of therapy and at the end of therapy (3 weeks after treatment ends).

There are two phases to this study, Phase I and Phase II. If you are assigned to Phase 1, you will receive treatment with imatinib mesylate and paclitaxel. Phase 1 will study 3 different doses of imatinib mesylate in combination with a fixed dose of paclitaxel. The Phase I part of the study will help researchers learn the most effective dose of imatinib mesylate to be used in combination with paclitaxel. All participants in Phase 1 will receive one of three doses of imatinib mesylate to be given with a standard dose of paclitaxel. You will be assigned to a specific dose level based on the number of participants treated at the time of your enrollment.

The Phase II portion of the study will begin only after the most effective dose of imatinib mesylate has been determined.

If you are assigned to Phase II, you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups. Participants in one group will receive treatment with paclitaxel only (every 21 days). Participants in the second group will receive treatment with paclitaxel (every 21 days) along with imatinib mesylate (every day). The dose level of imatinib mesylate that you receive will be the same as the dose used during Phase I. The computer-generated assignment will favor the treatment group which is more effective. For example, if the combination of paclitaxel and imatinib mesylate is more effective than paclitaxel alone, then more patients will be selected to receive the combination therapy.

You will receive paclitaxel by vein over 3 hours every 21 days. Those participants who are assigned treatment with both paclitaxel and imatinib mesylate will begin taking imatinib mesylate the day after the first dose of paclitaxel. A single dose of imatinib mesylate will be taken by mouth every day.

Evaluation of tumor response (for participants who already have the disease) will be determined by CT scan or MRI and chest x-ray (patients with chest disease). These scans will be taken after Courses 2 and 4 , then after every 3 courses until the therapy is finished, and once more at the end of therapy. Patients who show no signs of the disease will be given a total of up to 6 courses. Patients who have the disease may continue treatment until the disease gets worse. You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur. If you are removed from the study, you will be asked to have a follow-up CT scan or MRI and chest x-ray to evaluate the tumor.

THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. Paclitaxel is commercially available and approved for use in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Gleevec® is also commercially available and approved for use in the treatment of certain types of adult leukemias and stomach cancers. The combination of paclitaxel and imatinib mesylate is still investigational and has been approved for use in research only.

At least 51 and as many as 65 participants will take part in this study. All participants will be enrolled and treated at M. D. Anderson.