Multimodal Mobile Intervention Application (App) to Address Sexual Dysfunction in Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant Survivors
This research study is being done to evaluate whether the use of a mobile app can help transplant survivors experiencing sexual health problems.
Other Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Mobile App + enhanced standard care|OTHER: Enhanced Standard Care
Feasibility Based on Proportion of Subjects Enrolled, feasibility will be a priori defined as at least 60% o eligible patients enrolled in the study., 2 years
Compare Patient-reported Global Satisfaction With Sex (PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure) Between the Study Groups, patient-reported global satisfaction using the PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure. Higher scores indicate better global satisfaction with sex (raw score range 4-25). We will use raw score for reporting in this study given the extent of illness in this population., 8 weeks|Compare Patient-reported Interest in Sexual Activity (PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure - Interest in Sexual Activity Domain) Between the Study Groups, compare patient-reported interest in sexual activity using the PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure - Interest in Sexual Activity Domain). higher score indicate better interest in sex (raw score range 2-10)., 8 weeks|Compare Patient-reported Orgasm (PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure - Orgasm Domain) Between the Study Groups, compare patient-reported orgasm using the PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure - Orgasm Domain). higher score indicate better orgasm (raw score range 3-15)., 8 weeks|For Males: Compare Patient-reported Erectile Function (PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure - Erectile Function Domain) Between the Study Groups, for males: compare patient-reported erectile function using the PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure - Erectile Function Domain). higher score indicate better erectile function (raw score range 0-55), 8 weeks|For Females: Compare Patient-reported Lubrication and Vaginal Comfort (PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure - Lubrication and Vaginal Comfort Domains) Between the Study Groups, For females: compare patient-reported vaginal comfort and lubrication using the PROMIS Sexual Function and Satisfaction Measure- Lubrication and Vaginal Comfort Domain). higher score indicate better lubrication (raw score 0-25), 8 weeks|Compare Patient Reported Quality of Life (FACT-BMT) Between the Study Groups, compare patient-reported quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Bone Marrow Transplant (FACT-BMT). higher score indicate better quality of life (range 0-196), 8 weeks|Compare Patient Reported Depression Symptoms (HADS-depression) Between the Two Study Groups, compare patient-reported depression symptoms using Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-Depression). higher subscale score indicate worse depression symptoms (range 0-21), 8 weeks|Compare Patient Reported Anxiety Symptoms (HADS-anxiety) Between the Two Study Groups, compare patient-reported depression symptoms using Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-Anxiety). higher subscale score indicate worse anxiety symptoms (range 0-21), 8 weeks
Frequently survivors of stem cell transplantation report significant problems with their sexual function that impacts their quality of life, mood, and their intimacy and relationship with their partners. These issues can be very distressing to patients and their loved ones. The study doctors want to know if the use of a mobile app intervention focused on improving sexual function may improve participants overall care.