Comparative Effectiveness of Hot Versus Cold Snare Polypectomy of Small Colorectal Polyps
This study aims to investigate the comparative effectiveness between polyp removal with or without electrical current. The investigators want to include 600 polyps in the trial.

It is known that polyps have the potential to develop to cancer if left in situ, but the investigators do not know the best way to remove them completely.
Colonic Polyps|Colorectal Neoplasms|Adenoma
PROCEDURE: Polypectomy
Complete resection rate, We want to measure the rate of polyps that are resected completely, both with biopsies from the margin and the histopathologists evaluation of the resection margins of the polyp itself., Hopefully within 4 weeks, when the histopathologist has examined the biopsies
Complications, We want to register early (during the procedure) and late (within 4 weeks after the procedure) complications.

Complications we will record is bleeding/blood in the stool, perforation and patient contact with health care provider, 4 weeks|Factors explaining the primary outcome, Patient characteristics, During the hospital stay and up to 4 weeks.|Factors explaining the primary outcome, Doctor characteristics, During the hospital stay and up to 4 weeks|Factors explaining the primary outcome, Procedure characteristics, During the hospital stay and up to 4 weeks|Factors explaining the primary outcome, Histology of polyps, correlation between resection margins and biopsies, correlation between optical and histopathological diagnosis, During the hospital stay and up to 4 weeks
In this study the investigators want to compare to widely used methods for polyp removal; hot and cold snare polypectomy. There has not been performed any big studies on this subject earlier, but current knowledge indicates that hot polypectomy (i.e. with use of electrical current) is somewhat better with regard to complete resection of polyps compared to cold polypectomy (without electrical current).

In this project the patients will be randomized to either hot or cold polypectomy. The investigators will distribute videos of how the polypectomies should be performed, and a gastroenterologist in the project group will instruct the doctors examining the patients to make sure that everyone performs polypectomy according to current guidelines.

The study is designed as a non-inferiority trial.