Phase II Trial of Peginterferon Alpha-2b and Thalidomide in Adults With Recurrent Gliomas
This study will examine the safety and effectiveness of peginterferon alpha-2b (PEG-Intron) alone and together with thalidomide in patients with gliomas (a type of brain tumor). Gliomas are nourished by blood delivered through blood vessels whose formation is stimulated by substances produced by the tumor itself. Stopping the growth of new vessels can slow or prevent tumor growth. The Food and Drug Administration has approved various interferons for treating several diseases, including melanoma and some leukemias. These drugs block new vessel growth in patients with recurrent tumors, but in high doses they produce serious side effects. Therefore, this study will use a low dose of PEG-Intron given weekly instead of high doses given several times a week. Thalidomide, currently approved to treat leprosy, also blocks development of new blood vessel formation. In a recent study of thalidomide given to 36 patients with gliomas, 4 patients had tumor shrinkage, 12 had stable disease for at least 2 months, and at least 3 had responses to treatment lasting 6 to 14 months.

Patients 18 years of age and older with a primary glioma whose tumor has recurred or is growing following standard treatment and does not respond to radiation therapy may be eligible for this study. Candidates will be screened with a physical examination, blood and urine tests (including a pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) of the head.

Patients will continue treatment cycles as long as the drug is tolerated without serious side effects and the tumor is not growing. While on the study, patients will undergo various tests and procedures as follows:

Physical and neurologic examinations every 6 weeks MRI or CT brain scan every 6 weeks to assess tumor status. MRI is a diagnostic test that uses a strong magnetic field and radio waves to show structural and chemical changes in tissues. During the scan, the patient lies on a table in a narrow cylinder containing a magnetic field. He or she can speak with a staff member through an intercom system at all times during the procedure.
Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: PEG-interferon alfa-2b|DRUG: Thalidomide
Progression-free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the percent of patients that are progression free and alive 6 months after initiating therapy.

Progression of disease by \> 50% increase in the size of the tumor compared to baseline after the first cycle only, and then \>25% increase in the size of the tumor for all subsequent cycles., 6 months
Number of Participants With Complete or Partial Response, Response is defined per RECIST criteria. Measurable disease is defined as bidimensionally measurable lesions with clearly defined margins by CT or MRI scan.

Evaluable disease is defined as unidimensionally measurable lesions, masses with margins not clearly defined, or lesions with a multiple cystic component.

Complete response (CR) is complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. Partial response (PR) is greater than or equal to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products or perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions., 6 months|The Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Here are the total number of participants with adverse events. For the detailed list of adverse events see the adverse event module., 4 months
Background:

There is a growing belief that angiogenesis inhibition represents a potentially promising, novel therapeutic approach to highly vascular solid tumors like malignant gliomas. Thalidomide and Peg-Intron (IFN - Interferon) are attractive drugs to use in combination to test the hypothesis of combination anti-angiogenesis therapy inhibition given their proven activity as single agents in patients with malignant gliomas and their spectrum of largely non-overlapping toxicities.

Given recent preclinical data describing more potent antiangiogenic and anti-tumor effects of low dose, continuous IFN administration, we are interested in evaluating the use of pegylated IFN in combination with thalidomide. Thus, we are proposing a phase II trial of pegylated IFN with thalidomide in patients with recurrent gliomas.

Objectives:

To obtain preliminary evidence of anti-tumor efficacy of PEG-Intron in combination with thalidomide in patients with recurrent high grade gliomas as assessed by prolongation of progression-free survival compared to historical controls.

A secondary endpoint in this trial is to determine the response rate associated with the combination therapy in each of the two strata and to evaluate and document all toxicities from PEG-Intron in combination with thalidomide at the doses prescribed in this protocol in this patient population.

Eligibility:

Patients with histologically proven supratentorial malignant primary gliomas will be eligible for this protocol. These include glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), anaplastic astrocytoma (AA), anaplastic oligodendroglioma (AO), anaplastic mixed oligoastrocytoma (AMO), or malignant astrocytoma NOS (not otherwise specified).

Patients must not have received prior therapy with Peg-Intron or Thalidomide.

Design:

Patients will be treated with weekly PEG-Intron plus daily oral thalidomide. All patients will be treated for 6 weeks following which patients will have a repeat MRI scan to assess disease response.