Leuprolide Acetate or Goserelin Acetate With or Without Vismodegib Followed by Surgery in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase I/II trial studies giving leuprolide acetate or goserelin acetate together with or without vismodegib followed by surgery to see how well they work in treating patients with prostate cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes. Androgens can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Antihormone therapy, such as leuprolide acetate or goserelin acetate, may lessen the amount of androgens made by the body. Vismodegib may slow the growth of tumor cells. Giving antihormone therapy together with vismodegib may be an effective treatment for prostate cancer.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Goserelin Acetate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Leuprolide Acetate|DRUG: Vismodegib
Proportion of Patients With =< 5% Tumor Involvement, Each patient's pathologic staging will be assessed from the samples collected from prostatectomy. Will be descriptively summarized. Two-sided Chi-Square test will be used to provide the test of significance between the 2 groups of LHRHa versus LHRHa plus vismodegib., Baseline up to 4 months or radical prostatectomy, whichever comes first
Differences in Relapse Rates by PSA Levels (Biochemical), Will be descriptively summarized., Date of surgery, then every 6 months, up to 8 years|Time to PSA (Biochemical) Progression, Defined as PSA Recurrence, Will be descriptively summarized. PSA recurrence is defined as two (2) serial measureable rises in PSA concentration above the undetectable level with the standard assay (\> 0.1 ng/mL)., From the date of surgery and elevated post operative PSA concentration, assessed up to 8 years|Time to PSA (Clinical) Progression, Defined as a Serial Rise in PSA Concentration in the Presence of Castrate Serum Testosterone Concentration or Radiographic Evidence of Progression, Will be descriptively summarized. PSA recurrence is defined as two (2) serial measureable rises in PSA concentration above the undetectable level with the standard assay (\> 0.1 ng/mL)., From the date of surgery and elevated post operative PSA concentration, assessed up to 8 years|Proportion of Patients With PSA =< 0.2 ng/mL, Will be descriptively summarized., Up to 8 years|Differences in the Rate of Positive Surgical Margins Between the Two Groups, Will be descriptively summarized., Baseline to up to 8 years|Differences in Relapse Rates by Bone Scan/Computed Tomography Scan (Objective), Will be descriptively summarized., Baseline to up to 8 years|Proportion of Patients Expressing Differences in Hedgehog, Androgen Signaling and Related Genes Markers, Up to 8 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the difference in less than or equal to 5% tumor involvement between patients between the two arms.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess differences in hedgehog signaling, androgen signaling, markers linked to high grade prostate cancer (PCa) progression, proliferation, apoptosis, and the expression of androgen producing enzymes in the tumor microenvironment between the two arms.

II. To assess safety of preoperative GDC-0449 (vismodegib) in combination with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH).

III. To assess the difference in proportion of patients with negative disease surgical margins between the two arms.

IV. To collect and archive tissue from the primary tumor, bone marrow and blood (serum, plasma), bone marrow aspirate for future study.

V. To assess difference in relapse rate (biochemical, objective) and time to progression.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I (androgen-ablation therapy and vismodegib): Patients receive LHRH analogue comprising leuprolide acetate intramuscularly (IM) or goserelin acetate subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 and vismodegib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 16 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (androgen-ablation therapy): Patients receive LHRH analogue comprising leuprolide acetate or goserelin acetate as in Arm I. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 16 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients undergo radical prostatectomy.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 8 years.