Audit of Surgery for Colorectal Cancer
The aim of this project is to audit the surgical care in patients treated for colorectal adenocarcinoma. This study focused on collecting data from all consecutive cases of colon and rectal adenocarcinoma operated at the National Institute of Oncology in Rabat during a two-years period. Using standardized forms, the investigators collected data relating to each stage of treatment: pre-therapeutic, surgical and post-operative in order to measure the quality of the surgical care delivered. These results were compared to established benchmarks and to similar audit studies carried out in other countries around the world.
Rectal Adenocarcinoma|Colon Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Colorectal resection
Retrieved lymph nodes, Number patients with retrieved lymph nodes after colon resection above 12, 1 month after surgery|Positive circumferential margin, The rate of patients with circumferential margin \< 1 mm on surgical specimen of rectal resection for rectal adenocarcinoma., 1 month after surgery|Morbidity, Morbidity assessed using using the Clavien-Dindo grading system at discharge and at 90 days after surgical resection for colorectal adenocarcinoma, 90 days after surgery
Pre-operative CT-scan, Rate of patients who had computed tomography before surgery, 7 days after surgery|Multidisciplinary team meeting, Rate of cases who were discussed during a multidisciplinary team meeting before surgery for patients who had surgical resection for colorectal adenocarcinoma, 7 days after surgery|MRI for rectal adenocarcinoma, Rate pf patients who had a pelvic Magnetic resonance imaging or rectal ultra-sonography in the pre-operative work-up of rectal adenocarcinoma, 7 days after surgery|Anastomotic leakage, Rate of anastomotic leakage after resection of colorectal cancer with the creation of anastomosis, 90 days after surgery|Readmission, Rate of hospital readmissions leakage after resection of colorectal cancer, 90 days after surgery
Quality improvement initiatives and in particular the accreditation procedure raises the inevitable question of measuring quality in health. Several surgical audits have been carried out internationally, showing the importance of collecting reliable and valid information on the quality of care. This approach allows an evaluation and improvement of the quality of care provided, significantly correlated to a direct impact on morbidity and mortality. In addition, it provides valuable information for evidence-based medicine research as it provides data on patients often excluded from therapeutic trials.

Colorectal cancer is the first digestive cancer and the third cancer worldwide. Surgical resection is the main curative treatment. Surgical quality is associated with better short and long term results. Quality improvement measures, with the goal to improve surgical care of colorectal cancer, are becoming a standard worldwide.

The aim of this project is to audit the surgical care in patients treated for colorectal adenocarcinoma. This study focused on collecting data from all consecutive cases of colon and rectal adenocarcinoma operated at the National Institute of Oncology in Rabat. Using standardized forms, the investigators collected data relating to each stage of treatment: pre-therapeutic, surgical and post-operative in order to measure the quality of the surgical care delivered. These results were compared to established benchmarks and to similar audit studies carried out in other countries around the world.