Maintenance With Niraparib In Patients With Advanced Urothelial Cancer After 1st-line Platinum-based Chemotherapy
This is a 2-arm, prospective, randomized (2:1 ratio), open-label, multi-centre, phase II study conducted in patients affected by unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer receiving niraparib plus best supportive care versus best supportive care as maintenance therapy after a first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

The primary objective of the trial is to evaluate the efficacy of niraparib plus Best Supportive Care (BSC) vs. BSC alone, as maintenance treatment, in terms of prolongation of progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer that obtained disease control (objective response or stable disease) with first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Niraparib|OTHER: Best supportive care
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the earlier date of assessment of progression, or death by any cause in the absence of progression. Progression will be assessed following Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria ( v.1.1 ), using investigator's review., Up to 3 years
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria (v.1.1), Up to 3 years|Duration of response (DoR), DoR is defined as the time between the date of documented response and the date of first documented sign of clinical or radiological progression, Up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death by any cause, Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival at 6 months, Progression-free survival at 6 month is defined as the rate of patients who are progression-free 6 months after randomization, 6 months|Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), The study will collect information about the incidence of treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs), coded and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03, Up to 3 years|Health-related quality of life, The study will collect information about patient health-related quality of life using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30. Multi-item scales are computed by calculating the mean raw scores of single items and transforming them linearly so that all scales range from 0 to 100. For single items, only linear transformation is performed. For functioning scales (i.e. those exploring physical, role, emotional, cognitive and social functioning and global health status), the higher the value the better the level of function; for symptoms scales and items, the higher the value the worse the severity of symptoms., Up to 3 years
BReast CAncer gene (BRCA) mutation status (exploratory), The study will collect blood sample from archival material of each patient at screening to assess BRCA mutation status., Assessed on blood sample collected at baseline|Homologous Recombination Deficiency (HRD) status (exploratory), The study will collect tumor tissue from archival material of each patient at screening to assess HRD status, Assessed on tumor tissue collected at baseline
This is a 2-arm, prospective, randomized (2:1 ratio), open-label, multi-centre, phase II study conducted in patients affected by unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer receiving niraparib plus best supportive care versus best supportive care as maintenance therapy after a first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

The primary objective of the trial is to evaluate the efficacy of niraparib plus Best Supportive Care (BSC) vs. BSC alone, as maintenance treatment, in terms of prolongation of progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer that obtained disease control (objective response or stable disease) with first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

Poly-adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors sensitivity is based on the presence of truncating and missense mutations in genes associated with the homologous recombination pathways. In The Cancer Genome Atlas dataset approximately 34% of bladder urothelial carcinoma harbored these mutations. Furthermore, in this study we plan to select a population potentially sensible to niraparib, by enrolling patients responding to platinum, indeed we know that there is a cross-sensitivity and a cross-resistance between platinum drugs and PARP inhibitors in urothelial carcinoma.

PFS is commonly adopted as primary endpoint in randomized phase II trials. Randomized design for phase II trials has been increasingly adopted in recent years, to allow a formal comparison between experimental and standard treatment. This should lead to a better interpretation of the results obtained with the experimental treatment, that are in most cases difficult to interpret in the absence of controls.

The sample size of the study is calculated with "relaxed" statistical criteria. The study design will verify if the experimental treatment (Niraparib) is promising enough to warrant a phase 3 trial for efficacy compared to observation.

A total of 65 PFS events are needed to provide 80% power to detect an hazard ratio (HR) of 0.57 (1.75), corresponding to a median increase in progression-free survival from 4 to 7 months, with one-tailed alpha 0.1.

With an accrual duration of 24 months, and additional 6 months of follow up after the completion of recruitment, 77 patient need to be randomized (26 assigned to control arm and 51 assigned to experimental arm) to obtain the 65 events needed.

Sample size of the phase II trial is too small to plan a formal analysis of interaction of treatment efficacy with type of response at first line treatment (i.e. objective response vs. stable disease). However, type of response to first line treatment will be among stratification factor for randomization, so the 2 treatment groups will be balanced. Exploratory subgroup analysis of treatment efficacy in patient who have obtained objective response with first line and in patients who have obtained stable disease with first line will be performed.