Study of Hypo-fractionated Neoadjuvant Radiotherapy for Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer
Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors in China, and the incidence and mortality rate are second in malignant tumors. The treatment of gastric cancer need integrated multidisciplinary treatment, and surgery is the only possible curative method for gastric cancer at present. Previous studies have reported that neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy can downstage primary tumor to increase radical resection rate in order to improve the long-term prognosis of advanced gastric cancer. However, there is no study on the application of hypo-radiotherapy to neoadjuvant radiotherapy in gastric cancer. The aim of this study was to observe the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limited toxicity (DLT) of hypo-fractionated radiotherapy for locally advanced gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer|Chemoradiation
RADIATION: Hypo-fractionated radiotherapy|DRUG: S1
Maximum tolerated dose AND Dose limited toxicity, To assess maximum tolerated dose and dose limited toxicity of hypo-fractionated neoadjuvant radiotherapy, From date of enrollment until one month after chemo-radiotherapy
Response rate, To evaluate the pathological response rate of gastric cancer after hypo-fractionated neoadjuvant radiotherapy, From date of enrollment until surgery, assessed up to 2 months|2-year disease-free survival, To evaluate the 2-year disease-free survival of gastric cancer after hypo-fractionated neoadjuvant radiotherapy, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of relapse, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months
After enrolled in this study, the patient was first treated with radiotherapy, concurrent with oral S-1 80mg/m2/day, on radiotherapy days. 3 weeks after the end of radiotherapy, patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy with oxaliplatin and S-1. Oxaliplatin is given on dose of 130mg/m2 iv on day 1; S-1 on 40-60mg po BID on day 1-14, oral. Imaging evaluation was performed 3 weeks after neoadjuvant treatment. The radical operation and surgical procedure were determined on MDT discussion. Non-operable patients continue with 3 cycles of chemotherapy, and the chemotherapy regimen can be changed. A 3 cycle of SOX adjuvant chemotherapy was performed after surgery.