Peginterferon Plus Ribavirin for Hepatitis C Patients Concomitant With Malignancy Other Than Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Combination therapy with pegylated interferon-alpha plus ribavirin has greatly improved the treatment efficacy and is the mainstream of treatment for chronic hepatitis C infection. The efficacy and safety of pegylated interferon-alpha plus ribavirin combination therapy and its impact on the outcome in chronic hepatitis C patients concomitant with malignancy other than hepatocellular carcinoma deserve to be elucidated.

The purposes of this study are:

1. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of pegylated interferon-alpha 2a plus ribavirin combination therapy in chronic hepatitis C patients concomitant with malignancy other than hepatocellular carcinoma, compare to those without systemic malignancy.
2. To investigate the role of baseline and on-treatment factors on the response to pegylated interferon-alpha 2a plus ribavirin combination therapy in chronic hepatitis C patients concomitant with malignancy other than hepatocellular carcinoma.
Chronic Hepatitis C|Neoplasms
DRUG: pegylated interferon alpha 2a and plus ribavirin|DRUG: pegylated interferon alpha 2a and plus ribavirin
Efficacy - Sustained virological response (SVR), HCV RNA seronegative by PCR throughout 24-week off-treatment period., 1.5 year
Rapid virologic response (RVR), HCV RNA seronegative by PCR at week 4., 1.5 year|Early virological response (EVR), by PCR-negative or at least 2 logs decline from baseline of serum HCV RNA at 12 weeks of treatment., 1.5 year|Safety - adverse event rate and profile, 1.5 year
A prospective, hospital-based study enrolling 40 chronic hepatitis C patients concomitant with malignancy other than hepatocellular carcinoma and other sex- and age-matched 80 chronic hepatitis C patients without malignancy will be conducted. The 40 chronic hepatitis C patients concomitant with malignancy other than hepatocellular carcinoma will receive pegylated interferon-alpha 2a plus ribavirin combination therapy at remission phase after oncological treatments and/or interventions. The other 80 chronic hepatitis C patients without malignancy receiving the same antiviral therapy will serve as controls. The primary outcome measurement is sustained virological response and safety, whilst the secondary measurement is rapid virological and early virological response.