Rural Adult and Youth Sun Protection Study
The purpose of this study is to help prevent skin cancer by improving the use of sun protective behaviors among youths living in rural communities in Utah and West Virginia.
Melanoma (Skin)|Skin Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: RAYS Intervention
Directly observed child sunscreen application, Teams and their players will be observed once at the beginning and once at the end of the baseball season. A trained research assistant will tally the total number of children who applied sunscreen at any time during the practice or game. This tallied number will create a percentage of the team that applied sunscreen. The percentages from the beginning and end of the season will be compared to determine the effectiveness of the intervention.

"How many wearing sunscreen?" Higher percentages indicate higher proportion of players on the team who engaged in that sun protective behavior., At baseline and post-intervention (3-6 weeks after intervention has been delivered)|Directly observed child hat wearing, Teams and their players will be observed once at the beginning and once at the end of the baseball season. A trained research assistant will tally the total number of children who wore a hat at any time during the practice or game. This tallied number will create a percentage of the team that wore a hat. The percentages from the beginning and end of the season will be compared to determine the effectiveness of the intervention.

"How many wore a hat?" Higher percentages indicate higher proportion of players on the team who engaged in that sun protective behavior., At baseline and post-intervention (3-6 weeks after intervention has been delivered)|Directly observed child wearing long sleeves, Teams and their players will be observed once at the beginning and once at the end of the baseball season. A trained research assistant will tally the total number of children who wore a long-sleeved shirt at any time during the practice or game. This tallied number will create a percentage of the team that wore protective long-sleeved shirts. The percentages from the beginning and end of the season will be compared to determine the effectiveness of the intervention.

"How many wore long sleeves?" Higher percentages indicate higher proportion of players on the team who engaged in that sun protective behavior., At baseline and post-intervention (3-6 weeks after intervention has been delivered)|Directly observed child shade seeking, Teams and their players will be observed once at the beginning and once at the end of the baseball season. A trained research assistant will tally the total number of children who spent time in shade or under an umbrella at any time during the practice or game. This tallied number will create a percentage of the team that spent time in shade/under umbrella. The percentages from the beginning and end of the season will be compared to determine the effectiveness of the intervention.

"How many in shade/under umbrella?" Higher percentages indicate higher proportion of players on the team who engaged in that sun protective behavior., At baseline and post-intervention (3-6 weeks after intervention has been delivered)
Parent-reported child sun protection behaviors, A random sample of parents will report on their child's use of sun protection using the Sun Habits Survey, a well-established and valid measure. These same parents will be asked to complete questionnaires at baseline, end-of-season, and at 1 year follow-up.

"On a warm and sunny day, how often did your child...Use sunscreen with a sun protective factor (SPF) of 30+?" All parent-reported items will be assessed on a 5-point Likert-type scale ("Never" to "Always")., At baseline, post-intervention (3-6 weeks after intervention has been delivered), and one year post-baseline|Parent-report child sunburn, Parents will report on the number of sunburns their child experienced during baseball and not during baseball at baseline, post-intervention and one-year post-baseline. Parents will report on child behaviors using items from the Sun Habits Survey.

"How many times did your child have a red OR painful sunburn that lasted a day or more? In the past month? In the past 12 months?" Minimum value = 0, maximum value = 5 or more.

A low number indicates a better outcome., At baseline, post-intervention (3-6 weeks after intervention has been delivered), and one year post-baseline
Children living in rural and under-served communities are at high risk for skin cancer; however, there are no evidence-based sun safety interventions showing durable effects for this vulnerable pediatric population. The objective of this proposal is to rigorously test a novel, multi-level approach to skin cancer prevention among young rural children that is delivered through developmental baseball leagues. To attain this objective, the investigators will conduct a two-arm cluster-randomized trial with the primary outcome being multi-behavior sun protection change among children.