Gefitinib Versus Vinorelbine/Platinum as Adjuvant Treatment in Stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) NSCLC With EGFR Mutation
Activating somatic mutations of the tyrosine kinase domain of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) have been characterized in a subset of patients with advanced NSCLC.The EGFR mutation rate was 30% in Chinese Non-small Cell Lung Cancer(NSCLC). Patients harboring these mutations in their tumors show excellent response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs). This randomized phase III trial is studying gefitinib to see how well it works compared to cisplatin-based chemotherapy in treating patients who have undergone surgery for stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) NSCLC with EGFR activating mutation in Asian population.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Gefitinib|DRUG: Vinorelbine+Cisplatin
Disease free survival, To evaluate the disease free survival of gefitinib versus combination of vinorelbine plus platinum as adjuvant treatment for pathological stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) NSCLC with EGFR mutation.Disease free survival (DFS)- defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first., Pts after surgery will receive long-term follow-up including chest CT scan, abdominal ultrasound every 3 months, brain MRI every 6 months, bone scan every 12 months for up to 3 years. The survival after 3 years will be followed up with telephone.
Overall survival, To evaluate the overall survival of gefitinib versus combination of vinorelbine plus platinum as adjuvant treatment for stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) NSCLC with EGFR mutation., Pts after surgery will receive long-term follow-up including chest CT scan, abdominal ultrasound every 3 months, brain MRI every 6 months, bone scan every 12 months for up to 3 years. The survival after 3 years will be followed up with telephone.|3 yeas DFS rate, 5 years DFS rate, 5 years OS rate, To compare the randomized treatment arms in terms of 3 yeas DFS rate, 5 years DFS rate, 5 years OS rate., Pts after surgery will receive long-term follow-up including chest CT scan, abdominal ultrasound every 3 months, brain MRI every 6 months, bone scan every 12 months for up to 3 years. The survival after 3 years will be followed up with telephone.|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, The safety and tolerability profile of gefitinib at a 250 mg daily dose relative to that of Chemotherapy., In the period of Gefitinib 250 mg/day oral daily for 24 months.Vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 intravenous infusion on day 1 and day 8, Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 on day 1 for 4 cycles.|The Total Score and TOI of FACT-L to Measure Quality of life, Quality of life as measured by the total score and Trial Outcome Index (TOI) of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung Cancer (FACT-L) questionnaire., In the period of Gefitinib 250 mg/day oral daily for 24 months.Vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 intravenous infusion on day 1 and day 8, Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 on day 1 for 4 cycles.
Adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy is recommended for routine use in patients with stages IIA, IIB, and IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after complete resection. Cisplatin and vinorelbine combination is the standard of care in adjuvant setting. The BR. 19 trial reported adjuvant gefitinib after complete resection of early stage NSCLC(stage IB 49%, II 38%, III 13%) did not confer disease free survival(DFS) or overall survival(OS) advantage in overall population. While the median gefitinib treatment time is only 4.8 months. There are only 76 patients with EGFR mutations included in this analysis. The study closed prematurely in 2005.

Activating somatic mutations of the tyrosine kinase domain of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) have been characterized in a subset of patients with advanced NSCLC.The EGFR mutation rate was 30% in Chinese NSCLC. Patients harboring these mutations in their tumors show excellent response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs). This randomized phase III trial is studying gefitinib to see how well it works compared to cisplatin-based chemotherapy in treating patients who have undergone surgery for stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) NSCLC with EGFR activating mutation in Asian population.