Use of the EnLightTM and LightPathTM Imaging Systems in Gastrointestinal Tumour Surgery
This study will evaluate the performance of the EnLightTM and LightPathTM Imaging Systems in detecting tumour lesions in patients with gastric, pancreas, bile duct or duodenal cancer.

EnLightTM will be used to detect positron emission and the LightPathTM system to detect Cerenkov Luminescence. Both are emitted by the Positron Emission Tomography (PET) agent.

The study will also evaluate the patient safety and radiation safety of the EnLightTM, and the safety for the device operators and surgical staff of the LightPathTM Imaging System.
Gastric Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Bile Duct Cancer|Duodenal Cancer
DRUG: The marketed product 2-5 MBq/kg 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose|DEVICE: EnLightTM|DEVICE: LightPathTM Imaging System
The location of PET imaging agent as measured by beta particle detection, The EnLightTM will be used for determining the number of lesions, their location and margin status, in the surgical cavity including within surrounding tissue, and lymph nodes. The EnLightTM is a beta particle detector used for imaging the location of the PET imaging agent. It works both in a hot-spot mode, to localise areas with high beta particle detection signal from the PET imaging agent, and in an imaging mode that allows video imaging of areas where the PET imaging agent has accumulated., Intraoperatively (during the single session of surgery on Day 0)|The location of PET imaging agent as measured by the LightPathTM Imaging System, The LightPathTM Imaging System will be used for determining the margin status of lesions and the metastatic involvement of lymph nodes., Intraoperatively (during the single session of surgery on Day 0)
The number of lesions by histopathology, Number of lesions according to standard of care histopathology., Expected on average Day 10 after surgery|The number of metastatic lymph nodes by histopathology, The number of metastatic lymph nodes according to standard of care histopathology., Expected on average Day 10 after surgery|The extent of resection margins by histopathology, Extent of resection margins according to standard of care histopathology., Expected on average Day 10 after surgery|Ease of use measured by questionnaire, Ease of use measured by study-specific questionnaire, At the end of imaging on Day 0|Radiation exposure, Radiological dose in microsieverts as measured by dosimeters worn by operating room staff, At the time of discharge to the ward after surgery on Day 0|Number of participants with adverse events, Patients will be followed-up until Visit 3, 2-14 days after the end of surgery on Day 0 for adverse events, Visit 3, at day 3-15
This is a pilot study that is prospective, open-label, single-centre in nature in patients with gastric, pancreas, bile duct or duodenal cancer in whom tumour excision surgery is indicated.

Patients who give written informed consent will be screened for the study (Visit 1). Patients will undergo a positron emission tomography (PET) whole body scan. Screening assessments, including the PET scan, must be performed no less than 60 days before surgery and may be performed on the day of surgery.

On the day of surgery (Visit 2), subject's blood glucose level will be measured. Subjects with a blood glucose level \< 12 mmol/l will receive an intravenous injection of 2-5 Mega Becquerel/kg (MBq/kg), up to a maximum 300 MBq of fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) prior to surgery.

During surgery and not less than 120 minutes after injection of FDG, the primary lesion will be imaged using the EnLightTM system to determine margin status.

Gastrointestinal tumour excision surgery will then be performed according to standard of care. The surgical cavity and the lymph nodes will be imaged by the EnLightTM system to establish whether other radioactive tissue remain. These results will not influence any surgical or clinical decision-making, which will remain as standard of care. The resected tumour excision specimen will be imaged by the LightPathTM Imaging System. The resected tumour excision specimen will, in addition, be analysed according to standard of care pathology. The surgeon and surgical staff will be monitored for external exposure to ionizing radiation by means of dosimeters, and position sensors during surgery.

Patients will be followed-up (Visit 3) within a 2 - 14 day window after the end of surgery for adverse events (AEs). Those related to the use of the investigational devices, or the PET imaging agent will be identified as such.