Study of Lenalidomide and Ofatumumab for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The purpose of this trial is to investigate the efficacy (how well the drug works) of ofatumumab and lenalidomide in patients with lymphoma and to investigate if any possible unwanted side effects may occur. The purpose of the Phase I portion of this trial will be to determine the maximum dose of these medications that can be given with minimal side effects.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: ofatumumab
Phase I: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Lenalidomide, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be defined as the next lowest dose cohort below where ≥ 2/3 or ≥ 3/6 patients experience dose limiting toxicities in cycle 1., 7 months
Phase I and Phase II: Event Free Survival and Overall Survival, Event free survival is defined as the time from start of treatment to disease progression or death from any cause. Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from start of treatment to death from any cause. A response-evaluable subject will be considered anyone who completes at least 2 cycles of therapy with documented response or documented progression of disease after at least one complete cycle of therapy but, prior to 2 complete cycles of therapy.

A response-evaluable subject will be considered anyone who completes at least 2 cycles of therapy with documented response or documented progression of disease after at least one complete cycle of therapy but, prior to 2 complete cycles of therapy. A non-evaluable subject will be one who receives less than one complete cycle of therapy (ie. 4 infusions of ofatumumab and 21 days of lenalidomide). A non-evaluable subject will also be one that has no documented response prior to treatment withdrawal., 2 years from start of treatment
This trial will investigate the efficacy of ofatumumab and lenalidomide in patients with lymphoma and investigate if any possible unwanted side effects may occur. Ofatumumab is a human antibody (a type of protein) that binds specifically to a protein (CD20) on the surface of some of the white blood cells (B-cells). Research, so far, has shown that ofatumumab can destroy cancer cells which originate from B cells. Ofatumumab is approved for sale by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The medicine has an approved indication for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) but is not approved for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL).

Lenalidomide is a drug that affects the immune system. Lenalidomide can change the body's immune system and it may also interfere with the development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. Therefore, it may reduce or prevent the growth of cancer cells. Lenalidomide is approved by the FDA for treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and has been shown to be effective in lymphoma that does not respond to treatment or has come back after treatment. Lenalidomide has not been approved by the United States (US) Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and is experimental (investigational) in this study.