E. Coli Nissle in Oncology
In patients with gastric or colorectal cancers, where a treatment with 5-Fluoruracil in combination with other chemotherapeutic remedies (FLO, FOLFOX, FOLFOX-Bev, FOLFIRI) is planned, it shall be investigated whether E. coli Nissle suspension has an effect on duration and intensity of chemotherapy induced diarrhea.
Gastric Cancer|Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: E. coli Nissle suspension|DRUG: Placebo
Common toxicity criteria for diarrhea Version 4.0, Baseline vs. week 12
Quality of life by SF-12 questionnaire, Baseline vs. week 12|Quality of life by FACIT-D questionnaire, Baseline vs. week 12|stool consistency by Bristol stool scale, Baseline vs. week 12|Body mass index in kg/m^2, Baseline vs. week 12|Phase angle, Baseline vs. week 12|C-reactive protein, Baseline vs. week 12|Hematocrit, Baseline vs. week 12|alpha-1-Antitrypsin, Baseline vs. week 12|Calprotectin, Baseline vs. week 12|Body cell mass in kg, Baseline vs. week 12|ECM/BCM-Index, ECM = extracellular mass BCM = body cell mass, Baseline vs. week 12
stool water content, Baseline vs. week 12|stool microbiome analyses, Baseline vs. week 12
Chemotherapy is used frequently for treating tumors. For many kinds of tumors, chemotherapy is an effective way of treatment. Besides the desired effects on neoplastic cells, the cytotoxic effects often lead to undesirable effects in other cells. Particularly the epithelial tissue of the gastrointestinal tract is affected, mucositis and diarrhea occur. By loss of water and electrolytes, diarrhea often make delay in chemotherapy necessary. Besides mucositis, a chemotherapy also causes changes in gut microbiota as animal models proof. It is well known, than probiotics shorten diarrhea. So far, the use of probiotics in chemotherapy patients was only investigated in one single study. Severity of diarrhea was reduced compared to placebo. Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 (EcN) is a well investigated probiotic. In cell culture, the supernatant of EcN reduced the noxious effect of 5-Fluoruracil concerning cell toxicity and disruption of barrier function.

Therefore, the aim of this study is whether in patients with gastric or colorectal cancers, where a treatment with 5-Fluoruracil in combination with other chemotherapeutic remedies (FLO, FOLFOX, FOLFOX-Bev, FOLFIRI) is planned, EcN-Suspension is capable to reduce duration and intensity of chemotherapy induced diarrhea.