Lenalidomide After Donor Stem Cell Transplant and Bortezomib in Treating Patients With High Risk Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide after donor stem cell transplant and bortezomib in treating patients with high-risk multiple myeloma. Giving low doses of chemotherapy and total-body irradiation before a donor stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It may also the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. The donated stem cells may replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining cancer cells (graft-versus-tumor effect). Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can also make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving a bortezomib at the time of transplant may stop this from happening. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Giving lenalidomide after donor stem cell transplant may be an effective treatment for multiple myeloma.
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Stage I Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|RADIATION: total-body irradiation|PROCEDURE: nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: lenalidomide|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of lenalidomide defined as one dose level below the dose in which 2 or more patients at a specified dose level experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT) according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (v. 4.0), Day 128 post-transplant
Safety assessed by evaluating the incidence of toxicity according to CTCAE v. 4.0, Up to day 100|Incidence of acute GVHD according to Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMTR), 1 year|Incidence of chronic GVHD according to National Institutes of Health (NIH), 1 year|Time to deaths without relapse/recurrence, 1 year|Progression-free survival, From study entry to progression as defined by international response criteria or death of any cause, whichever comes first, assessed at 1 year|Overall survival, From study entry to death from any cause, assessed at 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) and safety of lenalidomide up to 10mg following non-myeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplant for multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess safety and tolerability of weekly bortezomib following non-myeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplant.

II. Obtain estimates of non-relapse mortality. III. Obtain estimates of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). IV. Obtain estimates of 1 year relapse and survival.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate on days -5 to -3 and undergo total body irradiation (TBI) on day -1.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (SCT) on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive standard GVHD prophylaxis comprising cyclosporine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) beginning on day -1 with taper beginning on day 100, mycophenolate mofetil PO BID on days 1-56, and bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) weekly from day 1 to day 91.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Beginning on day 100, patients receive lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 1 year post-transplant.