Longitudinal Study of Local Ablative Therapy in Oligometastatic Disease
This prospective national multicenter observational and interventional study aims to assess the longitudinal disease trajectory of patients with oligometastatic disease (OMD) who receive local metastasis-directed therapy. Patients with any category of OMD from any non-hematological cancer are eligible for inclusion. Local ablative therapy (LAT) includes surgical metastasectomy, radiotherapy, thermal ablation, and electroporations.

The primary objective is to assess the time to failure of LAT strategy in patients with OMD from any primary cancer treated with all LAT modalities.
Oligometastatic Disease|Metastases|Ablation Techniques|Radiotherapy|Stereotactic Radiation|Surgery
PROCEDURE: Local ablative therapy (LAT)
Time to failure of local ablative therapy (LAT) strategy, Defined as time from first day of LAT to progression of disease, locally or metastatically, not amenable to new LAT or progression of disease leading to initiation of or change in systemic treatment, Assessed every 3-6 months for 5 years or life-long
Progression-free survival, Defined as time from first day of LAT to disease progression at any site or death, Assessed every 3-6 months for 5 years or life-long|Time to widespread progression, Defined as time from first day of LAT to disease progression not amenable to new LAT. Deaths from any cause are censored. Initiation of or change in systemic treatment is ignored, Assessed every 3-6 months for 5 years or life-long|Freedom from systemic treatment, Defined as time from first day of LAT to initiation of systemic treatment, change in systemic treatment, or end of systemic treatment due to progression. Change in or end of systemic treatment due to toxicity is ignored, Assessed every 3-6 months for 5 years or life-long|Overall survival, Defined as time from first day of first LAT to death from any cause, Assessed every 3-6 months for 5 years or life-long|Time to progression, Defined as time from first day of LAT to progression of the disease. Deaths from any cause are censored, Assessed every 3-6 months for 5 years or life-long|Time to local progression, Defined as time from first day of LAT to progression within the treated area. In case of doubt or disagreement, the case is reviewed at the local MDT conference. Deaths from any cause are censored, 5 years or life-long|Local lesion control rate at 1- and 3-years post-local ablative therapy, Fractions of treated lesions which have not locally progressed at 1- and 3-years after local ablative therapy. Analysed per lesion, per patient, per treatment modality and per organ, 3 years|Time to distant progression, Defined as time from first day of LAT to progression outside the treatment field. Deaths from any cause are censored., Assessed every 3-6 months for 5 years or life-long|Investigator reported grade 3-5 CTCAE (v.5.0) LAT related toxicity, LAT related toxicity is defined as adverse events which are categorized by the local investigator as suspected expected or suspected unexpected due to LAT, 2 years|Harms, Defined as LAT-related toxicity which occurs or is worsened within 3- months of end-of-treatment (EOT). LAT-related toxicity, which occurs or is worsened after the commencement of the LAT course but before EOT, is also registered as early toxicity., Actively every 3-months for 2 years
Patients with oligometastatic disease (OMD) are often treated with a combination of surgery, stereotactic radiotherapy, thermal ablations, or electroporation, either concurrently or in succession, however, most studies are focused on a single modality. In addition, local differences in the use of local ablative therapy (LAT) in different metastatic sites and diseases exist and may impact outcomes for patients with OMD. OLIGO-DK is designed to address these shortcomings. The aim is to offer LAT with any modality to all patients with OMD from all primary cancer histologies and in all metastatic sites, where it is deemed clinically relevant, within the framework of a national prospective multicenter study, combining both standard and non-standard LAT of OMD in an observational and an interventional cohort, respectively. At the same time, we aim to assess the longitudinal treatment trajectory of oligometastatic patients and create a national network for radiotherapy of oligometastases. Finally, we aim to create a clinically applicable prediction model for patient selection.

The trial is a national, prospective, multicentre trial. Patients with both genuine and induced non-hematological OMD who are receiving metastases-directed local ablative therapy are included, and all LAT modalities of all metastatic sites from all primary cancers are included. The trial will include both an observational cohort and an interventional cohort.

The observational cohort will include patients with OMD who are treated with LAT, which is considered standard-of-care according to national guidelines. The interventional cohort will include patients who are treated with implemented LAT techniques but for indications that are not considered standard-of-care. The final decision on treatment choice is made by the treating physician in consultation with the patient, and the patient may be referred across regional borders for specific treatments. This trial is not on its own designed for the evaluation of novel or experimental LAT techniques, where safety is a primary concern. In these cases, a separate ethical approval protocol is necessary. Patients can still be included in the OLIGO-DK protocol for prospective data collection. In addition, inclusion in this protocol does not impede patients from inclusion in other oligometastatic protocols. Patients are prospectively included, followed, and evaluated by the Centralised Trial Unit and remain included for follow-up until death or patient preference. Due to the nature of oligometastatic disease, patients may receive LAT more than once in the protocol, if the disease is amenable to further local ablative therapy.

The trial will initiate accrual in the Capital Region of Denmark, with subsequent expansion after the first interim analysis. A national OMD MDT conference and a nationwide overview of LAT options will be established during the trial. All departments of oncology, and their associated departments of surgery and interventional radiology performing LAT will be able to include patients.