PRECISE CURATE.AI Pilot Clinical Trial
In the current clinical context, drug dosing in oncology is dictated by toxicity. The optimal dosages of drugs in combinatory regimens for solid tumours are not clear, and the typical physician's decision on dose adjustment is a clinical judgement based on the degree of toxicity experienced by the patient. CURATE.AI - a small data, AI-derived technology platform - allows personalised guidance of an individual's dose modulations based only on that individual's data. Additionally, CURATE.AI is mechanism-independent, and dynamically adapts to changes experienced by the subject, providing dynamic dose optimisation throughout the duration of the subject's treatment. This study aims to demonstrate the feasibility of applying CURATE.AI in standard of care settings for treatment of solid tumours. An additional objective is to explore tumour markers in serial measurements at weekly frequency of probing, with modulated doses.
Solid Tumor
DEVICE: CURATE.AI|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: XELOX|DRUG: XELIRI|DRUG: Ibrutinib
Percentage of participants in whom we successfully apply CURATE.AI profile., CURATE.AI applicability: Percentage of participants in whom we successfully apply CURATE.AI profile. Based on percentages, outcomes will be classified as Green (\>70%) / Yellow (10-70%) / Red (\<10%).

A decision on whether we "successfully apply" the CURATE.AI profile requires expert judgement and cannot be made based on a purely numerical process. The expert panel will consider the following factors with careful regard for the individual circumstances of each participant:

1. Error/variance (biological/analytical) is sufficiently small to allow accurate predictions
2. Profile can be generated sufficiently early for the participant to potentially benefit;
3. Dose-dependent relationship is observed;
4. Profile is actionable (i.e. fulfils the clinical investigator's pre-specified safety requirements);
5. Systemic changes in the participant which require profile recalibration are rare or readily assimilated into the CURATE.AI algorithm., Up to 12 months
Patient adherence, Percentage of participants who always adhered to the prescribed dose whenever they took their medication, as measured by the standardised pharmacovigilance protocol. Based on percentages, outcomes will be classified as Green (\>90%) / Yellow (10-90%) / Red (\<10%)., Up to 12 months|Timely delivery of CURATE.AI recommendations to the clinician, Percentage of CURATE.AI recommendations provided in time for the next chemotherapy cycle, across all participants and cycles. Based on percentages, outcomes will be classified as Green (100%) / Yellow (10-99%) / Red (\<10%)., Up to 12 months|CURATE.AI relevance, Percentage of dosing events across all participants and cycles in which CURATE.AI recommendation is considered in the clinical decision-making process. Based on percentages, outcomes will be classified as Green (100%) / Yellow (10-99%) / Red (\<10%)., Up to 12 months|Physician adherence, Percentage of CURATE.AI recommended doses that were used by the clinical investigator. Based on percentages, outcomes will be classified as Green (\>70%) / Yellow (10-70%) / Red (\<10%)., Up to 12 months|Clinically significant dose changes, Percentage of participants in whom the CURATE.AI-guided cumulative dose is substantially (≥10%) different from the projected standard-of-care cumulative dose. Based on percentages, outcomes will be classified as Green (\>20%) / Yellow (1-20%) / Red (0%)., Up to 12 months
Percentage of trial participants with clinical progressive disease, CT scans for radiological assessment will be performed according to standard of care, usually after every 2 to 3 cycles of chemotherapy

Percentage of trial participants with clinical progressive disease(which is defined as the clinical investigator deeming that the patient will not benefit any further from the chemotherapy regimen and considering stopping it) at the time of the first radiological assessment performed as per standard-of-care., Up to 12 months|Temporal variation in tumour marker level from baseline to trial conclusion., Mandatory blood draws for the measurement of tumour marker(s)as per standard of care.Additional blood draws solely for the purposes of the trial for measurements of tumour markers(s)

Tumour marker measurements at higher frequency will be analysed to inform about temporal dynamics of tumour response to modulated dosing., Up to 12 months|Maximal reduction in tumour marker level measured as part of baseline investigations, For CURATE.AI profile generation, a minimum of 3 dose levels and corresponding tumour marker (CEA/CA19-9/Ig M) readouts are needed for the modulated drug. After obtaining the first tumour marker readout a set of potential doses of capecitabine or Ibrutinib to pick from will be recommended by the CURATE.AI team with calibration-intent, based on the mathematical requirements of the method.

If the modulations do not yield a dose-dependent response (e.g. biomarker readouts were affected by the factors unrelated to capecitabine or Ibrutinib modulation) a new data pair will have to be acquired according to calibration-intent recommendation from the CURATE.AI team.

When dose-dependent response is obtained, the profile will be checked for actionability - an ability to recommend an optimum dose within the pre-specified personal safety range., Up to 12 months|Toxicity derived from the use of CURATE.AI, Percentage of trial participants with clinically relevant toxicities of grades 3-4 based on CTCAE version 4.0., Up to 12 months|ctDNA and/or sFLC analysis, Data collection and explorative analysis of the ctDNA and/or sFLC as: (1) a tumour marker in serial measurements at given clinical context and after modulated dosing; (2) potential input for CURATE.AI, Up to 12 months|Tumour markers analysis, Data collection and explorative analysis of CEA , CA19-9 , Ig M and/or other traditional tumour markers in higher frequency serial measurements after modulated dosing in relation to standard frequency readings and other efficacy measures, e.g RECIST criteria or IWWM-8, Up to 12 months
Cancer patients are given drug combinations that promote cancer cell elimination. The final drug concentration in the body must fall within a narrow range that maximises cancer elimination while minimizing toxic side effects. The complexity of this task increases significantly with the number of drugs given in combination due to increasing parameters and stochastic behaviour of a biological system. Currently, the established approach is to select maximum tolerated doses (MTD) - the highest drug doses that do not cause unacceptable side effects. Treatment efficacy does not guide dose selection. Combined with limited personalisation, this dosing strategy often results in suboptimal outcomes of the treatment.

CURATE.AI is an AI-derived, mechanism-independent, small data technology platform for personalised, dynamic dosing. CURATE.AI uses a quadratic equation to generate individualised CURATE.AI profile and dosing recommendation based on only that individual's medical data: drug doses and the corresponding response marker (e.g. blood tumour markers). Profile recalibration via CURATE.AI facilitates dynamic dosing and personalised care throughout the treatment duration, aimed at achieving the highest efficacy within pre-specified safe dose ranges.

CURATE.AI is an indication-agnostic platform that has already been applied clinically for a range of indications including in oncology. CURATE.AI can be applied to indications that demonstrate regularly measured dose-dependent relationship between the treatment dose and the treatment response (i.e. biomarker level). Currently, the gold standard of monitoring treatment response in solid tumour is via radiology (using criteria such as RECIST), which is usually done at the end of a few cycles of systemic therapy and therefore not suitable to be used as a CURATE.AI input signal for drug dose adjustment between cycles.. Additionally, haematological neoplasms often cannot be monitored with imaging. Waldenström macroglobulinaemia treatment response is assessed using an adaptation of the response criteria from the Eighth International Workshop on Waldenström macroglobulinaemia (IWWM-8) that includes blood markers. Blood-based tumour markers, e.g. carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) and immunoglobulin M (IgM) markers, are more suitable to be implemented into CURATE.AI. Apart from these traditional tumour markers, recent advances in genomic sequencing have led to the application of plasma circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) level as a novel marker of tumour burden. In addition, the serum free light chain (sFLC) has been widely used to assess treatment response for patients with multiple myeloma and other plasma cell dyscrasias, and has shown potential as a novel marker for disease burden in Waldenström macroglobulinaemia. Therefore, serial ctDNA and sFLC measurements, may be an appropriate input for CURATE.AI.

This Pilot Clinical Trial aims to set foundation to investigate the applicability and feasibility of the CURATE.AI platform within the current clinical setting for guided dosing of various systemic therapies commonly used for solid and haematological neoplasms

Individualised CURATE.AI profiles will be generated based on each participant's response to a set of drug doses. Subsequently, the personalised CURATE.AI profile will be used to recommend the efficacy-driven dose. CURATE.AI will operate only within the safety range for each drug prespecified for each participant.

This Pilot Clinical Trial and feasibility study will inform the investigators on the logistical and practical aspects of performing a large-scale randomised study and on the suitability of CURATE.AI for guided dosing of a wider range of chemotherapy regimens. An additional objective is to explore the utility of CEA, CA19-9, Ig M, ctDNA and sFLC as tumour markers in serial measurements at weekly frequency of probing, with modulated doses. ctDNA and sFLC will be also explored as an input for CURATE.AI to generate dose recommendations, however this analysis will not be used to prospectively guide dosing.