CD7 CAR-T Cell Treatment of Relapsed/Refractory CD7+ T -Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia/ Lymphoma
This is a phase I, interventional, single arm, open label, treatment study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of CD7 CAR-T cells in patients with relapsed and/or refractory, high risk hematologic malignancies.
Relapsed/Refractory, High Risk Hematologic Malignancies|T-ALL/Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: CD7CAR T cells
The number and incidence of adverse events after CD7 CAR infusion., Evaluation all possible adverse reactions, including the number, incidence, and severity of symptoms such as cytokine release syndromes and neurotoxicity within 3 months after CAR infusion, Up to 3 months
Disease response to CD7 CAR T cells, The disease response to CD7 CAR T cells is evaluated by bone marrow biopsy and aspirate within 1 years after CAR infusion. The proportion of subjects receiving CD7 CAR T infusion to 1) morphological remission (blasts \<5%): 2) flow cytometry analysis was blast negative, and 3) molecular biological remission (if applicable)., Up to 1 year|Evaluation of curative effects, Evaluation of curative effects within 1 year including 1)completion remission (CR), 2) complete remission with incomplete recovery of blood cells (CRi), 3) minimal residual disease positive (MRD+), 4)minimal residual disease negative (MRD-), and 4) disease recurrence or progression, Up to 1 year|Overall survival, Overall survival {1 year after CAR infusion\] . The time from the start of CD7 CAR T injection to death is determined as the overall survival, Up to 1 year
T-acute lymphoblast leukemia (T-ALL) accounts for 15-20% of all ALL cases. It is a neoplastic lymphoid leukemia characterized by the proliferation of immature precursor T cells. T-ALL is a highly aggressive tumor. Adults need intensive chemotherapy, and the cure rate is \<50%, even with stem cell transplantation. The prognosis is also very poor. The combined chemotherapy has significantly improved the prognosis of T-acute lymphoblast leukemia/lymphoma. However, once the disease appears to be relapsed/refractory, there is limited treatment options, and the overall prognosis is extremely poor. Therefore, exploring safe and effective treatments is a critical unmet medical need. Since 95% of T-ALLs express CD7, this might provide an effective targeting approach for the vast majority of T-ALL cases.