Acalabrutinib-Lenalidomide-Rituximab in Patients With Untreated MCL
This is a multi-arm phase 2 study to evaluate the preliminary evidence of efficacy and safety of the combination of acalabrutinib, lenalidomide and rituximab (ALR) and acalabrutinib, lenalidomide and obinutuzumab (ALO) in previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma. The study includes an induction phase consisting of 12 cycles of ALR or ALO. Responding subjects will be eligible to enter a maintenance phase. Subjects will continue maintenance ALR or ALO until disease progression, development of unacceptable toxicity, or voluntary withdrawal. Subjects will be followed after completing study intervention every 6 months for alternate anti-cancer therapy and survival.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Obinutuzumab
Peripheral Blood Minimum Residual Disease (MRD)-Negative Complete Response (CR) Rate of the Combination of Acalabrutinib + Lenalidomide + Rituximab at the Conclusion of 12 Cycles of Induction Therapy, Percentage of subjects with MRD-negative CR at the conclusion of 12 cycles of induction therapy. Each cycle is 28 days, 12 cycles is approximately 1 year., 1 year
Safety of Combination Treatment With Acalabrutinib, Lenalidomide, and Rituximab as Measured by the Percentage of Subjects That Experience 1 or More Adverse Event, Rate of subjects that experience 1 or more adverse events, 4 years|Overall Response Rate, Rate of subjects who achieve a partial or complete response, 4 years|Complete Response Rate, Rate of subjects who achieve a complete response, 4 years|Progression Free Survival, Measured from start of treatment to time of progression or death from any cause, measured in months, 4 years|Overall Survival, Measured from start of treatment to death from any cause, measured in months, 4 years|Time to Next Treatment, Measured from end of study treatment to initiation of next lymphoma treatment, measured in months, 4 years
This is a multi-arm phase 2 study to evaluate the preliminary evidence of efficacy and safety of the combination of acalabrutinib, lenalidomide and rituximab (ALR) and an expansion cohort of acalabrutinib, lenalidomide and obinutuzumab (ALO) in previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma.

The study includes an induction phase consisting of 12 cycles of ALR or ALO. Responding subjects will be eligible to enter a maintenance phase. Subjects will continue maintenance ALR or ALO until disease progression, development of unacceptable toxicity, or voluntary withdrawal. Subjects in complete response wishing to attempt stem cell collection following at least 6 months of induction treatment can hold lenalidomide for up to 30 days, and restart following stem cell collection.

Subjects will be monitored for Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) status in peripheral blood at baseline and completion of 12 cycles of induction treatment using Adaptive Biotechnology Clonoseq assay, and then every 4 cycles.

Subjects will be followed after completing study intervention every 6 months for alternate anti-cancer therapy and survival.