A Dose Finding Phase I Trial of the Combination of Topotecan and PS-341, a Novel Proteasome Inhibitor, in Advanced Malignancies
Drugs used in chemotherapy such as topotecan use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth. Combining topotecan with bortezomib may kill more tumor cells. This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of topotecan and bortezomib when given together in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable cancer
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: topotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: bortezomib|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Dose limiting toxicities, Up to 3 years|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), 21 days
Pharmacokinetics of topotecan hydrochloride, 5 minutes immediately after sample collection|Levels of topoisomerase I, Up to 3 years|DNA repair enzymes, Up to 3 years|Objective response according to the RECIST criteria, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety of the combination of PS-341 and topotecan. II. Determine the dose limiting toxicities and maximum tolerated dose as well as the recommended phase II doses of the combination.

III. Assess the pharmacokinetics of topotecan alone and in combination with PS-341.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the objective response rate of a combination of PS-341 and topotecan delivered on days 1-5 every three weeks as defined by the RECIST criteria.

II. Assess the pharmacodynamics of topo I levels. III. Determine the expression of the DNA repair enzyme XRCC1 in tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Beginning with course 2, patients also receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of topotecan and bortezomib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which no more than 1 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-25 patients will be accrued for this study.