Study of Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) for Skin Prevention in Patients With Breast Cancer Receiving Adjuvant Radiotherapy
The investigators conduct this phase II study of EGCG therapy protection of the skin from damage induced by radiotherapy in breast cancer. In order to observe the effectiveness of EGCG, investigators will utilize both clinician assessments and patient self-assessments. Physician's skin assessments will be scored utilizing the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) score. Patient reported symptom scores are adapted from the Skin Toxicity Assessment Tool (STAT) as pain, burning, itching, pulling, and tenderness in the treatment area. The scales are translated into Chinese and guides in Chinese are developed instructing how to use the scales and perform the assessments.
Breast Neoplasms|Dermatitis|Prevention & Control|Epigallocatechin Gallate
DRUG: EGCG|DRUG: placebo
Superiority of EGCG in reducing Grade II or more dermatitis as assessed by Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) scores in patients with breast cancer receiving radiation, Each patient will be enrolled for a 5-6 week trial
Superiority of EGCG in reducing pain as assessed by the Skin Toxicity Assessment Tool (STAT) in patients with breast cancer receiving radiation, Each patient will be enrolled for a 5-6 week trial|Improved quality of life with usage of EGCG for treatment of radiation-dermatitis in patient with breast cancer, questionnaire, Each patient will be enrolled for a 5-6 week trial
The investigators conduct this phase II study of EGCG therapy protection of the skin from damage induced by radiotherapy in breast cancer. In order to observe the effectiveness of EGCG, investigators will utilize both clinician assessments and patient self-assessments. Physician's skin assessments will be scored utilizing the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) score. Patient reported symptom scores are adapted from the Skin Toxicity Assessment Tool (STAT) as pain, burning, itching, pulling, and tenderness in the treatment area. The scales are translated into Chinese and guides in Chinese are developed instructing how to use the scales and perform the assessments.