TRPC6 Characterization to Predict and Prevent Chemotherapy Related Cardiomyopathy and Heart Failure With Breast Cancer
This study examines TRPC6 in predicting and preventing chemotherapy related cardiac toxicity and heart failure in patients with breast cancer. Cardiac toxicity, changes in heart function is a well-recognized complication of certain cancer related therapies. Understanding these changes may allow early intervention against therapy-related cardiac toxicity and also identify novel therapeutic targets to protect patient long-term cardiac health. Studying samples of blood from patients with breast cancer in the laboratory may help doctors learn more about changes that occur in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), identify biomarkers related to cardiac toxicity, and prevent the development of therapy-induced cardiac toxicity in patients receiving chemotherapy.
Breast Carcinoma|Cardiomyopathy|Congestive Heart Failure
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Electronic Medical Record
Significance ofTRPC6 coding sequencing, Will compare the prevalence of rare missense variants in our cases against the null hypothesis to assess the significance of TRPC6 coding sequencing data in patients with dox-induced heart failure (HF). Will use an exploratory analysis to estimate the prevalence, 95% confidence intervals and p-values depending on the number of patients with rare variants in the data set and due to the rarity (i.e. high degree of conservation in the TRPC6 coding sequence).Other methods include biospecimen collection and the TRPC6 coding sequence. Data collected will be stored in a database and studied by the PI., Up to study completion, up to four years to completion.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Characterize TRPC6 risk variants for doxorubicin-related cardiotoxicity in prospectively collected samples from breast cancer patients.

OUTLINE: This is an ancillary-correlative study.

Patients undergo collection of blood samples at time of enrollment. Patients who develop cardiac toxicity may undergo additional collection of blood samples. Patients' medical records are also reviewed.