Establishment of a Multidimensional Prediction Model for the Natural Course of VHL Disease-related Renal Cell Carcinoma
VHL syndrome is a rare hereditary tumor syndrome caused by mutation of tumor suppressor gene VHL. One of the most important clinical manifestations and main cause of death is VHL-related renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Facing the challenges of multilesion of both kidneys, slow progress and life-long repeated surgeries in VHL-related RCC, individualized prediction of the best surgical treatment time and reduction of times of surgeries are very important to improve the prognosis of patients with VHL syndrome. Therefore, there is an urgent need to establish a more effective and accurate prediction model for the natural course of VHL syndrome. This cohort-study aims to retrospectively and prospectively analyze the factors related to the natural course of VHL-related RCC. At the same time, some patients were selected for prospectively continuous molecular evolution dynamic monitoring after comprehensively considering the results of single cell sequencing, whole genome and metabonomic sequencing. This study will provide scientific basis for accurate diagnosis and treatment of natural course of VHL-related RCC.
VHL Syndrome|Renal Cell Carcinoma
GENETIC: Single cell sequencing, whole genome and metabolomic sequencing
Tumor growth rate, The tumor size was measured annually and the tumor growth rate was calculated., From date of diagnosis of the VHL-related RCC until the date of surgical treatment, death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 years.
Overall survival (OS), OS was calculated as the time interval from the diagnosis of the VHL-related RCC to death or the time to the last follow-up., From date of diagnosis of the VHL-related RCC until the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years.|Cancer-specific survival (CSS), CSS was calculated as the time interval from the diagnosis of the VHL-related RCC to death from the same disease or the last follow-up., From date of diagnosis of the VHL-related RCC until the date of death from the same disease or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years.
VHL syndrome is a rare hereditary tumor syndrome caused by mutation of tumor suppressor gene VHL. One of the most important clinical manifestations and main cause of death is VHL-related renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Previous small sample studies have confirmed that the natural course of VHL-related RCC is different from that of sporadic RCC. Facing the challenges of multilesion of both kidneys, slow progress and life-long repeated surgeries in VHL-related RCC, individualized prediction of the best surgical treatment time and reduction of times of surgeries are very important to improve the prognosis of patients with VHL-related RCC. Therefore, there is an urgent need to establish a more effective and accurate prediction model for the natural course of VHL syndrome. Based on the previous establishment of the largest biobank of VHL syndrome in Asia, as well as the unique characteristics and genotype-phenotypic relationship of patients in Chinese population, this cohort-study aims to retrospectively and prospectively analyze the factors related to the natural course of VHL-related RCC. At the same time, some patients were selected for prospectively continuous molecular evolution dynamic monitoring after comprehensively considering the results of single cell sequencing, whole genome and metabonomic sequencing. This study will systematically analyze the specific molecular characteristic and evolution of VHL-related different from sporadic RCC, reveal new specific driving genes and their molecular regulatory mechanisms, and establish a multi-dimensional prediction model of natural course of VHL-related RCC based on accurate genotyping. It will provide scientific basis for accurate diagnosis and treatment of natural course of VHL-related RCC.