Clinical Trial Testing TH-302 in Combination With Gemcitabine in Previously Untreated Subjects With Metastatic or Locally Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
This Phase 3 trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of gemcitabine in combination with TH-302 compared to gemcitabine in combination with placebo in subjects with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Randomized subjects will receive TH-302 plus gemcitabine or gemcitabine plus placebo in 4-week cycles until there is evidence of progressive disease, intolerable toxicity, or the subject discontinues from the trial for other reasons (for example, withdrawal of consent). The primary efficacy endpoint is overall survival (OS) time. The data cut-off for statistical analyses of the primary and secondary endpoints will be reached when 508 events (deaths) will be reported. No planned interim analyses will be conducted. An Independent Safety Monitoring Board (ISMB) will provide periodic evaluations of the unblinded safety data to ensure subject safety and the validity and scientific merit of the study. A total of 660 subjects will be enrolled.
Metastatic or Locally Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: TH-302|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Placebo (5 percent dextrose - D5W)
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as time from randomization to death or last day known to be alive., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years
Progression Free Survival, Progression Free Survival is defined as the time from randomization to either first observation of progressive disease or occurrence of death. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years
This Phase 3 trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of gemcitabine in combination with TH-302 compared to gemcitabine in combination with placebo in subjects with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Randomized subjects will receive TH-302 plus gemcitabine or gemcitabine plus placebo in 4-week cycles until there is evidence of progressive disease, intolerable toxicity, or the subject discontinues from the trial for other reasons (for example, withdrawal of consent). The primary efficacy endpoint is overall survival (OS) time. The data cut-off for statistical analyses of the primary and secondary endpoints will be reached when 508 events (deaths) will be reported. No planned interim analyses will be conducted. An Independent Safety Monitoring Board (ISMB) will provide periodic evaluations of the unblinded safety data to ensure subject safety and the validity and scientific merit of the study. A total of 660 subjects will be enrolled.