Glembatumumab Vedotin in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Osteosarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well glembatumumab vedotin works in treating patients with osteosarcoma that has come back (recurrent) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Monoclonal antibodies, such as glembatumumab vedotin, may find tumor cells and help kill them.
Recurrent Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Glembatumumab Vedotin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Disease Control Success, The number of patients who do not experience disease progression or death in the six cycles following enrollment on AOST1521, First six cycles (21-day cycle) of protocol therapy
Toxicity Associated With Chemotherapy, The number of cycles aggregated across all patients where CTC Version 4 grade 3 or higher., Duration of protocol therapy - Up to two years|Pharmacokinetics of Glembatumumab Vedotin: Total Antibody and Antibody-drug Conjugate Half-life, Total antibody and antibody-drug conjugate half-life are estimated from the sampling time points: Before first dose (Baseline), end of infusion, at 1, 2, 4, and 24 hours post infusion, Baseline to 24 hours post infusion on course 1|Pharmacokinetics of Glembatumumab Vedotin: Total Antibody and Antibody-drug Conjugate Clearance, Total antibody and antibody-drug conjugate clearance are estimated from the sampling time points: Before first dose (Baseline), end of infusion, at 1, 2, 4, and 24 hours post infusion, Baseline to 24 hours post infusion on course 1|Pharmacokinetics of Glembatumumab Vedotin: Total Antibody and Antibody-drug Conjugate Areas Under the Curve, Total antibody and antibody-drug conjugate areas under the curve are estimated from the sampling time points: Before first dose (Baseline), end of infusion, at 1, 2, 4, and 24 hours post infusion, Baseline to 24 hours post infusion on course 1|Number of Participants With Glycoprotein NMB (GPNMB) Expression Stratified by Immunohistochemistry (IHC) Staining Strength, GPNMB expression by IHC of 0+ to 3+ staining strength as assessed on archived tumor specimens. 0 being no GPNMB expression and 3 indicating strong GPNMB expression., Prior to the time of enrollment|RECIST Response, The number of patients who experience a complete or partial response according the RECIST criteria for target lesions complete response (CR) disappearance of all lesions; partial response (PR ) \>= 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR+PR., First six cycles (21-day cycle) of protocol therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate whether CDX-011 (glembatumumab vedotin) therapy either increases the disease control rate at 4 months in patients with recurrent measurable osteosarcoma as compared to an historical Children's Oncology Group (COG) experience or produces an objective response rate in patients without previous eribulin (eribulin mesylate) treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility and toxicity profile of CDX-011 in patients with recurrent osteosarcoma.

II. To describe the pharmacokinetics of CDX-011 in adolescents and young adults with recurrent osteosarcoma enrolled at COG sites and COG phase I consortium sites only.

III. To determine if there is a relationship between tumor GPNMB expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and response to CDX-011 therapy.

IV. To estimate, in the cohort of patients previously treated with eribulin, the proportion who will experience disease progression during the first 4 months of CDX-011 therapy and the proportion of patients who experience a Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)-defined complete or partial response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive glembatumumab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 18 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.