Developing ctDNA Guided Adjuvant Therapy for Gastrooesophageal Cancer
Multicentre, single arm, open label UK phase II trial to assess the efficacy of trastuzumab deruxtecan in reducing micrometastatic disease burden in HER2 positive GOA patients who are ctDNA positive after chemotherapy and surgery. 25 patients will be recruited from approximately 15 NHS secondary care sites.
Gastrooesophageal Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab deruxtecan
ctDNA clearance, Percentage of people who are classed ctDNA negative, as measured by the Signatera assay, At the end of Cycle 4 (each cycle is 21 days)
ctDNA clearance (yes/no), Percentage of people who are ctDNA negative after each cycle, Up to completion of cycle 8 (where each cycle is 21 days)|Disease Free Survival, Time from surgery to recurrence of macroscopic disease of radiological imaging or death, At 12 months and 24 months|Overall survival, Time from surgery to death, 12, 18 and 24 months|QLQ-C30, Quality of life scored from QLQ-C30, Up to 30 months post surgery|QLQ-OG25, Quality of life scored from QLQ-OG25, Up to 30 months post surgery|EQ-5D-5L, Quality of life scored from EQ-5D-5L, Up to 30 months post surgery|Safety and tolerability of T-DXd, Frequency of adverse events and percentage of people experiencing them, Up to 100 days post last dose of trial treatment
Measurement of the quantity of ctDNA present in blood using the Signatera assay, Absolute and relative ctDNA reduction in individual patients, duration of ctDNA response, correlation between ctDNA response and radiological recurrence and survival outcomes, From date of surgery until the date of recurrence or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 30 months|Measurement of the quantity of ctDNA present in blood using Signatera assay, Correlation between tumour HER2 IHC and copy numbers status, other molecular markers and ctDNA dynamics and patient outcomes, From date of surgery until the date of recurrence or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 30 months
Gastrooesophageal (GOA) cancer is a common, global cancer which often presents at an advanced stage. Those diagnosed early will generally have neoadjuvant treatment with FLOT chemotherapy followed by surgery followed by the same FLOT chemotherapy post surgery. Treatment however is curative in less than 50%.

Circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) is found in the bloodstream. It refers to DNA that comes from cancerous cells and tumours. If ctDNA is positive it means that there are microscopic traces of tumour in the bloodstream (minimal residual disease). Patients who are ctDNA positive after chemotherapy and surgery are less likely to benefit from further FLOT chemotherapy and more likely to relapse.

HER2 positive describes cells that have a protein called HER2 on their surface. In normal cells, HER2 helps control cell growth. Cancer cells that make too much HER2 may grow more quickly and are more likely to spread to other parts of the body.

Trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) is an antibody that targets HER2 cells. It attaches to the HER2 cells on the tumour and destroys them. In the UK, trastuzumab deruxtecan (Enhertu) is currently offered to patients with advanced breast cancer who are HER2 positive. In the US, Israel and Japan it is licenced in patients with advanced HER2 positive GOA.

DECIPHER aims to treat patient's with GOA post-surgery who are both HER2 and ctDNA positive with trastuzumab deruxtecan (Enhertu) instead of standard care FLOT chemotherapy. The aim of the trial is to treat the minimal residual disease reducing the chance of relapse. All trial patients will be followed for up to 2 years to record their response to treatment. 25 patients will be recruited over 18 months.

Patients will be treated with 6.4 mg/kg trastuzumab deruxtecan every 21 days for 8 cycles.