Individualized Dose Escalation of 5-FU for Gastrointestinal Cancer
This is a single-arm clinical trial to evaluate the feasibility of a chemotherapy regimen using adaptive, individualized dose escalation of 5-FU chemotherapy for patients who have good tolerance of the initial dose. Study participants will also receive oxaliplatin chemotherapy together with 5-FU, at standard doses. The goal of the study is to examine the feasibility and effectiveness of this approach, using individualized dose escalation of 5-FU in patients who do not have serious side effects at lower doses.
Colorectal Cancer|Esophagus Cancer|Appendix Cancer|Small Bowel Cancer|Ampullary Cancer
OTHER: FOX dose-escalation algorithm
Proportion of patients that receive dose intensified infusional 5-FU in Cycle 6 of the FOX regimen, The proportion of patients who receive dose-intensified infusional 5-FU (dosed at greater than or equal to 2,800 mg/m2) in Cycle 6 of the FOX regimen., Through day 1 of Cycle 6 of FOX regimen (cycle length is 14 days)
Response rate to chemotherapy, Response rate (stratified by colorectal cancer vs. gastroesophageal cancer) as defined using RECIST 1.1 imaging criteria, Through 6 months from Cycle 1 Day 1 of FOX regimen|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS, stratified by colorectal cancer vs. gastroesophageal cancer, determined by retrospective review of medical records), Through 12 months from Cycle 1 Day 1 of FOX regimen|Dose intensity of 5-FU and oxaliplatin, Dose intensity of 5-FU and oxaliplatin over Cycles 1-6. Dose intensity will be calculated separately for each component of the FOLFOX regimen (5-FU infusion and oxaliplatin)., Through day 1 of Cycle 6 of FOX regimen (cycle length is 14 days)|Mean plasma uracil concentration, Difference in mean plasma uracil concentration between patients who did and did not achieve sustained 5-FU dose escalation to ≥ 2,800 mg/m2 (primary endpoint), Single treatment visit 0-30 days before Day 1 of Cycle 1 of FOX regimen, (cycle length is 14 days)|5-FU drug exposure, 5-FU drug exposure, measured as the area under the drug concentration curve (AUC). AUC will be calculated by multiplying the measured 5-FU concentration at steady state by the 5-FU infusion duration in hours., Single treatment visit on Day 3 of treament Cycle 5 or Cycle 6 of FOX regimen, (cycle length is 14 days)
This is a single-arm clinical trial to evaluate the feasibility of a chemotherapy regimen using adaptive, individualized dose escalation of 5-FU chemotherapy for patients who have good tolerance of the initial dose. Study participants will also receive oxaliplatin chemotherapy together with 5-FU, at standard doses. The goal of the study is to examine the feasibility and effectiveness of this approach, using individualized dose escalation of 5-FU in patients who do not have serious side effects at lower doses.