A Study of Herceptin (Trastuzumab) in Patients With Metastatic or Advanced Gastric Cancer With Disease Progression
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of Herceptin in patients with metastatic or advanced gastric cancer with disease progression during platinum-based or 5-fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy. The anticipated time on study treatment is until disease progression.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab
Percentage of Participants With a Response by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Category, Tumor response assessed according to RECIST. Complete response (CR): complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, with exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis less than \[\<\]10 millimeters \[mm\]); no new lesions. Partial response (PR): greater than or equal to (≥)30 percent (%) decrease under baseline of sum of diameters of all target lesions. Short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions; no unequivocal progression of non-target disease; no new lesions. Stable disease (SD): not qualifying for CR, PR, or progressive disease (PD). Participants who could not be classified per RECIST were allocated as follows: early death from malignant disease (death due to cancer), early death because of other cause (death not related to toxicity or cancer disease), and unknown (for not fitting into the above categories)., Weekly throughout study
Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit, Participants were classified as having a clinical benefit if they had a best overall tumor response of CR, PR, or SD. Tumor response assessed according to RECIST. CR: complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, with exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis \<10 mm); no new lesions. PR: ≥30% decrease under baseline of sum of diameters of all target lesions. Short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions; no unequivocal progression of non-target disease; no new lesions. Stable SD: not qualifying for CR, PR, or PD., Weekly throughout the study|Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response of CR or PR, Tumor response assessed according to RECIST. CR: complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, with exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis \<10 mm); no new lesions. PR: ≥30% decrease under baseline of sum of diameters of all target lesions. Short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions; no unequivocal progression of non-target disease; no new lesions., Weekly throughout the study|Overall Survival - Number of Participants Who Died, OS was defined as the time, in months, from the date of study entry to the date of the death due to any cause. If a participant's date of death was unknown, or had not occurred, the last date of examination, treatment, and follow-up dates were included in the analysis., Weekly throughout the study|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time, in months, from the date of study entry to the date of the death due to any cause. If a participant's date of death was unknown, or had not occurred, the last date of examination, treatment, and follow-up dates were included in the analysis., Weekly throughout the study|Time to Progression - Number of Participants With an Event, Time to progression was defined as the time, in months, from the date of study entry to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause. If a participant's date of disease progression or death was unknown, or had not occurred, the last date of examination, treatment, and follow-up dates were included in the analysis., Weekly throughout the study|Time to Progression, Time to progression was defined as the time, in months, from the date of study entry to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause. If a participant's date of disease progression or death was unknown, or had not occurred, the last date of examination, treatment, and follow-up dates were included in the analysis., Weekly throughout the study
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of Herceptin in patients with metastatic or advanced gastric cancer with disease progression during platinum-based or 5-fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy. The anticipated time on study treatment is until disease progression.