Different Doses of Sirolimus for the Maintenance Treatment of Kaposiform Hemangioendothelioma
The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of different doses of sirolimus in the maintenance treatment of kaposiform hemangioendothelioma.
Hemangioendothelioma
DRUG: Sirolimus
The changes in KHE volume, Response to therapy was measured by volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) analyses were performed at baseline and 6 and 12 months after treatment and were independently assessed by 2 radiologists. Changes in KHE size were classified as further growth (increase of ≥10%), no change (\<10% increase and \<10% decrease), partial involution (decrease of ≥10% and \<75%), nearly complete involution (decrease of ≥75% and \<100%), or complete involution (100%)., 12 months.
Quality of life (QOL) in patients, Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQLTM) 4.0 Genetic Core Infant Scales (\<2 years) or Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQLTM) 4.0 Genetic Core Scales (2-18 years) were used., Baseline, 6 months, 12 months.|Frequency of adverse events, Frequency of adverse events (e.g. gastrointestinal disorders, blood and lymphatic system disorders, metabolic disorders or other abnormal laboratory results, skin disorders and general disorders, etc.) collected by investigator and reported by parents. All adverse events were collected and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0). The causality of the adverse event was determined by the multidisciplinary staff and was classified as definitively not related, probably not related, possibly related, probably related, or definitively related. Any dose reductions, interruptions, or cessations enacted at the discretion of the investigators were recorded., Baseline, 6 months, 12 months.|The changes in the patient's musculoskeletal complication., The severity of musculoskeletal complication was scored by using a 4-point scale: 1, asymptomatic or mild symptoms, clinical or diagnostic observations only; 2, moderate symptoms, limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living; 3, severe or medically significant symptoms, disabling or limiting self-care activities of daily living; and 4, life-threatening consequences, with urgent intervention indicated., Baseline, 3 monthss, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months.|The changes of platelet counts., Platelet counts, Baseline, 3 monthss, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months.|The changes of fibrinogen levels., Fibrinogen levels, Baseline, 3 monthss, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months.|The changes of D-dimer levels., D-dimer levels, Baseline, 3 monthss, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months.
Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma (KHE) is a rare aggressive vascular neoplasm that occurs predominantly in infancy or early childhood, with an incidence of approximately 0.071/100,000. Currently, sirolimus is a promising treatment modality for KHE. Most scholars consider sirolimus blood concentration of 5-15 ng/ml to be an effective therapeutic concentration, while 10-15 ng/ml is the most commonly used blood concentration. However, long-term higher dose sirolimus treatment can cause some common adverse effects, such as oral mucositis which affects the quality of life of the patient. Finer control of the plasma concentration of sirolimus may contribute to the efficacy of treatment and reduce the incidence of complications. Previous studies have found good efficacy of low-dose sirolimus maintenance treatment for KHE. However, there is no high-level evidence to support this treatment strategy. Therefore, we conducted this study to find out whether an early reduction in sirolimus dose would benefit the prognosis of the patients.