The Role of Vascular Reconstruction in the Setting of Pelvic Exenteration
Local invasion or abutment of a major vascular structure was once a major deterrent to planned oncological resection. Improvements in radiological assessment and vascular surgical techniques have enabled resection of major blood vessels where focally involved. However, most of this has been conducted in the context of cancers of sarcomatous, hepaticopancreaticobilary or otolaryngological origin, with little evidence detailing the experience in the context of pelvic malignancy. The aim of this retrospective review is to examine the indications for, techniques used and surgical outcomes of vascular reconstruction in the setting of pelvic exenterative surgery.
Vascular Reconstruction in Pelvic Exenterative Surgery
PROCEDURE: Vascular resection/reconstruction
Morbidity, Post-operative complications (\<30 days), as measured by the Clavien-Dindo scale, July 2016 - July 2021
Blood loss, Blood loss (mL), July 2016 - July 2021|Length of stay, Duration of stay in hospital post-procedure, July 2016 - July 2021|Graft patency/function, Whether or not the reconstruction is functioning, July 2016 - July 2021|Resection status, Resection margins (R0, R1 or R2), July 2016 - July 2021|Mortality, Proportion of patients who die within 30 days of the procedure, July 2016 - July 2021
The role of pelvic exenteration in the management of locally advanced and recurrent pelvic malignancies is ever evolving, with technical advancements enabling surgeons to perform more radical resections, offering a potential cure to many patients who would have once been deemed inoperable. As surgical oncology has shifted towards higher-volume, specialist centres in a bid to improve outcomes, surgeons have used greater experience to re-evaluate what can be considered as resectable disease. This is best exemplified by a trend towards en bloc vascular excision and reconstruction where tumours abut or focally invade adjacent vasculature. Whereas involvement of a major vascular structure remains a relative contraindication to surgery in some units (1), certain specialist centres around the world are increasingly reporting on the feasibility of this approach.

It is accepted that achieving an R0 resection is the most significant prognostic factor for overall survival (OS) in exenterative surgery. Conversely, involvement of the lateral compartment is a poor prognostic variable, in large part due to the difficulty obtaining a negative resection margin without compromising neurovascular structures(2). Improvements in pre-operative radiological assessment, particularly with respect to angiography, have facilitated appropriate patient and treatment selection, while advancements in the field of vascular surgery have made the procedure technically feasible.

However, there is no clear consensus on the role of vascular reconstruction in curative treatment of advanced pelvic malignancy, owing to a paucity of published data. Initial reports and series have shown promising results, but these are almost exclusively single-surgeon experiences with small numbers and heterogenous populations. Therefore, there is a need for collaborative data to assess the impact and success of such surgical strategies.

The aim of this retrospective review is to examine the indications for, techniques used and surgical outcomes of vascular reconstruction in the setting of pelvic exenterative surgery at a multicentre level in order to inform future practice, with a particular focus on whether or not it significantly increases the morbidity in the short-term.