Fludarabine, Cyclophosphamide, and Alemtuzumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (Kidney Cancer) Undergoing Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Peripheral stem cell transplantation may be able to replace immune cells that were destroyed by chemotherapy. Sometimes the transplanted cells can reject the body's normal tissues. Alemtuzumab and tacrolimus may prevent this from happening.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining fludarabine and cyclophosphamide with alemtuzumab in treating patients who are undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation for recurrent or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (kidney cancer).
Kidney Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: alemtuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: graft-versus-tumor induction therapy|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|PROCEDURE: allogeneic bone marrow transplantation|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Number of patients with treatment related mortality, 100
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the safety and feasibility of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and alemtuzumab in patients with recurrent or metastatic renal cell carcinoma undergoing HLA-matched allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study.

* Conditioning: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2, cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -6 and -5, and alemtuzumab IV on days -4 to -2.
* Allogeneic transplantation: Allogeneic stem cells are infused on day 0. Patients receive graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis with tacrolimus IV or orally for approximately 30 days.

Patients are followed weekly for 100 days and then at 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months after transplantation.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients (10 with HLA-identical related donors and 10 with matched unrelated donors) will be accrued for this study.