Evaluation of SBRT for Patients With Locally Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
The aim of this phase II study is to assess the efficacy and safety of sequentially integrated treatment of FOLFIRINOX or Gemcitabine-Abraxane and SBRT in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: SBRT and chemotherapy
Overall survival, Evaluation of SBRT after induction CT with FOLFIRINOX or Gemcitabine-Abraxane in terms of overall survival time that will be calculated from the start of chemotherapy to death., 2 years
Incidence of acute toxicities, Evaluation of early post treatment complications according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0., 2 years|Incidence of late toxicities, Evaluation of late post treatment complications according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0., 4 years|Freedom from local progression in treated patients, Evaluation of proportion of patients free from local progression according to RECIST criteria, 2 years|Progression free-survival of treated patients, Evaluation of proportions of patients alive and free form progression according to RECIST criteria, 2 years
The aim of this prospective mono-institutional phase II study is to assess the efficacy and safety of sequentially integrated treatment of FOLFIRINOX or Gemcitabine-Abraxane and SBRT with a total dose of 54 Gy in 6 fractions of 9 Gy /fractions in patients with locally unresectable pancreatic cancer.

Primary endpoint is to evaluate overall survival (OS); the overall survival time will be calculated from the start of chemotherapy to death. Secondary end points are to evaluate acute and late toxicities, freedom from local progression (FFLP) and progression free-survival (PFS). Acute and late toxicities will be scored according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0. Local progression will be defined according to RECIST criteria. Time to toxicity and time to local or distant progression will be defined from the start of chemotherapy.

Technical success will be defined as the ability to implant at least 2 fiducials in the tumor area. Migration will be defined as a change in inter-fiducial distance. Clinical success will be defined as the ability to guide the application of SBRT by using the fiducials. Any adverse event will be recorded (acute pancreatitis, clinically relevant upper GI bleeding requiring blood transfusion, abscesses in the area of the fiducials, sepsis).