FOLFOX6 Versus mFOLFIRINOX as First Line Chemotherapy in Metastatic Gastric Cancer or Esophagogastric Junction Adenocarcinoma (Type II-III)
Patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or the esophagogastric junction (II-III type by Siewert) without previous therapy will be treated with one of two chemotherapy combinations . One half of the patients gets 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), Leucovorin, Oxaliplatin (FOLFOX6), the others 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), Leucovorin, Oxaliplatin and Irinotecan (mFOLFIRINOX). Main objective of the study is progression free survival.
Gastric Carcinoma Stage IV|Esophagogastric Junction Adenocarcinoma Stage IV
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: 5-FU
Progression-Free Survival, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of progressive disease or date of death, whichever occurs first. For target lesions (TL), PD was defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest SLD recorded since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more lesions. For non-target lesions (NTL), PD was defined as an unequivocal progression of existing NTLs. Participants were censored at the last date of tumor measurement, the last date in the study drug log, or the date of last follow-up., 36 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Participants were censored at the last date of tumor measurement, the last date in the study drug log or the date of last follow-up, 60 months|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) Determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), 12 months|Duration of Response, 12 months|Treatment associated toxicities, WHO CTC 3.0, 12 months
This parallel, randomized, open-label study 326 patients with metastatic ( adenocarcinoma of the stomach or the esophagogastric junction without previous therapy will be included in this study. After randomization patients receive 9 cycles FOLFOX6 or mFOLFIRINOX.

Stratification factors include ECOG, site of metastasis, age, pathological subtypes.

Efficacy will be evaluated every 3 cycles with RECIST. Toxicity will be assessed with WHO CTC 3.0 every 2 weeks.