Topotecan Episcleral Plaque for Treatment of Retinoblastoma
This single site, single-arm, non-randomized, dose escalation phase I toxicity clinical trial will assess primarily the safety and secondarily the efficacy of episcleral topotecan in patients with active de novo or residual or recurrent intraocular retinoblastoma in at least one eye following completion of first-line therapy.
Retinoblastoma
DRUG: Topotecan Episcleral Plaque
Maximum Tolerated Dose and Recommended Phase 2 Dose of topotecan hydrochloride administered as a Chemoplaque to pediatric patients with active Retinoblastoma., Inter-Patient Escalation in the rolling six phase 1 trial design will determine Maximum Tolerated Dose and Recommended Phase 2 Dose. Dose level assignment is based on the number of participants currently enrolled in the cohort, the number of dose limiting toxicities observed, and the number of participants at risk for developing a dose limiting toxicity (i.e., participants enrolled but who are not yet assessable for toxicity)., 9 weeks
Tumor response to the Chemoplaque as secondary therapy in eye(s) with active retinoblastoma after completion of primary standard of care treatment., Tumor response will be characterized as (i) complete regression, (ii) very good (iii) partial regression, (iv) partial regression, (v) stable disease or (vi) progressive disease determined by evaluating number of tumour sites, appearance and tumour size., 9 weeks
Retinoblastoma is the most common pediatric malignant intraocular tumour and originates from the retina. Treatment of eyes with advanced intraocular retinoblastoma remains a challenge. The historic standard of care for patients with unilateral disease is enucleation and for those with bilateral disease, a variety of modalities have been tried. These include radiation therapy, systemic chemotherapy, periocular administration of chemotherapy, selective intra-arterial chemotherapy, and intravitreal chemotherapy. Unfortunately, all of these modalities are associated with significant morbidity and investigators are looking for new ways to treat these patients either with novel directed drug delivery methods or with new less toxic agents. This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of topotecan delivered directly to the eye using a novel sustained-release topotecan episcleral plaque (also referred to as a Chemoplaque) in patients with active residual or recurrent intraocular retinoblastoma in at least one eye following completion of first-line therapy. The study intervention involves the insertion and removal of the Chemoplaque, examinations under anaesthesia (EUAs), visits to clinic to monitor for adverse events throughout, and post plaque removal toxicity evaluation. EUAs, clinic visits and laboratory tests are standard of care for retinoblastoma patients.