Effect of Nutritional Indices on the Prognosis of HCC Patients
Primary liver cancer has recently ranked among the leading causes of cancer death, with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounting for 75%-85% of these cases. In recent years, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) combined with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have achieved good results in the treatment of advanced HCC patients. So far, there is a lack of studies exploring the relationship between nutritional index and the prognosis of HCC patients treated with ICIs combined with TKIs, and there are few studies on the prognostic value of nutritional index in HCC patients treated with transarterial chemoembolization (TACE). This retrospective study aims to analyze the prognostic value of prognostic nutritional index(PNI)，body mass index (BMI), psoas muscle index（PMI）and geriatric nutritional risk index (GNRI) in HCC patients who received ICIs combined with TKIs or TACE, and to provide reference for the selection of nutritional intervention programs for HCC patients.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
OTHER
Death, Death due to hepatocellular carcinoma progression, November 2022 to May 2024
Censored, Death due to other causes such as car accidents or loss to follow-up, November 2022 to May 2024
Patients who confirmed HCC in the Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University were enrolled in the retrospective study. The subjects were divided into two cohorts, both of which met the inclusion and exclusion criteria.The data needed to be collected included age, gender, height and weight at initial treatment and regular follow-up. Blood routine, liver function, kidney function, coagulation function, electrolytes, PIVKA-II, AFP, HBV-DNA, CT, MRI information, China liver cancer staging (CNLC), complications, treatment plan, etc. Follow-up time after initiation of treatment and time of death or significant disease progression. The survival was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and curves were compared by the log-rank test.Logistic regression was used to univariate and multivariate analyze the effect of variables on the outcome. Variables with P\<0.05 on a univariate analysis were subjected to a multivariate analysis.