OsteoCool Tumor Ablation Post-Market Study
This study evaluates the effectiveness of the Medtronic OsteoCool™ RF Ablation System.
Metastasis Spine|Metastasis to Bone
DEVICE: OsteoCool™ RF Ablation
Change of Worst Pain Score: Thoracic/Lumbar Spine RF Ablation, Demonstrate an improvement of worst pain score (WPS) at the target treatment site in the previous 24 hours for subjects with metastatic lesions in only the thoracic and/or lumbar vertebral body(ies) as collected using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). The WPS is a single question from the BPI (scored from 0-10; 0=NO PAIN and 10=PAIN AS BAD AS YOU CAN IMAGINE). Lower scores indicate less pain., From Baseline to 3 months post RF ablation
Change in Worst Pain Score: Periacetabulum, Iliac Crest, and/or Sacrum RF Ablation, Characterize change in worst pain score (WPS) at the target treatment site in the previous 24 hours for subjects with metastatic lesions in the periacetabulum, iliac crest, and/or sacrum as collected using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). Some subjects also had an additional thoracic/lumbar ablation. The WPS is a single question from the BPI (scored from 0-10; 0=NO PAIN and 10=PAIN AS BAD AS YOU CAN IMAGINE). Lower scores indicate less pain.

The secondary outcome is based on a mutually exclusive cohort of study subjects as compared to the primary outcome., From Baseline to 3 months post RF ablation
The OsteoCool™ RF Ablation system has 510k regulatory clearance in the United States, Conformité Européene (CE) mark in Europe, and Health Canada Licence in Canada. The goal of this study is to collect real-world outcomes among a cohort of patients in the US, EUR and CAN with metastatic malignant lesions in a vertebral body, painful metastatic lesions involving bone (in the US, patients with metastatic lesions involving the bone must have failed or were not candidates for standard therapy), and benign bone tumors such as osteoid osteoma who receive treatment with the OsteoCool™ RF Ablation system. Additionally, the study will collect device, procedure and/or therapy related adverse events and device deficiencies. Lastly, subject outcomes (such as pain relief, quality of life, and function) will be evaluated using validated assessment measures.