Pinometostat With Standard Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia and MLL Gene Rearrangement
This phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of pinometostat and how well it works with standard chemotherapy in treating patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia and a type of genetic mutation called MLL gene rearrangement. Pinometostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in standard chemotherapy, such as daunorubicin hydrochloride and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving pinometostat with standard chemotherapy may work better at treating acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin|DRUG: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Pinometostat
Dose Limiting Toxicity (Phase Ib), Dose escalation for phase 1b will be in the usual 3+3 fashion, Up to 35 days|Complete Response (CR) or Complete Response With Incomplete Count Recovery (CRi) Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 3 years
Number of Participants With Incidence of Adverse Events, Will be graded and reported according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., For up to 3 years|Time to Hematologic Count Recovery, Will be analyzed using lab evaluation of complete blood counts and differential., Up to 3 years|Differential Blast Counts, Will be analyzed using lab evaluation of complete blood counts and differential., Baseline up to day 8|Rate of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Positivity, Will be evaluated by multiparameter flow cytometry, next-generation sequencing (or both) after induction therapy among those patients who attain morphologic and cytogenetic CR. Will be calculated with the exact binomial 95% confidence intervals., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, From the start of study treatment until progression or death, whichever occurs earliest, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine a safe and tolerable schedule of pinometostat continuous intravenous infusion in combination with daunorubicin hydrochloride (daunorubicin) and cytarabine in patients with untreated, newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia harboring MLL rearrangement.

II. Determine the rate of complete remission (complete remission \[CR\], CR with incomplete hematologic recovery \[CRi\]) in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia harboring MLL rearrangement after treatment with pinometostat in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. Estimate biologic activity of 7 day window treatment of pinometostat monotherapy.

III. Estimate the toxicity profile of pinometostat alone (week 1) and in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine.

IV. Estimate event free and overall survival of patients with MLL rearranged acute myeloid leukemia after combination treatment with pinometostat, daunorubicin, and cytarabine.

V. Estimate the early death rate (death =\< 30 days) of pinometostat, daunorubicin, and cytarabine.

VI. Determine the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity by clinical flow cytometry on post-treatment recovery bone marrow.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of pinometostat followed by a phase II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients receive higher dose pinometostat intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-7 and lower dose pinometostrat IV continuously on days 8-35. Patients also receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 10-30 minutes on days 8-10 and cytarabine IV continuously on days 8-14. Cycles repeat every 35 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not achieve CR/CRi after treatment receive pinometostat IV continuously on days 1-28, daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 10-30 minutes on days 1 and 2 and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients receive higher dose pinometostat IV continuously on days 1-35. Patients also receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 10-30 minutes on days 8-10 and cytarabine IV continuously on days 8-14. Cycles repeat every 35 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not achieve CR/CRi after treatment receive pinometostat IV continuously on days 1-28, daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 10-30 minutes on days 1 and 2 and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 1 year, then every 3 months for up to 4 years.