Amifostine and Melphalan in Treating Patients With Primary Systemic Amyloidosis Who Are Undergoing Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of plasma cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Having a peripheral stem cell transplant to replace the blood-forming cells destroyed by chemotherapy, allows higher dose of chemotherapy to be given so that more plasma cells are killed. Giving a chemoprotective drug such as amifostine may protect kidney cells from the side effects of chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of melphalan given together with amifostine in treating patients who are undergoing peripheral stem cell transplant for primary systemic amyloidosis.
Drug/Agent Toxicity by Tissue/Organ|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: amifostine trihydrate|DRUG: melphalan|PROCEDURE: bone marrow ablation with stem cell support|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Maximum Tolerated Dose, The maximum tolerated dose is the highest dose level at which fewer than 1 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity, defined as any grade 3 or higher toxicity of any of the following: renal failure, alkaline phosphatase elevation, GI bleeding, and cardiac rhythm disturbances, assessed using NCI Common Toxicity Criteria, version 2.0., Assessed over 30 days
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of high-dose melphalan administered with amifostine in patients with primary systemic amyloidosis undergoing autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.
* Determine the toxicity of high-dose melphalan when administered at the MTD in these patients.
* Determine the response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter, dose-escalation study of melphalan.

Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously once daily until peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) collection is complete. Apheresis begins on day 5 of G-CSF administration and continues until the target number of PBSCs are collected.

Within 6 weeks of PBSC collection, patients receive amifostine IV over 5 minutes on days -2 and -1 and high-dose melphalan IV over 30-60 minutes on day -1. Patients undergo autologous PBSC infusion on day 0.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of melphalan until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, an additional 10 patients are treated at that dose.

Patients are followed approximately 3 months following transplantation, then every 6 months for 5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-46 patients will be accrued for this study within 2.3 years.