Phase Ib/II Trial of Abemaciclib and Elacestrant in Patients With Brain Metastasis Due to HR+/Her2- Breast Cancer
This is a multi-institutional, single arm, open label, Phase Ib/II study of abemaciclib in combination with elacestrant in patients with HR+/Her2- breast cancer metastatic to the brain. Patients may have received up to two prior lines of systemic chemotherapy for locally advanced or metastatic disease. There will be no limit on prior use of endocrine therapy including aromatase inhibitors, tamoxifen and fulvestrant, given a documented clinical benefit of elacestrant in this setting.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Elacestrant
The number of patients in Phase 1b part of the study with any adverse events (AE)., To determine the safety and tolerability of the abemaciclib and elacestrant combination. We will assess the incidence, nature and severity of all adverse events (AE) that occur on or after C1D1 of therapy, AE severities will be classified using the CTCAE criteria., 1.5 years|Assess the efficacy of the drug combination abemaciclib and elacestrant., Determine the overall intracranial response rate (OIRR; complete and partial response) and clinical benefit rate (CBR) as defined by brain metastasis response criteria (RANO-BM) in women with HR+ / Her2- breast cancer using the sum of study participants who experience complete response or partial response within 24 weeks or less. This assessment will look at tumor responses conducted before patients start treatment, at timepoints while receiving treatment, and at treatment end., The whole study- 2.5 years
Evaluate tumor response rates of treatment with abemaciclib and elacestrant combination., Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. tumor responses conducted before patients start treatment, at timepoints while they receive treatment, and when their treatment ends, will be evaluated., 2.5 years|Evaluate duration of tumor response rates of treatment with abemaciclib and elacestrant combination., Duration of intracranial benefit rate will be measured per the response assessment in neuro-oncology brain metastases (RANO-BM) for the time of participation in the study., 2.5 years|The percentage of patients to complete the study., Study participants will be followed for the duration of their participate in the study for overall survival., 2.5 years
This is a multi-institutional, Phase Ib/II study in patients with HR+/Her2- breast cancer metastatic to the brain. Patients may have received up to two prior lines of systemic chemotherapy for locally advanced or metastatic disease. There will be no limit on prior use of endocrine therapy including aromatase inhibitors, tamoxifen and fulvestrant, given a documented clinical benefit of elacestrant in this setting. Single agent abemaciclib at a dose of 150 mg twice a day and elacestrant at a dose of 400mg / day will be administered to all patients, with allowances for up to 2 dose reductions due to treatment related toxicities. Patients will be evaluated for treatment emergent adverse events (AEs) during study participation, and toxicity will be assessed according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 5.0. After accrual of first 10 patients, the accrual will be halted and safety analysis (phase IB) will be performed. If response to the combination therapy will be documented in 2 or less patients accrual will be stopped. If at least 3 patients will have a documented response to therapy, accrual will continue to complete Stage 2