Helicobacter Rescue Therapy With Vonorazon and Amoxicillin Dual Therapy Versus Bismuth-containing Quadruple Therapy
This study aims at evaluating efficacy and safety of Vonorazon and amoxicillin dual therapy versus bismuth-containing quadruple Therapy(bismuth#esomeprazole#tetracycline and furazolidone) in H. pylori rescue therapy. It is hypothesized that Vonorazon and amoxicillin dual therapy is non-inferior to bismuth-containing quadruple Therapy. Patients with confirmed failure of H. pylori eradication will be randomized to one of the treatments described above. At week 6 follow-up visits, a urea breath test#rapid urease test or helicobacter pylori stool antigen test will be performed to confirm eradication.
Gastritis Dyspepsia Helicobacter Pylori Infection Gastric Cancer Peptic Ulcer
DRUG: Vonoprazan|DRUG: amoxicillin|DRUG: Bismuth|DRUG: Esomeprazole|DRUG: Tetracycline|DRUG: Furazolidone
Helicobacter pylori eradication, The primary end point of this study is H.pylori eradication#established by negative \[13C\] urea breath test #DOB value below 3.9#28 days after the end of eradication, 28 days after treatment
symptoms effective rates, symptoms improvement rates Evaluation improvement rate of symptoms 2 weeks of treatment and 4 weeks after the end of treatment. Symptom improvement rate =# t total score before treatment - total score after treatment#/total score before treatment x100%. Total score = frequency + severity.Frequency score is calculated by all the frequency of heartburn, reflux, abdominal pain, and flatulence, etc. Severity is accumulated by the degree of symptoms described above, which is divided to 4 degree as 0 presenting none, and 3 presenting most severe, 14 days of treatment, and 28 days after treatment|adverse events, Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability.The common side effects of the study include headache,dizziness,skin rash,other gastrointestinal disorders,pyrexia,cough and back pain., 14 days of treatment, and 28 days after treatment
The study will include three phases: screening, treatment and follow-up. Screening: this phase will last a maximum of 14 days and subjects eligibility will be evaluated after signing informed consent. One of urea breath test#rapid urease test or helicobacter pylori stool antigen test will be performed in addition to the baseline routine evaluations.

Treatment: Subjects are randomly assigned to treatment and will be treated for 14 days. A randomization visit will take place on Day 0 and an end-of-treatment visit will take place between day 14 and 16.

Follow-up: includes one visits. Approximately 28 days after the end of treatment. Eradication of H. Pylori will be confirmed by one of urea breath test#rapid urease test or helicobacter pylori stool antigen test.