Office-based Percutaneous Ultrasound-guided Renal Biopsy
The purpose of this research study is to create a prospectively maintained, multicenter database of patients undergoing renal biopsy for renal masses performed percutaneously (through skin), via an 18 gauge biopsy needle (.048 inches). In this database, the investigators will collect and maintain the data from the biopsy procedure. This will allow us to evaluate our experience with this procedure as well as to participate in multi-institutional collaborative studies in the future. At University of California Irvine, the investigators routinely biopsy patients with renal masses under real-time ultrasound control. Percutaneous renal biopsy under ultrasound guidance is a routine procedure performed to diagnose renal mass histopathology. The safety and efficacy of this procedure has been well documented in the literature. The indications for percutaneous renal biopsy have expanded as there has been a substantial increase in the number of renal masses that are being diagnosed, and the acceptance of percutaneous biopsy continues to expand in parallel. The biopsy procedure is part of your normal standard of care and if not being done for this research project.
Renal Cortical Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Renal Biopsy
Tumor Characteristics, Tumor characteristics will be recorded at Baseline (from preoperative imaging) using the R.E.N.A.L. Nephrometry scoring system which captures tumor radius (R), depth within renal parenchyma (E), nearness to collecting system (N), anterior/posterior location (A) and polarity (L)., Baseline
Verbal analog pain scale, Preprocedural and postprocedure verbal analog pain scale. Verbal analog pain scale (0 to 10) will be recorded immediately after and 60 minutes after the procedure. Additional pain assessment will be performed at a follow-up visit 3 days to 3 weeks after the procedure., Baseline, 1 hour post procedure, and 3 days - 3 weeks post-procedure
The purpose of this research study is to create a prospectively maintained, multicenter database of patients undergoing renal biopsy for renal masses performed percutaneously (through skin), via an 18 gauge biopsy needle (.048 inches). In this database, the investigators will collect and maintain the data from the biopsy procedure. This will allow us to evaluate our experience with this procedure as well as to participate in multi-institutional collaborative studies in the future. At University of California Irvine, the investigators routinely biopsy patients with renal masses under real-time ultrasound control. Percutaneous renal biopsy under ultrasound guidance is a routine procedure performed to diagnose renal mass histopathology. The safety and efficacy of this procedure has been well documented in the literature. The indications for percutaneous renal biopsy have expanded as there has been a substantial increase in the number of renal masses that are being diagnosed, and the acceptance of percutaneous biopsy continues to expand in parallel. The biopsy procedure is part of your normal standard of care and if not being done for this research project.