Monoclonal Antibody Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.

PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of monoclonal antibody therapy in treating patients who have stage III or stage IV melanoma at high risk for recurrence following surgery to remove the tumor.
Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: monoclonal antibody 4B5 anti-idiotype vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|DRUG: alum adjuvant
Compare AEs and SAES in subjects receiving 4B5 plus adjuvant sargramostim (GM-CSF) to alum in patients with stage III or IV melanoma at high risk for recurrence following surgical resection., Baseline to last dose of study drug
Compare the development of humoral and/or cellular anti-idiotypic immune response between arm I and arm II, baseline to last dose of study drug|Compare if the immune response generated against 4B5 is also directed against the melanoma-associated GD2 antigen between Arm I and Arm II, baseline through last dose of study drug|Measure the immune response to GD2 between subjects receiving the 4B5 plus adjuvant GM-CSF to subjects receiving 4B5 plus alum, baseline to survival
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxicity of the human anti-idiotypic monoclonal antibody vaccine (4B5) plus adjuvant sargramostim (GM-CSF) or alum in patients with stage III or IV melanoma at high risk for recurrence following surgical resection. II. Determine whether 4B5 is associated with the development of humoral and/or cellular anti-anti-idiotypic immune response in these patients. III. Determine whether the immune response generated against 4B5 is also directed against the melanoma-associated GD2 antigen in these patients. IV. Determine whether the 4B5 plus adjuvant GM-CSF or alum can elicit an immune response to GD2 in these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned sequentially to one of two treatment arms. Arm I: Patients receive human anti-idiotypic monoclonal antibody vaccine (4B5) in sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously (SQ) on days 0, 14, 28, and 42. Patients receive GM-CSF alone SQ at vaccination site on days 2, 3, and 4 following immunization. Arm II: Patients receive 4B5 plus alum SQ on days 0, 14, 28, and 42. Cohorts of 5 patients receive treatment every 2 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 50 patients (25 per arm) will be accrued for this study.