Development of a Tissue-Based & Cell Free DNA Next-Generation Sequencing Workflow
1. Develop a Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) workflow for mutation profiling of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue and cell-free DNA (cfDNA) specimens.
2. Calculate the proportion of cases in a test series of B-cell non-Hodgkin Lymphomas (BNHL) with somatic mutations or immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) gene rearrangements common to both FPPE and cfDNA specimens.
3. Determine if certain types of BNHL are more likely to have mutation profiles common to both FFPE \& corresponding cfDNA ("FFPE-cfDNA dyads")
4. Determine if specific mutations or mutation profiles in FFPE or cfDNA specimens (or both) are of prognostic value after a clinical follow-up of 2 years from the time of diagnosis.
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
2 year Progression Free Survival, Recorded in percentage. To determine impact of lymphoma specific mutation on outcome., 2 years from diagnosis of B cell non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|2 year Overall Survival, Recorded in percentage. To determine impact of lymphoma specific mutation on outcome., 2 years from diagnosis of B cell non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Occurrence of lymphoma specific mutations or detectable IgH rearrangements in circulating tumor specific DNA in blood samples at baseline, Proportion of cases of BNHL with somatic mutations or IgH gene rearrangements detectable in blood. Will be recorded in percentage, and determined at baseline., Determined at baseline
Patients with newly diagnosed B cell NHL will be identified. Samples will be cored from their diagnostic FFPE blocks and assayed to find lymphoma specific variants and immunoglobulin heavy chain gene rearrangements. Blood samples collected at baseline will be compared to see if variants and rearrangements can be detected in tumor specific DNA based on previous studies. Participant data will be collected, and clinical outcomes will be assessed to determine effect of mutation profiles on outcomes over 2 year follow up.

Blood samples will be prospectively collected at scheduled follow up and if primary objectives of this study are met, will be assessed for presence of cfDNA and impact of variation on clinical outcomes.