CINSARC Signature and Correlation With Hemotherapy Efficacy in Soft-tissue Sarcomas. A Biomarker Study.
This is a prospective observational biomarker study including patients with non-metastatic, soft-tissue sarcomas (STS) for whom neoadjuvant chemotherapy is considered as the best option by the multidisciplinary sarcoma team of one of the participating centers.
Soft-tissue Sarcomas
OTHER: Procedure/Surgery
Assessment of antitumor activity of neoadjuvant anthracycline based chemotherapy. Efficacy will be defined based on complete response, partial response and stable disease observed during treatment following RECIST v1.1 criteria., participants will be followed for the duration of treatment, an expected average of 6-months
Efficacy of neoadjuvant anthracycline based chemotherapy in terms of proportion of tumour cells identified on the surgical specimen, an expected average of 6 months|Association of the CINSARC signature and histological response based on the proportion of tumour cells identified on the surgical specimen, an expected average of 6 months|Patient's classification by CINSARC signature. Patients will be classified as either low risk CINSARC or high risk, 6 months|Metastasis-free survial is defined following recent guidelines for the definition of survival endpoints in sarcoma trials (Bellera et al. Annals Oncol 2014., 3 years|3 -year Overall Survial (OS) defined as the time from study treatment initiation to death (of any cause)., 3 years|Histological response is defined using both 3 histological parameters: proportion of recognizable tumor cells, fibrosis and necrosis in the surgical specimen., an expected average of 6 months|Identification of molecular mechanisms involved in intrinsic resistance to chemotherapy by correlating the transcriptome data with response to chemotherapy., an expected average of 6 months|Adverse events related to the biopsy procedure will be graded using the common toxicity criteria from the NCI v4.0., during 7 days after biopsy
Even when retrospective statistical identification for a biomarker has been achieved, the ultimate proof of its usefulness in the clinic still requires prospective evidence. Our prospective study aims to validate the prognosis value of the CINSARC signature in a prospective way. Moreover, the neoadjuvant setting is an ideal one to identify molecular predictive factors of sensitivity to chemotherapy by correlating tumor response with genetic profile of STS. Moreover, molecular profiling of treatment-refractory tumor cells may reveal alterations that are associated with drug resistance, metastatic recurrence and disease progression. The identifications of such factors in the neoadjuvant setting may help to improve the management of STS patients in the adjuvant and metastatic settings