Trial of Trastuzumab Deruxtecan in Previously Treated HER2
The purpose of this study is to test the good and bad effects of a drug called trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) in adult patients with metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer and which patients might benefit the most from T-DXd.
Breast Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Trastuzumab Deruxtecan
Objective Response Rate, The confirmed Objective Response Rate to Trastuzumab Deruxtecan by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) defined as the sum of complete response (CR) rate and partial response (PR) rate based on BICR and Investigator assessment., After cycle 3, approximately 63 days
High-sensitivity quantitative HER2 protein assay (HS-HER2) assay, HS-HER2 assay to evaluate the distribution of quantitative HER2 signal across IHC 0 tumors (attomole/mm2), through study completion, an average of 1 year|Correlation between HER2 protein expression, The secondary endpoint is measured by the HS-HER2 assay in the CLIA lab setting with objective response and clinical benefit from Trastuzumab Deruxtecan., Last follow up visit (40 days [+7] from last dose)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival based on investigator assessment, in all subjects, From the date of enrolment to the earliest date of the first objective documentation of radiographic disease progression according to mRECIST version 1.1 or death due to any cause. up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival in all subjects, (every 3 months +/-14 days) for up to 3 years
HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2) is a gene that can play a role in the development of breast cancer. Genes like HER2 and the proteins they make influence how a breast cancer behaves and how it might respond to a specific treatment.

A score of 0 on the HER2 immunohistochemistry (IHC) test indicates that breast tissue is HER2-negative. Drugs that fight cancer by targeting the growth of HER2 genes, such as the monoclonal antibody trastuzumab, have not traditionally been used in patients with HER2-negative tumors because trastuzumab works by attaching to HER2 and stopping cancer cells from growing and dividing. However, about half of breast cancers that are categorized as HER2-negative like yours, actually have low expression of HER2. and recent research has shown that newer generations of antibody-drug conjugates like trastuzumab show considerable survival benefit even in tumors that are not classified as HER2-positive.

An antibody-drug conjugates is a combination of a monoclonal antibody like trastuzumab with an anticancer agent like deruxtecan. This combination that interrupts DNA replication in cancer cells. Antibody-drug conjugates like (T-DXd) are designed to target and kill cancer cells while sparing healthy cells.

Prior research that has shown that the antibody-drug conjugate trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) has outstanding activity and survival benefit in HER2-low breast cancers.

The purpose of this study is to help us learn more about which patients might benefit most from T-DXd through a single-arm, open-label, phase 2 study to assess the safety and efficacy of T-DXd in HER2-negative subjects with unresectable and/or metastatic breast cancer.

The researchers will measure the response to the T-DXd (the percentage of patients with complete response, partial response, stable disease, and progressive disease). Researchers will also look for biomarkers to determine the most accurate way to predict which patients without HER2-positive breast cancer will benefit the most from T-DXd.

T-DXd has been FDA approved to treat adults with unresectable or metastatic HER2-low breast cancer who have received a prior chemotherapy in the metastatic setting or developed disease recurrence during or within six months of completing adjuvant chemotherapy.

Each treatment cycle is 21 days.