Cobimetinib in Refractory Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis (LCH), and Other Histiocytic Disorders
This is a research study of a drug called cobimetinib in children and adults diagnosed with Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH), and other histiocytic disorders that has returned or does not respond to treatment. Cobimetinib blocks activation of a protein called Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK) that is part of incorrect growth signals in histiocytosis cells. Four different groups of patients will be enrolled.
Langerhan's Cell Histiocytosis|Juvenile Xanthogranuloma|Erdheim-Chester Disease|Rosai Dorfman Disease|Neuro-Degenerative Disease|Histiocytic Sarcoma|Histiocytic Disorders, Malignant
DRUG: Cobimetinib
Overall Response Rates using modified RECiST criteria, Proportion of participants with (complete response, partial response, stable disease, progressive disease) by 1 year of therapy with Cobimetinib.

It is assumed that at each protocol-specified timepoint, a response assessment occurs. Status calculation will occur at each timepoint for patients who have measurable disease at baseline per the criteria defined in the protocol., 12 months
Progression Free Survival, Progression Free Survival defined as the length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse., 12 months|Nature and Severity of Adverse Events, Assessment of the nature and severity of adverse events in patients treated with Cobimetinib for histiocytic disorders., 12 months
Response assessment (Modified RECIST) of histiocytic lesions with specific mutations, Response assessment using modified RECIST criteria for target lesions with specific mutations (e.g. BRAF-V600E) . Best response rate by 1 year of therapy., 12 months
Histiocytic disorders are diseases caused by misfunctioning or buildup of particular immune cells called histiocytes. Many histiocytic disorders (LCH, juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG), Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD), and Rosai-Dorfman Disease (RDD)) arises from blood cells that receive incorrect growth signals. These incorrect signals are caused by changes in genes (mutations) that lead to tissue damage (lesions) which causes disease. Some patients with LCH can develop neurodegeneration (LCH-ND) which is damage to neurons that results in reduced brain function, from LCH cells that go to the brain and activate inflammation. LCH arises from blood cells that receive incorrect growth signals. These incorrect signals are caused by mutations (changes in genes). The LCH blood cells can create changes in the structure of almost any organ, and can cause damage to normal organ function.

The purpose of this research study is to learn whether cobimetinib is safe and effective in subjects diagnosed with LCH, LCH-ND, RDD, JXG and ECD which may have a specific mutation called BRAF-V600E. In healthy cells, certain proteins (called BRAF and MEK) are thought to help control normal cell growth. BRAF-V600E is a specific change in a gene that may cause cancer cells to grow and spread by sending constant signals to the MEK protein. Cobimetinib is designed to attach to and block the activity of MEK.