Clinical Outcome Of Hormonal Receptor Positive, Her-2 Negative Breast Cancer In Taiwan
Breast cancer is the most common cancer in Taiwanese women. Most of them were diagnosed in relatively early stages. Only 700 metastatic breast cancer were registered in Official Cancer Registration 2012, while more than11,305 were registered as early breast cancer. With broadly application of aromatase inhibitors, hormonal-receptor-positive breast cancer patients can survive longer and longer. However, there is no prevalence of metastatic breast cancer can be available yet. NHIA database coverage is more than 90% population in Taiwan, thus it can be an appropriate surrogate of prevalence. In this retrospective database analysis, we will explore the real world experience on aromatase inhibitor use for breast cancer in Taiwan.
ER/PR(+), Her2(-) Breast Cancer
clinical use of aromatase inhibitors in breast cancer, duration of treatment, base line, up to 60 months
prevalence, The prevalence of metastatic breast cancer with positive hormonal receptors with routine practice in Taiwan., base line up to 60 months|dose exposure, The dosage pattern of breast cancer with positive hormonal receptors with routine practice in Taiwan., base line, up to 60 months|overall survival, The overall survival of metastatic breast cancer with positive hormonal receptors with routine practice in Taiwan., base line, up to 60 months|treatment cost, The treatment cost of metastatic breast cancer with positive hormonal receptors with routine practice in Taiwan., base line, up to 60 months
Breast cancer is the most common cancer in Taiwanese women. Most of them were diagnosed in relatively early stages. Only 700 metastatic breast cancer were registered in Official Cancer Registration 2012, while more than11,305 were registered as early breast cancer. With broadly application of aromatase inhibitors, hormonal-receptor-positive breast cancer patients can survive longer and longer. However, there is no prevalence of metastatic breast cancer can be available yet. NHIA database coverage is more than 90% population in Taiwan, thus it can be an appropriate surrogate of prevalence. In this retrospective database analysis, we will explore the real world experience on aromatase inhibitor use for breast cancer in Taiwan.