Effectiveness of NESA in the Treatment of Cancer Survivors
Cancer is a disease, or a set of diseases, that increased in our society. However, improvements in their detection and treatment increase the number of patients who survive. Every year 2.6 million people are diagnosed in the European Union and 1.4 million become cancer survivors. However, these people suffer the late adverse effects of treatment that can seriously affect their quality of life.

the most common late effects are pain, fatigue, and sleeping difficulties. These are estimated between 58-90%. The autonomic nervous system (ANS) appears to play an important role in the manifestation and perpetuation of these symptoms.
Cancer Survivors
DEVICE: Non-invasive Neuromodulation|DEVICE: Placebo Non-invasive Neuromodulation
Change in sleep quality assessed by Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The investigators want to see if there are improvements in the quality, efficiency, and quantity of sleep. The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) will be combined to report changes in the patient's sleep quality.

Each of the sleep components yields a score ranging from 0 to 3, with 3 indicating the greatest dysfunction. The sleep component scores are summed to yield a total score ranging from 0 to 21 with the higher total score (referred to as global score) indicating worse sleep quality.

Adding up the average scores of the seven factors gives a global PSQI score from 0 to 21, with 0-4 indicating "good" sleep and 5-21 indicating "poor" sleep, Measurement of change: before treatment (baseline), at two months (end of treatment), and at 1 months of treatment (follow-up period).|Change in quality of life assessed by The Short Form 36 (SF-36) health questionnaire, The Short Form 36 (SF-36) health questionnaire will be used. It is a generic scale that provides a profile of health status and is applicable to both patients and the general population.

It is composed of 36 questions (items) that assess both positive and negative states of health. The scores for each of the 8 dimensions of the SF-36 range from 0 to 100, with 100 indicating optimal health and 0 reflecting very poor health., Measurement of change: before treatment (baseline), at two months (end of treatment), and at 1 months of treatment (follow-up period).|Change in Pain assessed by McGill Pain questionnaire, It is a self-report questionnaire that allows to give a good description of the quality and intensity of the pain they are experiencing. of the quality and intensity of the pain they are experiencing. It consists of a list of 78 words in 20 sections related to pain. Users mark the words that best describe their pain. users mark the words that best describe their pain. These words correlate with different aspects of pain different aspects of pain, including a sensory section (sections 1 to 10), an affective section (sections 11 to 15), an evaluative section (sections 11 to 15), and a 10), an affective section (sections 11 to 15), an evaluative section (section 16), and finally a miscellaneous section (section 16). and, finally, a miscellaneous section (sections 17 to 20).

The main component of the McGill Pain questionnaire consists of 15 descriptors (11 sensory; 4 affective) which are rated on an intensity scale as 0 = none, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate or 3 = severe, Measurement of change: before treatment (baseline), at two months (end of treatment), and at 1 months of treatment (follow-up period).
This study aims to evaluate NESA (or NESA non-invasive neuromodulation) to treat the most common long-term side effects in cancer survivors, due to the most used treatments.

It will be compared between two groups of cancer survivors. The intervention group, with electrical stimulation, and the sham group, without electrical stimulation emission. The subjects will be assigned randomly. Neither the patient, the therapist, nor the analysts/researchers will know the assignment.

Finally, this project aims to add a passive tool to the therapeutic arsenal of health professionals in the oncology field for the treatment of late side effects.