Pazopanib in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed or Locally and/or Regionally Recurrent Breast Cancer That Can Be Removed By Surgery
This pilot clinical trial studies how well pazopanib hydrochloride works in treating patients with breast cancer that is newly diagnosed or has come back at or near the same place as the original tumor and can be removed by surgery. Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by preventing the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. Giving pazopanib hydrochloride before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of tissue that needs to be removed.
Male Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Change in molecular parameters such as phosphorylated VEGFR-2, microvessel density, tumor proliferation (Ki67), and apoptosis, The pre-post comparison of the biologic effects in the tumor can be done by a paired t-test as they are all continuous variables. If the differences are not normally distributed, transformations or non-parametric methods will be applied. Multiple comparisons will be adjusted for using Bonferroni method as the biologic effects are measured by four variables. The relationship among these four variables will be analyzed using factor analysis to see if they can be reduced to one or two representative indices., Baseline to up to 20 days
Change in plasma VEGF levels, The pre-post difference of the tissue variables will be regressed on the plasma VEGF levels., Baseline to up to 20 days|Change in serum VEGFR-2 levels, The pre-post difference of the tissue variables will be regressed on the serum VEGFR-2 levels., Baseline to up to 20 days|Change in circulating tumor cells, Baseline to up to 20 days|Stead-state plasma concentration of pazopanib hydrochloride, The pre-post difference of the tissue variables will be regressed on the plasma concentration of pazopanib hydrochloride., Baseline (pre-dose day 1), day 8, and 24-72 hours prior to surgery|Change in images obtained with bilateral DCE-MRI of the breast, Baseline to up to 20 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the biologic effect, measured by a decrease in phosphorylation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2) and/or decrease in microvessel density, in breast tumor biopsies after treatment with daily oral GW786034 (pazopanib hydrochloride) for at least 12 consecutive days in early stage, operable breast cancer or local and/or regional recurrence that is amenable to surgery.

II. To determine the mechanism of antitumor effect, measured by a reduction in tumor cell proliferation (Ki67) or an increase in apoptosis in breast tumor biopsies after treatment with GW786034.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the change in levels of tissue vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in breast tumor biopsies after treatment with GW786034.

II. To evaluate the change in phosphorylation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and protein kinase B (AKT) in breast tumor biopsies after treatment with GW786034.

III. To identify gene expression patterns in breast tumor biopsies before and after treatment with GW786034.

IV. To evaluate the change in VEGF (in the plasma) and VEGFR-2 (in the serum) as circulating biomarkers after treatment with GW786034.

V. To evaluate the change in circulating tumor cells in peripheral blood after treatment with GW786034.

VI. To determine whether the steady-state plasma concentration of GW786034 correlates with inhibition of phosphorylated (phospho)-VEGFR-2 and other endpoints in breast tumor biopsies.

VII. To evaluate the change in vascular permeability by dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the breast after treatment with GW786034.

VIII. To compare the images obtained with bilateral DCE-MRI of the breast before, during, and after treatment with GW786034.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 12-20 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo surgical resection of tumor between days 13 and 21 (24 hours after completion of pazopanib hydrochloride).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days.