Characterisation and Epidemiology of Breakthrough Cancer Pain in Spain
The purpose of this study is to determine the prevalence of breakthrough cancer pain and characterize breakthrough cancer pain in an unselected, representative cohort of cancer outpatients with or without pain who attend consultations.
Breakthrough Cancer Pain
OTHER: No Intervention
Percentage of Cancer Participants With Breakthrough Cancer Pain From the Total Number of Cancer Participants Seen in Consultation, Breakthrough cancer pain was defined as the temporary exacerbation of pain occurring either spontaneously or in relation to a specific, predictable or unpredictable trigger in spite of relatively stable and adequately controlled baseline pain., Month 1|Percentage of Cancer Participants With Breakthrough Cancer Pain From the Number of Cancer Participants With Pain Seen in Consultation, Breakthrough cancer pain was defined as the temporary exacerbation of pain occurring either spontaneously or in relation to a specific, predictable or unpredictable trigger in spite of relatively stable and adequately controlled baseline pain., Month 1
Number of New Participants Diagnosed With Breakthrough Cancer Pain From the Total Number of Cancer Participants Seen in Consultation, Participants diagnosed during the study and were not diagnosed previously were reported as new participants with breakthrough cancer pain. Breakthrough cancer pain was defined as the temporary exacerbation of pain occurring either spontaneously or in relation to a specific, predictable or unpredictable trigger in spite of relatively stable and adequately controlled baseline pain., Month 1|Percentage of New Participants Diagnosed With Breakthrough Cancer Pain From the Number of Cancer Participants With Pain Seen in Consultation, Participants diagnosed during the study and were not diagnosed previously were reported as new participants with breakthrough cancer pain. Breakthrough cancer pain was defined as the temporary exacerbation of pain occurring either spontaneously or in relation to a specific, predictable or unpredictable trigger in spite of relatively stable and adequately controlled baseline pain., Month 1|Pain Characterization With the Alberta Breakthrough Pain Assessment, The Alberta Breakthrough Pain Assessment Tool (ABPAT) consisted of a participant's self-reporting section (15 questions) out of which 4 questions of the tool were not included as they were related to the treatment for breakthrough cancer pain. The questions included: Q1-Relationship to baseline pain, Q2a-Last time experienced, Q3b-Frequency, Q4b-Intensity of pain at peak, Q5-Location (most frequent - ≥5%), Q6-Quality (those present in ≥20%), Q7-Time from onset to peak intensity, Q8-Time from onset \[take medication\] to end of episode, Q9-Cause(s) (triggers) (Those present in ≥20%), Q10-Predictability, Q11-General relief (those present in ≈20% or more participants) and questions completed by nurse/physician (N/P), Q1-Etiology of breakthrough pain, Q2-Inferred pathophysiology of breakthrough pain. Percentage of participants were categorized into the answers for each of these questions., Month 1|Pain Severity and Pain Interference as Assessed by Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Questionnaire Score, The BPI questionnaire was used to assess the pain intensity (4 items) and interference with activities of daily living (7 items). Each item was given a score on a numerical scale from 0 (no pain/interference with activities of daily living) to 10 (worst pain imaginable/maximum impact on activities of daily living). The total score for pain intensity is the average of the four pain items. The total score of pain interference is the average score of the seven interference items. The higher score represents high impact., Month 1|Pain Assessment Using the Numeric Rating Scale, Month 1|Quality of Life Assessment Using the Short Form-12 (SF-12) Questionnaire Score, The SF-12 health questionnaire is a 12 question assessment of functional health and well-being. The survey asks about various health aspects, including physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health problems, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning, role limitations due to emotional problems, and mental health (psychological distress and psychological well-being). Two summary measures are derived: the Physical and the Mental Health Component Summary. For each component summary, survey items were weighted and summed to create a summary score between 0 (poor mental and physical quality of life) and 100 (better mental and physical quality of life)., Month 1|Participant's Performance as Assessed by the Karnofsky Scale Score, Karnofsky performance score is used to quantify participant's general well-being and activities of daily life and participants are classified based on their functional impairment. Karnofsky performance score is 11 level score which ranges between 0 (death) to 100 (participant asymptomatic with no evidence of illness). Higher score means higher ability to perform daily tasks. Participants with missing values in the Karnofsky scale were assigned to the worst score of 0, however, in these cases it is not 'death'., Month 1
This study has been designed as a non-interventional, non post-authorization, cross-sectional, epidemiological study to determine the prevalence of breakthrough cancer pain and characterize breakthrough cancer pain in an non-selected, representative cohort of cancer outpatients with or without pain.

The study enrolled 3765 patients. This multicenter trial will be conducted in Spain. Data from participants will be collected through questionnaire and medical history in a single visit (up to 1 month).