Randomized Phase II Trial of Pre-Operative Gemcitabine and Nab Paclitacel With or With Out Hydroxychloroquine
This is a randomized phase II trial that will examine the ability of the hydroxychloroquine to improve the clinical activity of a pre-operative regimen of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel in subjects with potentially resectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Eligible subjects will receive 2 cycles of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel (day 1, 8, 15) with or without hydrocychloroquine followed by surgical resection. Primary endpoint will be histologic response as graded by Evans criteria. Secondary endpoints will be CA19-9 response and PET response. Pre and post treatment tissue biopsies will be obtained to assess for levels of autophagy in tumor, liver and peripheral blood.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: abraxane|DRUG: hydroxychloroquine
Evans Grade Histopathologic Response, The number of patients who exhibited an Evans grade Histologic response (I, IIA, IIB, or III) to pre-operative gemcitabine / nab-paclitaxel. Histological response validated scoring system by Evans is as follows: Grade I: 1-9% tumor destruction, Grade II: 10 - 90%, Grade III: \>90% tumor destruction (Grade IIA = 10-50% of tumor cells destroyed; Grade IIB = 50-90% of tumor cells destroyed), Grade IV: Absence of viable tumor cells., Up to 4 years|Age at Diagnosis, The mean age of patients at the time of diagnosis of disease (as a variable in the proportional odds logistic regression, secondary analysis of Evans Grade)., Baseline - At the time of diagnosis, prior to treatment|CT Tumor Size, Tumor size as measured via computerized tomography (CT) scan (as a variable in the proportional odds logistic regression, secondary analysis of Evans Grade)., Baseline - At the time of diagnosis, prior to treatment|Cancer Diagnosis Stage, The number of participants in cancer diagnosis stage groups. Stage 0: cancer hasn't spread to nearby tissues/located in the same of origin.Stage I: cancers hasn't grown deeply into nearby tissues or spread to lymph nodes or other parts of the body. Stage II and III: cancers have grown more deeply into nearby tissues (may have metastasized to lymph nodes but not other parts of the body). Stage IV: most advanced stage (metastatic cancer) ; cancer has spread to other parts of the body. Stages subdivided further into the categories "A" (less agressive disease) and "B" (more advanced cancer). Example: stage IIA is less aggressive than stage IIB, but stage IIIA is more aggressive than stage IIB. (Stage variable used in the proportional odds logistic regression, secondary analysis of Evans Grade)., Baseline - At the time of diagnosis, prior to treatment|Type of Surgical Procedure (Operation), The number of participants in having each type of surgical resection procedure: Celiac Axis Resection With Distal Pancreatectomy (DPCAR) (Modified Appleby), Distal Pancreatectomy, Total Pancreatectomy, or Whipple. (Operation variable used in the proportional odds logistic regression, secondary analysis of Evans Grade)., At the time of surgery (≥2 weeks and ≤6 weeks post chemotherapy)|Robotic Resection Surgery, The number of participants who had robotic resection surgery. (Robotic surgery variable used in the proportional odds logistic regression, secondary analysis of Evans Grade)., At the time of surgery (≥2 weeks and ≤6 weeks post chemotherapy)|Age-Adjusted Charlson Comorbidity Index, The Charlson Comorbidity Index is a method of categorizing comorbidities of patients based on the International Classification of Diseases (ICD) diagnosis codes found in administrative data, such as hospital abstracts data. Each comorbidity category has an associated weight (from 1 to 6), based on the adjusted risk of mortality or resource use, and the sum of all the weights results in a single comorbidity score for a patient. A score of zero indicates that no comorbidities were found. The higher the score, the more likely the predicted outcome will result in mortality or higher resource use. Up to 12 comorbidities with various weightings can result in a maximum score of 24. The minimum score is zero., Prior to treatment
Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) Response, Levels of Carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) response to pre-operative gemcitabine/ nab-paclitaxel measured in the serum (original scale), Prior to treatment (average 73.3 +/- 9.9 days prior to surgery)|Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) Response, Levels of Carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) response to pre-operative gemcitabine/ nab-paclitaxel measured in the serum (original scale)., After treatment (50-67 days post treatment/surgery)|Positive Lymph Node Involvement, The proportion of participants with positive (disease) lymph nodes involvement., At the time of surgery (≥2 weeks and ≤6 weeks post chemotherapy)|Rate of R0 Resection, The proportion of participants having resection for cure or complete remission, in which the surgical margins are negative for tumor cells. R0 resection indicates a microscopically margin-negative resection, in which no gross or microscopic tumor remains in the primary tumor bed., At the time of surgery (≥2 weeks and ≤6 weeks post chemotherapy)
This is a randomized phase II trial that will examine the ability of the hydroxychloroquine to improve the clinical activity of a pre-operative regimen of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel in subjects with potentially resectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Eligible subjects will receive 2 cycles of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel (day 1, 8, 15) with or without hydrocychloroquine followed by surgical resection. Primary endpoint will be histologic response as graded by Evans criteria. Secondary endpoints will be CA19-9 response and PET response. Pre and post treatment tissue biopsies will be obtained to assess for levels of autophagy in tumor, liver and peripheral blood.