A Phase I/II Trial of VR-CHOP in Lymphoma Patients
This is an open-label (doctors and patients know which drug will be given), single center, phase 1/2 clinical trial. The primary objective is to determine whether VR-CHOP provides benefit to patients with previously untreated indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL).
Lymphoma, B-Cell|Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Bortezomib|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Prednisone
Maximal Tolerated Doses of Bortezomib and Vincristine When Used in Combination of Bortezomib, Rituximab and the CHOP Chemotherapy Regimen (Phase I), INDUCTION: Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1 and 8; rituximab IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 3-5 minutes, cyclophosphamide IV over 60 minutes, and vincristine sulfate IV over 10 minutes on day 1; and prednisone PO on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression., Cycle 1 for MTD, following completion of therapy for CR, up to 24 weeks
An Estimate of the Overall Response Rate (ORR)(Complete Response [CR] + CR Unconfirmed [CRu] + Partial Response [PR]) to Bortezomib and Rituximab (VR)-CHOP According to International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria (IWRC) Criteria, Response was assessed by computerized tomography (CT) after every 2 cycles of induction therapy, one time at least 4 weeks after completing induction (i.e., prior to maintenance), and then every 3 months while on maintenance therapy. At the conclusion of maintenance therapy, patients underwent one post-treatment scan, with further scans completed at the discretion of the treating physician. Positron emission tomography was permitted but only CT measurements were used to determine response., Following completion of therapy, up to 2 years
This study will assess whether adding bortezomib (Velcade) to R-CHOP (in a new combination called VR-CHOP) can further improve outcomes in patients with indolent NHL who have not previously received treatment.

Patients who are eligible to take part in the study will receive VR-CHOP at the doses of Velcade and vincristine established in phase 1. Patients will receive VR-CHOP for up to 8 cycles of treatment (each of 21 days duration). During treatment, patients will be assessed for their response to therapy and for possible side effects. All patients will go on to receive maintenance therapy after completion of their initial treatment as designed by the protocol.