First Line gastroeSOphageal metastatiC canceR primAry and disTant (if Oligometastatic) lEsions-directed Radiotherapy, a Multicentric, Phase III, Randomized Controlled Trial
The aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of radiotherapy on the primary site of gastroesophageal cancer and extracranial stereotactic radiotherapy on metastases before the use of standard systemic therapy, in cases of limited disease burden (in the experimental group), compared to the standard group, which does not receive radiotherapy. This prospective, multicenter, randomized trial aims to evaluate the efficacy of the unconventional approach versus the conventional one in increasing the percentage of asymptomatic patients due to the direct effect of the primary tumor or metastases. "Randomized" means that the assignment to one of the treatment groups mentioned above will be random, not influenced by the physician or the patient's condition. Therefore, your participation in either of the two treatments under study will be assigned randomly and not predetermined. This randomness is crucial for a proper analysis of the results at the end of the study, which will help clarify whether there are differences between the two proposed treatments. This also means that you may not receive direct benefits from participating in this study, as it is a research study.
Gastroesophageal Cancer (GC)
RADIATION: Radiation Therapy + standard sistemic therapy (chemoteraphy)|DRUG: Standard systemic therapy (chemotherapy)
Disappearance of symptoms, Percentage difference in the rate of patients with symptom (from primary tumor or metastasis) developed within the first 6 months., From the week after the treatment up to 12 months after
Pain level, Level of metastasis-associated or primary pain (presence/absence, level and response) at 6 months, From the week after the treatment up to 12 months after|Radiotherapy use, Rate of recourse to Radiotherapy for pain, obstruction, bleeding or other symptom referable to the primary at 6 months from randomization (and not present at randomization), From the week after the treatment up to 12 months after
The aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of radiotherapy on the primary site of gastroesophageal cancer and extracranial stereotactic radiotherapy on metastases before the use of standard systemic therapy, in cases of limited disease burden (in the experimental group), compared to the standard group, which does not receive radiotherapy. This prospective, multicenter, randomized trial aims to evaluate the efficacy of the unconventional approach versus the conventional one in increasing the percentage of asymptomatic patients due to the direct effect of the primary tumor or metastases. "Randomized" means that the assignment to one of the treatment groups mentioned above will be random, not influenced by the physician or the patient's condition. Therefore, your participation in either of the two treatments under study will be assigned randomly and not predetermined. This randomness is crucial for a proper analysis of the results at the end of the study, which will help clarify whether there are differences between the two proposed treatments. This also means that you may not receive direct benefits from participating in this study, as it is a research study.