Losartan in Treating Patients With Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis
RATIONALE: Losartan may be effective in treating patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying the side effects of losartan and to see how well it works in treating patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Precancerous Condition
DRUG: losartan
Number of Participants With Stable or Improved Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) Response at 1 Year, Forced vital capacity (FVC) must be \>= 50% at baseline. Stable FVC response is defined as a -5% change in FVC from baseline up to a +5% change from baseline.

Improved FVC response is defined as 5% or greater increase in the predicted value of FVC on pulmonary function testing following 12 months of treatment., 1 year
Number of Participants With Stable, Improved, or Deteriorated Diffusion Capacity of Carbon Monoxide (DLCO) at 1 Year, 1 year|Number of Patients With Stable, Improved or Deteriorated Forced Expiratory Volume at 1 Second (%FEV1) at 1 Year, 1 year|Number of Patients With Stable, Improved or Deteriorated Baseline/Transition Dyspnea Index at 1 Year, This index measures a patient's degree of breathlessness related to their activities of daily living including their functional impairment and their magnitude of task and effort., 1 year|Number of Patients With Stable, Improved or Deteriorated 6-minute Walk Test Results at 1 Year, 1 year
OBJECTIVES:

* Evaluate the effects of losartan potassium on disease progression in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
* Determine the safety of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral losartan potassium daily for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo pulmonary function tests with gas diffusion lung volumes, Carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (DLCO) tests, and 6-minute walk tests at baseline and then at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. Patients also complete baseline/transition dyspnea index questionnaires at baseline and then at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.