Magnetic Resonance Neurography Analysis of Healthy Human Thoracic Dorsal Root Ganglion
Here, this study aimed to conduct magnetic resonance neurography (MRN) of the thoracic DRGs in a cohort of healthy individuals. The acquired images will be thoroughly analyzed utilizing 3D-slicer software. We expect to furnish crucial baseline anatomical data of thoracic DRGs in healthy subjects, provide an anatomical basis for clinical investigation and therapeutic interventions.
Dorsal Root Ganglion
OTHER: healthy volunteer
the average DRG volume of healthy volunteers, the average DRG volume in each thoracic segment of healthy volunteers, 202301-202312
width/length ratio of DRGs, width/length ratio of DRGs in the slice of largest volume, 202301-202312
Chronic neuropathic pain remains a world's public health challenges, affecting hundreds of millions of people worldwide. It is estimated that 11.2% of general-practice patients suffer from neuropathic pain, and many continue to suffer from intractable pain and/or undesirable side effects. Neuropathic pain refers to the entire somatosensory system, encompassing both central and peripheral neuropathic pain. In recent years, although significant advancements have been achieved in the mechanism and management of neuropathic pain, and numerous pharmaceutical agents and therapeutic approaches have been utilized for its treatment, the outcomes still to be less than optimal. Moreover, the adverse side effects associated with certain first- and second-line medications, such as antidepressants and anticonvulsants, as well as the potential for opioid addiction, significantly impact patients' adherence to treatment. Hence, there remains a need for continued investigation into effective strategies for the management of neuropathic pain.

Therapies focused on the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) have emerged as a significant intervention in the clinical practice of pain physicians for the management of chronic pain, given its integral and important role in the signals transmission from the peripheral nervous system to the central nervous system. Accurate positioning holds paramount importance during the treatment process, necessitating clinicians to possess a comprehensive understanding of the morphology, distribution, and interconnections of the dorsal root ganglia across various segments. Currently, there exists a limited number of in vivo investigations concerning the dorsal root ganglion (DRG), with a predominant emphasis on the lumbar segment, which have mostly used invasive neuroradiography. The investigation on thoracic DRG remains largely unexplored. However, herpes zoster, the most prevalent form of neuropathic pain, manifests most frequently in the thoracic segment. Furthermore, the studies of herpes zoster reveal that DRG plays a significant role in the progression of the disease and the transmission of pain signals. Hence, a comprehensive comprehension of the anatomy and variability of thoracic DRGs assumes significance not only in accurately comprehending the pathological anatomy of neuropathic pain in the thoracic region, but also in providing guidance for interventional and individualized treatment targeting the DRGs.