Tolerability and Bioavailability of Utidelone Capsule in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This study has three parts. Part 1 is a dose-escalation trial, Part 2 is a pharmacokinetic comparison and food effect study, and Part 3 is extended trial of combination of utidelone capsule and capecitabine. The primary objectives are 1. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of utidelone capsules in patients with advanced solid tumors and to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT). 2. To evaluate the objective response rate in patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer treated with the combination of utidelone capsule and capecitabine. The secondary objectives are: 1. to evaluate the absolute bioavailability of utidelone capsules relative to utidelone injection; 2. to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of utidelone capsules in patients with advanced solid tumors; 3. to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy and safety of utidelone capsules in patients with advanced solid tumors; and 4. to recommend doses and dosing regimens for subsequent clinical trials. 5. To evaluate the Progression-Free Survival (PFS), safety and pharmacokinetics of utidelone capsule combined with capecitabine in the treatment of patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: Utidelone Capsule (Part 1)|DRUG: Drug A Utidelone Capsule (Part 2: Group A-B)|DRUG: Drug A Utidelone Capsule (Part 2: Group B-A)|DRUG: Drug B Utidelone Injection (Part 2: Group A-B)|DRUG: Drug B Utidelone Injection (Part 2: Group B-A)|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Utidelone Capsule (Part 3)
Maximum Tolerated Dose, MTD, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the highest dose tested in which none or only one patient experienced DLT attributable to the study drug(s), when 6 patients were treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. The MTD is one dose level below the lowest dose tested in which 2 or more patients experienced DLT attributable to the study drug(s)., 8 months|Dose-Limiting Toxicity, DLT, DLT is observed during Cycle 1 in the dose escalation trial. Any toxicity meeting the criteria outlined in the protocol, at least possibly related to study drug (i.e. definitely, probably, or possibly attributed), will be considered a DLT., 8 months|Objective Response Rate, ORR, To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) of utidelone capsule combined with capecitabine in the treatment of patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer, 6 weeks
Bioavailability of Utidelone Capsule, Endpoint indicator: F, 8 months|Maximum (or peak) serum concentration-Cmax, Cmax of Utidelone Capsule, 8 months|Time to peak drug concentration-Tmax, Tmax of Utidelone Capsule, 8 months|the area under the concentration-time curve from dosing (time 0) to time t-AUC0-t, the AUC0-t of Utidelone Capsule, 8 months|the time required for plasma concentration of a drug to decrease by 50%-t1/2, the t1/2 of Utidelone Capsule, 8 months|Objective Response Rate-ORR, The percentage of patients who have a partial response or complete response to the treatment within a certain period of time., 12 months|Treatment-related Adverse Event-TRAE, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, 12 months|Progression-Free Survival, PFS, To evaluate the Progression-Free Survival (PFS) of eutidrone capsules combined with capecitabine in the treatment of patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer., 6 weeks
Part 1 is a dose-escalation trial, and it's an open design; Part 2 is a pharmacokinetic comparison and food effect study, and it's an open, controlled study;Part 3: Extended trial of combination of utidelone capsule and capecitabine.