AZD1775 in Treating Patients With Advanced Refractory Solid Tumors With CCNE1 Amplification
This phase II trial studies how well AZD1775 works in treating patients with solid tumors with CCNE1 amplification that have spread to other places in the body (advanced) and do not respond to treatment (refractory). AZD1775 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Adavosertib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as a complete response or partial response and consistent with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 criteria. The ORR rate will be compared against a null benchmark value of 5%., Up to 2 years 6 months
To Evaluate the Proportion of Patients Alive and Progression Free of Treatment With AZD1775 in Patients With Advanced Refractory Cancers With CCNE1 Amplification., Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier Method., Up to 2 years 6 months|To Evaluate Time Until Death or Disease Progression., Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier Method., Up to 2 years 6 months|Duration of Responses, (time to progression on AZD1775/ time to progression on last line of therapy \>= 1.3)., Up to 2 years 6 months|Identify Potential Predictive Biomarkers Beyond the Genomic Alteration by Which Treatment is Assigned or Resistance Mechanisms Using Additional Genomic, RNA, Protein and Imaging-based Assessment Platforms., Immunohistochemistry, reverse phase protein arrays, and next generation sequencing for targeted exome panel are used to reveal potential biomarkers predicting major clinical outcomes, and potential mechanisms of acquired resistance by comparing molecular signatures at baseline versus at time of relapse in responders., Up to 2 years 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with the objective response rate (ORR) to adavosertib (AZD1775) in patients with advanced refractory cancers with CCNE1 amplification.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with AZD1775 in patients with advanced refractory cancers with CCNE1 amplification.

II. To evaluate proportion of patients with extended time to progression (time to progression on AZD1775/ time to progression on last line of therapy \>= 1.3).

III. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. IV. To identify potential predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and imaging-based assessment platforms.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive adavosertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5 and 8-12. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.