Linaclotide in Treating Patients With Stages 0-3 Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies the how well linaclotide works in treating patients with stages 0-3 colorectal cancer. Linaclotide is a very small protein that binds to receptors on intestinal cells and makes them secrete water and salt.
Colorectal Adenoma|Stage 0 Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Linaclotide|OTHER: Placebo
Pharmacodynamics effect on cGMP levels, Will compare cGMP levels in adenomas between study arms using a two-sample t-test (alpha=.05; two-sided) or Wilcoxon rank sum test., Up to 2 years
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), All participants will be evaluated for toxicity. Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be used to summarize adverse events associated with linaclotide., From the time of first dose of linaclotide or placebo until resolution, if related to linaclotide, or through 30 days after occurrence|Ki-67 expression, Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to compare Ki-67 expression in adenomas across arms., Up to 2 years|GUCY2C expression, Wilcoxon rank sum and Fisher's exact tests will be used to compare GUCY2C expression between study arms., Up to 2 years|Guanylin levels, Wilcoxon rank sum and Fisher's exact tests will be used to compare guanylin levels between study arms., Up to 2 years
VASP serine 239 phosphorylation, Assessed by immunoblot analysis. Wilcoxon rank sum and Fisher's exact tests will be used to compare VASP phosphorylation between study arms., Up to 2 years|Beta-catenin levels, Assessed by immunoblot analysis. Wilcoxon rank sum and Fisher's exact tests will be used to compare beta-catenin accumulation and downstream signaling between study arms., Up to 2 years|Beta-catenin nuclear localization, Assessed by immunofluorescence. Wilcoxon rank sum and Fisher's exact tests will be used to compare beta-catenin accumulation and downstream signaling between study arms, Up to 2 years|Axin and c-Myc messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels, Assessed by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Wilcoxon rank sum and Fisher's exact tests will be used to compare axin and c-Myc mRNA levels between study arms., Up to 2 years|PCNA expression, Assessed by immunofluorescence., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether, compared to placebo, linaclotide administered as a single oral daily dose x 7 days, induces a pharmacodynamics (PD) effect on cGMP levels, based on biopsy samples of adenomas or resected colorectal adenocarcinomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare Ki-67, guanylin levels and GUCY2C expression in adenomas and cancers versus normal tissue after exposure to linaclotide or placebo.

II. To confirm the safety and tolerability of linaclotide in sporadic adenoma and cancer patients.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the pharmacodynamic effect of linaclotide on pathway-specific biomarkers relevant to GUCY2C signaling (i.e. VASP phosphorylation), markers of mutant APC-beta-catenin signaling (beta-catenin levels, beta-catenin nuclear localization, axin levels, c-Myc levels, guanylin levels, PCNA expression), based on adenoma/cancer and normal mucosa biopsy samples obtained by endoscopy following linaclotide or placebo exposure.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive linaclotide orally (PO) daily on days 1-7 and undergo standard of care colonoscopy or surgery on day 7.

ARM II. Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-7 and undergo standard of care colonoscopy or surgery on day 7.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 14.