MCB vs EUS-FNA for Preoperative Pathological Evaluation of Gastric SMT
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common submucosal tumors (SMTs) of the stomach. The 2022 European Society of Oncology ESMO Diagnosis and Treatment Guidelines recommend that GISTs undergo biopsy with a clear pathological diagnosis and should be removed unless there are significant complications. But currently, the diagnostic rate of EUS-FNA for upper gastrointestinal subcutaneous lesions is less than 60%. In recent years, mucosal cutting biopsy (MCB) has become an effective method for diagnosing SMTs. Regardless of whether the SMTs are large or small, the application of MCB technology can quickly obtain pathological tissue under direct visualization, and its immunohistochemical pathological diagnosis rate is relatively satisfactory. MCB technology has great potential in the biopsy of SMTs, but there is currently no comparison of results between two technologies in randomized controlled trials. The purpose of this study is to design a randomized controlled trial to compare the diagnostic rates of EUS-FNA and MCB techniques for tissue pathology (including immunohistochemistry) of SMTs, in order to improve the diagnostic accuracy of SMTs in our hospital and improve patient prognosis.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor of Stomach|Submucosal Tumor of Stomach
PROCEDURE: mucosal cutting biopsy|PROCEDURE: endoscopic ultrasound-guided-fine needle aspiration
Pathological diagnosis and immunohistochemical diagnosis, Comparison of diagnostic yield between Mucosal Cutting Biopsy (MCB) and Endoscopic Ultrasonography-Guided Fine-Needle Aspiration (EUS-FNA) The diagnostic yield was defined as the percentage of lesions confirmed by a pathologic diagnosis involving immunohistological analysis., Pathological evaluation should be conducted immediately after specimen isolation
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common submucosal tumors (SMTs) of the stomach. The 2022 European Society of Oncology ESMO Diagnosis and Treatment Guidelines recommend that GISTs undergo biopsy with a clear pathological diagnosis and should be removed unless there are significant complications. But currently, the diagnostic rate of EUS-FNA for upper gastrointestinal subcutaneous lesions is less than 60%. In recent years, mucosal cutting biopsy (MCB) has become an effective method for diagnosing SMTs. Regardless of whether the SMTs are large or small, the application of MCB technology can quickly obtain pathological tissue under direct visualization, and its immunohistochemical pathological diagnosis rate is relatively satisfactory. MCB technology has great potential in the biopsy of SMTs, but there is currently no comparison of results between two technologies in randomized controlled trials. The purpose of this study is to design a randomized controlled trial to compare the diagnostic rates of EUS-FNA and MCB techniques for tissue pathology (including immunohistochemistry) of SMTs, in order to improve the diagnostic accuracy of SMTs in our hospital and improve patient prognosis.