Safety of Navoximod and NLG802 With Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) Treatment of Advanced Solid Tumors
This early phase trial proposes to study of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) with navoximod and NLG802, a prodrug of indoximod. Combinations of immune-oncology (IO) agents with complementary mechanisms as well as radiation represent a promising strategy to improve response rates to immunotherapy. Radiation therapy induces immunogenic cell death, increases production of tumor specific antigens, enhances TH cell functioning, and modulates immunosuppressive cell populations such as T regulatory cells and myeloid derived suppressor cells.
Advanced Solid Tumors
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT)|DRUG: navoximod|DRUG: NLG802 (indoximod Prodrug)
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), The RP2D is determined by the occurrence of Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLT) defined as any Grade 3 or 4 toxicities to relevant organ systems determined to be possibly, likely or definitely related to treatment, deemed by the treating investigator that further administration of NLG802 and navoximod as not considered to be safe. Grade 3: Hold both NLG802 and navoximod until the AE recovers to Grade 0-1 or to pretreatment baseline level, whichever is more severe, and then resume treatment with NLG802 and navoximod at a dose level reduction. Clinically insignificant grade 3 events (ie - amylase/lipase) do not require drug hold Grade 4: Discontinue all study treatment permanently and withdraw patient from the study. Toxicity will be attributed to the combination of radiation with immunotherapy (as opposed to individual elements).If a dose reduction is required because of treatment-related toxicities, no dose re-escalation will be permitted for the duration of study treatment., Up to 90 days (patient)
Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE), The number of patients incurring specific Adverse Events or Serious Adverse Events that occur from first day of treatment, considered to be possibly, probably or definitely related to study treatment, per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0. Patients experiencing multiple AEs of the same type will be reported by only the most severe grade., Up to 1 year (patient), up to 4 years (cohort)|Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of patients with complete or partial response per iRECIST. irCR (Complete Response):Disappearance of non-nodal lesions. All pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm (2 consecutive measures ≥4 weeks apart); irPR (Partial Response):≥30% decrease from baseline (2 consecutive measures ≥4 weeks apart); All pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm (Non-Target Lesions: Any other than disappearance of all non-nodal lesions and reduction of pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm). Baseline tumor burden: sum of single diameters (short axis for nodal lesions, longest diameter for other lesions) for target lesions. In subsequent scans, the diameters of new measurable lesions are added to the tumor burden. Re-treatment: ≤5 target lesions (=/≠ original lesions) are selected and a new baseline tumor burden will be established., Up to 1 year (patient), up to 4 years (cohort)|Progression-free survival (PFS), The number of months from the date of study enrollment to the date of an event of disease progression (per RECIST 1.1) or to the date of death from any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) as defined by RECIST v1.1 for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. For non-target lesions: Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 4 years|Overall survival (OS), The number of months from the date of study enrollment until date of death ( from any cause) or last known date of follow up if otherwise lost to follow up., Up to 4 years|Local control per RECIST version 1.1, Proportion of patients without disease progression in area of RT treatment. Progressive Disease (PD) as defined by RECIST v1.1 for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. For non-target lesions: Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 4 years|Local control by irRECIST, Proportion of patients without disease progession in the area of RT treatment. Progressive Disease (iCPD) per iRECIST is present if further progress of the target sum (≥ 5 mm), or any further progress of the Non-Target Lesion, and/or progress of the new measurable and not measurable lesions either in number or in size (sum ≥5 mm)., Up to 4 years
Treatment for this trial will include stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to 1-4 metastases that can be safely irradiated, in combination with NLG802 and navoximod. The study will determine the safe doses of SBRT in combination with navoximod and NLG802 twice per day. The amount of SBRT administered will range from 30Gy to 50 Gy, depending upon the location of the tumor. If dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) are experienced, SBRT will be decreased accordingly. Disease assessment with computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI if CT scan is contraindicated) will be performed in the screening period, after 8 weeks of starting SBRT/NLG802/navoximod and then every 8 weeks until progression of disease, at the completion of follow-up, or until participants withdraw from the study.