Belzutifan in Recurrent Clear Cell Ovarian Carcinoma
The purpose of this research study is to see if the study drug Belzutifan is effective and safe for participants with ovarian cancer.

The name of the study drug involved in this study is:

- Belzutifan (a type of Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-2 alpha (HIF-2a) inhibitor)
Ovarian Cancer|Ovarian Carcinoma
DRUG: Belzutifan
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete, ORR expected to be observed up to 3 years.|Progression Free Survival at 6 months (PFS6), Progression-Free Survival at 6 Months (PFS6) is defined as the proportion of participants who are alive without disease progression for at least 6 months after initiating study treatment., Disease will be evaluated at baseline and every 2 cycles on treatment, where each cycle is 4 weeks. Relevant to this endpoint is the 6 month timepoint.
Grade 4 Treatment-Related Toxicity Rate, The percentage of participants who experienced a maximum grade 4 treatment-related adverse event based on the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse events Version 5.0 (CTCAEv5) as reported on case report forms., AEs expected to be observed up to 3 years.|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on Kaplan Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) requiring removal from the study or death. Participants alive without PD were censored at the earliest of the date of the last disease evaluation or start of new anticancer therapy., Disease is evaluated at baseline, every 2 cycles on treatment (each cycle is 4 weeks), and in follow-up every 3 months (if off not due to PD), up to 3 years.|Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from or registration to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive., Survival is evaluated in follow-up every 6 months (off due to PD) or every 3 months (off not due to PD), up to 3 years.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) and last more than 6 months on treatment based on RECIST 1.1 criteria., Disease will be evaluated every 2 cycles on treatment (each cycle is 4 weeks); Treatment continues until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment duration is expected to be up to 3 years.
This is an open label, non-randomized, single cohort, phase II trial of Belzutifan for participants with recurrent or persistent clear cell ovarian carcinoma (CCOC). Belzutifan is a targeted drug therapy, which is a type of cancer treatment that targets specific molecules that cancer cells need to grow and spread.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Belzutifan for ovarian cancer, but it has been approved for other uses.

The study procedures include screening for eligibility, in-clinic visits, electrocardiograms (ECGs), Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, and blood and urine tests.

It is expected up to 32 participants will take part in this research study.

Merck \& Company is supporting this research study by providing funding and the study drug, Belzutifan.