Profiles of Expression in HPV+ Versus HPV Head and Neck Cancers
Squamous cell cancers of the head and neck are classically correlated to excessive consumption of alcohol and tobacco and have a rather poor prognosis. However, the incidence of Head and Neck cancers in patients without alcohol-smoking risk factor has continued to increase in recent years, in relation to more and more frequent HPV contamination.

Some studies show a difference in the expression of certain genes within the two groups of tumors (HPV+ and HPV-) including some that confer sensitivity to certain chemotherapies and others to radiotherapy. However, patients with HPV+ Head and Neck cancers are treated according to the same referential as HPV- Head and Neck cancers. There is therefore a real need for studies identifying predictive markers in order to be able to offer patients a more effective suitable and less invasive treatment.
Head and Neck Cancer
GENETIC: PCR - Immunohistochemistry - Immunolabelling
Molecular profile of oropharyngeal or oral cavity HPV positive and negative tumors, Molecular profile of tumors will be established with analysis of 87 "Hotspot" genes, full length analysis of 48 genes, copy number analysis of 43 genes and gene fusion (inter and intra genic) of 51 genes., 1 day
Head and neck cancers are the sixth most common cancer common worldwide causing more than 380,000 deaths each year. More than 90% of these cancers are carcinomas epidermoids arising from the mucosal surfaces of the cavity oral cavity, oropharynx and larynx.

Squamous cell cancers of the head and neck are classically correlated with risk factors linked to excessive consumption of alcohol and tobacco and have a rather poor prognosis (mainly HPV (Human Papilloma Virus) negative patients).

However, the incidence of Head and Neck cancers in patients without alcohol-smoking risk factor has continued to increase in recent years, in relation to more and more frequent HPV contamination. Evolution of oral sexual practices seems to be one of the explanations for the progression of these cases of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma and oral cavity HPV positive.

Some studies show a difference in the expression of certain genes within the two groups of tumors (HPV+ and HPV-) including some that confer sensitivity to certain chemotherapies (CCND1, TYMS) and others to radiotherapy (RBBP4). However, patients with HPV+ Head and Neck cancers are treated according to the same referential as HPV- Head and Neck cancers. There is therefore a real need for studies identifying predictive markers in order to be able to offer patients a more effective suitable and less invasive treatment. This is the context of this research project.