Effect of VIrtual Reality Spectacles on the Management of Pain and Anxiety
To assess the contribution of the use of virtual reality glasses on the pain perceived by patients during the installation of an ICP in the operating room under local anesthesia in the patient newly diagnosed with cancer
Cancer
DEVICE: virtual reality Bliss Solution
The main assessment criterion is measured using the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), which allows a self-assessment of the level of pain felt by the patient using a ruler rated from 1 to 10., At the same the main evaluation criterion is a visual analogue scale (VAS) allowing a self-evaluation of the pain felt by the patient during the surgical intervention. The patient will rate their pain, on a scale from 0 for no pain to 10 for very severe pain. the data will be recorded at the time of the patient's installation, during the venipuncture and at the creation of the pocket., one year
The evaluation criterion will be measured on the Hamilton scale measuring anxiety during an operation., The anxiety felt by patients during the operation will be evaluated with the Hamilton Score.The Hamilton Depression Scale is a test for the intensity of anxiety and depressive disorders that can be used by everyone. It has 14 rated items from 0 to 3. The higher the score, the more severe the anxiety disorders. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 42., one year
The insertion of an implantable catheter chamber (ICH) is indicated in the case of prolonged or repeated infusions, particularly when the products injected are toxic to the venous walls, as is the case with cancer chemotherapy.

The insertion of a ICH is carried out in the operating theatre, usually under local anaesthesia. Although this operation is potentially painful and stressful, the question of its perception by the patient has not yet been addressed, nor the relevance of using non-invasive devices to alleviate the pain felt by the patient.

Among the proposals, virtual reality glasses Bliss Solution would be likely to improve patient management when a ICH is performed under local anaesthesia in the operating theatre.

The evaluation will be made on the contribution of the use of the Bliss Solution virtual reality glasses in the management of pain during the installation of an ICH under local anesthesia in the operating room.