FES-PET to Determine ER-expression in Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
Estrogens are implicated in the development of ovarian cancer and estrogen receptors (ER) alpha and beta are present in 20-100% of ovarian cancer patients. For this reason, antihormonal therapy with anti-estrogens or ER-antagonists is potentially an attractive treatment option. However, only a small proportion of patients (5-19%) will respond to antihormonal therapy. ER-expression in ER-positive breast cancer can be assessed by positron emission tomography (PET) with \[18F\]fluoroestradiol (FES). In this study the investigators will evaluate whether FES-PET can be used to visualize and quantify ER-expression in ovarian cancer. If these results are positive, this would warrant further exploration of FES-PET imaging in ovarian cancer.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
OTHER: FES-PET
The feasibility of FES-PET to visualize and quantify ER-positive lesions in epithelial ovarian cancer., Ovarian cancer patients planned for surgery or in which histology/cytology will be obtained, will undergo FES-PET/CT. FES-PET/CT will be qualitatively analyzed to determine whether ovarian cancer lesions can be visualized. FES-uptake will be quantified for all known lesions. Patient material will be stained for ER-expression to determine whether ER-positive metastases show FES-uptake., approximately 1 month
Correlation between FES-PET and immunohistochemistry (IHC), FES-uptake will be calculated for each lesions. Quantitative FES-uptake will be correlated to semi-quantitative IHC-scoring for ER-alpha, ER-bèta, and progesterone receptor., approximately 1 month|Concordance between CT-scan and FES-PET, CT-scan will be analyzed by a radiologist and lesions will classified into benign, equivocal and malignant lesions. FES-PET will be analyzed by a nuclear medicine physician and lesions will be classified. Concordance between FES-PET and CT-scan will be described. For discordant lesions, histology will be used as golden standard whenever available., approximately 1 month
Investigators will evaluate whether FES-PET can be used to visualize and quantify ER-expression in ovarian cancer. If these results are positive, this would warrant further exploration of FES-PET imaging in ovarian cancer.