TG4010 and Nivolumab in Patients With Lung Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well TG4010 and nivolumab work in previously treated patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Vaccines that are made from a gene-modified virus, such as TG4010, may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving TG4010 and nivolumab together may work better in previously treated patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage I Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage II Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: TG4010|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
ORR defined as the proportion of patients whose best overall response (BOR) is either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1, Proportions of patients with a best overall response of CR or PR will be presented with exact 95% confidence intervals and p-value associated to the binomial test (with null proportion as reference). Will be performed on the Evaluable patient set. The analysis will be repeated on intent-to-treat (ITT) for confirmation., Up to 2 years
Disease control rate defined as the proportion of patients whose BOR is either CR, PR or SD, assessed by RECIST 1.1, Up to 2 years|Duration of response (DOR) defined as patients whose best overall response is CR or PR (confirmed response), Time from the first documented response (CR or PR) until the event defined as first documented disease progression, assessed for up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events reported per CTCAE v4.0, Up to 100 days after last study treatment administration|Overall survival (OS) defined by RECIST 1.1, Time from enrollment until death from any cause, assessed for up to 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS) defined by RECIST 1.1, Time from enrollment to the date of first documented radiographic tumor progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed for up to 2 years|Stable disease (SD) rate defined as the proportion of patients whose BOR is SD, assessed by RECIST 1.1, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

To evaluate the efficacy of nivolumab plus TG4010 (modified vaccinia virus Ankara \[MVA\]-human mucin 1 \[MUC1\]-interleukin-2 \[IL2\] vaccine) in previously treated patients with stage IV non squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with respect to objective response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

Define the safety and toxicity profile of nivolumab plus TG4010 by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.

Determine progression-free survival by RECIST 1.1.

Determine overall survival.

Determine the duration of response and the occurrence of responses over time.

Determine the rate and duration of stable disease.

Determine the disease control rate.