Paclitaxel Albumin-Stabilized Nanoparticle Formulation in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This research study examines the use of Abraxane (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) in patients with lung cancer. Abraxane is a chemotherapy approved to treat patients with breast cancer. Doctors want to know if Abraxane is safe and effective in treating patients with lung cancer that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations.
Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel Albumin-Stabilized Nanoparticle Formulation
Overall Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response) Defined by RECIST 1.1 Criteria, The response rate as the proportion and 95% confidence interval of patients who achieved a complete response or partial response will be calculated., Assessed every two cycles from date of first study therapy until documented disease progression, date of death, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of patient consent, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 60 weeks.
Overall Percentage of Patients Experiencing Toxicity Within a Clinically Significant Category Defined as Neutropenia, Neutropenic Fever, or Neuropathy., Toxicity rates will be described as percentage of patient who experienced a Grade 3 or higher clinically significant toxicity according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Collected from the time patient received the first dose of study therapy through 30 days following the last dose of study therapy or the start of a new cancer therapy, whichever occurred first, assessed up to 64 weeks.|Overall Survival, Will report as median values with their respective 95% confidence intervals will be reported. Time to event distribution will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., Assessed from date of patient consent until date of death from any cause or withdrawal of patient consent, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 305 weeks.|Overall Percentage of Patients Experiencing Grade 3 or Higher Toxicity., Toxicity rates will be described as percentage of patients experiencing Grade 3 or higher toxicity according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Collected from the time patient received the first dose of study therapy through 30 days following the last dose of study therapy or the start of a new cancer therapy, whichever occurred first, assessed up to 64 weeks.|Time to Progression., Reported as median values with their respective 95% confidence intervals for patients who were assessed. Time to event distribution will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Assessed from date of patient consent until documented disease progression, date of death from any cause, start of new anti-cancer therapy, or withdrawal of patient consent, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 60 weeks.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall response rate of weekly nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations following front-line therapy with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety profile of weekly nab-paclitaxel in patients with advanced NSCLC with EGFR mutations following front-line therapy with an EGFR TKI.

II. To evaluate the time-to-progression and overall survival.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.