Organochlorine Concentration in Adipose Tissue and Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma represents more than 90% of pancreatic neoplasms. Around 14000 new cases of pancreatic adenocarcinoma are being diagnosed each year in France and about 8.6% in Grand Est region. National incidence has doubled for men and tripled for women between 1982 and 2012. Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is the deadliest digestive cancer, with only 7 to 8% all stages 5-year survival. It will become the second deadliest in Europe, behind bronchopulmonary cancer.

Several risk factors have been identified such as diabetes, tobacco, chronic pancreatitis or obesity. However, a mismatch exists between incidence forecasts and actual risk factors knowledge. Several hypothesis plead for an environnemental cause.

Plant protection products oncogenetic effects are known and have been proved to be responsible for tumors, including haematological malignancies. Its role in pancreatic carcinogenesis is still poorly studied and show heterogeneous results. They do not allow to conclude for causality. Organochlorines is a specific subset of plant protection product that store in lipids during lifetime.

The aim is to study association between organochlorine concentration in adipose tissue with pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
Carcinoma|Pancreatic Ductal
OTHER: Adipose tissue sampling during surgery and urine sampling
Adipose tissue organochlorine concentration, QuEChERS method to extract organochlorines Use of Agilent 7010 Detection limit : 10ng/g of adipose tissue, Day 0
Urine organochlorine concentration, Use of Agilent 7010 Detection limit : 0.1microg/L, Day 0
Unicentric prospective case control study comparing organochlorine levels including patients diagnosed with a pancreatic adenocarcinoma undergoing a surgery allowing to collect an adipose tissue sample (10g).

Controls are adults with no pancreatic cancer (excluded by a 6 months old computed tomography excluding the probability of a pancreatic neoplasm), paired with cases upon age and body mass index, with a scheduled surgical procedure allowing to collect an adipose tissue sample without extending procedure length.