Raman Spectroscopy for Liver Tumours Following Liver Surgery
The aim of the proposed research is to develop a quick and reliable method for automated evaluation of tissue sections for residual tumour in histology specimens following liver surgery. This advanced technology will enable assessment of liver tumours and resection margins following liver surgery. The technology is based on Raman spectroscopy (RS) and multivariate spectral analysis to produce 2-dimensional biochemical images that can reliably separate the spectral signal of liver tumours from surrounding normal tissue.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
DEVICE: Raman Spectrometry
Raman spectroscopy is able to discriminate between healthy liver tissue and colorectal liver metastases., To determine whether Raman spectroscopy can discriminate between healthy liver tissue and liver tumours., 3 years
Tissue sections can be analysed by Raman spectroscopy more time effectively than normal clinical practice., To determine how fast a Raman spectroscopy image of a tissue section can be built., 3 years
In this proposal, investigators will investigate the ability of RS to distinguish between normal versus cancer in tissue blocks following liver surgery. If successful, this technique can then be investigated for intra-operative assessment efficacy to ensure that the resection margin of the tumour is clear (free of tumour cells), enabling this powerful procedure to be applied to all patients undergoing liver surgery for highest standard of care. This device is an early concept development of an In-Vitro Diagnostic Medical Device.

In this project investigators will answer the following two questions:

* Can Raman spectroscopy discriminate between healthy tissue and colorectal liver metastases? If yes, with what accuracy?
* How fast can a Raman spectroscopy image of a tissue section be built? The success of this research will lead to a significant improvement in the quality and efficiency of liver surgery for colorectal liver metastases as it will allow all patients undergoing surgery to benefit from the best treatment available to ensure resection margins are clear. Making the best techniques more widely available to all patients who need them reduces inequality in healthcare.