Childhood Cancer Survivors' Affective Response to Exercise
The primary objective of this study is to assess the feasibility of administering the Personalized Single-Category Implicit Association Test (PSC-IAT) to young adult survivors of childhood cancer.

Participants will perform a total of three trials of a cognitive task before and after their scheduled SJLIFE cardiovascular stress testing. Participants will then be asked to participate in a qualitative interview about the cognitive task tool and body sensations and emotions experienced during exercise.
ALL, Childhood|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
OTHER: Affective Response to Exercise
Implicit Association Bias Testing, Participants' implicit associations with exercise will be measured using the Personalized Single-Category Implicit Association test (PSC-IAT)., Before and after Cardiovascular Stress Testing at Baseline|Behavioral Regulation of Exercise Questionnaire (BREQ-2):, The Behavioral Regulation of Exercise Questionnaire (BREQ-2) will be administered once to participants in this study to assess trait-level affective motivation., Before and after Cardiovascular Stress Testing at Baseline
Researchers at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital want to learn about the measurement of implicit association bias towards or against exercise in childhood cancer survivors. Additionally, researchers want to learn more about the physical and emotional experience of exercise from our survivors.

The plan for this study is to administer single category implicit association tests (PSC-IAT's) to participants during on campus SJLIFE testing and use this data to determine the feasibility of this tool's use in survivors of childhood cancer without cognitive impairment. This study will also administer the Behavioral Regulations in Exercise Questionnaire (BREQ-2)37 to participants as a construct validity check to the PSC-IAT.

The procedures include PSC-IAT and BREQ-2 tests (before and after strenuous exercise as part of the SJLIFE protocol) and a qualitative interview. These will be in addition to standard components of the SJLIFE on-campus visit.