Electrochemotherapy for the Treatment of Vulvar Cancer
Electrochemotherapy is a local treatment modality with effectiveness comparable to other local ablation techniques. With electrochemotherapy 80% objective response can be achieved and is suitable for the treatment of different types of tumors. The method is based on increased drug delivery to cells previously exposed to electroporation. The most commonly used cytotoxic agents are bleomycin and cisplatin. The aim of the proposed clinical trial is to determine the efficacy, feasibility and safety of electrochemotherapy in the treatment of vulvar cancer.
Vulvar Cancer
DRUG: Electrochemotherapy with bleomycin or cisplatin
Number of adverse events 1 month after the treatment, According to CTCAE v5.0, 1 month|Number of adverse events 2 months after the treatment, According to CTCAE v5.0, 2 months|Number of adverse events 3 months after the treatment, According to CTCAE v5.0, 3 months|Number of adverse events 6 months after the treatment, According to CTCAE v5.0, 6 months|Number of adverse events 9 months after the treatment, According to CTCAE v5.0, 9 months|Number of adverse events 12 months after the treatment, According to CTCAE v5.0, 12 months|Response of the tumor to electrochemotherapy according to RECIST criteria, According to RECIST criteria, 1 month|Response of the tumor to electrochemotherapy according to RECIST criteria, According to RECIST criteria, 2 months|Response of the tumor to electrochemotherapy according to RECIST criteria, According to RECIST criteria, 3 months|Response of the tumor to electrochemotherapy according to RECIST criteria, According to RECIST criteria, 6 months|Response of the tumor to electrochemotherapy according to RECIST criteria, According to RECIST criteria, 9 months|Response of the tumor to electrochemotherapy according to RECIST criteria, According to RECIST criteria, 12 months
Electrochemotherapy is a local treatment modality with effectiveness comparable to other local ablation techniques. With electrochemotherapy 80% objective response can be achieved and is suitable for the treatment of different types of tumors. The method is based on increased drug delivery to cells previously exposed to electroporation. The most commonly used cytotoxic agents are bleomycin and cisplatin. The aim of the proposed clinical trial is to determine the efficacy, feasibility and safety of electrochemotherapy in the treatment of vulvar cancer.