Bevacizumab With or Without Trebananib in Treating Patients With Recurrent Brain Tumors
This partially randomized phase II trial with a safety run-in component studies the side effects and how well bevacizumab given with or without trebananib works in treating patients with brain tumors that have come back (recurrent). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may induce changes in the body's immune system and interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Trebananib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether giving bevacizumab together with trebananib is more effective than bevacizumab alone in treating brain tumors.
Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma|Oligodendroglioma|Recurrent Brain Neoplasm|Recurrent Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Placebo Administration|BIOLOGICAL: Trebananib
Number of Patients Experiencing of Dose-limiting Toxicity (Cohort 1), Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), defined as a clinically significant adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease progression, intercurrent illness, or concomitant medications and meets any of the criteria below. Any DLT must be a toxicity possibly related to protocol treatment during first 4 weeks: grade 4 hematologic toxicity, grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia, or grade 3/4 non-hematologic toxicity; Gastrointestinal fistula, bowel perforation, intracranial hemorrhage, wound dehiscence, or reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy of any grade; Delay of treatment \> 28 days. If 2+ of patients experience a DLT among 6 eligible patients, this drug combination will be considered unsafe and a lower dose of AMG will be explored; otherwise conclude that this drug combination is safe. The probability of claiming safe dose is no more than 16% when the true DLT rate is \>45%, and the probability of claiming safe dose is at least 78% when the true DLT rate is \<= 15%., From start of treatment to 4 weeks.|Six-month Progression-free Survival (Cohort 2), As determined by central review of MRI exams, assessed using RANO criteria for progression that is defined by any of the following: \> 25% increase in sum of the products of perpendicular diameters of enhancing lesions compared to the smallest tumor measurement obtained either at baseline (if no decrease) or best response, on stable or increasing doses of corticosteroids; Significant increase in T2/FLAIR non-enhancing lesion on stable or increasing doses of corticosteroids compared to baseline scan or best response following initiation of therapy, not due to co-morbid events; Any new lesion; Clear clinical deterioration not attributable to other causes apart from the tumor or changes in corticosteroid dose; Failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition; Clear progression of non-measurable disease., From randomization to six months.
Incidence of Grade 3+ Treatment-related Toxicity, Measured by CTCAE v. 4 (Cohort 2), Adverse events (AEs) are graded by using CTCAE 4.0. Possibly/probably/definitely related to protocol treatment AEs are considered., From start of treatment up to 3 years.|Overall Survival (Cohort 2), Survival time is defined as time from randomization to date of death from any cause and is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Patients last known to be alive are censored at the date of last contact. This analysis was planned to occur when all patients had been potentially followed for at least 6 months., From randomization up to 3 years.|Progression-free Survival (Cohort 2), Progression-free survival time is measured from randomization to the date of first progression or death or, otherwise, the last follow-up date on which the patient was reported alive. This analysis was planned to occur when all patients had been potentially followed for at least 6 months., From randomization up to 3 years.|Radiographic Response Rate (Cohort 2), Proportion of patients with best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence. Response determined by site-reported radiology review of MRI exams using Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Criteria (RANO) criteria. CR: Complete disappearance of all enhancing measurable disease (MD) + non-measurable disease (NMD) sustained \>= 4 wks; No new lesions; Stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions; Off corticosteroids (or on physiologic replacement doses only); Stable/improved clinically. PR: \>= 50% decrease vs. baseline of sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable enhancing lesions sustained \>= 4 wks; No progression of NMD; No new lesions; Stable/improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions on \<= dose of corticosteroids vs. baseline scan; Corticosteroid dose at evaluation scan \<= baseline scan dose; Stable or improved clinically. NMD only cannot be a CR or PR., From randomization up to 3 years.|Percentage of Patients Requiring Dose Reduction/Interruption or Discontinuation in the First 2 and Subsequent Courses (Cohort 1), Feasibility of trebananib weekly in combination with bevacizumab every 2 weeks, measured by the percentage of patients requiring dose reduction/interruption or discontinuation in the first 2 and subsequent courses (Cohort 1), From randomization up to 3 years.
Tumor Genotype, Expression Profile, and Circulating Angiogenesis Biomarkers (Cohort 2), Biomarker data has not yet been obtained and therefore this outcome measure cannot yet be reported., From randomization to date of death or last followup. Statistical analysis occurs when tumor genotype, expression profile and circulating angiogenesis biomarkers have been determined from the tissue specimens.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of AMG 386 (trebananib) 15 mg/kg weekly in combination with bevacizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks (Cohort 1). (closed to accrual 10/2/12) II. To assess the efficacy of AMG 386 in combination with bevacizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks compared to bevacizumab monotherapy in bevacizumab-naive patients, as measured by 6-month progression-free survival (PFS6) (Cohort 2).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To further assess the toxicity profile (Cohorts 1 and 2). II. To assess feasibility of AMG 386 15 mg/kg weekly in combination with bevacizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks (Cohort 1 \[closed to accrual 10/2/12\]), as measured by the percentage of patients requiring dose reduction/interruption or discontinuation in the first 2 and subsequent cycles.

III. To determine the radiographic response rate (RR), median progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) in bevacizumab-naive patients (Cohort 2).

IV. To assess the efficacy of AMG 386 15 mg/kg weekly in combination with bevacizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks in patients who have progressed while on bevacizumab, as measured by overall survival (OS) (cross-over from placebo arm of Cohort 2).

V. To correlate outcome to treatment with tumor genotype, expression profile, and circulating angiogenesis biomarkers in tumor specimens (Cohort 2).

VI. To determine the RR, PFS6, and PFS in patients who have progressed while on bevacizumab therapy and receive AMG 386 in combination with bevacizumab (cross-over from placebo arm of Cohort 2).

VII. To determine the serum pharmacokinetics of AMG 386 in patients receiving bevacizumab (Cohort 1 and cross-over from placebo arm of Cohort 2).

OUTLINE: This is a safety study (cohort 1 \[closed to accrual 10/2/12\]) followed by a randomized study (cohort 2).

Cohort 1: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and trebananib IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (closed to accrual 10/2/12)

Cohort 2: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab and trebananib as in Cohort 1.

ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab as in Arm I and placebo IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression may cross over to Arm I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 2 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.