Wide-Field and High Resolution In Vivo Imaging in Visualizing Lesions in Patients With Oral Neoplasia Undergoing Surgery
This clinical trial studies wide-field and high resolution in vivo imaging in visualizing lesions in patients with abnormal or uncontrolled oral cell growth (neoplasia) undergoing surgery. Diagnostic procedures, such as wide-field and high resolution in vivo imaging, are devices that let researchers look at a wide area of the lining of the mouth by shining different colors inside the mouth and taking pictures and this may help doctors to decide if a mouth lesion has a high risk of being pre-cancerous or cancerous.
Oral Cavity Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: High-Resolution Microendoscopy|PROCEDURE: Multispectral Imaging|DRUG: Proflavine
Evaluation of oral mucosa to be used for non-invasive detection and diagnosis with the use of optical imaging after administration of the topical contrast agent proflavine., Images obtained will be compared against the histology slides of tissue taken from the same region., 1 day|Classification of tissue, Classification algorithms will be developed to separate imaged tissue into 2 diagnostic categories: normal non-neoplastic mucosa vs. dysplasia and cancer, 1 day
Percentage of subjects and lesions that can be successfully imaged with wide-field and high-resolution optical microscopes after topical application of contrast dye, The data analysis will be descriptive and exploratory in nature. The potential association between sites within the same subject will be examined as well. Performance will be characterized in terms of sensitivity, specificity, area under the ROC curve, and classification accuracy within each diagnostic category., 1 day|Qualitative features within images that differ between pathologically normal, dysplastic, cancerous and inflammatory lesions, Performance will be characterized in terms of sensitivity, specificity, area under the ROC curve, and classification accuracy within each diagnostic category., 1 day
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the feasibility for assessing oral mucosa in vivo with wide-field and high resolution images obtained using new optical imaging devices composed of cameras and microscopes, and with a topically administered contrast agent.

II. To develop and evaluate algorithms to classify tissue as normal (including hyperkeratosis, hyperplasia, and inflammation) or abnormal (any grade of dysplasia or cancer) based on quantitative parameters extracted from the optical images.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the percentage of subjects and lesions that can be successfully imaged with wide-field and high-resolution optical microscopes after topical application of contrast dye.

II. To identify qualitative and quantitative features within images that differ between pathologically normal, dysplastic, cancerous and inflammatory lesions.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo evaluation of oral cavity using a widefield multispectral imaging device and a high-resolution optical system (high-resolution microendoscope \[HRME\]) at baseline, after induction of general anesthesia, and prior to surgery.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 3 months.