A Study of Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy Compared to Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy Plus MEDI4736 (Durvalumab) Immunotherapy for Bladder Cancer Which Has Spread to the Lymph Nodes, INSPIRE Trial
This phase II trial studies the benefit of adding an immunotherapy drug called MEDI4736 (durvalumab) to standard chemotherapy and radiation therapy in treating bladder cancer which has spread to the lymph nodes. Drugs used in standard chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Cisplatin is in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. It works by killing, stopping or slowing the growth of tumor cells. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Immunotherapy with durvalumab may help the body's immune system attack the cancer and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving chemotherapy and radiation therapy with the addition of durvalumab may work better in helping tumors respond to treatment compared to chemotherapy and radiation therapy alone. Patients with limited regional lymph node involvement may benefit from attempt at bladder preservation, and use of immunotherapy and systemic chemotherapy.
Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage III Bladder Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy of Bladder|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Cystoscopy|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Mitomycin|OTHER: Patient Observation|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Clinical complete response (CR), Defined as CR in bladder and nodes with no distant metastases. This study is designed to detect an improvement in clinical CR rate from 37.5% on the chemoradiation (chemoRT) arm to 62.5% on the chemoRT + durvalumab arm. Patients who receive any chemoRT +/- durvalumab will be included in the interim and final analyses. Those who are unevaluable post chemoRT +/- durvalumab, such as those patients who drop out before completing treatment post randomization or drop out prior to evaluation of first response or those patients who cannot get computed tomography scan and or cystoscopy to evaluate for response will be considered non-responders., Up to 4 years
Metastasis-free survival, Patients who are alive and metastasis-free will be censored at date of last assessment. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time-to-event endpoints and stratified Cox proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios in all eligible patients., From randomization to first evidence of metastatic disease or death from any cause, assessed up to 4 years|Bladder-intact event-free survival (BI-EFS), Events of interest are presence of muscle-invasive bladder cancer, clinical evidence of progression of nodal involvement or development of metastatic disease, radical cystectomy, or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be BI-EFS event-free will be censored at the date of last assessment. Patients alive without disease assessment will be censored at randomization. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time-to-event endpoints and stratified Cox proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios in all eligible patients., From randomization to the first BI-EFS event, assessed up to 4 years|Bladder cancer specific survival, Deaths due to other causes will be considered competing events and patients known to be alive will be censored at the date of last contact. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time-to-event endpoints and stratified Cox proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios in all eligible patients., From randomization to death from bladder cancer, assessed up to 4 years|Overall survival, Patients still alive will be censored at date of last contact. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time-to-event endpoints and stratified Cox proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios in all eligible patients., From randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 4 years|Progression-free survival, Patients last known to be alive and progression-free will be censored at the date of last contact. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time-to-event endpoints and stratified Cox proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios in all eligible patients., From randomization to first of local progression, nodal or distant metastasis, or death from any cause, assessed up to 4 years|Complete response duration, Patients will be censored at the date of last disease assessment. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time-to-event endpoints and stratified Cox proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios in all eligible patients., From the date of the biopsy documenting the complete response to the time of muscle invasive recurrence, local progression, evidence of metastatic disease or death due to any cause, assessed up to 4 years|Salvage cystectomy rate, Will be reported as a proportion of patients who do not experience clinical benefit and undergo salvage cystectomy after chemoRT +/- durvalumab along with a 90% confidence interval. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time-to-event endpoints and stratified Cox proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios in all eligible patients., Up to 4 years|Incidence of adverse events, Assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Toxicity will be evaluated in all treated patients, regardless of eligibility., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the clinical complete response rate (cCR) after chemoradiotherapy (chemoRT) with or without durvalumab in node-positive bladder cancer patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the toxicity profile in both arms using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

II. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) in both arms. III. To estimate overall survival (OS) post randomization in both arms. IV. To estimate the bladder intact event free survival (BIEFS) in both arms. V. To estimate the metastasis free survival (MFS) in both arms. VI. To estimate bladder cancer specific survival in both arms. VII. To estimate the complete clinical response duration in both arms. VIII. To estimate salvage cystectomy rates in both arms.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Planned subgroup analyses for clinical outcome (clinical complete response \[CR\] rate post chemoRT +/- durvalumab, MFS, OS, PFS) based on stratification factors.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. To collect and bank tumor tissue and blood specimens at pre-and post-treatment with chemoRT +/- durvalumab to determine predictive or prognostic markers.

OUTLINE:

STEP 1 - Randomization: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM C: Patients undergo radiation therapy for 6.5-8 weeks. Beginning 4 days before or after starting radiation therapy, patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 4 days before or after starting radiation therapy, patients also receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30-60 minutes twice a week (BIW) for 6 weeks; or cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes once a week (QW) for 6 weeks; or mitomycin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of radiation and fluorouracil IV continuous infusion on days 1-5 and 16-20 of radiation in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bladder biopsy on study, cystoscopy on study and during follow-up, as well as computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection on study.

ARM D: Patients undergo radiation therapy for 6.5-8 weeks. Beginning 4 days before or after starting radiation therapy, patients also receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30-60 minutes BIW for 6 weeks; or cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes QW for 6 weeks; or mitomycin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of radiation and fluorouracil IV continuous infusion on days 1-5 and 16-20 of radiation in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bladder biopsy on study, cystoscopy on study and during follow-up, as well as CT or MRI throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection on study.

STEP 2 - Registration: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM E: Patients previously randomized to Arm C (chemoradiation and durvalumab) who achieve clinical CR or clinical benefit receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bladder biopsy on study, cystoscopy on study and during follow-up, as well as CT or MRI throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection on study.

ARM F: Patients previously randomized to Arm D (chemoradiation) who achieve clinical CR or clinical benefit undergo observation. Patients also undergo bladder biopsy on study, cystoscopy on study and during follow-up, as well as CT or MRI throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 1 year, every 6 months for year 2, and then annually for years 3-4.