CVM-1118 in Combination With Nivolumab for Unresectable Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
CVM-1118 is a new small molecule chemical entity being developed as a potential anti-cancer therapeutic by TaiRx, Inc. CVM-1118 is a potent anti-cancer agent in numerous human cancer cell lines. The safety of administrating CVM-1118 on human has been evaluated from the phase 1 study. The objective of the phase 2 study is to further investigate the efficacy of CVM-1118 with nivolumab for subjects with unresectable advanced hepatoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Nivolumab Injection [Opdivo]|DRUG: CVM-1118
Objective Response Rate (ORR)_mRECIST, Assessment by modified RECIST criteria, 24 weeks after the last subject starts CVM-1118
Objective Response Rate (ORR)_RECIST v1.1, Assessment by RECIST v1.1 criteria, 24 weeks after the last subject starts CVM-1118|Duration of response (DoR), Duration of response (DoR) is defined as time from the first documentation of response to the time of progression, 24 weeks after the last subject starts CVM-1118 up to 1 year after the last-dose|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as time from the first dose of study drug to the time of progression or death, 24 weeks after the last subject starts CVM-1118 up to 1 year after the last-dose|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as time from first dose of study drug to death, 24 weeks after the last subject starts CVM-1118 and up to 1 year after the last-dose|Time to progression (TTP), Time to progression (TTP) is defined as the time from the first dose of study drug to the time of progression, 24 weeks after the last subject starts CVM-1118 up to 1 year after the last-dose|Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) is defined as the sum of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and stable disease rate (SD), 24 weeks after the last subject starts CVM-1118 and up to 1 year after the last-dose|Rate of Adverse event (AE) and Serious Adverse Event (SAE), Rate of Adverse event (AE) and Serious Adverse Event (SAE) are assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v.5 (CTCAE) criteria, Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment by CTCAE v5.|Number of Participants With Abnormal Vital Sign, Values with CTCAE v5 Grade ≧ 3 will be identified with flags. A final outcome result with the number of participants with abnormal vital sign would be provided. Normal ranges will also be provided., Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment|Number of Participants With Abnormal Vital Sign_Assessed the baseline and out-of-range vital signs_ blood pressure (both systolic and diastolic blood pressure) by CTCAE v5, Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure will be measured. Values with CTCAE v5 Grade ≧ 3 will be identified with flags. A final outcome result with the number of participants with abnormal vital sign would be provided. Normal ranges will also be provided., Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment|Number of Participants With Abnormal Vital Sign_Assessed the baseline and out-of-range vital signs_ Heart rate by CTCAE v5, Values with CTCAE v5 Grade ≧ 3 will be identified with flags. A final outcome result with the number of participants with abnormal vital sign would be provided. Normal ranges will also be provided., Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment|Number of Participants With Abnormal Vital Sign_Assessed the baseline and out-of-range vital signs_ respiratory rate by CTCAE v5, Values with CTCAE v5 Grade ≧ 3 will be identified with flags. A final outcome result with the number of participants with abnormal vital sign would be provided. Normal ranges will also be provided., Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment|Number of Participants With Abnormal baseline and out-of range Hematology Count by CTCAE v5, Values with CTCAE v5 Grade ≧ 3 will be identified with flags. A final outcome result with the number of participants with abnormal laboratory values would be provided. A list of all laboratory normal ranges will also be provided., Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment|Number of Participants With Abnormal Laboratory Values_Assessed the baseline and out-of range coagulation test by CTCAE v5, Values with CTCAE v5 Grade ≧ 3 will be identified with flags. A final outcome result with the number of participants with abnormal laboratory values would be provided. A list of all laboratory normal ranges will also be provided., Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment|Number of Participants With Abnormal Laboratory Values_Assessed the baseline and out-of range urinalysis test by CTCAE v5, Values with CTCAE v5 Grade ≧ 3 will be identified with flags. A final outcome result with the number of participants with abnormal laboratory values would be provided. A list of all laboratory normal ranges will also be provided., Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment|Number of patients with abnormalities in electrocardiography (ECG) reporting for PR, QRS, QT, and QTcF intervals, Values with CTCAE v5 Grade ≧ 3 will be identified with flags. A final outcome result with the number of participants with abnormal laboratory values would be provided. A list of all laboratory normal ranges will also be provided., Starting form the first dose of combination treatment until 28 days (for all AE/SAE) and 90 days (for immune related AE/SAE) following the last dose of treatment|Maximum Plasma Concentration [Cmax] of CVM-1118 and its metabolite CVM-1125 after CVM-1118 dosing, Maximum Plasma Concentration \[Cmax\] of CVM-1118 and its metabolite CVM-1125 will be measured to see maximum exposure after CVM-1118 dosing, During Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Area Under the Curve [AUC] of CVM-1118 and its metabolite CVM-1125 after CVM-1118 dosing, Area Under the Curve \[AUC\] of CVM-1118 and its metabolite CVM-1125 after CVM-1118 dosing, During Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacodynamics analysis for the relationship of Cmax and ORR, Relationship between Cmax and ORR will be evaluated, During Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacodynamics analysis for the relationship of AUC and ORR, Relationship between AUC and ORR will be evaluated, During Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacodynamics analysis for the relationship of Cmax and AE, Relationship between Cmax and AE will be evaluated, During Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacodynamics analysis for the relationship of AUC and AE, Relationship between AUC and AE will be evaluated, During Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)
Nivolumab, a human IgG4 kappa monoclonal antibody acts as a checkpoint inhibitor, blocking the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands (PD-L1 and PD-L2 ) and therefore preventing the activation of T cells from attacking the cancer. Nivolumab is currently approved for several cancer types.

To meet the medical need, TaiRx, Inc. develops a new small molecule drug, CVM-1118 can promote apoptosis and delay proliferation. Moreover, CVM-1118 targets the formation of vasculogenic mimicry (VM). VM has been associated with tumor metastasis and poor clinical outcomes. VM is reported to be particularly active in tumor under hypoxia state when patients are treated with the potent vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor like sorafenib or bevacizumab. Hence, the ability of inhibiting the VM network makes CVM-1118 a potential good combination drug with Nivolumab in advanced diseases such as hepatoma where Nivolumab alone has shown activity.

The safety profile of CVM-1118 dosing has been established in the phase 1 study. The analysis of metabolism pathways further showed that the potential drug-drug interactions of CVM-1118 and Nivolumab are very low.

Based on the mechanism of actions and the safety analysis of nivolumab and CVM-1118, the design of phase 2 trial with the combination therapy might have great potential for the patients with unresectable advanced HCC.