Aromasin Vs Arimidex Study As Initial Hormonal Therapy In Postmenopausal Women With Advanced/Recurrent Breast Cancer
To verify the non-inferiority of exemestane compared to anastrozole in time to tumor progression (TTP), the primary efficacy endpoint, in postmenopausal women with advanced/recurrent breast cancer.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: exemestane|DRUG: anastrozole
Time to Progression (TTP) - Expert Evaluation Committee Assessment, Time in months from randomization to first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to breast cancer, whichever comes first. Tumor progression was determined by the expert evaluation committee using RECIST version 1.0 as an at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of the target lesions compared to the smallest SLD since the study treatment started. For participants with bone metastasis only, at least 25% increase in the measurable lesion according to General Rules for Clinical and Pathological Study of Breast Cancer (The 14th edition)., Up to 2008 days of the treatment
Time to Progression (TTP) - Investigators Assessment, Time in months from randomization to first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to breast cancer, whichever comes first. Tumor progression was determined by the investigator using RECIST version 1.0 as an at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of the target lesions compared to the smallest SLD since the study treatment started. For participants with bone metastasis only, at least 25% increase in the measurable lesion according to General Rules for Clinical and Pathological Study of Breast Cancer (The 14th edition)., Up to 2008 days of the treatment|Number of Participants With Objective Response - Investigators Assessment, Number of participants with objective response based assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST version 1.0). CR and PR are those that persist on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions and no appearance of new lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of the targeted lesions. Objective Response (OR)= CR + PR., Up to 2008 days of the treatment|Number of Participants With Clinical Benefit - Investigator Assessment, Number of participants with clinical benefit based assessment of CR, PR or long-term stable disease (SD) according to the RECIST (version 1.0). CR and PR are those that persist on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions and no appearance of new lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of the targeted lesions. Long-term SD was defined as SD lasted for at least 24 weeks (168 days). Clinical benefit = CR + PR + long SD, Up to 2008 days of the treatment|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from the date of randomization to the date of death., Up to 2008 days of the treatment|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), TTF is defined as the time from the randomization to the date of the first documentation of progressive disease (PD), symptomatic deterioration, death due to any cause, or treatment discontinuation due to adverse event, refusal or other reasons., Up to 2008 days of the treatment
To verify the non-inferiority of exemestane compared to anastrozole in time to tumor progression (TTP), the primary efficacy endpoint, in postmenopausal women with advanced/recurrent breast cancer.