TIL Therapy for Metastatic Ovarian Cancer
Adoptive T cell therapy with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) has achieved impressive clinical results with durable complete responses in patients with metastatic melanoma. The TILs are isolated from patients own tumor tissue followed by in vitro expansion and activation for around 4-6 weeks. Before TIL infusion the patients receive 1 week of preconditioning chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. After TIL infusion Interleukin-2 is administered to support T cell acitivation and proliferation in vivo.

Recent studies suggest, that TIL therapy works in other cancers than Metastatic Melanoma, including Ovarian Cancer. In this study TIL therapy is administered to patients with metastatic Ovarian Cancer.
Metastatic Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: TIL infusion|DRUG: Interleukin-2
Number and type of reported adverse events, Determine the safety of the administration of TIL therapy including lymphodepleting chemotherapy and Interleukin-2 for patients with metastatic Ovarian Cancer by reporting adverse events according to CTCAE v. 4.0., 0-24 weeks
Treatment related immune responses, To evaluate the immunological impact of TIL therapy for patients with metastatic Ovarian Cancer, Up to 12 months|Objective response rate, Clinical responses will be evaluated by RECIST 1.1., Up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS), defined as time from treatment initiation to death, will be described with use of Kaplan Meier curve., Up to 12 months|Progression free survival, Progression free survival (PFS), defined as the time from treatment initiation to disease progression, relapse or death due to any cause, which ever comes first, will be described with Kaplan Meier curve., Up to 12 months
Adoptive T cell therapy with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) has achieved impressive clinical results with durable complete responses in patients with metastatic melanoma. The TILs are isolated from patients own tumor tissue followed by in vitro expansion and activation for around 4-6 weeks. Before TIL infusion the patients receive 1 week of preconditioning chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. After TIL infusion Interleukin-2 is administered to support T cell acitivation and proliferation in vivo.

Objectives:

To evaluate safety and feasibility when treating patients with metastatic ovarian cancer with ACT with TILs.

To evaluate treatment related immune responses To evaluate clinical efficacy

Design:

Patients will be screened with a physical exam, medical history, blood samples and ECG.

Patients will undergo surgery to harvest tumor material for TIL production. Patients is admitted day -8 in order to undergo lymphodepleting chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludara starting day -7.

On day 0 patients receive TIL infusion and shortly after starts IL-2 infusion continually following the decrescendo regimen.

The patients will followed until progression or up to 5 years