S9901 Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Men With Stage III or Stage IV Hodgkin's Disease
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known if combination chemotherapy is more effective with or without peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating Hodgkin's Disease.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy with or without peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating men who have stage III or stage IV Hodgkin's disease.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: bleomycin sulfate|DRUG: carmustine|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: dacarbazine|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: vinblastine|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Progression-free survival, every 3 months while on protocol treatment, then every 6 months for 2 years, then annually thereafter
overall survival, every 3 months while on treatment, then every 6 months thereafter
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare progression-free and overall survival of patients with stage III or IV Hodgkin's disease treated with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine with or without autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and high-dose chemotherapy.
* Compare the toxic effects of these treatment regimens in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to number of poor prognostic factors (3 vs 4 vs 5) and stage of disease (III vs IV).

Patients receive induction chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin IV over 5 minutes, bleomycin IV over 10 minutes, vinblastine IV over 5 minutes, and dacarbazine IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who show at least partial response after the fifth course of induction chemotherapy and whose blood counts have recovered are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive 3 additional courses of induction chemotherapy for a total of 8 courses.
* Arm II: Patients receive 1 additional course of induction chemotherapy followed by stem cell collection. Patients then receive high-dose chemotherapy with carmustine IV over 2 hours on days -6 to -4, etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4, and cyclophosphamide IV on day -2. Patients undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

Patients are followed at 60 days, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 460 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.