HN-QUEST: A Study of Head and Neck Imaging Biomarkers
This is a multi arm, single center, investigator initiated study to investigate online adaptive radiotherapy and biomarker development in patients with newly diagnosed HNSCC (Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma) receiving curative therapy.

The study will consist of two prospective arms. In Arm 1 up to 100 HNSCC patients receiving (CT)RT (computed tomography-based radiation therapy) will receive up to weekly non-contrast MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scans during treatment. Arm 2 consists of two cohorts. In cohort A up to 20 healthy volunteers will undergo non-contrast MRI at two time points. In cohort B up to 53 patients planned to receive curative (chemo) radiotherapy for HNSCC will undergo two baseline MRI scans, one MRI in week 2 and week 4, and final MRI scan 6-8 weeks after completion of treatment.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: MRI
Change in hypoxia level during radiotherapy as assessed by fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging), fMRI images will be used to assess tumour hypoxia status for Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC), Baseline, Week 2 and 4 of radiotherapy, Week 6-8 post radiotherapy|Change in tumour tissue and microenvironment during radiotherapy as assessed by fMRI, fMRI images will be used to evaluate on treatment tumour response to determine the effect of dose escalation to tumor sub regions using a daily online adaptive radiation treatment approach, Weekly MRI imaging during radiotherapy (Up to 7 weeks)
The purpose of this study is to develop and investigate novel and established MR (magnetic resonance) imaging sequences as predictive and prognostic radiotherapy biomarkers. Radiotherapy is a fundamental treatment modality for Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC) with a majority of patients receiving radiation as part of their care pathway. Although treatment is effective, there remains a risk of failure particularly in those presenting with locally advanced disease. In addition, significant proportion of patients receiving radiotherapy will suffer long-term side effects related to their treatment. The addition of concurrent chemotherapy improves the efficacy of radiotherapy, but at the cost of increased treatment related toxicity. The treatment related toxicity and risk of treatment failure means there is a compelling clinical need to personalize therapy based on a patient's early response to radiotherapy.