Docetaxel With or Without Low-dose, Short Course Sunitinib in Refractory Solid Tumors
This study aims to find out whether the effect of docetaxel chemotherapy may be improved by combining it with another anti-cancer drug called sunitinib, which stops blood vessels from growing (anti-angiogenic agent). Sunitinib is an oral anti-angiogenic drug that has been approved for the treatment of kidney cancer, a rare form of soft tissue tumor called gastrointestinal stromal tumor, and a rare form of cancer in the pancreas called pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. Sunitinib is usually given continuously at a dose of 37.5mg (3 pills) daily either alone or in combination with chemotherapy. However, there are studies which have shown that the continuous administration of sunitinib may reduce chemotherapy effectiveness. On the other hand, a short course of sunitinib before each chemotherapy cycle may sensitize the tumor to chemotherapy. This treatment strategy will be used in patients with different kinds of cancers with a commonly used chemotherapy drug, docetaxel. Ths study aims to evaluate if intermittent administration of low dose sunitinib before docetaxel chemotherapy can improve the treatment response in cancer patients.

Study Hypothesis: Low dose, short course sunitinib at 12.5mg daily orally for 1 week prior to chemotherapy can normalize tumor vasculature and enhance delivery of chemotherapy into the tumor, and improve treatment response and progression-free survival.
Solid Tumors|Breast Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Sunitinib
Objective response rate, 18 weeks|Clinical benefit rate, Clinical benefit rate is defined as the proportion of patients who achieved complete response, partial response, or stable disease for at least 12 weeks, as the best response., 18 weeks
Progression-free survival, 18 weeks until documented disease progression
This is a single-centre, phase II randomized study. Eligible patients will be randomized to docetaxel with or without intermittent sunitinib. A total of eighty patients with measurable tumor will be enrolled over a period of 24-36 months. Eligible patients will be randomized 1:1 to either arm A or arm B. Patients will be stratified according to site of primary tumor (breast vs non-small cell lung cancer vs others) for randomization purposes.

Arm A (Control arm):

Docetaxel 75mg/m2 day 1, every 3 weeks

Arm B (Experimental arm):

Docetaxel 75mg/m2 day 1, every 3 weeks, preceded by 7 days of sunitinib 12.5mg orally daily during each cycle.

Patients will be treated for a maximum of 6 cycles of chemotherapy in the absence of tumor progression or unacceptable toxicities.

Patient will be evaluated weekly for toxicity assessments and full blood count during cycle 1, and on days 1 and 15 of each subsequent cycle.