A Phase II Neoadjuvant Study of Apalutamide, Abiraterone Acetate, Prednisone, Degarelix and Indomethacin in Men With Localized Prostate Cancer Pre-prostatectomy
This phase II trial studies how well apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, prednisone, degarelix, and indomethacin work in treating patients with prostate cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes before surgery. Androgen can cause the growth of tumor cells. Hormone therapy using apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, prednisone, degarelix, and indomethacin may fight prostate cancer by lowering the amount of androgen the body makes and/or blocking the use of androgen by the tumor cells.
Stage III Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Apalutamide|DRUG: Degarelix|DRUG: Indomethacin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Prednisone
Pathologic Complete Response Rate as Assessed From Prostatectomy Specimens Following Neoadjuvant Treatment, Pathologic complete response is defined as no evidence of cancer on fully submitted prostatectomy specimens using standard surgical pathology assessments (i.e. H\&E assessment will be used for the purpose of defining pathologic complete response per protocol) at 3 months., At 3 months
Apoptotic Index (i.e. Percentage of Tumor Cells Undergoing Apoptosis), Will be determined by cleaved caspase-3 immunohistochemistry., At 3 months|Number of Patients With a Negative Margin After 3 Months of Treatment, The absence of tumor cells at the prostate margin will be assessed using standard pathological practices on prostatectomy specimens (i.e. after 3 months of treatment)., At 3 months|Overall Survival (OS), Will will report the number of participants alive at 2-years following enrollment., At 2 years|Number of Patients With a Near Pathologic Complete Response After 3 Months of Treatment, The near pathologic complete response will be defined as =\< 5 mm of residual tumor as assessed on prostatectomy specimens after 3 months of treatment., At 3 months|Number of Patients With no Nodal Metastases After 3 Months of Treatment., The presence of tumor cells within surgically excised lymph nodes will be assessed after 3 months of treament., At 3 months|Number of Patients With Pathologic T3 Disease After 3 Months of Treatment., The presence of T3 disease (e.g. extraprostatic tumor not invading adjacent structures) will be determine from the prostatectomy specimen after 3 months of treament., At 3 months|Number of Participants Without Biochemical Failure at 2 Years, Prostate-specific antigen progression (i.e. biochemical failure) will be defined per the American Urological Association guidelines (i.e. confirmed prostate-specific antigen post-radical prostatectomy \>= 0.2 ng/mL). We will report the number of patients without biochemical failure at 2 years., At 2 years|The Proportion of Men Who Receive Adjuvant Radiation Therapy, Patients that received radiation following prostatetomy, Up to 1 year post prostatectomy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The rate of the pathologic complete response (pCR) (i.e. no evidence of residual tumor) as assessed on prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the negative margin rate as assessed on prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

II. To determine the rate of near pCR (i.e. =\< 5 mm of residual tumor) as assessed on prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

III. To determine the rate of pathologic T3 disease as assessed on prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

IV. To determine the rate of nodal metastases as assessed on surgical lymph node specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

V. To determine the apoptotic index (i.e. percentage of tumor cells undergoing apoptosis) as determined by cleaved caspase-3 immunohistochemistry following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

VI. To determine the proportion of men who receive adjuvant radiation therapy within 1-year of prostatectomy.

VII. To determine the biochemical (i.e. prostate-specific antigen \[PSA\]) progression free survival estimate two years after the last patient has accrued (i.e. confirmed PSA post-radical prostatectomy \>= 0.2 ng/mL).

VIII. To determine the overall survival estimate two years after the last patient has accrued.

IX. Safety as assessed by the incidence and severity of adverse events and serious adverse events graded according to the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

X. Exploratory biomarker assessment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive apalutamide and abiraterone acetate orally (PO) daily, prednisone PO twice per day (BID) and indomethacin PO three times per day (TID). Patients also receive degarelix subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 and every 4 weeks for 3 doses. Treatment continues for up to 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo prostatectomy on day 85.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28, 113, 450 and 815 days.