The Chemopreventive Effect of Metformin in Patients With Familial Adenomatous Polyposis: Double Blinded Randomized Controlled Study
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) leads to adenomas and eventual adenocarcinomas in colon and less frequently, duodenum. Chemopreventive strategies have been studied in FAP patients to delay the development of adenomas and cancers. The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor have shown the regression of colorectal and duodenal adenomas in FAP patients. However, these drugs showed gastrointestinal damage and cardiovascular risks, and new preventive strategies are needed. Metformin, a biguanide, which is widely used for treating diabetes mellitus, has recently been suggested to have a suppressive effect on tumorigenesis via mTOR-inhibiting pathway, and have no significant safety issues in long term use. The investigators devised a double-blind randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effect of metformin on polyps of colorectum and duodenum in non-diabetic FAP patients.
Familial Adenomatous Polyposis
DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: Placebo
the mean percentage change of the number and size of polyps in colon and/or duodenum., At the base-line endoscopy, India-ink tattoo will be placed in the ascending colon, sigmoid colon/rectum, and duodenum. In case of patient with retained rectum after colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis, sigmoidoscopy will be performed. The base-line and seven-month endoscopic examination will be recorded, and photographs will be taken at the tattoo-marked area and used for measurements of the number and size of polyps. The diameter of a polyp will be measured with the aid of biopsy forceps included in the photographic field, and only distinct polyps at least 2 mm in diameter will be counted., After seven-month administration of metformin/placebo, colonoscopy/sigmoidoscopy and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy will be performed.
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) leads to adenomas and eventual adenocarcinomas in colon and less frequently, duodenum. Chemopreventive strategies have been studied in FAP patients to delay the development of adenomas and cancers. The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor have shown the regression of colorectal and duodenal adenomas in FAP patients. However, these drugs showed gastrointestinal damage and cardiovascular risks, and new preventive strategies are needed. Metformin, a biguanide, which is widely used for treating diabetes mellitus, has recently been suggested to have a suppressive effect on tumorigenesis via mTOR-inhibiting pathway, and have no significant safety issues in long term use. The investigators devised a double-blind randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effect of metformin on polyps of colorectum and duodenum in non-diabetic FAP patients.