Physical Activity in Reducing Metabolic Dysregulation (MetD) in Obese Latina Breast Cancer Survivors
This randomized phase II trial studies how well physical activity works in reducing metabolic dysregulation in obese Latina breast cancer survivors. Physical activity may improve fitness and lessen metabolic disease (such as coronary artery disease, stroke, and type 2 diabetes) risk factors in patients who have breast cancer.
Cancer Survivor|Central Obesity|No Evidence of Disease
OTHER: Best Practice|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DEVICE: Monitoring Device|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in MetD, Insulin resistance (IR) measured by Homeostasis Model Assessment (HOMA) will be assessed from baseline., From week 25 to week 49
Change in cardiorespiratory fitness, Subjects will be instructed to walk comfortably (so they are able to talk while walking) on a treadmill for 4 minutes and heart rate will be measured at the end of the test to estimate maximal oxygen uptake., Baseline to week 49|Change in functional capacity, 1). Hand grip strength: Grip strength will be measured using a hand-held dynamometer on the participant's dominant hand. The subject will be asked to grip the handle of the dynamometer with one hand using as much grip pressure as possible while holding for 2 seconds; 2). Y Balance Test: All subjects will be required to complete the Y Balance by standing on a single limb and reach as far as possible with the opposite limb; 3). Modified Margaria-Kalamen Step Test will be used to test leg muscle power. Subjects will climb a flight of 10 stairs as quickly as possible, without missing a stair and will be evaluated based on time-to-completion and accuracy of completing all steps, given a total of 3 chances to complete the test as quickly as possible., Baseline to week 49|Change in muscle strength, The 10-repetition maximum (10-RM) method will test maximal voluntary strength for the following exercises: chest press, seated row, knee extension, knee flexion will be used to calculate maximum strength values for the resistance exercise intervention., Baseline to week 49
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effects of a 6-month progressive combined training (PCT) program on metabolic dysregulation (MetD) in centrally obese latina breast cancer survivors (LBCS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether improved physical fitness and health-related measures from a 6-month PCT program are associated with reductions in MetD in centrally obese LBCS.

II. To determine whether MetD status and physical fitness can be maintained following a 6-month follow-up period and to establish predictors of exercise behavior in LBCS.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 groups.

GROUP I (PROGRESSIVE COMBINED TRAINING \[PCT\]): Patients undergo supervised exercise sessions comprising of aerobic exercise (AE) over 30 minutes and resistance exercise (RE) over 25 minutes 3 days per week for 24 weeks. Patients are encouraged to complete AE at home over 20 minutes 1 day per week. Patients receive a Polar heart rate monitor to monitor heart rate during the AE sessions.

GROUP II (PROGRESSIVE AEROBIC TRAINING \[PAT\]): Patients undergo supervised exercise sessions comprising of AE over 45-60 minutes 3 days per week for 24 weeks. Patients are encouraged to complete AE at home over 20 minutes 1 day per week. Patients receive a Polar heart rate monitor to monitor heart rate during the AE sessions.

GROUP III (USUAL CARE): Patients undergo usual care. Beginning 24 weeks, patients may undergo supervised exercise sessions comprising of AE and RE as in Group I.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 37 and 49 weeks.