A Study of Tremelimumab and IV Durvalumab Plus Poly-ICLC in Subjects With Biopsy-accessible Cancers
This is an open-label, multicenter, Phase 1/2 study of the CTLA-4 antibody, tremelimumab, and the PD-L1 antibody, durvalumab (MEDI4736), in combination with the tumor microenvironment (TME) modulator poly-ICLC, a TLR3 agonist, in subjects with advanced, measurable, biopsy-accessible cancers.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Breast Cancer|Sarcoma|Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma|Melanoma|Renal Cancer|Bladder Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Testicular Cancer|Solid Tumor
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab|DRUG: Poly-ICLC
Number of Subjects With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Toxicity was graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. Adverse events (AEs) were reported based on clinical laboratory tests, vital signs, physical examinations, and any other medically indicated assessments, including subject interviews, from the time informed consent was signed through 90 days after the last dose of study treatment. Treatment-emergent AEs were those that occurred or worsened after administration of the first dose of study treatment., up to 15 months|Number of Subjects With Best Overall Tumor Response by Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST), Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to irRECIST at Screening (up to 21 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 4, 7, 9 and 11, when a subject discontinued treatment prematurely and 28 days after the last dose of study treatment. Per irRECIST, measurable lesions were categorized as follows: Complete Response (irCR): Complete disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (irPR): ≥ 30% decrease from baseline in the Total Measured Tumor Burden (TMTB); Progressive Disease (irPD): ≥ 20% increase from nadir in Total Measured Tumor Burden (TMTB); Stable Disease (irSD): not meeting above criteria., up to 15 months
Median Progression-free Survival (PFS) by Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST) as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to irRECIST at Screening (up to 21 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 4, 7, 9 and 11, when a subject discontinued treatment prematurely and 28 days after the last dose of study treatment.

PFS was measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression according to irRECIST or to the date of death, if disease progression did not occur. Per irRECIST, Progressive Disease (irPD) was defined as a ≥ 20% increase from nadir in the Total Measured Tumor Burden (TMTB)., up to 15 months|Overall Disease Control Rate as Measured by Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST), Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to irRECIST at Screening (up to 21 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 4, 7, 9 and 11, when a subject discontinued treatment prematurely and 28 days after the last dose of study treatment. Per irRECIST, measurable lesions were categorized as follows: Complete Response (irCR): Complete disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (irPR): ≥ 30% decrease from baseline in the Total Measurable Tumor Burden (TMTB); Progressive Disease (irPD): ≥ 20% increase from nadir in Total Measured Tumor Burden (TMTB); Stable Disease (irSD): not meeting above criteria.

Overall Disease Control Rate was defined as the percentage of subjects who had irSD for at least 6 months, or irPR or irCR over a period of at least 4 weeks. Subjects who dropped out prior to meeting the responder criteria were considered non-responders., Up to 24 weeks|Number of Subjects With Best Overall Tumor Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1), Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to RECIST 1.1 at Screening (up to 21 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 4, 7, 9 and 11, when a subject discontinued treatment prematurely and 28 days after the last dose of study treatment. Per RECIST 1.1, target lesions are categorized as follows: Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions or presence of new lesions; Stable Disease (SD): small changes that did not meet above criteria., up to 13 months|Median PFS by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to RECIST 1.1 at Screening (up to 21 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 4, 7, 9 and 11, when a subject discontinued treatment prematurely and 28 days after the last dose of study treatment.

PFS was measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 or to the date of death, if disease progression did not occur. Per RECIST 1.1, Progressive disease (PD) was defined as a ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions or the presence of new lesions., Up to 15 months|Overall Disease Control Rate as Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1), Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to RECIST 1.1 at Screening (up to 21 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 4, 7, 9 and 11, when a subject discontinued treatment prematurely and 28 days after the last dose of study treatment. Per RECIST 1.1, target lesions are categorized as follows: Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions or presence of new lesions; Stable Disease (SD): small changes that did not meet above criteria.

Overall Disease Control Rate was defined as the percentage of subjects who had SD for at least 6 months, or PR or CR over a period of at least 4 weeks. Subjects who dropped out prior to meeting the responder criteria were considered non-responders., up to 24 weeks|Median Overall Survival (OS) as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, After completion of treatment, all subjects were followed for survival every 3 months for 2 years after completion of treatment; then every 6 months until 5 years from study entry; then yearly until 10 years from study entry. OS was measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of death or last follow-up. Subjects lost to follow-up were censored on the date when they were last known to be alive. Per protocol amendment 6.0, all post study follow-up for the collection of survival data was discontinued as of February 28, 2022. The last collection of survival data was on February 23, 2022., up to 5 years
This is an open-label, multicenter, Phase 1/2 study of the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) antibody, tremelimumab, and the programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) antibody, durvalumab (MEDI4736), in combination with the tumor microenvironment (TME) modulator poly-ICLC, a toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) agonist, in subjects with advanced, measurable, biopsy-accessible cancers. Subjects will receive intratumoral and intramuscular (IM) administration of poly-ICLC and intravenous (IV) administration of durvalumab, together with either IV or intratumoral administration of tremelimumab. The study will be conducted in 2 phases.

Phase 1: There will be enrollment to 3 subject cohorts in Phase 1, with staggered initiation of enrollment.

* Cohort 1A: IV Durvalumab + Intratumoral/IM Poly-ICLC. After safety is demonstrated in the first 3-6 subjects in Cohort 1A, Cohorts 1B and 1C will open to enrollment.
* Cohort 1B: IV Durvalumab + IV Tremelimumab + Intratumoral/IM Poly-ICLC.
* Cohort 1C: IV Durvalumab + Intratumoral Tremelimumab + Intratumoral/IM Poly-ICLC.

Phase 2: Upon determination of the recommended combination dose in Cohort 1C, up to 66 evaluable subjects will be treated in Phase 2. Up to 6 subjects will be initially enrolled by tumor type (head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer, sarcoma, Merkel cell carcinoma, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, melanoma after failure of available therapies, genitourinary cancers and solid tumors with accessible metastases). Subjects enrolled in Cohort 1C will be included in Phase 2 in the applicable tumor type. Data from all subjects in each Phase 2 tumor type will be reviewed for safety/efficacy to select up to 3 tumor types that demonstrate an efficacy signal, defined as at least 1 of 6 subjects within a tumor type who achieve a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) by immune-related RECIST (irRECIST) or RECIST 1.1, or stable disease (SD) for at least 6 months. Up to 6 additional subjects in each of the selected tumor types may be enrolled in the expansion.