mFOLFIRINOX Versus mFOLFOX With or Without Nivolumab for the Treatment of Advanced, Unresectable, or Metastatic HER2 Negative Esophageal, Gastroesophageal Junction, and Gastric Adenocarcinoma
This phase III trial compares the effect of modified fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan (mFOLFIRINOX) to modified fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX) for the treatment of advanced, unresectable, or metastatic HER2 negative esophageal, gastroesophageal junction, and gastric adenocarcinoma. The usual approach for patients is treatment with FOLFOX chemotherapy. Chemotherapy drugs work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Fluorouracil stops cells from making DNA and it may kill tumor cells. Leucovorin is used with fluorouracil to enhance the effects of the drug. Oxaliplatin works by killing, stopping, or slowing the growth of tumor cells. Some patients also receive an immunotherapy drug, nivolumab, in addition to FOLFOX chemotherapy. Immunotherapy may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Irinotecan blocks certain enzymes needed for cell division and DNA repair, and it may kill tumor cells. Adding irinotecan to the FOLFOX regimen could shrink the cancer and extend the life of patients with advanced gastroesophageal cancers.
Advanced Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Clinical Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Irinotecan|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Overall survival (OS), Will compare the distributions of OS between the two treatment arms to determine if patients treated with modified fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan (mFOLFIRINOX) (with or without nivolumab) have an OS benefit compared to those treated with fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) (with or without nivolumab). Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distributions for the treatment arms. To compare the OS distributions between the two treatment arms, we will use a one-sided logrank test to evaluate if mFOLFIRINOX (with or without nivolumab) is superior to mFOLFOX (with or without nivolumab) based on an intention to treat analysis. The hazard ratio, median OS, and estimated OS rates at 1 and 2 years will be estimated along with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Multivariable Cox proportional hazards models will also be used to assess the impact of treatment arm on OS when stratifying on the stratification factors., Up to 2 years from the time of randomization.
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be evaluated as a time to event outcome and compared in a secondary manner between the two treatment arms. Patients who are alive and progression-free at their last evaluation will be censored at that time point., The time from registration to the time of documented progression and/or death, assessed up to 3 years|Overall response rate, The best response achieved after initiation of therapy on protocol will also be assessed based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and will be summarized by treatment arm. The overall response rate will be calculated as the number of patients who achieve a response (partial response, complete response) divided by the total number of patients randomized to the corresponding treatment arm., Up to 3 years|Duration of Response, The time between each patient's best tumor response and progression (or date of last disease assessment for patients who die without progression or are lost to follow-up), assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, The toxicity and tolerability of each of these regimens will be evaluated and captured using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.) 5, where the type and severity grade of each adverse event will be collected and tabulated within each of the treatment arms. Perceived attribution to study treatment will also be captured. Tolerability will further be assessed by summarizing the numbers of patients who require dose modifications or delays, and reasons for patients to go off treatment., Up to 3 years|Patient reported outcomes, Patient-reported side effect assessments (Patient Reported Outcomes \[PRO\]-CTCAE) will also be collected before and during therapy and will be summarized within and compared between treatment arms. To evaluate between-arm differences in patient-reported symptomatic adverse events as assessed by the PRO-CTCAE, the frequency and proportion of patients with a maximum post-baseline score greater than 0 will be compared across arms using a chi\^2 test or Fisher's exact test with a nominal significance level of alpha = 0.10. Similarly, the frequency and proportion of patients with a maximum post-baseline score greater than or equal to 3 will be compared across arms using a chi\^2 test or Fisher's exact test with a nominal significance level of alpha = 0.10., At baseline, day 1 of cycles 1-8 and day 1 of each odd-numbered cycle thereafter
Exploratory correlative markers, Exploratory correlative markers will also be measured and evaluated within and between arms to better assess mechanisms and prognostic impact of markers on impact. These will include baseline PD-L1 combined positive score and cell free deoxyribonucleic acid during the treatment., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will evaluate the delinquency rate for the standard adverse event (AE) case report forms (CRFs) for this trial over the course of the trial and compare this to the proportion of patients with delinquent AE CRFs on other phase III trials conducted during the same time frame as this trial., up to 3 years|Feasibility and compliance of intervention, Finally, we will also collect data related feasibility and compliance in term of the number of queries received by participating sites regarding questions on attribution collection as well as if any attribution is forcibly submitted using the comments fields., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if overall survival (OS) is improved in patients who received mFOLFIRINOX +/- nivolumab in comparison to FOLFOX +/- nivolumab as first-line chemotherapy for metastatic gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare other indices of efficacy, including progression-free survival, objective response rates and duration of response between both treatment arms.

II. To evaluate safety and tolerability associated with treatment in each of the treatment arms.

III. To evaluate the proportion of patients receiving second line of therapy in both arms.

IV. To evaluate tolerability of the treatment in both arms using Patient Reported Outcomes-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Exploratory correlative markers will also be measured and evaluated within and between arms to better assess mechanisms and prognostic impact of markers on impact. These will include baseline PD-L1 combined positive score (CPS) and cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) before and after treatment.

II. To evaluate and assess the feasibility and compliance associated with not centrally collecting perceived attribution of protocol treatment to reported adverse events.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive fluorouracil intravenously (IV), leucovorin calcium IV, oxaliplatin IV, and irinotecan IV on study and nivolumab IV as clinically indicated. Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and a computed tomography (CT) scan throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection on study.

ARM II: Patients receive fluorouracil IV, leucovorin calcium IV, and oxaliplatin IV on study and nivolumab IV as clinically indicated. Patients undergo MRI and a CT scan throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection on study.