Molecular Profiling in Guiding Individualized Treatment Plan in Adults With Recurrent/Progressive Glioblastoma
This current study will use a new treatment approach based on each patient's tumor genomic profiling consisting of whole genome sequencing, exome analysis, and RNA sequencing as well as predictive modeling. This new treatment strategy has shown promising results in adult patients with other solid tumors.
Adult Glioblastoma
OTHER: specialized tumor board recommendation
Number of Participants Who Received Treatment Recommendations Within 35 Days of Surgery, To demonstrate feasibility, we would want the treatment recommendation to be fully complete within 35 calendar days in at least 85% of patients for which sufficient RNA and DNA is available., 35 days from surgery to making genomic informed treatment recommendation
Number of Patients Who Chose to Pursue Treatment, Number of patients who chose to pursue treatment based on these genomics-informed treatment recommendations, Within 35 days from surgery to making genomic informed treatment recommendation
Successful Generation of Patient-derived Xenograft (PDX) Genomic Models, Number of patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models successfully derived from patient tumor samples., Within 12 months after tissue collection|Number of Participants Reaching 12 Months Progression Free Survival, Treatment efficacy derived from specialized Tumor Board suggestion, defined by 12 month progression free survival., 12 month progression free survival
Patients with recurrent glioblastoma who are candidates for surgery for their clinical management will have tumor tissue taken at the time of surgery. Tissue samples will be obtained from the contrasting edge as well as infiltrating margins. Circulating tumor DNA will also be taken from blood samples before, and after surgery and every 2 months. Genomic profiling of the tumor tissue will be performed and a Molecular Tumor Board will review the profiling within 28 to 35 days of surgery. If specific potential targets are amenable to treatment, a treatment recommendation will be made. Up to 4 drugs could be suggested to the treating physician. The patient and the treating physician may or may not choose to use the recommendation. Any drug from the US Pharmacopeia may be chosen. If the treatment as suggested is given, patients will be followed for toxicity and efficacy, including progression and survival. If the treatment is not given, patients will be followed for progression and survival.