A Study of Mirvetuximab Soravtansine in Platinum-Resistant, Advanced High-Grade Epithelial Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancers With High Folate Receptor-Alpha Expression
This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mirvetuximab soravtansine (MIRV) in participants with platinum-resistant high-grade serous epithelial ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer, whose tumors express a high-level of Folate Receptor-Alpha (FRα). Participants will be, in the opinion of the Investigator, appropriate for single-agent therapy for their next line of therapy. All participants will receive single-agent MIRV at 6 mg/kg adjusted ideal body weight administered on Day 1 of every 3-week cycle.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer
DRUG: Mirvetuximab Soravtansine
Objective Response Rate (ORR): Percentage of Participants With Objective Response as Assessed by the Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), ORR was defined as percentage of participants with a confirmed best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: Disappearance of all target or non-target lesions. All pathological or non-pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR: At least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (SoD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SoD., Up to approximately 15 months
Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, DOR was defined as the time from the date of the first response (CR or PR), until the date of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. DOR for participants who had not progressed or died at the time of analysis was censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. PD: At least a 20% increase in the SoD of target lesion, taken as reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since and including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the SoD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase. DOR was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 15 months|Percentage of Participants With CA-125 Confirmed Clinical Response Per Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup (GCIG) Criteria, The GCIG CA-125 response was defined as at least 50% reduction in CA-125 levels from baseline. The response must have been confirmed and maintained for at least 28 days., Up to approximately 15 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, PFS was defined as the time from initiation of study drug until the date of PD or death whichever occurred first, estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. PD: At least a 20% increase in the SoD of target lesion, taken as reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since and including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the SoD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and appearance of new lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to approximately 15 months|Overall Survival Assessed by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of first dose until the date of death from any cause, estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that develops or worsens in severity during the conduct of a clinical study and does not necessarily have a causal relationship to study drug. TEAEs were defined as AEs with an onset date on or after the first dose of Study drug, and within 30 days of the last dose of study drug or prior to the start of a new anticancer treatment, whichever occurred first. A summary of all Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and Other Adverse Events (nonserious) regardless of causality is located in the 'Reported Adverse Events' Section., Up to approximately 27 months
This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mirvetuximab soravtansine (MIRV) in participants with platinum-resistant high-grade serous epithelial ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer, whose tumors express a high-level of Folate Receptor Alpha (FRα). Participants will be, in the opinion of the Investigator, appropriate for single-agent therapy for their next line of therapy. FRα positivity will be defined by the Ventana FOLR1 (Folate Receptor 1/Folate Receptor Alpha) Assay.

Approximately 110 eligible participants will be enrolled to achieve a total of 105 efficacy evaluable participants. Efficacy evaluable participants include those who have measurable lesions per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) at baseline and received at least 1 dose of MIRV.

All participants will receive single-agent MIRV at 6 mg/kg adjusted ideal body weight (AIBW) administered on Day 1 of every 3-week cycle (Q3W).

Tumor response will be evaluated by the Investigator using RECIST v1.1. Computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans will be collected for sensitivity analysis by blinded independent central review (BICR).

Participants will continue to receive MIRV until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, death, or until the Sponsor terminates the study (whichever comes first).

Tumor assessments, including radiological assessments by CT/MRI scans will be performed at Screening and subsequently every 6 weeks (± 1 week) from Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) for the first 36 weeks then every 12 weeks (± 3 weeks) until disease progression, death, the start of new anticancer therapy, or participant's withdrawal of consent (whichever occurs first).

Participants who discontinue MIRV for reasons other than progressive disease (PD) will continue with tumor assessments until documentation of PD or the start of a new anticancer therapy, whichever comes first. Prior to Week 36 (from Cycle 1, Day 1), assessments should occur every 6 weeks (± 1 week) as allowed by local requirements but must occur at an interval of no more than 12 weeks. After Week 36, assessment will occur every 12 weeks (± 3 weeks) until documentation of PD or the start of new anticancer therapy.

All participants who discontinue MIRV will be followed for survival every 3 months (± 1 month) until death, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of consent for survival follow-up, or end of study (EOS) (whichever comes first). Additional survival follow-up calls may occur periodically, if needed.