Evaluation of Maintenance With Bortezomib Plus Daratumumab (V-Dara) After Induction With Bortezomib, Melphalan, Prednisone Plus Daratumumab (VMP-Dara) in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma (MM) Patients Non-eligible for autoSCT
This is a prospective, observational, single group and multicenter study to describe the effectiveness and safety of maintenance with V-Dara after induction with the VMP-Dara regimen in newly diagnosed MM patients who are not eligible for ASCT.

Patients will be enrolled in the study during a regularly scheduled office visit in clinical practice (screening and enrollment visit) and followed during 3-4 years in what will be called the Observational Phase. During this phase, the patient will be followed by his/her doctor as per routine clinical practice, according to his/her disease. The patient will not suffer any changes in his/her treatment or follow-up due to his/her participation in the study. The patient will receive standard clinical practice and he/she will not do any other study-specific visit.

During this 3-4-year observational phase, the patient might discontinue V or V-Dara,depending on toxicity, efficacy or due to other medical reasons, according to his/her physician decision.
Multiple Myeloma|Non-eligible for Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation (ASCT)
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Daratumumab
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from the start of induction with VMPDara until disease progression or death, whichever comes first, Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years
Description of MRD status and depth, Description of MRD status and depth, that will be conducted on bone marrow samples and outside of the bone marrow through imaging techniques if available per routine clinical practice, according to the investigator's criteria., Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years|Stringent Complete Response (sCR) rate, Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years|Complete Response (CR) rate, Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years|Proportion of subjects who achieve Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) or better, Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years|Duration of response, Duration of response calculated from the date of initial documentation of a response (CR or PR) to the date of first documented evidence of progressive disease., Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to Progression (TTP), defined as the time from the date of start of VMP-Dara to the date of first documented evidence of PD., Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Number of patients experiencing AEs, classified according to severity., Throughout the study period. Approximately 4 years
This is a prospective, observational, single group and multicenter study to describe the effectiveness and safety of maintenance with V-Dara after induction with the VMP-Dara regimen in newly diagnosed MM patients who are not eligible for ASCT.

Patients will be recruited only if patients have received induction therapy with VMP-Dara followed by V-Dara as maintenance therapy for at least one cycle prior to the start of the study (treatment has to be previously decided as part of clinical practice). This way, patients must have already been treated with 9 cycles of VMP-Dara (approximately 12 months) and at least 1 cycle of V-Dara maintenance (1 month), before entering the study. This implies that the decision to prescribe this maintenance schedule is clearly unrelated to the decision of enrolling the patient into the study.

Patients will be enrolled in the study during a regularly scheduled office visit in clinical practice (screening and enrollment visit) and followed during 3-4 years in what will be called the Observational Phase. During this phase, the patient will be followed by his/her doctor as per routine clinical practice, according to his/her disease. The patient will not suffer any changes in his/her treatment or follow-up due to his/her participation in the study. The patient will receive standard clinical practice and he/she will not do any other study-specific visit.

Observational Phase:

Patients will be followed for 3-4 years since the inclusion in the study. Once the patient is enrolled in the study, retrospective data collection at the start and end of VMP-Dara induction will be collected. Subjects who discontinue maintenance therapy before disease progression (V or V-Dara), will continue to have response rate evaluations, PFS and toxicity recorded as per routine clinical practice, until the end of the study or progression, whatever comes first.

During this observational follow-up, both the duration of the initially prescribed V-Dara maintenance (and the time when bortezomib is stopped before daratumumab if this ever happens), the existence of potential adverse reactions and the fate of the disease in terms of progression and survival, even though the maintenance only daratumumab could have been stopped, will be documented for a total of up to 3-4 years. Maintenance with V-Dara, or just daratumumab once bortezomib is suspended, can be finalized due to progression, unacceptable toxicity or voluntary withdrawal.

This observational study has the following objectives:

Primary Objective:

- To describe the effectiveness of V-Dara maintenance after VMPDara induction in patients with MM non-eligible for autologous stem cell transplantation in the Spanish clinical setting (clinical practice).

Secondary Objectives:

* Compare the effectiveness of VMP-Dara induction followed by V-Dara maintenance with the results of the Daratumumab arm of the Alcyone trial (VMP-Dara followed by Dara maintenance).
* To describe the safety of the V-Dara maintenance therapy used in clinical practice after VMP-Dara.
* To evaluate the clinical effectiveness in different risk subgroups.