Bevacizumab, Capecitabine, and Oxaliplatin in Treating Advanced Small Intestinal or Ampulla of Vater Adenocarcinoma
This phase II trial studies how well bevacizumab given with capecitabine and oxaliplatin work in treating participants with small bowel or ampulla of Vater adenocarcinoma that has spread to other places in the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs using in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving bevacizumab, capecitabine, and oxaliplatin may work better in treating participants with small intestinal or ampulla of Vater adenocarcinoma.
Ampulla of Vater Adenocarcinoma|Small Intestinal Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Ampulla of Vater Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Small Intestinal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Ampulla of Vater Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Small Intestinal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Ampulla of Vater Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Small Intestinal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Ampulla of Vater Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Small Intestinal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Number of Participants With Progression-free Survival (PFS) at Six Months, A Bayesian sequential monitoring design will be used. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.The length of time interval in months from date of first treatment, during and after the treatment a participant lives without progression., 6 months
To Determine the Response Rate (RR) for CAPOX and Bevacizumab, Complete response + Partial response using RECIST 1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor), 39 months|To Determine the Overall PFS for CAPOX and Bevacizumab, Time interval in months from date of first treatment until the date of first documented progression, 39 months|To Determine the Overall Survival (OS) for CAPOX and Bevacizumab, The length of time interval in months from date of first treatment until the date of death or lost follow-up, 39 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Toxicity was graded according to the NCI Common terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 except for neurosensory and skin toxicity. Neurosensory toxicity was graded according to the Neurologic Toxicity Scale for Oxaliplatin Dose Adjustments., 39 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) at six months for patients with advanced adenocarcinoma of the small bowel (small intestine) or ampulla of Vater treated with capecitabine, oxaliplatin (CAPOX) and bevacizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate (RR) for CAPOX and bevacizumab. II. To determine the overall progression free survival for CAPOX and bevacizumab.

III. To determine the overall survival (OS) for CAPOX and bevacizumab. IV. To determine the toxicity of CAPOX and bevacizumab.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive oxaliplatin via central venous catheter (CVC) over 2 hours and bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Participants also receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 10 and 30 days, and then every 3 months thereafter.