A Study to Determine the Activity of Robatumumab (SCH 717454) in Participants With Relapsed Osteosarcoma or Ewing's Sarcoma (MK-7454-002/P04720)
Participants with relapsed osteosarcoma that can be treated with surgery will be randomized to robatumumab administered intravenously (IV) at one of two dose levels. These participants will first receive robatumumab, have surgery performed, and continue to receive treatment every two weeks until a year of dosing, or until disease progression.

Participants with unresectable osteosarcoma or Ewing Sarcoma will receive robatumumab IV once every two weeks until disease progression. Participants who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) after tumor evaluations may undergo surgical resection. After surgery, participants are eligible to receive 10 mg/kg robatumumab until disease recurrence/progression or one year of total dosing, whichever occurs first.
Osteosarcoma|Sarcoma, Ewing's|Peripheral Neuroectodermal Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: robatumumab
Number of Participants Achieving a Complete Response or Partial Response (Group 3 Only), This is a measure of the number of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to therapy, confirmed by central review. Response was based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and World Health Organization (WHO) criteria., Up to 1 year following the start of study therapy|Number of Participants With >= 25% Change in Tumor Proliferation After Exposure to Robatumumab (Group 1 Only), Tumor proliferation was measured using Ki-67 levels. Ki-67 is nuclear protein associated with cellular proliferation., Approximately 14 days|Number of Participants Achieving a Complete Response, a Partial Response, or Stable Disease (Group 2 Only), Responses to treatment (complete response, partial response, or stable disease) confirmed by central review for Participants in Group 2. Response was based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and World Health Organization (WHO) criteria., Up to 1 year following the start of study therapy
Overall Survival, This is a measure of the number of participants known to be alive at the time of data analysis for this study., From start of treatment until death or data analysis cut off (Up to 3.4 years)|Time Until Tumor Relapse (Group 1 Only), This is a measure of the time from the start of the study to documented relapse of disease., From start of treatment until relapse or data analysis cut off (Up to 3.4 years)|Area Under the Concentration-time Curve (AUC) of Serum Levels of Robatumumab (Group 1 Only), End of infusion on Day 1, and then prior to surgery, before and after the 2nd, 3rd, and 8th doses (up to 20 weeks)|Incidence of Anti-robatumumab Antibodies, For biological agents, it is possible for the host (participant) to develop antibodies to the agent. This outcome measure was planned to find out the number of participants who developed the antibodies after treatment with robatumumab., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, An adverse event is any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body whether or not considered related to the study treatment. Treatment-emergent adverse events are those that occur after participants have received study treatment, or existing adverse events that occurred during screening that increase in severity after study treatment. Adverse events in the Group 1: 0.3 mg/kg arm that occurred after switching to the 10 mg/kg dose are displayed under the originally assigned treatment., Up to 2 years|Time to Disease Progression (Groups 2 and 3 Only), This is a measure of the time from the start of the study to the time of documented disease progression., From the start of treatment until disease progression or data analysis cut off (Up to 3.4 years)|Overall Survival (Groups 2 and 3 Only), This is a measure of the time of survival from first dose to documentation of death, From start of treatment until death or data analysis cut off (Up to 3.4 years)|Duration of Response (Groups 2 and 3 Only), This is a measure of the amount of time in which the tumor responded to therapy., From time of documented response until disease progression or data analysis cut off (Up to 3.4 years)
Participants with resectable osteosarcoma will be randomized to one of two dose levels of robatumumab to be given intravenously. These participants will first receive robatumumab according to randomized treatment, and have surgery performed 10 to 14 days after initial dosing. Participants will be allowed to recover from surgery four to six weeks prior to additional robatumumab administration at their randomized dose level. robatumumab will then be administered on the same calendar day once every two weeks. Participants will continue to receive robatumumab until disease recurrence, or until completing a year of dosing at the same dose level assigned, whichever occurs first.

Participants with unresectable osteosarcoma or Ewing Sarcoma will be assigned treatment to robatumumab IV administered once every two weeks and will continue to receive robatumumab until disease progression. Participants who achieve a CR or PR after tumor evaluations may undergo surgical resection. After surgery, participants are eligible to receive 10 mg/kg robatumumab until disease recurrence/progression or one year of total dosing, whichever occurs first.