R-MVST Cells for Treatment of Viral Infections
The primary objective is to determine the safety and feasibility of administering R-MVST cells to patients with refractory viral reactivation and/or symptomatic disease caused by Epstein Barr Virus (EBV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), adenovirus (ADV) or BK virus. R-MVST cells will be generated on-demand from the closest partially human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched (minimum haploidentical) healthy donors or from the original allo-transplant donor if available. The investigator will closely monitor the recipients for potential toxicities including graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) post-infusion.

Secondary objectives are to determine the effect of R-MVST infusion on viral load, possible recovery of antiviral immunity post-infusion and for evidence of clinical responses and overall survival. Recipients will be monitored for secondary graft failure at day 28 post R-MVST infusion.
Epstein-Barr Virus Infections|Cytomegalovirus Infections|Adenovirus|BK Virus Infection
DRUG: Rapidly generated virus specific T (R-MVST) cells
Incidence of toxicity that leads to safety endpoint, This is to measure the incidence of toxicity post-infusion. Toxicities to consider include: GI toxicity, renal toxicity, hemorrhagic toxicity, cardiovascular toxicity hypotension, cardiac arrhythmia and left ventricular systolic dysfunction), neurological toxicity (somnolence and seizure), coagulation toxicity, vascular toxicity and pulmonary toxicity., Up to 28 days post R-MVST infusion|Incidence of GVHD post-infusion that leads to safety endpoint, This is to measure the incidence of GVHD post-infusion. The safety endpoint will be defined as de novo acute GVHD grade IV within 28 days of the last dose of R-MVST, or grades 3-5 infusion related adverse events within 28 days of the last CTL dose, or grades 4-5 non-hematological adverse events within 28 days of the last CTL dose that are not due to the pre-existing infection or the original malignancy or pre-existing co-morbidities as defined by the N a t i o n a l C a n c e r I n s t i t u t e ( NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 5.0., Up to 28 days post R-MVST infusion
Percentage of subjects with good response in viral load or end-organ disease improvement, This is to measure the effect of R-MVST infusion on viral load and possible recovery of antiviral immunity post-infusion. Subjects with complete response, partial response and stable disease will be tallied.

If patient has end-organ involvement, the disease will be monitored for the evidence of clinical response. In case of PTLD/EBV lymphoma, the standard Cheson criteria will be applied (Cheson, Pfistner et al. 2007) for adult patients., Up to 1 year after the initial R-MVST infusion|Overall survival rate, This is to measure the effect of R-MVST infusion on viral load and possible recovery of antiviral immunity post-infusion. The percentage of people in a study or treatment group who are still alive for a certain period of time after they were diagnosed with or started treatment for a disease, such as cancer. The overall survival rate is often stated as a five-year survival rate, which is the percentage of people in a study or treatment group who are alive five years after their diagnosis or the start of treatment. Also called survival rate., Up to 1 year after the initial R-MVST infusion|Incidence of secondary graft failure, Secondary graft failure is defined as initial neutrophil engraftment followed by subsequent decline in the ANC to \< 500/mm3 for three consecutive measurements on different days, unresponsive to growth factor therapy that persists for at least 14 days in the absence of a known cause such as relapse. Secondary graft failure will be assessed at 28 days post R-MVST infusion in allo-HCT recipients and in recipients of solid organ transplantation., Day 28 post R-MVST infusion
Starting from childhood, majority of healthy humans are exposed to common viruses such as CMV, EBV, BK and related human polyomaviruses and herpes viruses. Under normal circumstances those infections are well controlled by the adaptive immune system, but never eliminated. Instead, they are fairly inactive and produce relatively few consequences or symptoms. However, when T cell mediated immunity is suppressed, those dormant viruses reactivate and can cause a significant end-organ or severe systemic syndrome. This viral reactivation contributes to morbidity and mortality in recipients of allogeneic stem cell transplant (HCT) and solid organ transplants (SOT), and can affect many other patients who receive immunosuppressive therapies or have underlying pathology that affects T cell function, including patients with autoimmune diseases, congenital immunodeficiencies or HIV/AIDS. As a result of a weakened immune response, conventional antiviral prophylaxis or treatment with acyclovir and ganciclovir/foscarnet (for CMV) or rituximab (against EBV) are not always effective.

The main purpose of this study is to test whether giving an experimental cell product can treat the viral infection in patients who have conditions that cause poor function of their immune system, such as infections caused by viruses such as Cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV), BK virus, or adenovirus. The cell product is called rapidly generated virus specific T cells or R-MVST.