Antiangiogenic Therapy for Children with Recurrent Medulloblastoma, Ependymoma and ATRT
Patients with relapsed medulloblastoma, ependymoma and ATRT have a very poor prognosis whether treated with conventional chemotherapy, high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue, irradiation or combinations of these modalities. Antiangiogenetic therapy has emerged as new treatment option in solid malignancies. The frequent, metronomic schedule targets both proliferating tumor cells and endothelial cells, and minimizes toxicity. In this study the investigators will evaluate the use of biweekly intravenous bevacizumab in combination with five oral drugs (thalidomide, celecoxib, fenofibrate, and alternating cycles of daily low-dose oral etoposide and cyclophosphamide), augmented with alternating courses of intrathecal etoposide and cytarabine. The aim of the study is to extend therapy options for children with recurrent or progressive medulloblastoma, ependymoma and ATRT, for whom no known curative therapy exists, by prolonging survival while maintaining good quality of life. The primary objective of the MEMMAT trial is to evaluate the activity of this multidrug antiangiogenic approach in these heavily pretreated children and young adults. Additionally, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), as well as feasibility and toxicity will be examined.
Medulloblastoma Recurrent|Ependymoma Recurrent|ATRT Recurrent
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Thalidomide|DRUG: Celecoxib|DRUG: Fenofibric acid|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Etoposide phosphate|DRUG: Cytarabine
Efficacy, Response rate (Complete remission, partial response, stable disease =\[CR+PR+SD\]/n) 6 months after start of antiangiogenic treatment, 8 years
Overall survival rate, The percentage of patients in the study who are alive for a certain period of time (6, 12, 24, and 36 months) after start of treatment with an antiangiogenic multidrug-regime, 8 years|Progression free survival rate, The percentage of patients in the study who are alive with a non-progressive disease for a certain period of time (6, 12, 24, and 36 months) after start of treatment with an antiangiogenic multidrug-regime., 8 years|Toxicity, To evaluate and document toxicities from chronic administration of these drugs at the doses prescribed in this protocol in patients with recurrent or progressive medulloblastoma. These will be descriptive in nature., 8 years|Feasibility, To evaluate the feasibility of achieving the prescribed drug doses given the reduced bone marrow tolerance after multiple relapses., 6 years|Quality of life, Quality of Life (QoL) will be evaluated by a generic quality of life instrument for children (the KINDL®-questionnaire)., 8 years|Prognostic factors, To evaluate the influence of tumor biology(histologic subgroups, metastatic stage, age at first diagnosis \[\<3 years, \>3 years\]), age at start of antiangiogenic therapy, sex, duration of remission prior to antiangiogenic therapy, number of recurrences., 8 years|Angiogenic factors, To evaluate serum markers for in-vitro correlative studies of tumor response., 8 years
Patients with relapsed medulloblastoma, ependymoma and ATRT have a very poor prognosis whether treated with conventional chemotherapy, high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue, irradiation or combinations of these modalities. Antiangiogenetic therapy has emerged as new treatment option in solid malignancies. The frequent, metronomic schedule targets both proliferating tumor cells and endothelial cells, and minimizes toxicity. In this study the investigators will evaluate the use of biweekly intravenous bevacizumab in combination with five oral drugs (thalidomide, celecoxib, fenofibrate, and alternating cycles of daily low-dose oral etoposide and cyclophosphamide), augmented with alternating courses of intrathecal etoposide and cytarabine. The aim of the study is to extend therapy options for children with recurrent or progressive medulloblastoma, ependymoma and ATRT, for whom no known curative therapy exists, by prolonging survival while maintaining good quality of life. The primary objective of the MEMMAT trial is to evaluate the activity of this multidrug antiangiogenic approach in these heavily pretreated children and young adults. Additionally, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), as well as feasibility and toxicity will be examined.