Radiation Therapy With or Without Androgen-Deprivation Therapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays and other types of radiation to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Androgens can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Androgen-deprivation therapy may lessen the amount of androgens made by the body. It is not yet known whether radiation therapy is more effective with or without androgen-deprivation therapy in treating patients with prostate cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying radiation therapy to see how well it works compared with radiation therapy given together with androgen-deprivation therapy in treating patients with prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: bicalutamide|DRUG: flutamide|DRUG: LHRH agonist (antagonist) therapy|RADIATION: Dose-Escalated Radiation Therapy
Percentage of Participants Alive (Overall Survival), Overall survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Overall survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates reported here.
Percentage of Participants With Biochemical Failure, Biochemical failure is defined as an increase of at least 2 ng/ml above the nadir PSA. Failure time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without failure (competing risk). Failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates reported here.|Percentage of Participants With Local Recurrence, Local recurrence (failure) is defined as clinical (palpable) suspicion of local recurrence \[this date is used\] confirmed by biopsy. Failure time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without failure (competing risk). Failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates reported here.|Percentage of Participants With Regional Recurrence, Regional recurrence is defined as the documented progression in pelvic lymph nodes. If discovered on image of the pelvis prompted by a biochemical failure, then the event date would be the date of documented biochemical failure., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years.|Percentage of Participants With Distant Metastasis, Distant metastasis (failure) is defined as metastatic disease documented by any method. If diagnosed on diagnostic imaging prompted by biochemical failure, then the event date will be the date of biochemical progression.

Failure time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first failure, last known follow-up (competing risk), or death without failure (censored). Failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates reported here.|Percentage of Participants Dead Due to Prostate Cancer (Prostate Cancer-specific Mortality), Prostate cancer specific mortality (failure) is defined as death due to prostate cancer or a complication from treatment. Failure time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without failure (competing risk). Failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates reported here.|Percentage of Participants Dead Due to Cause Other Than Prostate Cancer (Non-Prostate Cancer-specific Mortality), Non-prostate cancer specific mortality is defined as a death without evidence of prostate cancer or a complication from treatment. . Failure time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without failure (competing risk). Failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates reported here.|Percentage of Participants Receiving Salvage Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT), Salvage (non-protocol) ADT administration is defined as the first administration of subsequent ADT (either LHRH agonist or anti-androgen) Failure time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without failure (competing risk). Salvage ADT rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of salvage ADT times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates reported here.|Percentage of Participants Alive (Overall Survival) by Radiation Therapy Modality, Overall survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Overall survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates reported here.|Number of Participants With Acute Adverse Events, Summary data is provided in this outcome measure; see Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data. Acute adverse events are defined as occuring within 30 days of completion of radiation therapy., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years.|Percentage of Participants With Late Grade 3+ Adverse Events, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 4.0) grades adverse event severity from 1=mild to 5=death. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure; see Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data. Late adverse events are defined as occurring more than 30 days after the end of radiation therapy. Failure is defined as grade 3 or higher late adverse event. Failure time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without failure (competing risk). Failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates are reported here.|Percentage of Participants Failed (Freedom From Failure), Failure is defined as biochemical failure, local failure, or distant metastasis. Failure time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without failure (competing risk). Failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Five-year rates are provided here. Analysis was planned to occur after 218 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Follow-up schedule: end of RT (2nd arm only), then every 3 months for a year, every 4 months for 4 years, then yearly. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 10.3 years. Five-year rates are reported here.|Change From Baseline in Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) Urinary Domain Score, The EPIC assesses disease-specific aspects of prostate cancer and it's therapies and consists of four summary domains (bowel, urinary, sexual, and hormonal), each ranging from 0-100, with higher scores representing better health-related quality of life. Change is calculated as time point value - baseline value, such that a positive change indicates improvement., Last week of RT (approximately 9 and 17 weeks from start of protocol treatment for Arm 1 and 2, respectively), then 6 months, 1 year and 5 years from end of RT.|Change From Baseline in Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) Bowel Domain Score, The EPIC assesses disease-specific aspects of prostate cancer and it's therapies and consists of four summary domains (bowel, urinary, sexual, and hormonal), each ranging from 0-100, with higher scores representing better health-related quality of life. Change is calculated as time point value - baseline value, such that a positive change indicates improvement., Last week of RT (approximately 9 and 17 weeks from start of protocol treatment for Arm 1 and 2, respectively), then 6 months, 1 year and 5 years from end of RT.|Change From Baseline in Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) Hormonal Domain Score, The EPIC assesses disease-specific aspects of prostate cancer and it's therapies and consists of four summary domains (bowel, urinary, sexual, and hormonal), each ranging from 0-100, with higher scores representing better health-related quality of life. Change is calculated as time point value - baseline value, such that a positive change indicates improvement., Last week of RT (approximately 9 and 17 weeks from start of protocol treatment for Arm 1 and 2, respectively), then 6 months, 1 year and 5 years from end of RT.|Change From Baseline in Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) Sexual Domain Score, The EPIC assesses disease-specific aspects of prostate cancer and it's therapies and consists of four summary domains (bowel, urinary, sexual, and hormonal), each ranging from 0-100, with higher scores representing better health-related quality of life. Change is calculated as time point value - baseline value, such that a positive change indicates improvement., Last week of RT (approximately 9 and 17 weeks from start of protocol treatment for Arm 1 and 2, respectively), then 6 months, 1 year and 5 years from end of RT.|Change From Baseline in Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue Domain Score, The PROMIS Fatigue short form 8a contains 8 questions, each with 5 responses ranging from 1 to 5, evaluating self-reported fatigue symptoms over the past 7 days. The total score is the sum of all questions which is then converted into a pro-rated T-score with a mean of 50 and standard deviation of 10, with a possible range of 33.1 to 77.8. Higher scores indicate more fatigue. Change is defined as value at one year - value at baseline. Positive change from baseline indicates increased fatigue at one year., Last week of RT (approximately 9 and 17 weeks from start of protocol treatment for Arm 1 and 2, respectively), then 6 months, 1 year and 5 years from end of RT.|Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs), Last week of RT (approximately 9 and 17 weeks from start of protocol treatment for Arm 1 and 2, respectively), then 6 months, 1 year and 5 years from end of RT.|Correlation Between PROMIS Fatigue Score Change and Plasma Cytokine Change, From date of randomization to 3 weeks from start of RT.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Demonstrate an overall survival (OS) advantage in patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer treated with dose-escalated radiotherapy (RT) with versus without short-term androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT).

Secondary

* Determine whether the addition of ADT to dose-escalated RT versus RT alone improves clinical failures, biochemical failure by the "nadir +2", freedom from failure, rate of salvage ADT, and prostate cancer-specific mortality in these patients.
* Estimate the magnitude of benefit of ADT with respect to OS in patients treated with different RT modalities (i.e., external-beam radiation therapy alone vs low-dose rate brachytherapy boost vs high-dose rate brachytherapy boost).
* Compare acute and late treatment adverse events of these regimens and correlate these events with the presence or absence of pre-existing comorbidity as documented by the Adult Comorbidity Evaluation 27 assessment.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of radiotherapy. Patients are stratified according to number of risk factors (1 vs 2-3), comorbidity (ACE-27 grade ≥ 2 vs \< 2), and radiotherapy (RT) modality (dose-escalated external-beam RT \[EBRT\] vs EBRT and low-dose rate brachytherapy boost vs EBRT and high-dose rate brachytherapy boost). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically.