Combination of SBRT and Immunotherapy in Small Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HSBRT2402)
For inoperable small hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) is an effective and safe local treatment. Despite satisfactory local control rate, the incidence of recurrence out the field remains substantial, with 2-year PFS of 31.9% to 60.9%. Therefore, a more effective treatment mode is urgently needed. Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting PD-1/PD-L1 have shown substantial clinical benefits in advanced HCC as well as resected high-risk HCC. Recently, the combination of immunotherapy with SBRT has shown promising activity in HCC, but its utility in small HCC is unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of SBRT followed by sintilimab (an anti-PD-1 antibody) in patients with recurrent or residual small HCC.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiotherapy|DRUG: Sintilimab
Progression-free survival (PFS) rate, Two-year follow-up from the date of enrollment to the date of disease progression or last follow-up, From date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause or the date of first documented disease progression whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months
Overall survival, Three-year follow-up from the enrollment to the date of death from any cause or date of lost follow-up, From date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months|Local control rate (DCR), The proportion of patients with complete response, partial response, or stable disease for the target lesion according to RECIST criteria., From date of enrollment to the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 36 months|Treatment-related adverse events, Incidence of treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., From date of enrollment to the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 36 months.
Correlation between serum cytokines and overall survival and immune-related adverse events, The correlation between dynamic change of serum cytokines (IL-2R, IL-6, IL-13, IL-8, CCL3, CD40, and CD274) during treatment and survival outcomes and immune-related adverse events., From date of enrollment to the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 36 months|Correlation between ctDNA and overall survival, The correlation between dynamic change of ctDNA (before and after treatment) and survival outcomes., From date of enrollment to the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 36 months
A total of 140 patients with recurrent or residual small HCC will be stratified according to tumor diameter (≤3 vs. \>3 cm) and tumor type (recurrent vs. residual) and randomly assigned (1:1) to receive stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) with or without adjuvant sintilimab for 6 cycles (200 mg, once every 3 weeks, with the first dose within 1 week after the completion of SBRT).