National Danish Protocol. Surgery+ SBRT for M1 Prostate Cancer Patients
A prospective, open label phase 2 clinical trial assessing safety, complications and feasibility of radical prostatectomy (RARP) plus local stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) to bone metastases in combination with short-term medical castration to a select population of prostate cancer patients with oligometastatic disease.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic
PROCEDURE: RARP|RADIATION: SBRT|DRUG: ADT
Proportion of men with Grade ≥ 3 adverse events the first year, Proportion of men with Grade ≥ 3 adverse events the first year, 1 year
Proportion of men achieving prostatic specific antigen (PSA) < 0.1 ng/ml, Proportion of men achieving prostatic specific antigen (PSA) \< 0.1 ng/ml, 1 year|Feasibility of radical prostatectomy in the oligometastatic setting, Feasibility of radical prostatectomy in the oligometastatic setting measured as number of patients who successfully undergo radical prostatectomy with pelvic lymphnode disection and 30 days (post-operative) morbidity according to the Clavian Dindo Classification., 1 year
Time to castrate resistance (TCR), Time to castrate resistance (TCR) measured from the primary initiation of ADT to Castrate Resistant Prostate Cancer (CRPC) defined as: Three consecutive rises in PSA one week apart resulting in two 50% increases over the nadir, with PSA \> 1 ng/mL or the appearance of two or more new bone lesions on bone scan or enlargement of a soft tissue lesion using RECIST. At the same time serum testosterone is \<50ng/dL (\<1.70 nnmol/L)., 5 yrs|Quality of life (FACT-P-DK), Changes in Quality of life assessed by the questionaire FACT-P-DK and calculated using the FACT-P Scoring Guidelines (Version 4). The following scores will be evaluated:

1. FACT-P Trial Outcome Index (TOI). Score range: 0-104 (The higher score the better). Combines the subscales "Physical well-being", "Functional Well-being" and "Prostate Cancer Subscale"
2. FACT-G total score. Score range: 0-108 (the higher score the better QoL). Combines the subscales: "Physical well-being", "Social well-being", "Emotional well-being" and "Functional well-being".
3. FACT-P total score. Score range: 0-156 (the higher score the better QoL). Combines the subscales: "Physical well-being", "Social well-being", "Emotional well-being", "Prostate Cancer Subscale" and "Functional well-being"., 5 yrs|Number of participants with Interventions on lower or upper urinary tract, Number of participants undergoing with interventions on lower or upper urinary tract, i.e.:

* Bladder catheter
* Ureteric stent
* Nephrostomy
* Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) or related procedure, 5 yrs
A prospective, open label phase 2 clinical trial assessing safety, complications and feasibility of radical prostatectomy (RARP) plus local stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) to bone metastases in combination with short-term medical castration to a select population of prostate cancer patients with oligometastatic disease.