Endobronchial Ultrasound-guided Transbronchial Needle Aspiration for Lymph Node Staging in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Pursuing Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT)
It is reported that more than 90,000 patients died of lung cancer and more than 20% of them were older than 80 years in North America. Therefore a less invasive but effective treatment is required for patients with lung cancer of advanced age, diminished pulmonary functions, and chronic diseases. Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for early stage lung cancer in medically inoperable patients. On the other hand, accurate mediastinal and hilar lymph node staging is one of the most important factors that determine the outcome and indications for SBRT. Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) is a novel, minimally invasive modality that enables the assessment of mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes with a high sensitivity. Accurate lymph node staging by EBUS-TBNA will allow opportunities for high-risk patients with lung cancer to undergo minimally invasive treatment.
Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: EBUS-TBNA
To test whether or not there is a difference in accuracy between CT/PET and the minimally invasive technique of EBUS-TBNA for mediastinal staging in patients with non-small cell lung cancer prior to stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)., Primary objective: To test whether or not there is a difference in accuracy between CT/PET and the minimally invasive technique of EBUS-TBNA for mediastinal staging in patients with non-small cell lung cancer prior to stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT).

In comparing EBUS-TBNA vs. CT/PET the primary outcome measures will be:

1) Sensitivity, 2) Specificity, 3) Positive predictive value, 4) Negative predictive value, 5) Accuracy in detecting malignancy, 3 years
The treatment outcome (nodal recurrence rate) will be evaluated based on clinical chart review., 5 years
Patients with radiologically early stage lung cancer who are candidates for SBRT will be enrolled in this study. Prior to enrollment, patients are required to be evaluated by an experienced thoracic surgeon, radiation oncologist or medical oncologist to determine operability. Patients will udergo computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) prior to EBUS- TBNA. EBUS-TBNA will be performed at the Interventional Thoracic Surgery Suite (ITSS) located at Toronto General Hospital by a Thoracic Surgeon. The procedure will be performed under local anesthesia with conscious sedation. Mediastinal as well as hilar lymph nodes will be assessed by EBUS-TBNA. The result of pathological diagnosis using EBUS-TBNA will be compared with the result of radiological staging (CT and PET-CT). Patients who are negative for mediastinal lymph node metastasis by EBUS-TBNA will undergo SBRT. In addition, the treatment outcome will be evaluated based on the clinical chart review.