Oxybutynin Chloride in Managing Hot Flashes
This randomized phase III trial studies how well oxybutynin chloride works in managing hot flashes in patients who are not candidates for, or not interested in hormone replacement therapy. Previous studies have shown that oxybutynin is effective in managing hot flashes, however doses used in prior studies have resulted in side effects. This trial is evaluating lower doses of oxybutynin with the goal of determining if they are efficacious with less side effects.

ADAM-VTE
Breast Carcinoma|Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Hot Flashes|Lobular Breast Carcinoma In Situ|No Evidence of Disease
DRUG: Oxybutynin Chloride|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Average Change in Hot Flash Activity Score From Baseline to Week 7 for Low Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo and for High Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo, Average change in hot flash activity score from baseline to Week 7 for Low Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo. The hot flash activity will be measured by the weekly average hot flash score (Sloan JA, et. al., 2001), which is a composite entity of both frequency and severity of hot flashes (The Hot Flash Diary collects the following information for Day 1- Day 7 of each week: Number of mild hot flashes, Number of moderate hot flashes, Number of severe hot flashes, Number of very severe hot flashes). This is a count, so it can range from 0 to infinity., Baseline up to day 49
Average Change in Hot Flash Score From Week 1 to Week 7 Comparing Low Dose Oxybutynin to Placebo, Average change in Hot Flash Score from Week 1 to Week 7 Comparing Low Dose Oxybutynin to Placebo. The least squares (LS) mean was estimated from a mixed-effects model with repeated measures (MMRM) that included low dose oxybutynin, weeks 1-7, no current aromatase inhibitor, age group 18-49, no tamoxifen, hot flash symptom duration \< 9 months, and 4-9 hot flashes/day as fixed effects, and participant and error as random effects. The mean change in Hot Flash Score from Week 1 to Week 7 is reported below for the low-dose oxybutynin and placebo groups., Baseline up to day 49|Average Change in Hot Flash Score From Week 1 to Week 7 Comparing High Dose Oxybutynin to Placebo, Average change in Hot Flash Score from Week 1 to Week 7 Comparing High Dose Oxybutynin to Placebo. The least squares (LS) mean was estimated from a mixed-effects model with repeated measures (MMRM) that included low dose oxybutynin, weeks 1-7, no current aromatase inhibitor, age group 18-49, no tamoxifen, hot flash symptom duration \< 9 months, and 4-9 hot flashes/day as fixed effects, and participant and error as random effects. The mean change in Hot Flash Score from Week 1 to Week 7 is reported below for the high-dose oxybutynin and placebo groups., Baseline up to day 49|Average Change of Severity of Stomach Pain/Cramps Symptoms as Measured by the Symptom Experience Questionnaire From Baseline to Week 7 for Low Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo and for High Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo, Average Change of severity of Stomach pain/cramps symptoms as measured by the Symptom Experience Questionnaire From Baseline to Week 7 for Low Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo and for High Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo The Symptom Experience Questionnaire stomach pain/cramps item ("Over the past week, have you experienced stomach pain or cramps?") is scored from 0 to 10 with higher values being worse symptoms. So a negative value means the symptom is improving and a positive score means the symptom is getting worse., Baseline up to day 49|Average Change of Daily Interference (Work) From Baseline to Week 7 as Measured by the Hot Flash-Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS) Comparing Low Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo and High Dose Oxybutynin vs Placebo, Average Change of daily interference (Work) from baseline to Week 7 as measured by the Hot Flash-Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS) comparing Low dose oxybutynin vs Placebo and High dose oxybutynin vs Placebo. HFRDIS Work item ("Work (work outside the home and housework)") Interference scores run from 0 to 10 with 0 being no interference and 10 being complete interference., Baseline up to day 49|Toxicity, Assessed Using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0 (v4), The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns within patient groups. In addition, we will review all adverse event data that is graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The overall toxicity rates (percentages) for grade 3 or higher adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment are reported below., Up to 7 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether oxybutynin chloride (oxybutynin) can diminish hot-flash activity in women with a history of breast cancer or in women who have a concern about taking estrogen for fear of breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform a dose-response evaluation of two oxybutynin doses. II. To determine the toxicity of oxybutynin in the study population. III. To assess the impact of hot-flash activity on overall quality of life and to examine whether oxybutynin can diminish this impact on quality of life.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 4 groups.

GROUP I (LOW-DOSE OXUBUTYNIN CHLORIDE): Patients receive lower dose oxybutynin chloride orally (PO) twice a day (BID) on days 8-49 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II (LOW-DOSE PLACEBO): Patients receive lower dose placebo PO BID on days 8-49 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP III (HIGH-DOSE OXUBUTYNIN CHLORIDE): Patients receive lower dose oxybutynin chloride PO BID on days 8-14 and higher dose oxybutynin chloride on days 15-49 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP IV (HIGH-DOSE PLACEBO): Patients receive lower dose placebo PO BID on days 8-14 and higher dose placebo on days 15-49 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.