Management of LLN Metastasis in Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer: A Prospective Radiation Dose Escalation Study
In this study, locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) patients with lateral lymph node (LLN) metastasis would be enrolled. The LLNs with short axis (SA) ≥ 5 mm are considered metastatic.The safety of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy(nCRT) with a booster dose to 58Gy had been initially demonstrated in our previous research. The effective and safety of dose escalation of LLN in LARC patients, will be further verified in this prospective, clinical study.
Rectal Cancer
RADIATION: escalation dose of LLNs
the responsive rate of dose escalation of LLN, the LLN responsive rate (short diameter \< 5mm) of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy combined with dose escalation of LLN in the treatment of middle and low locally advanced rectal cancer, 3 years
prognosis outcome-3-year Local Recurrence, The 3-year Local Recurrence of LARC patients underwent neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy combined with dose escalation of LLN, 3 years|prognosis outcome-3-year Lateral Local Recurrence, The 3-year Lateral Local Recurrence of LARC patients underwent neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy combined with dose escalation of LLN, 3 years
This is a prospective, observational clinical study for validation the efficiency and safety of the dose escalation of LLN. Patients who have been pathologically diagnosed as rectal adenocarcinoma and defined as clinical T1-4N1-2M0 without distant metastasis will be enrolled from the Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University. Patients should have at least one LLN metastasis defined on primary MRI, and the data of primary pelvic MRI will be performed within two weeks before the beginning of enrollment. All patients should follow a standard treatment protocol, including concurrent neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) with a dose boost of LLNs to 58Gy, TME surgery with or without LLND ( lateral lymph node dissection) and adjuvant chemotherapy. The regimen of chemotherapy and the way of operation should be depended on the MDT(multiply discipline treatment) decision. The restaged MRI scan would be performed 6-12 weeks after the last fraction of radiotherapy. The LLN response rate ( short axis \< 5mm ) would be evaluated. This study is aimed to apply a new way to control LLN metastasis.