Fludeoxyglucose F 18-PET/CT Scans in Patients Receiving Ultra Short-Term Dexamethasone For Lung Nodules
RATIONALE: Imaging procedures, such as fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-PET/CT scan, done before and after steroid therapy may help doctors assess a patient's response to treatment and help plan the best treatment.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying fludeoxyglucose F 18 PET scan performed before and after ultra short-term dexamethasone therapy to see how well it measures changes in nodules in patients with lung nodules.
Pulmonary Nodule
DRUG: dexamethasone|PROCEDURE: PET/Computed Tomography (CT)|RADIATION: fludeoxyglucose (18F)
Feasibility of Ultra Short-term Steroid Therapy to Increase the Accuracy of FDG-PET/CT Imaging, The blood glucose of all patients will be checked by accu-check before the injection of 18F-FDG. The acceptable blood glucose level will be ≤120 mg/dl. Any participant experienced elevated fasting blood glucose of more than 120 mg/dl after steroid therapy, he /she will be asked to come back to the PET center within 48 hours to check the blood glucose level. If the blood glucose level did not decline to baseline level, the participant will be asked to follow with his/her family doctor for management. Participants with history of systemic hypertension will be monitored for increased blood pressure. After 50-to-70 minutes period for FDG incorporation into presumed lesions, patient will under go a limited 18F-FDG PET/CT for the area of the interest (1-2 bed positions). PET imaging will be performed using a GE Discovery STE PET/CT system (GE Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI)., 24-48 hours
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine whether ultra short-term steroid therapy (24-48 hours) can be used to increase the accuracy of fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) imaging in categorizing nodules in patients with pulmonary nodules.
* To calculate the overall sensitivity and specificity of the nodules group, based on FDG uptake, for predicting malignancy.
* To gather effect-size estimates that will be used to improve the quality of a larger follow-up study.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral dexamethasone at 40, 28, 16, and 4 hours before imaging. Patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) imaging at baseline and upon completion of steroid therapy.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 6 months.