Surgical Skill Labs for Robotic Mastectomy and Educational Program Using a Surgical Guide by Artificial Intelligence
The goal of this prospective study is to investigate the satisfaction, NASA-Task Load Index (TLX), and surgical proficiency of a robotic breast surgery education program using cadaver or porcine models, as well as to develop an AI-based surgical guide for utilization within the educational program in trainees for robotic breast surgery.

The main question\[s\]it aims to evaluate :

* Satisfaction questionnaire of a educational program
* NASA-TLX of a educational program
* global evaluative assessment of robotic skills (GEARS) of a robotic breast surgery for surgical proficiency

Participants will participate the educational program and fill out a satisfaction questionnaire and NASA-TLX.

The tutor evaluates GEARS for 15 minutes at the beginning and end of training.

After the development of the surgical guide based on AI, researchers will compare a training group with or without surgical guide to see the effect of the surgical guide.
Breast Neoplasms|Surgery|Educational Problems|Surgical Procedure, Unspecified
OTHER: A educational program
Satisfaction questionnaire of a educational program, (grading scale: 1-insufficient/inadequate; 2-reasonable/adequate; 3-sufficient; 4-good; 5-very good.)

Participants' perceived goals for attending the course:

1. Met expectations in knowledge (theory),
2. met expectations in skill practice,
3. met knowledge requirements in theory,
4. met the essentials in skills development,
5. developed participants at skills performance.

   Teaching/learning environment:
6. ambience of the laboratory,
7. structure of the session,
8. pace of the session,
9. mix explanation/opportunity to practise,
10. environment \& content valuable for understanding,
11. participants' involvement,
12. development of participants' interest in the skills,
13. training adequacy.

    Teaching staff performance:
14. Relationship with participants,
15. enthusiasm for teaching,
16. encouragement of participants' participation,
17. clear explanations,
18. clear demonstration of each component of the skill,
19. 'feedback', 1 day|NASA-Task Load index of a educational program, Hart and Staveland's NASA Task Load Index method assesses work load on five 7-point scales. Increments of high, medium and low estimates for each point result in 21 gradations on the scales. (grading scale: 1- very low; 21-very high.)

1. Mental Demand: How mentally demanding was the task?
2. Physical Demand: How physically demanding was the task?
3. Temporal Demand: How hurried or rushed was the pace of the task?
4. Performance: How successful were participants in accomplishing what participants were asked to do?
5. Effort: How hard did participants have to work to accomplish participants' level of performance?
6. Frustration: How insecure, discouraged, irritated, stressed, and annoyed were participants?, 1 day|Global Evaluative Assessment of Robotic Skills of a robotic breast surgery for surgical proficiency, The Global Evaluative Assessment of Robotic Skills assessment involves conducting an initial evaluation for 15 minutes at the beginning of the education session and a second evaluation for 15 minutes before the end of the session, evaluating the improvement in skill level based on the difference between the two evaluation scores.

(grading scale: 1- very poor; 2 - poor; 3 - average; 4 - good; 5 - excellent.)

1. Depth perception :
2. bimanual dexterity:
3. efficiency:
4. force sensitivity:
5. autonomy:
6. robotic control:, 1 day
The comparison of satisfaction questionnaire of a educational program between the group with the surgical guide and without the surgical guide, The investigators will conduct descriptive statistical analysis of satisfaction questionnaire of a educational program. When conducting subgroup analysis within all subjects between the group with the surgical guide group and the group without the surgical guide, univariate and multivariate analysis will be performed, and the analysis will be conducted in accordance with general statistical processing.

The detailed scale of the satisfaction questionnaire of a educational program is the same as the primary outcome measures., through study completion, an average of 4 year|The comparison of NASA-Task Load index of a educational program between the group with the surgical guide and without the surgical guide, The investigators will conduct descriptive statistical analysis of NASA-Task Load index of a educational program. When conducting subgroup analysis within all subjects between the group with the surgical guide group and the group without the surgical guide, univariate and multivariate analysis will be performed, and the analysis will be conducted in accordance with general statistical processing.

The detailed scale of NASA-Task Load index of a educational program is the same as the primary outcome measures., through study completion, an average of 4 year|The comparison of Global Evaluative Assessment of Robotic Skills of a robotic breast surgery for surgical proficiency between the group with the surgical guide and without the surgical guide, The investigators will conduct descriptive statistical analysis of Global Evaluative Assessment of Robotic Skills of a robotic breast surgery for surgical proficiency. When conducting subgroup analysis within all subjects between the group with the surgical guide group and the group without the surgical guide, univariate and multivariate analysis will be performed, and the analysis will be conducted in accordance with general statistical processing.

The detailed scale of Global Evaluative Assessment of Robotic Skills of a robotic breast surgery for surgical proficiency is the same as the primary outcome measures., through study completion, an average of 4 year
The goal of this prospective study is to investigate the satisfaction, NASA-Task Load Index (TLX), and surgical proficiency of a robotic breast surgery education program using cadaver or porcine models, as well as to develop an AI-based surgical guide for utilization within the educational program in trainees for robotic breast surgery.

The main aims to evaluate the satisfaction questionnaire, NASA-TLX of a educational program, and global evaluative assessment of robotic skills (GEARS) of a robotic breast surgery for surgical proficiency.

Participants will participate the educational program and fill out a satisfaction questionnaire and NASA-TLX. The tutor evaluates GEARS for 15 minutes at the beginning and end of training. After the development of the surgical guide based on AI, researchers will compare a training group with or without surgical guide to see the effect of the surgical guide.

The inclusion criteria is as below; a breast surgeon who completed the basic dry lab for surgical robot platform before the educational program and a trainee who signed a informed consent.

The exclusion criteria is as below; a trainee who did not sign a informed consent and a trainees judged by the researcher to be inappropriate for participation in this study.

The estimated participants is at least 64.

This study will present the descriptive statistics on the collected data of the satisfaction questionnaire, NASA-TLX, and GEARS results. Categorial variables will be examined by the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test. Continuous variables will be examined by t-test or M-W test if needed. Additionally, binary regression test will be tested for multivariate analysis.