Testing the Efficacy of Topical Calcipotriene Plus 5-Fluorouracil Combination to Activate the Immune System Against Precancerous Skin Lesions in Organ Transplant Recipients
This phase IIA study evaluates the effects of calcipotriene plus 5- fluorouracil immunotherapy for skin cancer prevention in organ transplant recipients. Solid organ transplant recipients are at high risk of developing skin cancer. Actinic keratosis (AK), is a premalignant skin lesion that can progress to squamous cell skin cancer. In this study, solid organ transplant recipients with multiple AKs are treated with topical calcipotriene and 5-FU to evaluate how effective this therapy is against AKs and if this could lower their risk of skin cancer. Topical calcipotriene is a form of vitamin D and is used to treat psoriasis. Prior research reported immunomodulatory effects in the skin induced by topical calcipotriene. Topical 5- fluorouracil is a chemotherapy agent and is one of the therapy options for multiple AKs in specific clinical scenarios. Prior research indicates that topical calcipotriene used together with topical 5-FU was more effective in treating multiple AKs than 5-FU alone in individuals with healthy immune system. This study is investigating now if similar beneficial effects can be seen in immunosuppressed individuals who are solid organ transplant recipients.
Actinic Keratosis
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|DRUG: Calcipotriene|DRUG: Fluorouracil
Induction of CD4+ TRM cells (CD3+CD4+CD103+) in the actinic keratosis, Will be assessed at one day after completing one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy compared with before treatment. Paired t test will be performed to evaluate whether the changes from baseline are significantly different from 0., At one day after completing one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy
Persistence of CD4+ TRM (CD3+CD4+CD103+) in the AK, Will be assessed after initiation of treatment compared with after initiation of treatment compared with before treatment. The mean change from baseline at 8 weeks and 6 months, respectively, after one and two courses and the associated 95% CI will be reported for both AK and normal skin., At 6 months|Persistence of CD4+ TRM (CD3+CD4+CD103+) in the AK, Will be assessed after initiation of treatment compared with after completing one and two courses of treatment. The mean change from baseline at 8 weeks and 6 months, respectively, after one and two courses and the associated 95% CI will be reported for both AK and normal skin., At 6 months|Percent reduction in the number of AKs, Will be assessed on the treated areas at 8 weeks after one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy compared with before treatment., At 8 weeks|Erythema extent and intensity scores of the treated anatomical sites, Will be assessed at one day after the completion of one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy using the mean changes and the associated 95% CIs. The percentage of the participants with AK clearance (i.e., response to the treatment) and the exact (Clopper-Pearson) 95% CI will be reported by the treated anatomical sites., At one day after the completion of one and two courses|Differences in AK clearance, Will be assessed between the treated anatomical sites (upper extremities vs. face vs. scalp)., At week 24|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed after of one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU treatment., After of one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU treatment|Incidence of biopsy-proven acute organ rejection of the graft, The exact (Clopper-Pearson) 95% CI will be reported., At week 24
Percentage of participants with new diagnosis of SCC on the treated anatomical sites, Will be assessed after the initiation of treatment compared with the identical duration prior to therapy., At 6 months|Persistence of CD4+ TRM (CD3+CD4+CD103+) in the AK, Will be assessed after treatment with one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU compared with before treatment., At 8 weeks|Induction of TSLP, CD8+ TRM and natural killer (NK) cell infiltrates in the AK, At one day after one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy compared with before treatment|Induction of other immune cells/factors in the AK, At one day after one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy compared with before treatment|Induction of TSLP, CD3+ T, CD4+ T, CD8+ TRM, NK cell and other immune cells/factors in the AK, At one day after one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy|Persistence of CD8+ TRM, NK cells in the AK, Will be assessed after treatment with one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU compared with before treatment., At 8 weeks|Persistence of CD8+ TRM, NK cells in the AK, Will be assessed after initiation of treatment compared with before treatment., At 6 months|Compare the immune infiltrate in any SCC, Will be assessed after one and two courses calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy with SCCs that developed before treatment using archived tumor samples., At 6 months|Effect of number and type of field therapy and the number of cryotherapies, Will be assessed after the trial, age, gender, history of immunosuppressive therapy, exposure to ionizing radiation or chemical carcinogens before and after transplantation, genetic factors (Fitzpatrick skin type I, II and III), pre-transplantation end-organ disease on SCC outcomes in organ transplant recipients (OTRs)., Up to 2 years|Comparison of the immune induction outcomes in AKs versus the normal skin samples, Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the induction of CD4+ TRM cells (CD3+CD4+CD103+) in the actinic keratosis at one day after completing one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) immunotherapy compared with before treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the persistence of CD4+ TRM (CD3+CD4+CD103+) in the AK at 6 months after initiation of treatment compared with before treatment.

II. To evaluate the persistence of CD4+ TRM (CD3+CD4+CD103+) in the AK at 6 months after initiation of treatment compared with after completing one and two courses of treatment.

III. To determine the percent reduction in the number of AKs on the treated areas at 8 weeks after one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy compared with before treatment.

IV. To determine the erythema extent and intensity scores of the treated anatomical sites at one day after the completion of one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy.

V. To determine differences in AK clearance between the treated anatomical sites (upper extremities versus \[vs.\] face vs. scalp).

VI. To assess the safety and tolerability of one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU treatment.

VII. To assess any incidence of biopsy-proven acute organ rejection of the graft.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the percentage of participants with a new diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) on the treated anatomical sites at 6 months after the initiation of treatment compared with the identical duration prior to therapy.

II. To evaluate the persistence of CD4+ TRM (CD3+CD4+CD103+) in the AK at 8 weeks after treatment with one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU compared with before treatment.

III. To evaluate the induction of TSLP, CD8+ TRM and natural killer (NK) cell infiltrates in the AK at one day after one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy compared with before treatment.

IV. To evaluate the induction of other immune cells/factors in the AK at one day after one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy compared with before treatment.

V. To determine the induction of TSLP, CD3+ T, CD4+ T, CD8+ TRM, NK cell and other immune cells/factors in the AK at one day after two courses compared with one day after one course of calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy.

VI. To evaluate the persistence of CD8+ TRM, NK cells in the AK at 8 weeks after treatment with one and two courses of calcipotriene plus 5-FU compared with before treatment.

VII. To evaluate the persistence of CD8+ TRM, NK cells in the AK at 6 months after initiation of treatment compared with before treatment. VIII. To compare the immune infiltrate in any SCC that develops over 6 months after one and two courses calcipotriene plus 5-FU immunotherapy with SCCs that developed before treatment using archived tumor samples.

IX. To evaluate the effect of number and type of field therapy and the number of cryotherapies after the trial, age, gender, history of immunosuppressive therapy, exposure to ionizing radiation or chemical carcinogens before and after transplantation, genetic factors (Fitzpatrick skin type I, II and III), pre-transplantation end-organ disease on SCC outcomes in OTRs.

X. To compare the immune induction outcomes in AKs versus the normal skin samples.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive calcipotriene plus 5-fluorouracil cream topically twice a day (BID) for 6 consecutive days on study. Participants also undergo skin biopsies throughout the study. Patients who continue to experience AKs at week 8 may receive a second course of calcipotriene plus 5-fluorouracil cream topically BID for 6 consecutive days on study.