White Button Mushroom Sup for the Reduction of PSA in Pts With Biochemically Rec or Therapy Naive Fav Risk Prostate CA
This phase II trial studies how well white button mushroom supplement works in reducing prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in patients with prostate cancer that has come back (recurrent) or has favorable risk and has not undergone any therapy (therapy naive). PSA is a blood marker of prostate growth. White button mushroom supplement may affect PSA level, various parameters of immune system and levels of hormones that may have a role in prostate cancer growth.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|PSA Failure|PSA Progression|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Clinical Observation|OTHER: Patient Observation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: White Button Mushroom Extract
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) (ng/mL) levels (Cohort 1), For continuous variables, descriptive statistics (number \[n\], mean, standard deviation, standard error, median range) will be provided. For categorical variables, patient counts and percentages will be provided., At 12 weeks|Relative change in PSA (Cohort 2), The relative difference in PSA will be measured as log (48 week PSA/baseline PSA). Undetectable PSA at 48 weeks will be coded as the low end of the lab measurement range for PSA. This measure of relative difference will be compared between the white button supplement (WBM) + active surveillance and active surveillance only patients. For continuous variables, descriptive statistics (n, mean, standard deviation, standard error, median range) will be provided. For categorical variables, patient counts and percentages will be provided., Baseline up to 48 weeks
Incidence of adverse events, Will be defined per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Grade 2 serious adverse events and all grade 3-5 adverse events will be reported in the e-case report forms. Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, attribution, time of onset, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 48 weeks|Proportion of patients with PSA response (Cohort 1), Will be defined as the sum of complete (PSA-normalization) and partial responders (PSA-partial response) vs non-responders. For continuous variables, descriptive statistics (number \[n\], mean, standard deviation, standard error, median range) will be provided. For categorical variables, patient counts and percentages will be provided., Up to 48 weeks|Time to PSA progression (Cohort 1), For continuous variables, descriptive statistics (number \[n\], mean, standard deviation, standard error, median range) will be provided. For categorical variables, patient counts and percentages will be provided., Time from randomization to PSA progression, assessed up to 48 weeks|Time to initiation of additional therapy (Cohort 2), For continuous variables, descriptive statistics (n, mean, standard deviation, standard error, median range) will be provided. For categorical variables, patient counts and percentages will be provided., Baseline up to 48 weeks|Time to progression (Cohort 2), Will be defined as any Gleason grade 4 or 5 upon repeat biopsy or conversion from 3+4 to 4+3 or higher, prostate cancer is found in a greater number of prostate biopsy cores, prostate cancer occupies a greater extent of the prostate biopsy cores, PSA \> 100 ng/mL. For continuous variables, descriptive statistics (n, mean, standard deviation, standard error, median range) will be provided. For categorical variables, patient counts and percentages will be provided., From randomization to progression, assessed up to 48 weeks
Change in temporal levels of circulating myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), Will be studies within the peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) compartment. Will evaluate the relative change in prostate cancer-associated MDSCs after 12 weeks of WBM supplement intake in borderline resectable pancreatic cancer patients versus in those on observation using a two group t-test. Results for cohort 1 will be confirmed by analyzing prostate cancer-associated MDSCs in cohort 2 as well (change from baseline to 48 weeks)., Baseline to 48 weeks|Change in temporal levels of pro-/anti-inflammatory mediators, Will include cytokines/growth factors/chemokines, including IL-15 in plasma. Will evaluate the baseline correlatives and the relative role of treatment in a multivariate exploratory analysis., Baseline up to 48 weeks|Sexual function, Will be evaluated by the sexual function questionnaire, including the Sexual Health Inventory for Men score. The Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) Questionnaire scoring system will be used., Up to 48 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the proportion of patients with any prostate specific antigen (PSA) reduction at 12 weeks (\~3 months) in observation + white button mushroom (WBM) supplement arm and observation only arm (control arm). (Cohort 1) II. To assess relative change in PSA at 48 weeks (\~12 months) from baseline with or without WBM treatment. (Cohort 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate, adverse events, PSA-response rate and time to PSA progression. (Cohort 1) II. To evaluate adverse events, time to initiation of additional therapy and progression. (Cohort 2)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the immunomodulatory effects of WBM supplement in serial blood samples. (Cohort 1) II. To assess the effect of therapy with WBM on sexual function. (Cohort 1) III. To assess the effect of WBM on Gleason grade in prostate cancer subjects on active surveillance. (Cohort 2) IV. To characterize the immunomodulatory effects of WBM supplement in serial blood samples and in tumor tissue. (Cohort 2) V. To characterize changes in cancer signaling pathways in tumor tissue after intake of WBM supplement. (Cohort 2) VI. To assess the effect of WBM supplement on sexual function. (Cohort 2)

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Biochemically recurrent prostate cancer patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM IA: Patients receive white button mushroom extract orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for cycles 1-3 then every 12 weeks for cycles 4-6 (36 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IB: Patients undergo clinical observation for 12 weeks. If PSA continues to increase, patients have the option to receive the white button mushroom extract as in arm IA.

COHORT II: Therapy naive favorable risk prostate cancer patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM IIA: Patients receive white mushroom extract PO BID on day 1. Treatment repeats every 12 weeks for 4 cycles (48 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IIB: Patients undergo active surveillance for 48 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.