Capecitabine, Bevacizumab, and Radiation Therapy Followed By Gemcitabine and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine and gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of pancreatic cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Capecitabine may make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Bevacizumab may make tumor cells more sensitive to both chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Giving chemotherapy and bevacizumab before and after radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells. This phase II trial is studying how well giving capecitabine and bevacizumab together with radiation therapy followed by gemcitabine and bevacizumab works in treating patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: capecitabine|RADIATION: radiation therapy|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride
Overall survival rate, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., 1 year
Frequency of patients developing grade 3 or greater adverse events as defined per CTCAE version 3.0, Up to 1 year|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 1 year|Response rate, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare 1-year overall survival of patients with unresectable locally advanced pancreatic cancer treated with capecitabine, bevacizumab, and radiotherapy followed by maintenance therapy comprising gemcitabine and bevacizumab to a historical control.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the frequency of serious unacceptable adverse events in patients treated with this regimen.

II. Determine the response rate in patients treated with this regimen. III. Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Chemoradiotherapy and bevacizumab: Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily and undergo radiotherapy once daily on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26, 29-33, and 36-38. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1, 15, and 29. Patients undergo reevaluation 3-4 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy and bevacizumab.

Patients with no evidence of disease progression proceed to maintenance therapy. Patients with a marked response may undergo surgery at the discretion of the attending surgeon and then proceed to maintenance therapy approximately 4-8 weeks later.

Maintenance therapy: Beginning within 4-7 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy and bevacizumab, patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and bevacizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15 provided that blood counts have returned to normal. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for survival.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 82 patients will be accrued for this study within 16 months.