A Study to Investigate Efficacy and Safety of Cobimetinib Plus Atezolizumab and Atezolizumab Monotherapy Versus Regorafenib in Participants With Metastatic Colorectal Adenocarcinoma (COTEZO IMblaze370)
This is a Phase III, multicenter, open-label, three-arm, randomized study in participants with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) who have received at least two prior regimens of cytotoxic chemotherapy for metastatic disease. The study compares regorafenib, a standard of care therapy in this setting, to cobimetinib plus atezolizumab and atezolizumab monotherapy.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab (MPDL3280A), an Engineered Anti-PDL1 Antibody|DRUG: Cobimetinib|DRUG: Regorafenib
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time (in months) between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. Participants who were not reported as having died at the date of analysis were censored at the date when they were last known to be alive. Participants who did not have post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization + 1 day. Median OS was estimated by Kaplan-Meier method and 95% CI was assessed using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., From randomization up to death due to any cause (up to approximately 20 months)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Determined by the Investigator According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to disease progression as determined by the investigator with the use of RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurred earlier. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). For non-target lesions, disease progression was defined as unequivocal progression of existing lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. Participants who did not have post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization + 1 day. Median OS was estimated by Kaplan-Meier method and 95% CI was assessed using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., From randomization up to disease progression or death due to any cause (up to approximately 20 months)|Percentage of Participants With Investigator-Assessed Objective Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) According to RECIST Version 1.1, PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels (as applicable to non-target lesions). Objective response and its 95% CI were calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., From randomization up to death due to any cause (up to approximately 20 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) According to RECIST Version 1.1, DOR is defined as the period measured from the date of the first occurrence of a CR or PR (whichever status is recorded first) until the first date that progressive disease or death is documented. Disease progression was determined on the basis of investigator assessment with use of RECIST v1.1. Median DOR was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and the 95% CI was calculated using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., From first occurrence of CR or PR up to disease progression or death due to any cause (up to approximately 20 months)|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life-C30 Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Physical Functioning Sub-scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire consisted of 30 questions generating five functional scores (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social); a global health status/global quality of life scale score; three symptom scale scores (fatigue, pain, and nausea and vomiting); and six stand alone one-item scores that capture additional symptoms (dyspnea, appetite loss, sleep disturbance, constipation, and diarrhea) and perceived financial burden. All the scales and single-item scores were linearly transformed so that each score ranged from 0 to 100. A higher score on the global health and functioning subscales is indicative of better functioning., Baseline, end of the study (up to approximately 2.5 years)|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life-C30 Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Quality of Life Sub-scale Score at the End of the Study, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire consisted of 30 questions generating five functional scores (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social); a global health status/global quality of life scale score; three symptom scale scores (fatigue, pain, and nausea and vomiting); and six stand alone one-item scores that capture additional symptoms (dyspnea, appetite loss, sleep disturbance, constipation, and diarrhea) and perceived financial burden. All the scales and single-item scores were linearly transformed so that each score ranged from 0 to 100. A higher score on the global health and functioning subscales is indicative of better functioning., Baseline, end of the study (up to approximately 2.5 years)|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Baseline, end of the study (up to approximately 2.5 years)|Plasma Concentration of Cobimetinib, Predose (0 hours) and 3 to 6 hours after dose on Day 15 of Cycles 1 and 4 (1 cycle = 28 days) (up to approximately 2.5 years).|Serum Concentration of Atezolizumab, Pre-infusion (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycles 1 to 4; 30 minutes post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 4; pre-infusion (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 8 and every 8 cycles thereafter; at treatment discontinuation; 120 days after treatment discontinuation (up to approximately 2.5 years) (1 cycle = 28 days), Pre-infusion (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 1 up to approximately 2.5 years. Detailed time frame is explained in the outcome measure description field.|Percentage of Participants With Anti-Therapeutic Antibodies (ATAs) to Atezolizumab, Pre-infusion (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycles 1 to 4, 8, and every 8 cycles thereafter; at treatment discontinuation; 120 days after treatment discontinuation (up to approximately 2.5 years) (1 cycle = 28 days)
This is a Phase III, multicenter, open-label, three-arm, randomized study in participants with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) who have received at least two prior regimens of cytotoxic chemotherapy for metastatic disease. The study compares regorafenib, a standard of care therapy in this setting, to cobimetinib plus atezolizumab and atezolizumab monotherapy.