Development of Radiation Free Whole Body Magnetic Resonance (MR) Imaging Technique for Staging Children With Cancer
A research study on the diagnosis of spread of disease for children who have been diagnosed with solid tumors using a new whole body imaging technique and a new MR contrast agent (ferumoxytol). Standard tests that are used to determine the extent and possible spread of a child's disease include magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, computed tomography (CT), Positron Emission Tomography (PET) as well as bone scanning, and metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scanning. The purpose of this study is to determine if newer imaging tests referred to as whole body diffusion-weighted MR and whole body PET/MR can detect the extent and spread of the disease as accurately or even better as the standard tests (CT, MR and/or PET/CT). The advantage of the new imaging test is that it is associated with no or significantly reduced radiation exposure compared to standard CT and PET/CT imaging tests. The results of whole body MR and PET/MR will be compared with that of the conventional, standard imaging studies for tumor detecting.
Cancer
PROCEDURE: WB-DW-MR scan|PROCEDURE: 18-F-FDG PET scan|DRUG: Ferumoxytol|PROCEDURE: 18-F-FDG PET/MR scan
Comparison of sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of WB-DW-MR scans to 18-F FDG PET scans., To determine sensitivity and specificity for lesion detection on whole-body scans, the body is divided into 10 anatomical regions, and qualified professionals evaluate each region for the presence or absence of tumor lesions. These results are then compared to the gold standard (established through biopsy and follow-up imaging), allowing for the calculation of true positives, false positives, true negatives, and false negatives for each region. Sensitivity and specificity can then be calculated using these values, providing a measure of the scan's accuracy in detecting lesions across different body areas., The outcome will be measured after image acquisition
Comparison of sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of Ferumoxytol-enhanced whole-body 18-F FDG PET/MR-scans versus standard clinical Gadolinium-enhanced whole-body 18-F FDG PET/MR-scans., To determine sensitivity and specificity for lesion detection on whole-body scans, the body is divided into 10 anatomical regions, and qualified professionals evaluate each region for the presence or absence of tumor lesions. These results are then compared to the gold standard (established through biopsy or follow-up imaging), allowing for the calculation of true positives, false positives, true negatives, and false negatives for each region. Sensitivity and specificity can then be calculated using these values, providing a measure of the scan's accuracy in detecting lesions across different body areas., 2 years
Primary Objective: To compare the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of WB-DW-MR scans (new technique) with 18F- FDG PET or 18F- FDG PET/CT or 18F- FDG PET/MR scans.