Medial vs. Entire Supraclavicular Lymph Node Radiation Therapy for Patients With Invasive Breast Cancer
Locally advanced breast cancer has high-risk local regional recurrence after surgery. Radiotherapy could reduce the local regional recurrence and improve disease free survival and overall survival. Regional lymph node irradiation is the important part of breast cancer radiotherapy. However, there are some controversies about regional lymph node delineation, especially the supraclavicular irradiation volume. Many studies had confirmed that posterolateral region of the supraclavicular fossa (also named Posterior neck lymph node) had a high risk involvement based on the mapping of recurrence nodes. This randomized phase III trial compares medial supraclavicular lymph node irradiation with entire supraclavicular lymph node irradiation in patients with pathologically positive axillary lymph node and high risk of recurrence after mastectomy or breast conservative surgery. It is not yet known if radiation works better with entire supraclavicular fossa than medial supraclavicular fossa.
Breast Cancer|Radiotherapy; Complications|Effect of Radiation Therapy
RADIATION: Entire supraclavicular lymph node radiotherapy|RADIATION: Medial supraclavicular lymph node radiotherapy
Disease free survival (DFS ), defined as time from randomization until to local, regional, or distant recurrence, or any death, or secondary primary cancer, Up to 5 years after completion of radiation therapy
Overall survival (OS), defined as time from any death, Up to 5 years after completion of radiation therapy|Ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node recurrence (ISLNR) ), defined as entire ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node recurrence, Up to 5 years after completion of radiation therapy|Local reigonal recurrence (LRR), chest wall, breast , regional lymph node recurrence, Up to 5 years after completion of radiation therapy|Distance metastasis (DS), any recurrence in all areas beyond local, regional and death due to breast cancer, Up to 5 years after completion of radiation therapy|incidence of adverse events, Adverse events categorized using the NCI Common Terminology for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0), Up to 5 years after completion of radiation therapy|difference of quality of life, evaluate the quality of life according to EROTC-QLQ-C30 and QLQ BR23, Up to 5 years after completion of radiation therapy|differences in upper limb function, evaluate the upper limb function by Quick-dash, Up to 5 years after completion of radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJIECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether entire supraclavicular lymph node irradiation is superior to medial supraclavicular lymph node irradiation in terms of disease free survival for patients with positive lymph nodes and high risk of recurrence after breast cancer surgery

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the difference of overall survival II. to estimate the difference of ipsilateral supraclavicular node recurrence III. to estimate the difference of local regional recurrence IV. to estimate the difference of radiation related toxicities and quality of life.

Outline: Beginning 2-12 weeks after the completion of breast cancer surgery and neoadjuvant/adjuvant chemotherapy, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms Arm I: Patients undergo breast/chest wall, undissected axillary, internal mammary node and medial supraclavicular node radiation. Conventional fractionated radiotherapy 50Gy/25Fx/5w or hypofractionated 42.5Gy/16Fx/3.5week with IMRT or VAMT technique is recommended. 3DCRT technique is not permitted.

Arm II: Patients undergo breast/chest wall, undissected axillary, internal mammary node and entire supraclavicular node radiation. Conventional fractionated radiotherapy 50Gy/25Fx/5w or hypofractionated 42.5Gy/16Fx/3.5week with IMRT or VAMT technique is recommended. 3DCRT technique is not permitted