Tamoxifen and Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin for the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic or Inoperable, Locally Advanced Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This phase II trial tests how well tamoxifen and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin works in treating patients with triple negative breast cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic) or that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) and is unable to be operated on (inoperable). Tamoxifen works by blocking the effects of estrogen in the breast. This may help stop the growth of tumor cells that need estrogen to grow. Doxorubicin is in a class of medications called anthracyclines. Doxorubicin damages the cell's DNA and may kill cancer cells. It also blocks a certain enzyme needed for cell division and DNA repair. Liposomal doxorubicin is a form of the anticancer drug doxorubicin that is contained inside very tiny, fat-like particles. Liposomal doxorubicin may have fewer side effects and work better than other forms of the drug. Giving tamoxifen and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin together may work better in treating patients with metastatic or inoperable, locally advanced triple negative breast cancer than giving either of these drugs alone.
Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Unresectable Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Tamoxifen
Overall response rate, Defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies., Up to 4 years
Incidence of adverse events, Per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 will be summarized by attribution and grade using frequencies and relative frequencies., Until progression or end of treatment, up to 4 years|Duration of response, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, where the median times will be estimated with 90% confidence intervals., From initial response to disease progression (per RECIST version1.1) up to 4 years|Overall survival, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, where the median times will be estimated with 90% confidence intervals., From treatment initiation until death due to any cause, up to 4 years|Progression free survival, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, where the median times will be estimated with 90% confidence intervals., From treatment initiation until disease progression or death due to any cause, up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of the combination of tamoxifen and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in patients with metastatic or inoperable locally advanced triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) (estrogen receptor \[ER\] \< 10%) as assessed by overall response rate (ORR) as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin given in combination with tamoxifen.

II. To determine clinical benefit including overall and progression free survival (overall survival \[OS\] and progression free survival \[PFS\]) as defined by RECIST v1.1.

III. To determine the duration of response.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze changes in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) from longitudinal liquid biopsy to follow therapeutic response.

II. To determine estrogen receptor beta (ERβ)-mutant p53 interaction in tumors with in situ proximity ligation assay (PLA).

III. To analyze changes in gene expression by global ribonucleic acid (RNA)-sequencing (seq).

IV. To determine changes in the tumor microenvironment (TME) of tumors in response to treatment by analyzing tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILS) selected markers in the tumor and stromal tissues combined with CYBERSORT analysis of the transcriptome data.

V. Analyze changes in immune cell populations and circulating protein biomarkers as detectable from blood.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tamoxifen orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin intravenously (IV) on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo echocardiography, computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), tumor biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 6 months for up to 2 years.