Dose Escalation and Expansion Study Evaluating ODC-IL2 in Adult Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
This is a first-in-human, Phase I, multicenter, open-label, dose escalation study with dose expansion to evaluate the safety and antitumor activity of ODC-IL2 in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors. ODC-IL2 is a conditionally activated IL-2 prodrug and will be administered as a single agent via intravenous infusion on Days 1 and 15 of a 28-day cycle. Up to approximately 50 patients will be enrolled in this study.
Advanced Solid Tumors|Metastatic Solid Tumors
DRUG: ODC-IL2
Incidence of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), 28 days|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), All AEs will be assessed per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) Consensus Grading for cytokine release syndrome (CRS) based on investigator assessment., From the first administration of study drug, throughout the course of the study, and for 90 days after the last dose of study drug|Incidence of changes in clinical laboratory abnormalities, From the first administration of study drug, throughout the course of the study, and for 90 days after the last dose of study drug
Serum concentrations of ODC-IL2, free IL-2 and drug backbone following release of IL-2, 24 months|Investigator-assessed Objective response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, 24 months|Disease control rate (DCR) by RECIST 1.1, through 6 months after start of treatment|Duration of response (DoR) by RECIST 1.1, 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS) by RECIST 1.1, 24 months|To assess tumor biopsies for pharmacodynamic markers of target engagement and immune pathway activation, 24 months
This is a first-in-human, Phase I, multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation and expansion study evaluating the safety, pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics and preliminary antitumor activity of ODC-IL2 for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors. Part 1 of the study is dose escalation of ODC-IL2 and up to 18 to 30 patients (for up to 10 dose levels) or more will be enrolled in this portion of the study (depending on the number of dose escalation cohorts and patients per cohort required). Once the MTD or RDR has been established in dose escalation, a Part 2 expansion will begin. The dose-expansion cohort at a single dose level will enroll approximately 20 patients with advanced solid tumors to further evaluate safety and assess for signals of antitumor activity. The objective of the dose-escalation and expansion is to define, with a limited number of patients, the safety and toxicity characteristics of ODC-IL2. The study drug ODC-IL2 is a conditionally activated IL-2 prodrug and will be administered as a single agent by IV infusion over a 60-minute period on Days 1 and 15 of the treatment cycle. A treatment cycle is defined as 28 days.

This trial will enroll adult patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors that have not responded to or have recurred following treatment with available therapies. Up to approximately 50 evaluable patients may be enrolled in this study across the dose-escalation and dose-expansion cohorts. Enrollment in this study is anticipated to be 15 to 18 months.