Trial of Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy With Concurrent Pembrolizumab in Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
The goal of the proposed research project is to assess the safety (dose limiting toxicity, DLT) of the combination of pembrolizumab and high-dose stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) in patients with metastatic urothelial cancer. Both the SBRT dose and pembrolizumab dose will be fixed, but the timing of the combination will be varied. Secondary objectives include response rates, local control, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). Exploratory endpoints include immunologic responses and response rates in PD-L1- TIL- tumors. The combination sequence with the most promising response rates and the best safety profile will be selected to continue in a Phase II trial.
Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
DRUG: pembrolizumab
Selection of the sequence arm with a DLT < 20% based on the incidence of treatment-related adverse events, Toxicities will be considered as DLT if occurring between the start of SBRT and 12 weeks after completion of SBRT. DLT will be assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., 12 weeks post-radiotherapy
Tumor response, Response rate of non-irradiated lesions will be evaluated as per RECIST v1.1 and per immune related response criteria (irRC) (Wolchok et al Clinical Cancer Research 2009), 12 weeks|Immunologic response in peripheral blood, Immunologic responses will be assessed using peripheral blood samples, analyzed with FACS phenotyping, functional testing and ELISA, 12 weeks
The goal of the proposed research project is to assess the safety (dose limiting toxicity, DLT) of the combination of pembrolizumab and high-dose stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) in patients with metastatic urothelial cancer. Both the SBRT dose and pembrolizumab dose will be fixed, but the timing of the combination will be varied. Secondary objectives include response rates, local control, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). Exploratory endpoints include immunologic responses and response rates in PD-L1- TIL- tumors. The combination sequence with the most promising response rates and the best safety profile will be selected to continue in a Phase II trial.