A Chatbot Intervention for Reducing HPV Vaccine Hesitancy
The goal of this project is to test the efficacy of a chatbot intervention for reducing HPV vaccine hesitancy among African American parents. An online experiment will be conducted to test the effectiveness of the chatbot intervention with African American parents. Results of this project will inform future communication interventions for reducing vaccine hesitancy among African American parents.
Cervical Cancer|Anal Cancer|Penile Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Personalized Chatbot Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Non-Personalized Chatbot Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: No Chatbot Control
Attitudes Toward HPV Vaccination, Participants' attitudes toward HPV vaccination were measured by seven questions such as "The HPV vaccine is beneficial for adolescents." The responses were recorded on 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree) scales. Final score was the average of all 7 questions., baseline posttest (test took approximately 5 minutes to complete)|Intentions Toward HPV Vaccination, Participants' intentions toward vaccinating their children against HPV were measured by three questions such as "I am likely to get my child/children the HPV vaccine." Responses were indicated on 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree) scales. The final score was the average of the three questions., baseline posttest (test took approximately 5 minutes to complete)
Ratings of the Chatbot, Ratings of the Chatbot were measured by nine questions such as "How would you describe the HPV chatbot you just interacted with? - Engaging" on 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree) scales. The final score was the average of the nine questions., baseline posttest (test took approximately 5 minutes to complete)
The goal of this project is to test the efficacy of a chatbot intervention for reducing HPV vaccine hesitancy among African American parents. An online survey-experiment will be conducted. In the survey-experiment, participants will first answer questions related to their attitudes toward childhood vaccines and see a brief CDC message about HPV vaccine. Then they will be directed to interact with a chatbot designed to deliver personalized HPV vaccine messages (tailored to the participant's personality) or a similar chatbot with non-personalized messages. There will also be a control condition where participants will see the brief CDC message about HPV vaccine but will not interact with any chatbot. All participants will answer questions related to their attitudes toward HPV vaccination, intentions to vaccinate their children, as well as other message response measures.