Efficacy of PErioperative PEmbrolizumab Treatment in Patients With Resectable Metastases From Kidney Cancer
This is a phase II trial aiming at assessing the efficacy of pembrolizumab to delay tumor progression in patients with oligometastatic clear cell metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (mRCC).

Eligible patients for this trial should have received previous surgery for primary tumor and have maximum of three metastases considered eligible for radical therapy (surgery or metastases directed radiotherapy).

Eligible patients will be randomized 2:1 to receive:

* ARM A: pembrolizumab at flat dose of 400 mg every six weeks for a total of 9 cycles (one year of therapy) and metastasis directed treatment (surgery or RT) from day 21 of cycle 1 to day 42 of cycle 1; or
* ARM B: local therapy alone within 42 days.
Oligometastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab injection plus metastasis directed treatment (surgery or RT)|OTHER: Tumor resection or RT
Relapsed Free Survival (RFS), The length of time from the randomization and the appearance of radiological progression of kidney cancer in patients who received pembrolizumab compared to those who did not, 24 months
Distant Relapsed Free Survival (Distant RFS), The length of time from the randomization to the appearance of distant metastases outside those treated with surgery or radiotherapy., 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), The time from the randomization to the patient's death or last contact in patients who received pembrolizumab compared to those who did not., 24 months|Safety Endpoint, The overall incidence of adverse events in patients who received pembrolizumab compared to those who did not., 24 months|Local Progression Disease (Local PD), The overall incidence local progression in patients who received pembrolizumab plus RT compared to those who received RT alone, 24 months
In this study, approximately 81 participants with ccRCC will be enrolled. The RESORT and E2810 clinical trials reported a rate of patients free of relapse of about 50% at 24 months. This study aims to improve this rate from 50% to 70% corresponding to an Hard Ratio of 0.51. Therefore, the sample size required for demonstrating this relapse-free survival (RFS) advantage includes a total of 74 patients that will be randomized 2:1 in the arm A or B respectively. The study will detect a treatment difference with the 80% probability at a one-sided p and 10.0% significance level, if the true hazard ratio is 0.51. This is based on the assumption that the accrual period will be 30 months, the follow up period will be 24 months, and the median RFS is 24 months.

Because 10% of dropout has been estimated, the final number of patients is 81.