Advanced Lung Cancer Treatment With Metformin and Chemo-Radiotherapy
ALMERA is a randomized, phase II, open label study in patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) which will compare standard radiotherapy plus concurrent chemotherapy with or without consolidation versus the same treatment plus concurrent Metformin continuing for 12 months. Metformin is a well tolerated and inexpensive drug that has the potential to improve cancer patient outcomes.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Metformin plus Chemo-radiotherapy|RADIATION: Chemo-radiotherapy
Progression free survival, Progression free survival illustrates loco-regional disease control and freedom from distant metastasis, 12 months
Overall survival, Overall survival will be defined from the date of randomization until the date of death due to any cause., 18-24 months|Time to loco-regional progression, Time to loco-regional progression is defined from the date of randomization until the date of confirmed loco-regional progression, 18-24 months|Distant progression-free survival, Distant progression-free survival is defined from the date of randomization until the date of distant progression, or death due to any cause., 18-24 months|Toxicities, The adverse event reporting period begins from the time of randomization and ends 30 days after the last treatment (concurrent chemo-radiotherapy plus or minus Metformin). Only adverse events assessed as Grade 3 or higher will be documented., 12 months plus 30 days
This is a randomized, phase II, open label study in patients with locally advanced NSCLC which will compare standard RT (60-63 Gy for 6 weeks) plus concurrent Cisplatin-based chemotherapy (CRT) with or without consolidation (standard arm) vs the same CRT with or without consolidation plus treatment with Metformin concurrent with CRT and continuing for a total of 12 months (experimental arm). Ninety-four eligible and consenting patients will be randomized to one of the two treatment arms. Patients randomized to the experimental arm will receive Metformin (2000 mg/day) for a period of 12 months. Patients will be continuously evaluated for toxicity, will be assessed weekly at clinic visits during concurrent CRT treatment with or without consolidation and at follow up clinic visits at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months (from the date of randomization). Disease progression will be evaluated every 3 months for up to 12 months. All patients will be followed for up to 24 months (2 years) for survival.

The primary objective of this study is to determine the effect of Metformin on the proportion of patients free of disease progression at 12 months after initiation of drug treatment.