TAS-102 and Oxaliplatin for the Treatment of Refractory Stage IV Colon Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well TAS-102 and oxaliplatin work in treating patients with stage IV colon cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as TAS-102 and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Recurrent Colon Carcinoma|Refractory Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Colon Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Trifluridine and Tipiracil Hydrochloride
Overall response rate, Response rate is defined as the percentage of subjects with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by investigator assessment as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, version 1.1. Response rate will be calculated by dose level. Descriptive statistics will be used to analyze efficacy data using historical data as reference., Up to 2 years
Progression free survival, Progression will be assessed by a computed tomography CT scan according to RECIST criteria version 1.1. This criterion will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Patients who have not progressed or died at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of their latest follow-up with clinically stable disease., From the date of start of treatment to the date of first documented progression or any cause of death during the study, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Up to 2 years|Disease control rate, Up to 2 years|Duration of response, Response rate will be calculated by dose level. Descriptive statistics will be used to analyze efficacy data using historical data as reference., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, All recorded adverse events will be listed and tabulated by system organ class and dose level. Will utilize the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 5.0 for toxicity and adverse event reporting., Up to 28 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Overall response rate (ORR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Progression free survival (PFS). II. Overall survival (OS). III. Disease control rate (DCR). IV. Duration of response. V. Safety and tolerability.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride (TAS-102) orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5 and oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 days.