Validation of Molecular Diagnostic Assays to Detect Cancer Biomarkers in Blood and Primary Tumor in HNSCC/NSCLC/Melanoma
Conventional biopsy and surgical tumor resection are invasive procedures that capture only one instance of the progression of the tumor. However, the genome of tumor is not static, but it is constantly altered during treatment.

Liquid biopsy is a non-invasive approach based on the extraction of information through peripheral blood analysis. It makes it possible to characterize the development of a solid tumor in real time, through detailed molecular analysis of circulating genetic material in peripheral blood.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Melanoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PD-L1 Kit
Clinical performance of PD-L1 kit in CTCs of peripheral blood and tumor tissue samples, The performance of PD-L1 kit at baseline in CTCs (using IF as reference method) and tumor tissue samples (using IHC as reference method) will be assessed via Sensitivity, Specificity, Positive and Negative Predictive Values, Positive and Negative Likelihood Ratios, Accuracy and Diagnostic Odds Ratio., 12 months
To study correlations between PD-L1 expression in serial liquid samples with patients' responsiveness to therapy., 1. Clinical response to the selected treatment (CR, PR, SD, PD)
2. Survival status, 18 months
To study mutation status of BRAF gene in tumor tissue samples and blood samples (CTC, plasma ctDNA) of metastatic melanoma patients, Mutation profile of BRAF in CTCs, plasma-ctDNA and tumor tissues of metastatic melanoma patients will be evaluated using PCR-molecular assays, 18 months|To study the presence of biomarkers in tumor tissue and blood liquid biopsy samples (at baseline)., Molecular profile of cancer biomarkers in tumor tissue and peripheral blood samples will be evaluated using PCR-molecular assays, 18 months
Conventional biopsy and surgical tumor resection are invasive procedures that capture only one instance of the progression of the tumor. However, the genome of tumor is not static, but it is constantly altered during treatment.

Liquid biopsy is a non-invasive approach based on the extraction of information through peripheral blood analysis. It makes it possible to characterize the development of a solid tumor in real time, through detailed molecular analysis of circulating genetic material in peripheral blood.

Study procedure:

1. Initial Visit (V0-Baseline): For the purposes of the study the following information will be collected: the demographics, medical and social history, the characteristics of the disease (stage, molecular characterization e.t.c) and the treatment regimen that is followed. As part of the visit, 20 mL of peripheral blood will be drawn prior to their treatment according to physician's suggestion as per common clinical practice. Blood samples will be then sent to ACTC laboratory for plasma/CTC isolation, DNA and RNA extraction and subsequent test for biomarkers. Primary tumor tissue samples will be also collected.
2. Follow-up visit (V1): All patients will provide a 10 mL peripheral blood sample during their planned visit at the end of a series of immunotherapy cycles as per clinical practice and physician's judgment. More specifically:

   For HNSCC/NSCLC: at the end of four (4) treatment cycles with nivolumab (2 months) or at the end of three (3) treatment cycles with pembrolizumab (2 months) or on disease progress (PD) For melanoma: at 6 months after treatment initiation (antiPD-1) Blood samples will be then sent to laboratory for plasma/CTC isolation, DNA and RNA extraction and subsequent test for biomarkers. Clinical response (CR, PR, SD, PD) will be also documented.
3. Follow-up visit (V2): All patients will provide a 10 mL peripheral blood sample on progress of the disease or at the end of the observation period, as diagnosed during their planned visit as per clinical practice and physician's judgment. Blood samples will be then sent to laboratory