Coping After Breast Cancer - a Randomized Clinical Trial With Two Digital Interventions
1. Breast cancer patients and age-matched controls are first invited to answer questions on HRQoL.
2. Among responding breast cancer patients, a subset are invited in a randomized clinical trial with two digital interventions for cancer stress management, cognitive based stress management (CBSM) and mindfulness based intervention (MBI), as well as a control group.
3. The goal is to determine whether digital CBSM or MBI can effectively reduce stress levels as compared to a control group. Second, whether these interventions can improve HRQoL (or avoid onset of HRQoL problems) for patients with breast cancer, compared to a control group.
Breast Cancer Patients|Health, Subjective
OTHER: Stressproffen cognitive based stress management|OTHER: Stressproffen mindfulness based intervention|OTHER: Control
Stress, Cohens perceived stress scale. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up week 21
Subjective health (HRQoL), RAND-36 questionnaire. Unit is summary score and module-specific scores, change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up week 21|Coping, TOMCATS questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up week 21|Anxiety and depression, PHQ-4 questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up week 21|Fatigue, Chalders' fatigue questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up week 21|Mindfulness, Baer 2006 mindfulness questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up week 21|Sleep, selected questions fro SUSSH questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up week 21|EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC health related quality of life (HRQoL) general questionnaire. Unit is summary score., From NBCR baseline to f-up week 20|EORTC QLQ-BR23, EORTC breast cancer questionnaire. Unit is summary score., From NBCR baseline to f-up week 20|Neuropathy (FACT GOG-NTX and -ES), neuropathy questionnaire. Unit is summary score., From NBCR baseline to f-up week 20|Stress, Cohens perceived stress scale. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 15|Subjective health (HRQoL), RAND-36 questionnaire. Unit is summary score and module-specific scores, change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 15|Coping, TOMCATS questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 15|Fatigue, Chalders' fatigue questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 15|Mindfulness, Baer 2006 mindfulness questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 15|Anxiety and depression, PHQ-4 questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 15|Sleep, selected questions fro SUSSH questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 15|Work, questions on employment. Whether employed and percentage, status at f-up month 15|Stress, Cohens perceived stress scale. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 27|Subjective health (HRQoL), RAND-36 questionnaire. Unit is summary score and module-specific scores, change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 27|Coping, TOMCATS questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 27|Anxiety and depression, PHQ-4 questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 27|Fatigue, Chalders' fatigue questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 27|Mindfulness, Baer 2006 mindfulness questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 27|Sleep, selected questions fro SUSSH questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from CABC baseline (week 0) to f-up month 27|EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC health related quality of life (HRQoL) general questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from NBCR baseline to f-up month 27|EORTC QLQ-BR23, EORTC breast cancer questionnaire. Unit is summary score., change from NBCR baseline to f-up month 27|Neuropathy (FACT GOG-NTX and -ES), neuropathy questionnaire. Unit is summary score., From NBCR baseline to f-up month 27
After completing the baseline HRQoL assessment, eligible breast cancer patients will be invited to participate in a randomized clinical trial.

Those who are willing will be randomly allocated to one of the following arms: a) Digital cognitive based stress management, b) Digital mindfulness based intervention or c) Control group.

The intervention is based on a revised version of the Stressproffen app, which was developed by the Oslo University Hospital (Lise Solberg Nes, Elin Børøsund and others).

Outcome measures include measures of perceived stress and HRQoL.