Atezolizumab and Cabozantinib for the Treatment of Adolescents and Young Adults With Recurrent or Metastatic Osteosarcoma, TACOS Study
This phase II trial studies the effect of atezolizumab and cabozantinib in treating adolescents and young adults with osteosarcoma that has come back (recurrent) or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving atezolizumab and cabozantinib may help to control the osteosarcoma.
Locally Advanced Osteosarcoma|Metastatic Osteosarcoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Refractory Osteosarcoma|Unresectable Osteosarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Cabozantinib
Progression-free survival (PFS), Defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Will estimate the PFS using the Kaplan-Meier method., From treatment onset to either disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years
Objective response rate, Estimated by RECIST 1.1 criteria, immune-based RECIST, and immune-modified RECIST., Up to 2 years|PFS, Will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval. Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in survival between groups. Regression analyses of survival data based on the Cox proportional hazards model will be conducted on PFS. The proportional hazards assumption will be evaluated graphically and analytically, and regression diagnostics (e.g., martingale and Shoenfeld residuals) will be examined to ensure that the models are appropriate., At 4 and 6 months|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval. Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in survival between groups. Regression analyses of survival data based on the Cox proportional hazards model will be conducted on OS. The proportional hazards assumption will be evaluated graphically and analytically, and regression diagnostics (e.g., martingale and Shoenfeld residuals) will be examined to ensure that the models are appropriate., From treatment onset to death, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Toxicity data will be summarized by frequency tables. For the toxicity endpoint, per-treated analysis will be used to include any patient who received the treatment regardless of the eligibility nor the duration or dose of the treatment received. Toxicity rate will be estimated with 95% credible interval., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the efficacy of cabozantinib in combination with atezolizumab in recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma as determined by the progression-free survival (PFS) defined as the time from treatment onset to either disease progression as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the objective response rate (ORR) by RECIST 1.1 criteria, immune-based (i)RECIST, and immune-modified (im)RECIST.

II. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) rates at 4 months and 6 months.

III. To estimate the overall survival (OS) in patients with recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma receiving cabozantinib + atezolizumab.

IV. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination as assessed by toxicity rates according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the expression of selected biomarkers including PD-1/PD-L1, MET, and VEGFR in pre-treatment and on-treatment tumor biopsy specimens.

II. To assess the immunologic response by change in immune infiltrate in tumors from baseline and on-treatment biopsy specimens and correlate findings with clinical benefit/response to therapy.

III. To characterize and quantify immunologic changes in peripheral blood and correlate with clinical benefit/treatment response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days, then every 3 months for 2 years.