Functional Imaging in Prediction of Response to Abemaciclib for Advanced Hormone Receptor-Positive, HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
This phase II trial tests the accuracy of functional imaging (FFNP)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) to predict response to abemaciclib plus endocrine therapy. Abemaciclib is a drug used to treat certain types of hormone receptor positive (HR+), HER2 negative breast cancer. Abemaciclib blocks certain proteins, which may help keep tumor cells from growing. Endocrine therapy adds, blocks, or removes hormones that can cause cancer to grow. FFNP PET imaging is a form of x-ray that uses FFNP as an imaging agent that may provide more precise information about the location of tumors that "light up" with FFNP than a PET scan alone can provide.
Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Unresectable HER2-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Unresectable Hormone Receptor-Positive Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic HER2-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Hormone Receptor-Positive Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Anastrozole|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Diagnostic Imaging|DRUG: Exemestane|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|DRUG: Fluorine F 18 Fluoro Furanyl Norprogesterone|DRUG: Fulvestrant|BIOLOGICAL: Gonadotropin-releasing Hormone Analog|DRUG: Letrozole|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Tamoxifen|DRUG: Therapeutic Estradiol
Response to abemaciclib + endocrine therapy, Non-responding: progression within 24 weeks by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 or death due to disease within 24 weeks or stable disease but lasting less than 24 weeks. Responding: defined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease lasting \>= 24 weeks. Quantitative deltaFFNP will be summarized by descriptive statistics (mean, median, standard deviation \[SD\], etc.) and tested against 0 by Wilcoxon signed rank test or paired t-test as appropriate, overall and by response. The dichotomized deltaFFNP will be summarized by count and percentages, overall and by response., Up to 2 years
Overall response rate (ORR), Defined by RECIST 1.1, Up to 2 years|Progression free survival rate (PFS), Defined from date on study to date of progression or date of death or date of last clinical follow up with imaging evidence showing no progression if a patient did not progress or die, whichever the earliest. PFS events include progression and death., Up to 2 years|Overall survival rate (OS), Defined from date on study to date of death or last follow up if a patient is still alive., Up to 2 years
OUTLINE:

Patients receive FFNP intravenously (IV) and undergo PET/CT imaging at baseline. Patients then receive estradiol orally every 8 hours (Q8H) over a 24-hour period, followed again by FFNP IV and PET/CT imaging. Patients then receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive endocrine therapy (ET) of the treating physician choice. Patients also receive FDG IV and undergo PET/CT imaging at baseline, with additional diagnostic imaging for tumor assessment every 3 cycles, and undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.

After study completion of study, patients are followed every 3 months.