Dose-finding, Safety and Efficacy Study of Radium-223 Dichloride (XOFIGO) in RCC Patients With Bone Metastases. (EIFFEL)
This is a prospective, multicentre, open-label, phase I/II study to evaluate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and the most successful dose (MSD) of XOFIGO®, in renal cancer patients with metastases to bone, without (Group A) or with (Group B) visceral metastases.
Clear-cell Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Bone Metastases
DRUG: XOFIGO
Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) within the first 6 weeks to determine the MTD.

DLT is defined as any XOFIGO related adverse event occurring between C1D1 and C2D15., within 6 weeks after the first injection of XOFIGO
Distribution of radium-223 dichloride into the bone assessed with scintigraphy of biodistribution of radium-223 dichloride, Distribution of radium-223 dichloride into the bone assessed with scintigraphy of biodistribution of radium-223 dichloride, Assessed at day 1 after the first Xofigo injection|Bone response concordance between FNa-PET scan and whole-body MRI, up to 12 months|Bone clinical benefit rate (bone objective response or stable disease, BCB), up to 12 months|Overall clinical benefit rate (bone and visceral objective response or stable disease, OCB), up to 12 months|Changes in bone markers, Changes in bone markers: bone formation: bone alkaline phosphatase \[bALP\], N-terminal type I collagen \[PINP\]; bone resorption: C-terminal telopeptide cross-linking of type I collagen \[S-CTX-I\], cross-linked C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen \[ICTP\]), TRACP 5b, sRANKL, osteoprotegerin (OPG), up to 12 months|Time to occurrence of the first Skeletal-Related Events (SRE), SRE including pathological fracture, requirement to initiate radiotherapy, spinal cord compression or requirement for bone surgery, up to 12 months|Time to bone progression (TTBP) defined as the time from the first administration of XOFIGO® to the bone tumour progression (revised RECIST 1.1 taking into account bone lesions), up to 12 months|1-year overall survival rate (1y-OS) defined as the percentage of patients alive 1 year after 1st administration of XOFIGO®, 1 year|Pain assessment upon Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) and analgesic consumption questionnaire, BPI questionnaire will be completed 7 days before the first administration of XOFIGO® and before each visit.|Change From Baseline in the FACT-Kidney Symptom Index-15 (FKSI-15) Scale, FKSI-15 questionnaire will be performed only for patients included in the phase II part of the study., 7 months (Baseline and at 7 months)|Changes in MRI, New MRI criteria as prediction markers for progression and for disease specific and overall survival:

Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI): Apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values in the five target bone lesions

* Ultra-short echo time (UTE) sequence: T2 measurements in the five target bone lesions
* Perfusion weighted imaging (PWI): assessments of the area under the curve at 1min30, and of the focal lesion (FLE max) enhancement., up to 12 months|Change From Baseline in EQ-5D Scale, EQ-5D questionnaire will be performed only for patients included in the phase II part of the study., 7 months (Baseline and at 7 months)
This is a prospective, multicentre, open-label, phase I/II study to evaluate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and the most successful dose (MSD) of XOFIGO®, in renal cancer patients with metastases to bone, without (Group A) or with (Group B) visceral metastases.

Dose-finding will be performed according to the Continual Reassessment Method (CRM) using either toxicity (escalation cohort) or joined toxicity-efficacy (expansion cohort) endpoints.

Two groups of patients will be evaluated:

* Group A: patients with bone disease mainly will be treated with XOFIGO® alone. (node and/or adrenal metastases and/or ≤5 lung metastases ≤1cm each are allowed in Group A).
* Group B: patients already treated with an ongoing approved Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) for their visceral metastases will be treated with XOFIGO® for bone disease.

XOFIGO® will be administered intravenously as a bolus injection every 4 weeks with a maximum of 6 administrations per patient. Four dose levels are available for evaluation : 27.5 kBq/kg, 55 kBq/kg, 88 kBq/kg and 110 kBq/kg.

Starting dose for phase I will be 55 kBq/kg.

Visit schedule:

Selection Patients will come to the hospital at baseline, and screening assessments must be performed within 28 days prior to first XOFIGO® administration.

XOFIGO® period Patients will receive an injection of XOFIGO® on Day 1 of each 4 weeks-cycle for a maximum of 6 cycles. Patients will be subject to physical examination, blood sampling and pain evaluation prior to each injection. Scintigraphy of biodistribution of radium-223 dichloride will be realised on C1D1 after the 1st injection of XOFIGO® On C1D15, patients will also come for physical examination and blood sampling. On C2D15 (end of DLT period for phase I), patients will also come for end of DLT period evaluation and will be subject to physical examination and blood sampling.

Prior to C3D1 and C5D1, patients will undergo WB-IRM and FNa-PET. End of treatment visit (EOT) will take place 4 weeks after the last administration of XOFIGO®.

In the absence of confirmed bone progression at XOFIGO® discontinuation time, patients will continue to undergo WB-IRM and FNa-PET every 2 months until confirmed bone progression or end of follow-up.

Confirmation of bone progression upon WB-IRM will be performed 4 weeks after the initial progression is observed.

Follow-up Patients will be followed-up for a maximum of 12 months from the 1st administration of XOFIGO®.

Number of subjects:

Maximum number of patients to be enrolled in the escalation cohort is 21. Maximum number of patients to be enrolled in the expansion cohort is 21. Group A: 2-4 patients; Group B: 38-40 patients.