M402 in Combination With Nab-Paclitaxel and Gemcitabine in Pancreatic Cancer
People with primary metastatic pancreatic cancer will be treated with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine in combination with an investigational agent called necuparanib (M402). It is made from heparin, which is a well known blood thinner. Blood thinners have been shown in prior animal and human studies to have anti-cancer effects. Necuparanib has been re-engineered from heparin to have much lower blood thinning activity while keeping the anti-tumor activity. The investigators are testing whether necuparanib administered in combination with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine may be more effective than nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: placebo|DRUG: Necuparanib
Part A: Safety, At baseline and then each of 6 visits after the start of dosing in a 28-day treatment cycle, adverse event surveillance, liver function enzyme levels, WBC with differential, ANC, aPTT, and PT are measured. This is repeated for each 28 day treatment cycle until disease progression or end of treatment. A final assessment is performed 30 days post-final necuparanib dose., Part A: Baseline to 28 days after first-dose and end of study|Part B: Overall Survival, Time in months from first dose of study medication until death, Time in months from first dose of study medication until death
Part A: Maximum concentration of necuparanib, One before and seven blood samples after the first dose followed by 5 additional lab draws, once at each of the 5 remaining visits in the first 28-day cycle., Baseline to 28 days after first dose.|Part B: Duration of progression-free survival, Time in months from first dose of study drug until disease progression, Time from first dose of study drug until disease progression
Part A was an open-label, multiple ascending dose patient study of necuparanib given first as a single dose and then daily in combination with the nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine regimen. It was conducted to evaluate the safety and tolerability of necuparanib alone and in combination with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine and to recommend a necuparanib dose regimen for subsequent evaluation in Part B. Part B is a randomized, double-blind study investigating the antitumor activity of necuparanib in combination with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine compared with nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine, and placebo. In both Parts A and B, a treatment period consists of one 28-day cycle. The Study Patient and Investigator can decide to continue with additional 28-day cycles according to the patient's status at the end of each 28-day cycle. Part A has completed enrollment and Part B is currently open.

Part A - Primary Objectives:

* To evaluate the safety and tolerability of necuparanib in combination with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine.
* To determine the dose of necuparanib to be carried forward into Part B.

Part B - Primary Objective:

To evaluate overall survival in patients treated with necuparanib + nab-paclitaxel + gemcitabine compared with placebo + nab-paclitaxel + gemcitabine.