Neoadjuvant PD-1 Inhibitor Combined With Cetuximab and Platinum in Resectable Locally Advanced Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma
The purpose of this clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of immunotherapy combined with cetuximab and platinum neoadjuvant therapy in patients with resectable locally advanced hypopharyngeal cancer. Participants will receive three cycles of TPC neoadjuvant therapy (toripalimab+ cetuximab + platinum), radical surgery (laryngeal preservation surgery if possible), and sequential (chemo)radiotherapy treatment after surgery. This trial aims to answer the following questions:

1. pCR rate
2. MPR rate, ORR, LPR/DFS/OS rare at 1 and 2 years
3. Safety and quality of life
Locally Advanced Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: three cycles (toripalimab + cetuximab + platinum)|PROCEDURE: Radical surgery|RADIATION: Radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy
Pathological complete response (pCR) rate after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, The pCR rate is defined as the percentage of participants who have no residual tumor cells in the resected primary tumor within 14 weeks after the start of neoadjuvant therapy., Within 3 weeks after surgery
Major pathologic response (MPR) rate, MPR rate, defined as no more than 10% of residual viable tumor, evaluated by experienced pathologists., Within 3 weeks after surgery|Objective response rate (ORR) after neoadjuvant therapy, The ORR is the proportion of patients whose tumor volume was reduced to 30% and sustained for more than 4 weeks as assessed by RECIST 1.1., Up to 14 weeks after the start of neoadjuvant therapy|1-year and 2-year larynx preservation rate (LPR), LPR is the proportion of patients who avoid total laryngectomy. 1-year and 2-year LPR is defined as the probability of larynx preservation for a patient at a given time (1 year and 2 years)., Two years post-radiotherapy|1-year and 2-year disease-free survival (DFS) rate, DFS is the time from enrollment until radiographic disease progression, local or distant recurrence, or death due to any cause. The 1-year and 2-year DFS rate is the probability of disease-free survival for a patient at a given time (1 year and 2 years)., Two years post-radiotherapy|1-year and 2-year overall survival (OS) rate, OS is the time from enrollment to death due to any cause. The 1-year and 2-year OS rates are the probability of overall survival for a patient at a given time (1 year and 2 years)., Two years post-radiotherapy|Adverse Effect, Adverse Effect, evaluated by CTCAE V5.0, One year post-radiotherapy
Quality of Life Score (QoL), Refer to EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3, version Chinese). After the end of treatment, it is assessed every 3 months (for patients after PD, subsequent quality of life assessment is no longer performed)., Two years post-radiotherapy|Biomarker detection, Peripheral blood samples and surgical tissue samples are retained for correlation analysis of PD-1/PD-L1 expression levels with efficacy and prognosis and screening for genes or markers related to efficacy and prognosis., Two years post-radiotherapy
The standard treatment for patients with resectable hypopharyngeal carcinoma is surgery plus postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. Growing evidence shows that neoadjuvant therapy may significantly increase pCR in locally advanced SCCHN patients, potentially improving patient survival. The development of drugs, immunotherapy, and targeted therapy has been proven to improve the overall survival of patients with SCCHN significantly, and PD-1 inhibitor combined with cetuximab has also shown promising efficacy in R/M SCCHN. This study explores the effectiveness and safety of immunotherapy combined with cetuximab and platinum neoadjuvant therapy in patients with resectable locally advanced hypopharyngeal carcinoma.