MEK Inhibitor Mirdametinib (PD-0325901) in Patients With Neurofibromatosis Type 1 Associated Plexiform Neurofibromas
This study evaluates mirdametinib (PD-0325901) in the treatment of symptomatic inoperable neurofibromatosis type-1 (NF1)-associated plexiform neurofibromas (PNs). All participants will receive mirdametinib (PD-0325901). Eligible participants may continue in a long-term follow-up phase.
Plexiform Neurofibroma|Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1)
DRUG: Mirdametinib (PD-0325901) oral capsule or dispersible tablet
Complete or partial response rate at the end of the Treatment Phase compared to baseline. Partial response is defined as a ≥ 20% reduction in target tumor volume., Response will be determined by a blinded centralized review of volumetric MRI., Up to 24 months
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events., Adverse events will be assessed according to toxicities graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0., Up to 24 months|Duration of response (DOR) for participants who meet criteria for objective response rate., Response will be determined by a blinded centralized review of volumetric MRI., Up to 24 months|Change from Baseline on quality of life (QOL) as measured by the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL), Acute version., The PedsQL consists of a 23-item core measure of global QOL that can be completed in approximately 5 minutes. There are four subscales: physical functioning, emotional functioning, social functioning and school/work functioning. Participants ≥ 5 years of age complete an age-appropriate self-report; and parents/guardians of children ages 2-17 complete a parent proxy report of the age-specific QOL. The recall period is 7 days., Up to 24 months|Change from Baseline in pain as measured by the Numeric Rating Scale-11 (NRS-11)., The NRS-11 is a self-reported 11-point numerical scale that assesses pain severity. Participants ≥ 8 years of age are asked to select a number from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain you can imagine) that best describes their worst pain. The recall period is 24 hours., Up to 24 months|Change from Baseline in pain as measured by the Pain Interference Index (PII)., The PII assesses relevant aspects of one's life, including pain interference with activities, spending time with family/friends, mood, sleep and attention. Participants ≥ 6 years of age complete a self-report, and parents/guardians of children age 6-17 complete a parent proxy report. The recall period is 24 hours., Up to 24 months
Change from Baseline in physical function status as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS): physical function/mobility/upper extremity short forms (8a and 8b)., PROMIS measures capability of physical functioning, with questions related to daily activities. Participants ≥ 18 years of age complete a self-report of physical function. Participants 8-17 years of age complete a self-report of physical function in the upper extremity or lower extremity (mobility), depending on location of the PN. Parents/guardians of children ages 2-17 complete a parent proxy report corresponding to the pediatric version. The recall period is 7 days., Up to 24 months|Change from Baseline in localized strength., If motor dysfunction or weakness is evident, strength of the affected muscle groups will be measured by dynamometer and assessed by a muscle grading scale., Up to 24 months|Change from Baseline in range of motion of PN-associated functional impairment., If motor dysfunction or weakness is evident, range of motion of the affected areas and/or joints will be measured by a goniometer., Up to 24 months|Change from Baseline in endurance., If airway or lower extremity motor dysfunction is evident, endurance will be measured by completion of a 6-minute walking test., Up to 24 months|Time to Response defined as the time between first dose and the first date of objective response., Response will be determined by a blinded centralized review of volumetric MRI., Up to 24 months|Time to progression, from the first dose to the date of a ≥ 20% increase in tumor volume., Evidence of progression or tumor growth will be determined by a blinded centralized review of volumetric MRI., Up to 24 months|Progression Free Survival, defined as the time in months from the first dose to the date of a ≥ 20% increase in tumor volume or death., Evidence of progression or tumor growth will be determined by a blinded centralized review of volumetric MRI., Up to 24 months|Change from Baseline in PN-associated disfigurement using standardized photography, centrally reviewed., For participants with a PN that is visible and amenable to photography, changes in visible tumor aspects will be evaluated by a centralized reviewer., Up to 24 months|Comparison of tumor response to levels of pERK and biomarkers indicative of inhibition of downstream targets of MEK (eg, ERK phosphorylation)., Measured in tumor biopsies in participants ≥ 18 years of age., Up to 24 months|Acceptability of the dispersible tablet formulation as measured by the Pediatric Oral Medicine Acceptability Questionnaire (P-OMAQ), The P-OMAQ uses a 5-point numerical rate scale to measure acceptability of use of the tablet formulation with questions related to taste, smell and administration of study medication. Participants ≥ 8 years of age complete a 12-item self-report; adult parents/caregivers responsible for oversight of study drug administration for participants ages 6 months to 17 years complete a 19-item caregiver report . The recall period is 7 days., up to 7 days
Neurofibromas are benign peripheral nerve sheath tumors, which are classified as plexiform neurofibromas (PNs) if they extend longitudinally along a nerve and involve multiple fascicles. PNs are a major cause of morbidity and disfigurement in individuals with NF1, and as the tumor growth progresses, can cause a multitude of clinical deficits including pain and impaired physical function. PNs have the potential to undergo malignant transformation to Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheet Tumors (MPNST).

Mirdametinib (PD-0325901) is an orally delivered, highly selective small-molecule inhibitor of the dual specificity kinases, MEK1 and MEK2 (MAPK/ERK Kinase) which prevents the phosphorylation and subsequent activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK).

Previous studies of mirdametinib (PD-0325901) demonstrated PN shrinkage and sustained inhibition of pERK. Reduced tumor volume indicated that cell proliferation or cell death may be altered in PNs with administration of mirdametinib (PD-0325901).