Lapatinib in Combination With Vinorelbine
This is a Multicenter, Open-Label, Phase II Study of lapatinib in Combination with Vinorelbine in women with documented evidence of HER2/neu positive breast cancer which is metastatic or recurrent and with or without prior chemotherapy or anti-HER2/neu targeted therapy in the metastatic and relaps setting.
Cancer
DRUG: lapatinib and Vinorelbine
Number of Participants (Par.) With Clinical Benefit (CB) at Week 12 and Week 24, Par. with CB are defined as those with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) for \>=12 or 24 weeks. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), Version 1.1, CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions, PR is defined as a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum LD, and SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as a reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Week 12 and Week 24
Progression-free Survival, Per RECIST, Version 1.1, Progressive Disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., From the start of treatment until disease progression, death, or discontinuation from the study (average of 102.7 months)|Duration of Response, Duration of response was measured in participants who experienced either a complete response or a partial response. Per RECIST, Version 1.1, complete response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions, and partial response is defined as a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum longest diameter., From the start of treatment until a complete response or partial response was reached (up to Week 90; average of 21.3 weeks)
This is a Multicenter, Open-Label, Phase II Study of lapatinib in Combination with Vinorelbine in women with documented evidence of HER2/neu positive breast cancer which is metastatic or recurrent and with or without prior chemotherapy or anti-HER2/neu targeted therapy in the metastatic and relaps setting.

Patients will receive 1250mg lapatinib once a day and vinorelbine 25mg/sqm IV Day 1and Day 8, every 3 week for 24 weeks. The study treatment will continue until patients experience disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The primary objective of the study is the objective response rate (ORR, defined as CR + PR) and toxicity. Secondary objectives include DFS, duration of response.