Testing Whether Cemiplimab (REGN2810) Plus CDX-1140 Given Prior to Surgery Are Better Than Cemiplimab (REGN2810) Alone in Patients With Stage III-IV Head and Neck Cancer
This phase II trial compares the effect giving cemiplimab with or without CDX-1140 prior to surgery works in treating patients with stage III-IV head and neck cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as cemiplimab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. CDX-1140 is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. A monoclonal antibody is a type of protein that can bind to certain targets in the body, such as molecules that cause the body to make an immune response (antigens). Giving cemiplimab and CDX-1140 versus cemiplimab alone before surgery may make the tumor smaller and may reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed for patients with stage III-IV head and neck cancer.
Recurrent Head and Neck Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Head and Neck Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Head and Neck Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-CD40 Agonist Monoclonal Antibody CDX-1140|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Tumor Resection
Incidence of adverse events (AE), Will be assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Descriptive statistics will be used., From the time of their first treatment with CDX-1140 and/or cemiplimab (REGN2810), up to 2 years|Major pathologic response, Defined as ≤ 10% of viable tumor area relative to total tumor area., Up to 2 years
Acute incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed using NCI CTCAE version 5.0. Descriptive statistics will be used., From the time of their first treatment with CDX-1140 and/or cemiplimab (REGN2810), up to 2 years|Late incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed using NCI CTCAE version 5.0. Descriptive statistics will be used., From the time of their first treatment with CDX-1140 and/or cemiplimab (REGN2810), up to 2 years|Quantitative pathologic response, Two-sample t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, or log rank test will be used where appropriate to analyze the correlation between efficacy outcomes., Up to 2 years|Tumor infiltrating immune populations, Two-sample t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, or log rank test will be used where appropriate to analyze the correlation between efficacy outcomes., Up to 2 years|Serum cytokines levels, Two-sample t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, or log rank test will be used where appropriate to analyze the correlation between efficacy outcomes., Up to 2 years|Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) levels, Two-sample t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, or log rank test will be used where appropriate to analyze the correlation between efficacy outcomes. Will also compare ctDNA levels between the two arms and between responders and non-responders using a Student's t-test., Up to 2 years|Gene expression levels, Will be assessed using DEseq2, and will also be compared between treatment arms and between those with and without achieving pathologic response., Day 3 and day 29-36|Gene set enrichment, Gene set statistics will be run with fgsea using MSigDb61 pathways annotated in the HALLMARK databases., Up to 2 years|Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters, Including clearance and area-under-the-curve, will be calculated for cemiplimab (REGN2810) and CDX-1140 in combination. Impact of baseline and time-varying clearance of cemiplimab (REGN2810) and CDX-1140 in combination will be correlated to efficacy data and AEs to evaluate any PK-related efficacy or toxicity relationship. Also, comparison of observed cemiplimab (REGN2810) PK with historical data will be included., Up to study completion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate major pathologic response rate (defined as ≤ 10% of residual viable tumor) of anti-CD40 agonist monoclonal antibody CDX-1140 (CDX-1140) combined with cemiplimab (REGN2810) compared with cemiplimab (REGN2810) alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the rate of any pathologic response of CDX-1140 in combination with cemiplimab (REGN2810).

II. To evaluate toxicity and tolerability of CDX-1140 and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade combination in neoadjuvant (pre-surgical) setting.

III. To compare gene expression profiles by ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq) between CDX-1140 and control groups as well as correlate gene expression with pathologic response.

IV. To evaluate circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctCNA) as a biomarker of response to neoadjuvant immunotherapy V. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of CDX-1140 and cemiplimab (REGN2810) used in combination (arm 2) and the relationship of outcomes to baseline and time-varying clearance of both agents.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate dynamic changes in tumor microenvironment (TME) and circulating immune cell populations.

Ia. To compare dynamic changes in TME while on treatment with subsequent pathologic response in the final specimen.

II. To evaluate changes in circulating plasma cytokines pre and post neoadjuvant immunotherapy with CDX-1140 and cemiplimab (REGN2810).

III. To correlate major pathologic response with the level of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive cemiplimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients then undergo standard of care surgical resection on day 29-36 and receive standard of care adjuvant therapy. Treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) scan, positron emission tomography (PET) during screening and tumor biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.

ARM II: Patients receive CDX-1140 IV over 90 minutes on day 1 and cemiplimab IV over 30 minutes on day 4. Patients then undergo standard of care surgical resection on day 29-36 and receive standard of care adjuvant therapy. Treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT scan, PET during screening and tumor biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at week 9-10, week 18, at 6 months and every 3-6 months for 2 years.