The Combination of Palbociclib With ddEC-P as Neoadjuvant Therapy in Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This study will look at effects the combination of palbociclib and dose-dense neoadjuvant chemotherapy may have on triple negative breast cancer tumours which have not yet been treated.
Breast Cancer|Breast Diseases|Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Placebo oral capsule|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Paclitaxel
pCR, Percentage of Participants With Pathological Complete Response (pCR) at the Time of Surgery., Through study completion, an average of 1 year.
DFS, Disease-free Survival, Following surgery until Year 3|ORR, Objective Response Rate (ORR) during neoadjuvant period, Through study completion, an average of 1 year.|AEs, Number and severity of adverse events.Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0)., baseline and weekly through 12 months after randomization
Patients will be randomized to one of two treatment arms (1:1 ratio). Dose-Dense neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the first 8 weeks of will be: epirubicin (90mg/m2) and cyclophosphamide (600mg/m2), followed by paclitaxel (80mg / m2) after 8 weeks, cycled every 14 days for total 8 cycles.

Palbociclib will be administered orally as 125mg capsules, daily on a schedule of 3 weeks (21 days) on, 1 week (7 days) off of a 4 week \[28 days\] cycle.

Arm I: Palbociclib combined with Dose-Dense neoadjuvant chemotherapy for total 16 weeks.

Arm II: Placebo combined with Dose-Dense neoadjuvant chemotherapy for total 16 weeks.

Note:

Following completion of study therapy, surgery will be scheduled for 18-20 weeks post-randomization.

Post-surgical treatment will be at the discretion of treating clinician, following postoperative pathology.

After week 16 (end of study therapy) all patients should continue Palbociclib for one year.

Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0).