Nilotinib in Preventing Paclitaxel-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy in Patients with Stage I-III Breast Cancer
This phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of nilotinib in preventing paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy in stage I-III breast cancer patients who are receiving paclitaxel therapy. Chemotherapy is the usual or ?standard? treatment for breast cancer. It kills cancer cells and lowers the chance that the cancer will come back. Sometimes, this treatment can cause numbness and tingling, especially in the hands and feet. This is called chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy. This study aims to test the safety and effectiveness, both good and bad, of taking nilotinib in preventing chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC V8
DRUG: Nilotinib|DRUG: Nilotinib Hydrochloride Monohydrate|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of adverse events (Phase Ib), Will be classified and attributed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version (v)5.0 and will be summarized within and across dose levels using descriptive statistics. The overall number and percentage of patients experiencing adverse events (AEs) and toxicities will be summarized and reported as across all event types, non-hematologic AEs, hematologic AEs, and for each type. Specific focus will be in summarizing any neuropathy-related AEs by dose level and how this corresponds to our measures of OATP1B1 inhibition. All patients who have received at least one dose of the therapeutic agents will be evaluable for toxicity and tolerability., Up to 6 weeks|Recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of nilotinib in combination with paclitaxel (Phase Ib), The RP2D will be derived from an adaptive Bayesian method for dose-finding based on trade-offs between the probabilities of treatment efficacy and toxicity. In this design, treatment efficacy is defined as significant inhibition of OATP1B1 activity by nilotinib, without causing changes in the pharmacokinetic profiles of paclitaxel. Efficacy in this setting will be OATP1B1 inhibition as defined by a \>= 5-fold increase in the area under the curve (AUC) of GCDCA-S from pre- to post-treatment and/or detectable CDCA-24G levels post-treatment., Up to 6 weeks|Total sensory neuropathy scores (Phase II), Assessed with Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN)-20 questionnaire. The AUC, approximated with the trapezoid method, can be used to summarize the sequence of repeated total sensory neuropathy scores for each evaluable patient and this summary measure tends to be approximately normally distributed. Total sensory neuropathy score measured as composite of sensory questions in CIPN 20 (i.e., prior to randomization) and at least one corresponding total score obtained during exposure to paclitaxel., Up to 6 months
Severity and onset of all six sensory symptoms on CIPN 20 (Phase II), A composite response will be defined reflecting the severity and onset time of all six sensory symptoms. For each patient, the worst patient-reported sensory score obtained during paclitaxel exposure, including 1 week after the final paclitaxel dose, will be calculated. Response is defined as a patient reporting a worst score of =\< 2 (i.e. ?Not at all? or ?A little?) on an ordinal scale of 1-4 without discontinuing the study due to paclitaxel-induced sensory neuropathy symptoms., Up to 6 months|Incidence of adverse events (Phase II), The percentage of patients experiencing NCI CTCAE v5.0 grade \>= 3 toxicity will be compared between the arms using a Fisher?s exact test as well as the percentage of patients experiencing peripheral neuropathy associated with paclitaxel. Additionally, the time of onset of peripheral neuropathy (from randomization) will be examined using Kaplan-Meier survival curves and log-rank testing., Up to 6 months
Evaluate effects of nilotinib and paclitaxel (Phase Ib) on patients through Pharmacokinetics (PK) for clinical significant interactions., Will explore PK endpoints Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), : Pre-dose, prior to starting paclitaxel (day 1, day 8), prior to starting nilotinib (day 8 only), immediately prior to end of paclitaxel, after paclitaxel on days 1 and 8 and pre-dose, after nilotinib on day 7.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of nilotinib hydrochloride monohydrate (nilotinib) in combination with paclitaxel. (Phase Ib) II. To determine the toxicity profile (based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] version \[v.\] 5.0) of nilotinib in combination with paclitaxel. (Phase Ib) III. To assess the efficacy of nilotinib versus (vs.) placebo in preventing paclitaxel-induced neuropathy when administered in combination with paclitaxel, as measured by patient reported outcomes using Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN)-20 and Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)-20. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of paclitaxel on pharmacokinetics (PK) of nilotinib in the study population. (Phase Ib) II. To determine the effect of nilotinib on PK of paclitaxel in the study population. (Phase Ib) III. To evaluate the effect of paclitaxel on PK of nilotinib in the study population. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of nilotinib hydrochloride monohydrate followed by phase a II study.

PHASE Ib: Paclitaxel will be given weekly on days 1, 8, 15, of every 21 days, at a starting dose of 80mg/m2. Nilotinib will be given orally on cycle 1 Days 7, 14 once a day 24 hours prior to the paclitaxel infusion and again 30 minutes prior to the paclitaxel infusion on days 8, 15. During the cycle 1, PK will be obtained at baseline, during, and up to 24 hours after paclitaxel or nilotinib administration on the days 1, 7, 8. Patients will continue paclitaxel without nilotinib after cycle 1 as part of standard of care at the discretion of the treating investigator

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients also receive nilotinib hydrochloride monohydrate PO on days 7, 8, 14, and 15 of cycle 1 and days -1, 1, 7, 8, 14, and 15 of cycle 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15. In cycle 1. Patients also receive placebo PO on days 7, 8, 14, and 15 of cycle 1 and days -1, 1, 7, 8, 14, and 15 of cycle 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.