Open-Label Extension Study of De-immunized DI-Leu16-IL2 Immunocytokine Administered in Participants With B-cell NHL
This is an open-label extension study enrolling participants experiencing clinical benefit following 6 cycles of DI-Leu16-IL2 while enrolled in the Alopexx Oncology Dose-Escalation AO-101 study (NCT01874288). Participants will be permitted to continue to receive DI-Leu16-IL2 at the same dose, schedule, and route of administration they received during Study AO-101 (Main Study). Prior pre-treatment (for example, Rituximab) will continue as before.
B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: DI-Leu16-IL2
Number of Participants With Best Overall Response (BOR) Assessed Per International Workshop for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL) Response Criteria, BOR included complete response (CR), unconfirmed CR (CRu), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), and progressive disease (PD). CR: 1)Disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiological evidence of disease; 2)lymph nodes (LN) regressed to normal size; 3)other organs (spleen, liver, kidneys) that were enlarged before therapy must have decreased in size; 4)clear bone marrow(BM) infiltrate. CRu: must meet CR criteria 1 and 3, as well as ≥1 of following: residual LN mass \>1.5 centimeters (cm) in greatest transverse diameter; individual nodes that were previously confluent regressed by \>75% in sum of product diameters (SPD); or indeterminate BM. PR: 6 largest dominant nodes or nodal masses decreased by ≤50% in SPD; no increase in size of other nodes; liver or spleen; splenic and hepatic nodules regressed ≥50% in SPD; and no new disease. SD: less than a PR but not PD. PD: 50% increase from nadir in SPD of any abnormal node for PR or nonresponders and appearance of any new lesion., First dose of study drug until first appearance of CR, CRu, PR, SD, or PD (up to 20 months)|Tumor Measurement: Percent Change From Baseline in Sum of Product of Diameters at the End of Study, Sum of product diameters sums the product of the 2 tumor measurements on each lesion. If only 1 measurement was available, it was used as the longest length and the product of the lengths in the sum. Baseline value is the last non-missing measurement prior to receiving study drug injection in the Main Study AO-101., Baseline, end of study (EOS) (up to approximately 32 months)|Tumor Measurement: Percent Change From Baseline in Sum of Longest Diameters at the End of Study, Sum of longest diameters is the sum of the longest measured length of each tumor lesion. Baseline value is the last non-missing measurement prior to receiving study drug injection in the Main Study AO-101. None of the participants were considered evaluable in 'DI-Leu16-IL2 2.0 mg/m\^2' arm for this outcome measure at the end of study, and therefore, data were not collected for that arm, Baseline, EOS (up to approximately 32 months)
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE was defined as death, a life-threatening AE, inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, persistent or significant disability or incapacity, a congenital anomaly or birth defect, or an important medical event that jeopardized participant and required medical intervention to prevent 1 of the outcomes listed in this definition. TEAEs were defined as AEs with onset at the time of or following the start of treatment with study drug, or AEs starting before the start of treatment but increasing in severity or relationship at the time of or following the start of treatment. A summary of other non-serious AEs and all serious AEs, regardless of causality is located in Reported AE section., First dose of study drug up to EOS (up to 20 months)|Number of Participants With a TEAE That Was Considered Related to a Clinically Significant Hematology or Serum Chemistry Abnormality, TEAEs were defined as AEs with onset at the time of or following the start of treatment with study drug, or AEs starting before the start of treatment but increasing in severity or relationship at the time of or following the start of treatment. A summary of other non-serious AEs and all serious AEs, regardless of causality is located in Reported AE section. Clinically significant hematology and serum chemistry abnormalities were identified at the Investigator's discretion., First dose of study drug up to EOS (up to 20 months)|Number of Participants With a Clinically Significant Abnormal Physical Exam, Clinically significant abnormal physical exams included extremities, head, ears, eyes, nose, throat, abdomen, respiratory system, lymphatic system, and integumentary system. A summary of other non-serious AEs and all serious AEs, regardless of causality is located in Reported AE section. Clinically significant abnormal physical exams were identified at the Investigator's discretion., First dose of study drug up to EOS (up to 20 months)
This is an open-label extension study enrolling participants experiencing clinical benefit following 6 cycles of DI-Leu16-IL2 while enrolled in the Alopexx Oncology Dose-Escalation AO-101 study (NCT01874288). Participants will be permitted to continue to receive DI-Leu16-IL2 at the same dose, schedule, and route of administration they received during Study AO-101 (Main Study). Prior pre-treatment (for example, Rituximab) will continue as before.