Chinese HCC Efficacy Evaluation, Response and Safety Study of TareSphere
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of NRT6003 Injection compared to cTACE in patients with unresectable HCC.
Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: NRT6003 Injection|DRUG: cTACE
Time to Progression (TTP), Evaluated by the Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) in accordance with the mRECIST criteria, Through study completion, at least 18 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Evaluated by the Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) in accordance with the mRECIST criteria, Through study completion, at least 18 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Evaluated by the Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) in accordance with the mRECIST criteria, Through study completion, at least 18 months|Localized Time to Progression (localized TTP), Evaluated by the Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) in accordance with the mRECIST criteria, Through study completion, at least 18 months|Time to Progression, Evaluated by the investigator in accordance with the mRECIST criteria, Through study completion, at least 18 months|Localized Time to Progression, Evaluated by the investigator in accordance with the mRECIST criteria, Through study completion, at least 18 months|Objective Response Rate, Evaluated by the investigator in accordance with the mRECIST criteria, Through study completion, at least 18 months|Duration of Response, Evaluated by the investigator in accordance with the mRECIST criteria, Through study completion, at least 18 months|Surgery Rate, Resection rate of liver target lesions, From the administration to study completion, at least 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), Based on survival follow-up information, From the administration to study completion, at least 18 months|Changes in Tumor Biomarkers, The variation of alpha fetoprotein (AFP) levels, From the administration to study completion, at least 18 months|Incidence and severity of adverse events (AE) and severe adverse events (SAE), In accordance with NCI-CTCAE 5.0, Throughout the study, at least 18 months
The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does NRT6003 Injection improve tumor response rates compared to cTACE in patients with unresectable HCC?
2. What adverse events do participants experience when receiving NRT6003 Injection compared to cTACE?

Investigators will compare NRT6003 Injection to cTACE to determine:

1. Whether NRT6003 Injection demonstrates superior efficacy in tumor control and long-term survival (e.g., objective response rate, time to progression, etc.).
2. Whether NRT6003 Injection has a comparable or improved safety profile vs. cTACE (e.g., incidence of adverse events, etc.).

Participants will:

1. Receive either NRT6003 Injection or cTACE as per randomized assignment.
2. Undergo scheduled follow-up visits for imaging assessments (e.g., MRI or CT scans, etc.) and safety evaluations.
3. Provide blood samples for biomarker analysis.
4. Report any symptoms or medical events through a patient diary and during clinic visits.