Pembrolizumab and BCG Solution in Treating Patients With Recurrent Non-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy (the effect of drug on tumor) and the tolerability (the effect of drug on the body) of pembrolizumab, when given as a single agent in patients with bladder tumors. Another purpose of the study is to see what tumor characteristics are associated with increased efficacy of the pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) is an antibody (a human protein that sticks to a part of the tumor and/or immune cells) designed to allow the body's immune system to work against tumor cells. Pembrolizumab is Food and drug Administration (FDA) approved for the treatment of advanced melanoma (a type of skin cancer) and some types of lung cancer. It is not yet approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) for bladder cancer, hence it is considered an investigational agent for this disease.
Recurrent Bladder Carcinoma|Stage 0a Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage 0is Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage I Bladder Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: BCG Solution|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Determine the MTD of the study drug (MK-3475) when administered intravesically in combination with BCG in patients with high risk or BCG-refractory non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (up to the individual maximum tolerated dose of each drug alone). The MTD will be defined as the highest dose that causes dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in \<2 of 6 patients graded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03., Up to 9 weeks
Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Evaluate the DLTs of MK-3475 in combination with BCG in this population. DLTs will be defined as significant adverse events occurring during the DLT observation period (2 week pre-induction phase and the 7 weeks of induction phase) that is related to either drug or the combination. DLT will be evaluated according to CTCAE v 4.03 criteria., Up to 9 weeks|Incidence of Adverse Events, Determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of MK-3475 and BCG in subjects with high risk or BCG-refractory non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer by evaluating the number, frequency, and severity of adverse events using CTCAE v 4.03. This table provides the number of patients with their worst grade toxicity for any AEs a patient experienced and AEs that were found to have a possible, probable, or definite attribution with at least one of the study treatment agents., Up to 30 days from the last dose of study drug, up to 2.5 years
Change in Cytokines in the Blood, Blood will be collected for measurement of cytokines in order to explore humoral and cellular responses to MK-3475 and BCG treatments. Cytokines will be measured using ELISA assays., At weeks -2, 0, and 17|Change in Cytokines in Urine, Urine will be collected for measurement of cytokines in order to explore humoral and cellular responses to MK-3475 and BCG treatments. Cytokines will be measured using ELISA assays., Up to week 49|Expression of PD-L1, Expression of tumor biomarker PD-L1 as defined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) will be assessed and results will be correlated with adverse effects and recurrence rate. This evaluation will be performed on archived tissue samples obtained at baseline and on fresh tissue from any subsequent biopsies., At baseline and then up to 49 weeks|Expression of PD-1, Expression of tumor biomarker PD-1 as defined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) will be assessed and results will be correlated with adverse effects and recurrence rate. This evaluation will be performed on archived tissue samples obtained at baseline and on fresh tissue from any subsequent biopsies., At baseline and then up to 49 weeks|Expression of PD-L2, Expression of tumor biomarker PD-L2 and immune cell infiltration as defined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) will be assessed and results will be correlated with adverse effects and recurrence rate. This evaluation will be performed on archived tissue samples obtained at baseline and on fresh tissue from any subsequent biopsies., At baseline and then up to 49 weeks|Lymphocyte Profile, Peripheral blood will be taken for evaluation of a lymphocyte profile which will be analyzed using automated flow cytometric techniques and will measure humoral and cellular response to tumor antigens., At weeks -2, 0, and 17|Plasma Concentration-time Profile, Blood serum concentrations of MK-3475 will be evaluated during pre-induction (week -2) at baseline (0 minutes) and at 15, 30, and 60 minutes post-dosing for determination of plasma PK parameters., Week -2: At minute 0, then 15, 30, and 60 minutes post-dosing|Plasma Concentration-time Profile, Blood serum concentrations of MK-3475 will be evaluated during induction (week 4) at baseline (0 minutes) and at 15, 30, and 60 minutes post-dosing for determination of plasma PK parameters., Week 4: At minute 0, then 15, 30, and 60 minutes post-dosing|Urine Concentration-time Profile, Urine concentrations of MK-3475 will be evaluated during induction (week -2) at 30 minutes prior to dosing and 2 hours post-dosing for determination of urine concentration-time profile., Week -2: At 30 minutes prior to dosing and 2 hours after dosing|Urine Concentration-time Profile, Urine concentrations of MK-3475 will be evaluated during induction (week 4) at 30 minutes prior to dosing and 2 hours post-dosing for determination of urine concentration-time profile., Week 4: At 30 minutes prior to dosing and 2 hours after dosing|Response Rate, Determine the response rate in terms of complete pathologic response in this population will be assessed when the patient undergoes cystoscopies. Patients will be examined via bladder cystoscopy and may undergo biopsy for pathological confirmation if needed. Responses will be categorized as yes or no for bladder recurrence., At baseline and up to 49 weeks|Tumor Progression, The progression rate of the tumor will be defined as positive transurethral resection and/or biopsy., Up to 49 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the study drug (pembrolizumab \[MK-3475\]) when administered intravesically in combination with BCG in patients with high risk or BCG-refractory non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (up to the individual maximum tolerated dose of each drug alone).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of MK-3475 in combination with BCG in this population.

II. To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of MK-3475 and BCG in subjects with high risk or BCG-refractory non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of MK-3475 in both blood and urine when administered intravesically in combination with BCG.

II. To measure humoral and cellular responses to tumor antigens on serum and urine samples by measuring the levels of cytokines (ie, interleukin \[IL\]-2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-18, interferon gamma \[IFN-gamma\] and tumor necrosis factor alpha \[TNF-alpha\]) and peripheral blood lymphocyte phenotype throughout treatment.

III. To determine the response rate in terms of complete pathologic response in this population assessed when patient undergoes cystoscopies (weeks 17, 25, 33, 41, and 49 if applicable).

IV. To document the progression rate associated with the combination of intravesical MK-3475 and BCG in patients with high risk or BCG-refractory non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer.

V. To evaluate the relationship between tumor biomarkers programmed cell death (PD)-ligand (L)1, PD-L2, PD-1 as defined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and adverse effects and recurrence rate.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of pembrolizumab.

PRE-INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravesically once on day -14.

INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive BCG solution intravesically once weekly for 6 weeks at weeks 0-5 and pembrolizumab intravesically every 2 weeks at weeks 0, 2, and 4.

MAINTENANCE PHASE: Beginning 2 weeks after the last dose of BCG solution, patients receive pembrolizumab intravesically every 2 weeks for 12 weeks at weeks 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, and 17 for a total of 6 doses. Patients then receive pembrolizumab intravesically every 4 weeks at weeks 21, 25, 29, 33, 37, 41, 45, and 49 for a total of 8 doses.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.