Analysis of RATS, VATS and Open Lung Resections After Neoadjuvant Chemo-immunotherapy in Patients Performed in Five Referred Centers
The study is a retrospective observational study. The study is designed to be multicentric and international and it will analyze medical records from selected patients diagnosed with locally advanced and resectable NSCLC who underwent lung resection by robotic, VATS and open approach after receiving neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy.

There are no risks for the patients, as this is a retrospective data collection.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The perioperative complication of video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) approach, The investigators will measure the perioperative complications of VATS approach in patients who received neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy. Complications will be categorized according to the Clavien-Dindo scale., 30-90 days after surgery|The perioperative complications of robotic approach, The investigators will measure the perioperative complications of robotic lung resection in patients who received neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy. Complications will be categorized according to the Clavien-Dindo scale., from the surgery at 30-90 days after|The perioperative complications of the open approach, The investigators will measure the perioperative complications of open approach in patients who received neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy. Complications will be categorized according to the Clavien-Dindo scale., 30-90 days after surgery
Duration of surgery, Duration of the surgery based on the approach measured in minutes, from 30 days after surgery|Quality of lymphadenectomy, Number of lymphonodes station resected, from 30 days after surgery|Conversion rate, Number of surgery procedures converted, from 30 days after surgery|Radicality of the resection, Radicality of the resection in the approaches, from 30 days after surgery|Oncological treatment, Response of the patient to oncological treatment, from 30 days after surgery|Survival analysis, Presence or absence of local and distant relapse, from 3 to 5 years after surgery
The use of neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is increasing. However, there is limited research comparing the feasibility and oncologic efficacy of robot-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (RATS), video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS), and open lung resection, in patients already treated with neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy. This study aims to evaluate the benefits of RATS compared to VATS and open surgery in terms of short-term outcomes for patients with NSCLC undergoing neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy.

All adult patients diagnosed with locally advanced and resectable NSCLC who underwent lung resection from 01-01-2016 to 31-03-2024 by robotic, VATS and open approach after receiving neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy will be included.

Patients are divided into three groups: robotic lung resection; video-assisted thoracoscopic (VATS) lung resection; open lung resection.