A Single Arm, Phase 2 Study of Datopotamab Deruxtecan, Carboplatin, and Pembrolizumab for Treatment-naive Brain Metastases From NSCLC (Non-small Cell Lung Cancer)
This is a Phase II, single-arm, multicenter trial for patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer who have brain metastases and no known actionable mutations. Eligible patients will receive a combination of Datopotamab-deruxtecan, Carboplatin, and Pembrolizumab every three weeks for four cycles, followed by maintenance therapy with Datopotamab-deruxtecan and Pembrolizumab until disease progression or intolerable toxicity. Patients with intracranial progression but no systemic progression may receive stereotactic radiosurgery and continue treatment based on the investigator's decision.
Lung Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Brain Metastases
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Datopotamab deruxtecan|DRUG: Carboplatin
Confirmed Intracranial Objective Response Rate (iORR) as Measured by the RANO-BM Criteria, The intracranial objective response rate (iORR) is defined as the proportion of patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to the RANO-BM (Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases) criteria, as assessed by central review. The best overall CNS (central nervous system) response is determined based on a composite assessment of radiographical CNS target and non-target lesion responses, corticosteroid use, and clinical status., Through study primary completion, an average of 2 years
This is a phase II, single-arm, multicenter trial. Patients with metastatic NSCLCs with brain metastases and without known actionable mutations will be enrolled. Patients who are eligible for the study will receive Datopotamab-deruxtecan 6 mg/kg, Carboplatin AUC 6, and Pembrolizumab 200 mg flat dose every three weeks, for four cycles, followed by maintenance of Datopotamab-deruxtecan 6 mg/kg and Pembrolizumab 200 mg until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Patients who present intracranial progression but do not present concurrent systemic progression may undergo stereotactic radiosurgery and continue systemic therapy on study as per investigator's decision.

Patients will undergo medical evaluation and laboratory tests (hematology and blood chemistry) every 3 weeks. Abdomen/pelvis and chest CT scans, as well as brain MRIs, will be obtained at baseline, every 6 weeks during the first 24 weeks, then every 9 weeks (±7 days). Patient reported outcomes will be assessed using EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-LC13 questionnaires at baseline and during treatment.