Genital HPV Infections Before and After Renal Transplantation
The purpose of this study is to examine the prevalence, incidence and genotype of anogenital HPV infections in women before and after renal transplantation. With this information the investigators can determine the value of vaccination in patients waiting for renal transplantation in the future.
Human Papillomavirus Infections
Prevalence of genital HPV infection before and after renal transplantation in women with end stage renal disease, The difference between post-transplantation prevalence (two HPV tests in 6 months after transplantation)and pre-transplantation prevalence (two HPV tests in 6 months before transplantation) will be compared., 6 months before and 6 months after renal transplantation
Incidence of genital HPV infection before and after renal transplantation, Assessed every 3 months for 2 years|Genotype of the HPV infection per time point, Assessed every 3 months for 2 years
Each year about 800 renal transplantations are performed in the Netherlands. The current immunosuppressive strategies have led to a 1-year patient and graft survival of more than 90%. This high survival rate urges medical specialists to pay increasing attention to the long-term side effects of immunosuppressive medication, such as virus-associated cancers. An example of an oncogenic virus is the high risk Human Papillomavirus (hrHPV) which is related to (pre)malignancies of the anogenital tract e.g. cervix, vulva and anus. These malignancies are among the most common malignancies in renal transplant recipients (RTRs). The incidence of hrHPV-related cervical and vulvar malignancies is increased up to a 100-fold in RTRs compared to the general population. There is limited literature on the exact behaviour of HPV infection related anogenital (pre)malignancies in RTRs. A part of these (pre)malignancies are probably already present at the time of transplantation while others develop in the years after transplantation. With gynaecological examination the investigators can diagnose anogenital (pre)malignancies before transplantation so treatment, if necessary, can commence before transplantation. Knowledge about HPV status before and after transplantation gives insight in the natural course of the HPV infection in this group of patients and with this information the investigators can determine the value of vaccination in patients waiting for renal transplantation in the future.