Neoadjuvant Hiltonol® (PolyICLC) for Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to test an approach of stimulating the body's immune system to attack prostate cancer. This study will test injection of a substance polylysine and carboxymethylcellulose (Poly-ICLC, Hiltonol®)through a needle guided by MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) ultrasound fusion technology into the prostate gland. Poly ICLC has been used to help the body in its fight against cancer. The first aim of the study is to determine the highest dose of a substance Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol®) that can be safely tolerated by the study participants. The second aim of the study is to find out the toxicity or side effects of poly-ICLC.
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Intratumoral (IT) Poly ICLC 0.5 mg|BIOLOGICAL: Intratumoral (IT) Poly ICLC 1.0 mg|BIOLOGICAL: Intramuscular (IM) Poly ICLC|PROCEDURE: Radical Prostatectomy
Dose-Limiting Toxicity level, 3+3 dose escalation rules to define a safe dose of preoperative intratumoral (IT) plus intramuscular (IM) Polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid stabilized with polylysine and carboxymethylcellulose (poly-ICLC, Hiltonol®) prior to radical prostatectomy, Week 6
Number of adverse events, Safety as determined by the frequency of adverse events as per the Common Terminology for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Week 6|Time to PSA progression, The time to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression will be defined as the time to PSA \> 0.2 ng/mL, up to Week 12
This is a pilot dose escalation study of IT/IM Poly-ICLC in patients with high risk clinically localized prostate cancer. The dose and frequency of IT injections will be increased in successive cohorts to define a safe dose and schedule for further testing.

Intratumoral + intramuscular poly-ICLC in patients with clinical localized prostate cancer. In the current pilot clinical trial, poly-ICLC will be administered intratumorally (Artemis guided) and intramuscularly (e.g., deltoid muscle) prior to prostatectomy in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. Based on the available preclinical data exploring intratumoral administration of PAMPs described above, we expect this approach will result in three immunomodulatory steps26:

Immunomodulatory Step 1: Innate immune local tumor killing induced by intratumoral poly-ICLC - the initial intratumoral injections are expected to induce activation/recruitment of IL-12, TNF-α, and other cytokines and NK cells, resulting in early tumor killing and antigen release.9-11 Poly-ICLC may also have a direct antiproliferative effect on tumor cells mediated by interferon-inducible nuclear enzyme systems.

Immunomodulatory Step 2: Th1 and cytotoxic T lymphocyte priming as a result of the repeated in-situ poly-ICLC 'danger signal' combined with the tumor antigens released in step 1 and further processed and cross-presented by poly-ICLC-activated myeloid dendritic cells.7,8 Poly-ICLC is expected to recruit myeloid dendritic cells and macrophages to the tumor site where they can load with antigens being released through the innate mechanisms, present them Th1 cells, and cross-present them to CD8 T cells in the tumor or in the regional lymph nodes, thus generating antigen specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes.

Immunomodulatory Step 3 (or "Boost" phase): Maintenance of the systemic anti-tumor immune response and migration of cytotoxic T lymphocytes to remote metastases, through repeated intramuscular poly-ICLC induction of chemokines, other costimulatory factors, and inflammasome activation.23-25 The rationale for followup with intramuscular maintenance is that as part of the comprehensive response, dsRNAs such as poly-ICLC induce various chemokines and costimulatory factors that help target the response to tumor. For example, one of these costimulatory factors is OX40, which belongs to the tumor necrosis factor family of cytokines, and helps maintain cytotoxic lymphocyte longevity and action at the tumor and metastatic sites.