Endocrine Therapy in Treating Patients With HER2 Negative, Low Risk Breast Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies how well endocrine therapy works in treating patients with HER2 negative, low risk breast cancer. Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Endocrine therapies such as aromatase inhibitors and selective estrogen receptor modulators may lessen the amount of estrogen made by the body.
HER2/Neu Negative|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Postmenopausal|Stage 0 Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer
DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Exemestane|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Letrozole|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Tamoxifen Citrate|DRUG: Toremifene Citrate
Conversion from oral endocrine therapy for any reason to guideline-directed therapy, Includes clinical or radiographic progression, patient preference, endocrine therapy intolerance or toxicity, or death from any cause. Descriptive statistics will be summarized among all patients and patients within each of the two groups (stay with oral therapy vs conversion due to any causes)., Up to 5 years
Advanced imaging (if performed on any subset of patients), Will be compared to a concurrent group of patients managed in the conventional manner with upfront surgery +/- radiation therapy followed by systemic endocrine therapy. Descriptive statistics will be summarized among all patients and patients within each of the two groups (stay with oral therapy vs conversion due to any causes)., Up to 5 years|Cost-effectiveness and patient-centeredness outcomes defined as financial toxicity and solubility, quality of life (physical, mental, emotional changes) on endocrine therapy, and, access to support services, Comparisons will be made to historical benchmarks for similar patients managed in a conventional locoregional manner for early-stage breast cancer. Descriptive statistics will be summarized among all patients and patients within each of the two groups (stay with oral therapy vs conversion due to any causes)., Up to 5 years|Effect of age, Will be compared to a concurrent group of patients managed in the conventional manner with upfront surgery +/- radiation therapy followed by systemic endocrine therapy. Descriptive statistics will be summarized among all patients and patients within each of the two groups (stay with oral therapy vs conversion due to any causes)., Up to 5 years|Effect of comorbidity severity interaction, Will be compared to a concurrent group of patients managed in the conventional manner with upfront surgery +/- radiation therapy followed by systemic endocrine therapy. Descriptive statistics will be summarized among all patients and patients within each of the two groups (stay with oral therapy vs conversion due to any causes)., Up to 5 years|Effect of type of endocrine therapy type (selective estrogen receptor modifier versus aromatase inhibitor), Will be compared to a concurrent group of patients managed in the conventional manner with upfront surgery +/- radiation therapy followed by systemic endocrine therapy. Descriptive statistics will be summarized among all patients and patients within each of the two groups (stay with oral therapy vs conversion due to any causes)., Up to 5 years|Effects emanating from tertiary care, Will be compared to a concurrent group of patients managed in the conventional manner with upfront surgery +/- radiation therapy followed by systemic endocrine therapy. Descriptive statistics will be summarized among all patients and patients within each of the two groups (stay with oral therapy vs conversion due to any causes)., Up to 5 years|Progression of disease while on primary endocrine therapy, as measured objectively by routine diagnostic breast imaging (mammography and/or ultrasound), Descriptive statistics will be summarized among all patients and patients within each of the two groups (stay with oral therapy vs conversion due to any causes)., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the conversion rate from a standard low-toxicity approach to guideline-directed therapy which includes surgery +/- radiation therapy as a result of progression of disease or patient/provider choice.

II. To examine factors that might differ between those who convert from the low-toxicity approach to the guideline-directed therapy and those do not convert.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure the safety and clinical effectiveness of systemic endocrine therapy used in a prolonged neoadjuvant fashion.

II. To evaluate the impact of risk-stratified care in Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALY) and QALY gains.

III. To estimate the cost savings of indefinitely delaying surgery and radiation in favor of systemic endocrine therapy alone.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive exemestane orally (PO) once daily (QD), anastrozole PO QD, letrozole PO QD, tamoxifen citrate PO QD, or toremifene citrate PO QD at the discretion of the treating physician. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.