Cardiotoxicity of Targeted Therapy for HER-2 Positive Breast Cancer Patients at High Altitude
This is a prospective, multicenter, cohort study aiming to explore the cardiotoxicity of targeted therapy for HER-2 positive breast cancer patients who lives in high altitude area. One hundred and thirty two HER-2 positive breast cancer patients who will receive neoadjuvant, adjuvant, or palliative targeted therapy will be enrolled. The cardiotoxicity of targeted therapy will be observed and recorded during the treatment and one year after the end of treatment. The subjects will be stratified by age, baseline cardiac risk factors, and anthracyclines.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Targeted Therapy|Cardiac Toxicity|High Altitude
OTHER: High altitude
Incidence rate of cardiotoxicity, Cardiotoxicity includes death from cardiac cause, severe congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association Class III or IV), more than 10% decrease of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and to below 50%, and an asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic (NYHA class II) substantial decrease in LVEF., 5 years
pCR rate, Pathologic complete response (pCR) rate in patients received neoadjuvant therapy, 4 years|ORR, Objective remission rate in patients received neoadjuvant and palliative therapy, 4 years|DCR, Disease control rate in patients received neoadjuvant and palliative therapy, 4 years|OS, Overall survival of the enrolled patients, 5 years|the incidence of treatment-related adverse events, Incidence and Severity of adverse events according to the CTC AE V4.03 Incidence and Severity of adverse events according to the CTC AE V4.03 Incidence and severity of adverse events according to the CTC AE V4.03, 5 years
HER-2 positive breast cancer patients who live at high altitudes greater than 2000 meters for long periods of time and will receive trastuzumab-based targeted therapy will be enrolled. The subjects included early and advanced patients. Treatment regimens includes chemotherapy combined with trastuzumab, chemotherapy combined with trastuzumab and pertuzumab, trastuzumab alone, and trastuzumab plus pertuzumab. Electrocardiogram, cardiac ultrasound, NT-proBNP, and TNI will be tested every 3 months when the treatment begins. The primary endpoint is cardiotoxity. The second endpoints is pathologic complete response (pCR) rate in neoadjuvant therapy, objective remission rate (ORR) and disease control rate (DCR) in neoadjuvant and palliative therapy.