Trial of Beads Versus Doxorubicin Eluting Beads for Arterial Embolization of Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of blocking the blood vessels to the tumor in your liver with small beads alone (Bead Block) versus blocking them with the same bead that contains and releases doxorubicin (a chemotherapy agent). The reason for the study is to see if adding doxorubicin kills more tumor than would be killed by just blocking the blood supplying the tumor. The chemotherapy, doxorubicin, has been used for many years to treat patients with cancer. This procedure to block the blood vessels is called embolization. Embolization is a common treatment for patients with liver cancer who cannot have surgery. The investigators are comparing the standard treatment (using the small beads alone) with another that should be at least as good, but possibly better (with the addition of the drug, doxorubicin). There is no guarantee that the new treatment is better and it is possible that there might be more side effects (related to the doxorubicin) than what is seen with the standard treatment.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Liver Cancer|Hepatoma
DEVICE: Bead Block microspheres|OTHER: Bead + Dox Arm
Response to Treatment by RECIST Criteria, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 2 to 3 weeks
Number of Participants Evaluated for Toxicity, Toxicity will be graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 3.0., 1 year|Progression Free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, 1 year|Overall Survival, 1 year
Biocompatibles LC Bead (also known as DC Bead in Asia \& Europe) microspheres are preformed soft, deformable microspheres that may be loaded with doxorubicin and used to occlude blood flow to a cancerous tumour. LC Bead microspheres consist of a macromere derived from PVA. The fully polymerized microsphere is approximately 90% water and is compressible to approximately 30% by diameter. The microspheres can be delivered through conventional catheters (4-5Fr) or micro-catheters in the 2-3Fr range. These microspheres, like all agents used for arterial embolization, are mixed with radiographic contrast prior to administration in order to allow for fluoroscopic control of the embolization procedure.