Treatment Based on Molecular Profiling Diagnosis Carcinoma of Unknown Primary Site
This is a non-randomized Phase II study. Patients determined at initial diagnosis to have a carcinoma of unknown primary site (CUP) will have their treatment selected with the use of a molecular profiling assay. The assay will be performed on paraffin-embedded tumor tissue from a biopsy specimen. Patients given specific diagnoses (e.g., lung, pancreas, colon, breast, renal cell, prostate and ovarian cancer) will receive treatment regimens of proven activity. If no specific diagnosis is made with the molecular profiling assay, empiric chemotherapy with paclitaxel, carboplatin, bevacizumab and erlotinib will be administered.
Carcinoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Erlotinib|OTHER: Treatment determined by physician
Overall Survival, Defined as the elapsed time from the start of treatment to the date of death from any cause or lost to follow-up. Participants lost to follow up were censored as of the last date known to be alive., every 6-8 weeks (2 cycles) until death from any cause or lost to follow up, projected 18 months
Number of Participants With a Tissue of Origin Successfully Predicted by the Assay, To evaluate the utility of the assay in identifying the tissue of origin in patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site (CUP), an archived tumor specimen was assayed upon study entry. If a tissue of origin was predicted by the assay, participants received standard site-specific therapy for that tumor type. When tissue of origin was not predicted by the assay, patients received standard empiric chemotherapy for CUP and were not followed further. If the assay was not completed due to inadequate amount of tumor in the biopsy specimen, patients were not treated on the study., at baseline
The primary objective of the study is evaluate the impact of the molecular assay prediction on the efficacy of therapy for patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site (CUP). Investigators will use tumor profiling results to direct standard, site-specific first-line therapy for patients with CUP.