Cryoablation vs Lumpectomy in T1 Breast Cancers
This trial studies the efficacy and safety of cryoablation in patients with low risk, early stage breast cancer. Cryoablation is a method of killing a tumor by freezing it. The standard approach for patients with this kind of cancer is a lumpectomy. This study will review the safety of the cryoablation procedure initially, followed by comparing cryoablation to lumpectomy in order to see if the cryoablation results in better disease control, complication rates, and quality of life.
Breast Cancer|Breast Neoplasm
DEVICE: Endocare SlimLine Cryoprobe|PROCEDURE: Lumpectomy
Safety Lead-In: Number of treatment-related complications, Excessive adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5.0. They are defined as toxicities occurring within 30 days after the cryoablation procedure and are at least possibly related to the cryoablation. These include death, life-threatening adverse events, inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, a persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or complications related to cryoablation which interfere with adjuvant therapy such that the adjuvant therapy cannot be performed at all or delayed for a period longer than 6 months or which result in unplanned mastectomy., Assessed from start of treatment through 30 days after cryoablation treatment (estimated to be 31 days)|Randomized Controlled Trial: Ipsilateral breast cancer recurrence (IBTR) in the treated breast., IBTR defined from date of procedure to date of ipsilateral breast cancer recurrence, with the occurrence of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence as the event and patients will be censored at the last follow-up., At 5 years.
Proportion of patients who are free of serious treatment-related complications, Excessive adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5.0. They are defined as toxicities occurring within 30 days after the cryoablation procedure and are at least possibly related to the cryoablation. These include death, life-threatening adverse events, inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, a persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or complications related to cryoablation which interfere with adjuvant therapy such that the adjuvant therapy cannot be performed at all or delayed for a period longer than 6 months or which result in unplanned mastectomy., Assessed from start of treatment through 30 days after cryoablation treatment (estimated to be 31 days)|Proportion of patients who demonstrate disease-free survival (DFS), DFS is defined as the time from procedure to time of ipsilateral recurrence, contralateral recurrence, regional recurrence or distant metastasis, or date of last follow-up if none of the recurrence events occur., Through 5 years.|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined from date of procedure to date of death or date of last follow up if none of the recurrence events occur., Through 5 years.
This trial studies the efficacy and safety of cryoablation in patients with low risk, early stage breast cancer. Cryoablation is a method of killing a tumor by freezing it. The standard approach for patients with this kind of cancer is a lumpectomy. This study will review the safety of the cryoablation procedure initially, followed by comparing cryoablation to lumpectomy in order to see if the cryoablation results in better disease control, complication rates, and quality of life.