VIC-1911 Monotherapy in Combination With Sotorasib for the Treatment of KRAS G12C-Mutant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This is a Phase 1a/1b study of aurora kinase A inhibitor VIC-1911 administered as monotherapy and in combination with sotorasib for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic KRAS G12C-mutant non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: VIC-1911|DRUG: sotorasib
Incidence of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Safety and tolerability assessed by adverse events(AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), 9 months
Objective Response Rate, Proportion of subjects with objective responses (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v.1.1., Assessed at the end of Cycle 2 and every 2 cycles thereafter up to 8 months. Each cycle is 28 days.|Duration of Response, Length of time from first evidence of objective response (complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\]) to the first objective evidence of disease progression, Assessed at the end of Cycle 2 and every 2 cycles thereafter up to 8 months. Each cycle is 28 days.|Time to Response, Length of time from the date of first dose of study drug to the first evidence of objective response (CR,PR), Assessed at the end of Cycle 2 and every 2 cycles thereafter up to 8 months. Each cycle is 28 days.|Disease Control Rate, Proportion of subjects with best response of CR, PR or stable disease (SD), Assessed at the end of Cycle 2 and every 2 cycles thereafter up to 8 months. Each cycle is 28 days.|Progression-Free Survival, Length of time from the date of first dose of study drug to the first evidence of disease progression or death, whichever is earlier, Assessed from the date of the first dose of study drug to the first evidence of disease progression or death, whichever is earlier, assessed up to 9 months|Overall Survival, Length of time from the date of first dose of study drug to date of death from any cause, Assessed from the date of the first dose of study drug to date of death from any cause, assessed up to 9 months
Mean Plasma Concentrations of VIC-1911 Alone and in Combination With Sotorasib, Mean plasma concentrations of VIC-1911 will be determined and summarized by dose group., Was to be assessed C1D1; C1D15; C2D1; C4D1; C6D1 (each cycle is 28 days). The study terminated early with only 3 subjects analyzed C1D1 and 2 subjects analyzed C1D15.|Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA) in Plasma (Pharmacodynamic Endpoint), Changes from baseline will be determined, summarized by dose group and correlated with clinical outcome, Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose and at progression of disease|Tumor Biopsies for Biomarker Assessment (Pharmacodynamic Endpoint), Changes from baseline will be determined, summarized by dose group and correlated with clinical outcome, Pre-study, Cycle 3 Day 1, and at progression of disease|Effect of de Novo Versus Acquired Resistance to KRASG12C Inhibitor Therapy, in Subjects Refractory to or Relapsed on Prior KRAS G12C Inhibitor Therapy, The effect of prior KRAS G12C de novo resistance (KRAS G12C inhibitor treatment ≤ 3 months) versus KRAS G12C acquired resistance (KRAS G12C inhibitor treatment \> 3 months) on clinical outcome, 42 months
Selected subjects will include males and females age ≥18 years; histologically confirmed locally advanced or metastatic KRAS G12C-mutated NSCLC; received at least 1 prior line of cancer therapy with a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor with or without platinum-based chemotherapy; recovered from all acute toxicities (≤ Grade 1) due to prior therapy; adequate renal and hepatic function; and no known history of significant cardiac, hepatic or ocular disease.

Dose Escalation Phase:

Following screening, a total of up to 36 subjects are anticipated to establish the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) of VIC-1911 monotherapy and VIC-1911 in combination with sotorasib therapy.

Cohort 1a: Subjects who are refractory to or relapsed on prior KRAS G12C inhibitor therapy will receive VIC-1911 monotherapy. Up to 24 subjects are anticipated in this cohort.

Cohort 1b: Subjects who are refractory to or relapsed on prior KRAS G12C inhibitor therapy or are naïve to KRASG12C inhibitor therapy will receive VIC-1911 plus sotorasib combination therapy. Up to 12 subjects are anticipated in this cohort.

A 3+3 dose escalation schema will be followed to establish the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of VIC-1911 and VIC-1911 plus sotorasib combination. A total of at least 6 subjects will be treated at the MTD in each group before initiating the Expansion Phase.

Expansion Phase:

Following screening, a total of 104 subjects with KRAS G12C-mutated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC are anticipated to expand the disease treatment settings of VIC-1911 as monotherapy or in combination with sotorasib. VIC-1911 monotherapy and VIC-1911 plus sotorasib combination therapy will be administered orally at the MTDs established during the Dose Escalation Phase.

Cohort 2a: Subjects who are refractory to or relapsed on prior KRAS G12C inhibitor therapy will receive VIC-1911 monotherapy. (n=29)

Cohort 2b: Subjects who are refractory to or relapsed on prior KRAS G12C inhibitor therapy will receive VIC-1911 plus sotorasib combination therapy.(n=29)

Cohort 2c: Subjects who are naïve to KRAS G12C inhibitor therapy will receive VIC-1911 plus sotorasib combination therapy. (n=46)

VIC-1911 and sotorasib will be taken in the fasted state, 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal.

Subjects who demonstrate clinical benefit (CR, PR or SD) will be allowed to continue therapy with VIC-1911 and sotorasib until progression of disease, observation of unacceptable adverse events, intercurrent illness or changes in the subject's condition that prevents further study participation.

Disease response will be assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v.1.1).

Blood for hematology, coagulation parameters and serum chemistry determinations and urine will be collected, ECGs will be taken and ophthalmologic exams will be conducted during the study.

Blood will be taken for PK assessment of VIC-1911 and PD assessment of circulating tumor DNA biomarker determinations.

Tumor biopsies will be taken from consenting subjects at Screening and on-study for correlative biomarker determinations. Results will be correlated with clinical outcome.