PECS II Block and Single Port Robot-assisted Transaxillary Thyroidectomy
The da Vinci robotic system was developed to improve both operative maneuverability (through multi-articulated instruments) and the surgical view (via a three-dimensional camera). Although the system has many advantages, skin incision, wide flap dissection, and pneumatic/mechanical retraction remain essential, but cause postoperative pain and slower recovery. Previous studies found that pectoralis fascial blocks were easy to establish; local anesthetics are injected between two adjacent myofascial layers under ultrasound guidance, providing the surgeon with a clear image. Analgesic efficacy has been validated during robotic thyroidectomy in our institution. The pain outcomes were comparable between the groups, but there were fewer complications in the PECS II group. The investigators investigated whether this block can reduce postoperative pain during wide flap dissection for single-port robot-assisted transaxillary thyroidectomy.
Thyroid Cancer
PROCEDURE: Pectoral nerve block
Analgesic efficacy, Visual analog scale from 0 (minimum) to 10 (maximum), the day after surgery
Quality of postoperative surgery course, The Korean version of QoR-15 (QoR-15K questionnaire) from 0 (minimum) to 150 (maximum), the day after surgery
The da Vinci robotic system was developed to improve both operative maneuverability (through multi-articulated instruments) and the surgical view (via a three-dimensional camera). Although the system has many advantages, skin incision, wide flap dissection, and pneumatic/mechanical retraction remain essential, but cause postoperative pain and slower recovery. Previous studies found that pectoralis fascial blocks were easy to establish; local anesthetics are injected between two adjacent myofascial layers under ultrasound guidance, providing the surgeon with a clear image. Analgesic efficacy has been validated during robotic thyroidectomy in our institution. The pain outcomes were comparable between the groups, but there were fewer complications in the PECS II group. The investigators investigated whether this block can reduce postoperative pain during wide flap dissection for single-port robot-assisted transaxillary thyroidectomy.