Patient-centered Self-administered Acupressure for Fatigue Management in Chinese Advanced Cancer Patients
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of a patient-centered self-administered acupressure intervention on fatigue, sleep quality, pain, fatigue-sleep disturbance-pain symptom cluster severity, psychological distress, and health-related quality of life among Chinese advanced cancer patients.

HYPOTHESIS TO BE TESTED: Upon intervention completion, the intervention group will exhibit lower levels of fatigue, pain, fatigue-sleep disturbance-pain symptom cluster severity, and psychological distress and higher levels of sleep quality and health-related quality of life than the wait-list control group.

DESIGN and SUBJECTS: A randomized wait-list controlled trial with intervention and wait-list control groups. A total of 30 Chinese advanced cancer patients who screen positive for moderate/severe fatigue with symptoms of insomnia and/or pain will be recruited.

STUDY INSTRUMENTS: Chinese versions of the Brief Fatigue Inventory, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Brief Pain Inventory, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General, and a demographic questionnaire.

INTERVENTION: A 4-week patient-centered self-administered acupressure intervention comprising 17.5 hours of individual training and self-practice.

MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary: fatigue. Secondary: sleep quality, pain, fatigue-sleep disturbance-pain symptom cluster severity, psychological distress, health-related quality of life, actigraphy.

DATA ANALYSIS: Linear mixed-effects models to assess between-group differences in outcome measures post-intervention and changes between data collection points, as well as whether the between-group differences vary across time.

EXPECTED RESULTS: The proposed patient-centered self-administered acupressure intervention is useful for alleviating the fatigue and related symptoms experienced by Chinese advanced cancer patients.
Advanced Cancer|Acupressure
BEHAVIORAL: Self-administered acupressure
Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), The questionnaire will be used for assessing levels of fatigue. The first three items (fatigue severity subscale) ask patients to describe their current fatigue, usual fatigue, and worst fatigue in the past 24 hours, with 0 = "no fatigue" and 10 = "fatigue as bad as you can imagine." The next 6 items (interference subscale) ask the extent to which fatigue interferes with various aspects of life, with 0 = "does not interfere" and 10 = "completely interferes." The mean scores of the 9 items can be categorized as mild (1-3), moderate (4-6), and severe (7-10)., post-intervention (T1, 4 weeks later)|Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), The questionnaire will be used for assessing levels of fatigue. The first three items (fatigue severity subscale) ask patients to describe their current fatigue, usual fatigue, and worst fatigue in the past 24 hours, with 0 = "no fatigue" and 10 = "fatigue as bad as you can imagine." The next 6 items (interference subscale) ask the extent to which fatigue interferes with various aspects of life, with 0 = "does not interfere" and 10 = "completely interferes." The mean scores of the 9 items can be categorized as mild (1-3), moderate (4-6), and severe (7-10)., follow-up (T2, 8 weeks after T0)
Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), This 19-item questionnaire will be used to assess participants' sleep disturbance levels. The items form seven component scores: sleep quality, sleep latency, sleep duration, habitual sleep efficiency, sleep disturbances, use of sleeping medication, and daytime dysfunction. The scores for each component range from 0 to 3 and are summed to produce a global score ranging from 0 to 21, with higher scores denoting poorer sleep quality., pre-intervention (T0, baseline); post-intervention (T1, 4 weeks later); follow-up (T2, 8 weeks after T0)|Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), The pain severity subscale (4 items) will be used to assess participants' pain intensity. The 4-item subscale assesses pain at its "worst," "least," "average," and "now" using an 11-point response format ranging from 0 ("no pain") to 10 ("pain as bad as you can imagine"). Average scores will be calculated and range from 0 to 10. The higher scores refer to higher pain intensity., pre-intervention (T0, baseline); post-intervention (T1, 4 weeks later); follow-up (T2, 8 weeks after T0)|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), This 14-item questionnaire will be used to measure the severity of participants' psychological distress. Responses are measured on a 4-point scale ranging from 0 ("not present") to 3 ("considerable"). The total score is the sum of the subscale scores (range: 0-42), with a higher score indicating more severe distress., pre-intervention (T0, baseline); post-intervention (T1, 4 weeks later); follow-up (T2, 8 weeks after T0)|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), The questionnaire consists of 27 items and will be used to assess health-related quality of life. Respondents have to rate each item with a score between 0 ("not at all") and 4 ("very much"). The subscale scores are added to obtain a total score (range=0-108), with a higher score representing a higher level of HRQOL., re-intervention (T0, baseline); post-intervention (T1, 4 weeks later); follow-up (T2, 8 weeks after T0)|Symptom cluster severity, the average scores of the BFI and BPI severity subscales and the item on overall sleep quality in the PSQI (to be transformed to a 0-10 scale) will be used. The symptom cluster severity score will be calculated by averaging the fatigue, sleep disturbance, and pain summary scores. The average severity score range from 0 to 10, with higher scores representing higher severity., re-intervention (T0, baseline); post-intervention (T1, 4 weeks later); follow-up (T2, 8 weeks after T0)|Actigraphy, Actigraphy will serve as an objective measure of activity levels (fatigue) and sleep quality. Patients will be asked to wear the device for three separate 72-hour periods., re-intervention (T0, baseline); post-intervention (T1, 4 weeks later); follow-up (T2, 8 weeks after T0)
The prevalence and impacts of fatigue and related symptoms in cancer patients have been clearly demonstrated in the literature, which also emphasizes the need for evidence-based interventions targeting symptom management in such advanced patients. The main challenge is identifying an intervention that is not only effective in managing cancer-related symptoms but is also feasible, acceptable, and safe for this patient group. The proposed study aims to test the effects of a patient-centered self-administered acupressure intervention on fatigue management for Chinese advanced cancer patients using the robust study design of a randomized, wait-list controlled trial.