Selumetinib and Akt Inhibitor MK2206 or mFOLFOX Therapy Comprising Oxaliplatin and Fluorouracil in Treating Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer Previously Treated With Chemotherapy
This randomized phase II trial studies how well selumetinib and Akt inhibitor MK2206 work compared to modified fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX) therapy in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer previously treated with chemotherapy. Selumetinib and Akt inhibitor MK2206 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. It is not yet know whether selumetinib and Akt inhibitor MK2206 are more effective than oxaliplatin and fluorouracil in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Acinar Cell Carcinoma|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Akt Inhibitor MK2206|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Selumetinib
Overall Survival, From date of registration to date of death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., Up to 3 years
Number of Patients With Grade 3 Through Grade 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drug, Only adverse events that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study drug are reported., Up to 3 years
Progression-free Survival, From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive and progression free are censored at date of last contact., Up to 3 years|Objective Response Rate, Confirmed response (CR) is two or more objective statuses of CR a minimum of four weeks apart documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration. Partial response (PR) is two or more objective statuses of PR or better a minimum of four weeks apart documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration. Unconfirmed CR is one objective status of CR documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration but not qualifying as CR or PR. Unconfirmed PR is one objective status of PR documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration but not qualifying as CR, PR or unconfirmed CR., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess overall survival in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer treated with the combination of AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate (selumetinib) and MK-2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206) compared to those treated with mFOLFOX.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the frequency and severity of toxicity associated with the combination of AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate and MK-2206 compared to those with mFOLFOX in this patient population.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess progression free survival (PFS) in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer treated with the combination of AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate and MK-2206 compared to those treated with mFOLFOX.

II. To assess objective tumor response in the subset of patients with measurable disease (confirmed and unconfirmed complete and partial response) in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer treated with the combination of AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate and MK-2206 compared to those treated with mFOLFOX.

III. To bank tissue and blood for future translational medicine studies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1 and 15 and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1-2 and 15-16 (mFOLFOX).

ARM II: Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, and selumetinib PO daily on days 1-28.

In all arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3 years.