Long Term Safety Observation of Crizotinib in Chinese NSCLC Population
This study is to allow access to crizotinib who were treated in previous Pfizer-sponsored studies in China.
ALK or ROS1-positive NSCLC
DRUG: Crizotinib
Number of Participants With Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events (AEs), Grade 5 AEs, AEs Lead to Treatment Discontinuation, Serious AEs (SAEs)- All Causality: Assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.03, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. According to NCI CTCAE version 4.03: Grade 3 indicates severe AE, Grade 4 indicates life-threatening consequences and urgent intervention indicated and Grade 5 indicates death related to AE. Participants who discontinued treatment due to AEs were captured under AEs leading to treatment discontinuation. SAE was any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; life-threatening (immediate risk of death); required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); congenital anomaly/birth defect or that was considered as an important medical event., From first dose of study treatment up to 28 days after last dose (maximum follow up approximately up to 52.3 months; maximum exposure to treatment was 51.3 months)|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or 4 AEs, Grade 5 AEs, AEs Leading to Treatment Discontinuation and SAEs- Treatment Related: Assessed by NCI CTCAE v4.03, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant associated with use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to study intervention. AEs that were related to treatment were evaluated in this outcome measure. Treatment relatedness was judged by investigator. According to NCI CTCAE version 4.03: Grade 3= severe AE, Grade 4= life-threatening consequences and urgent intervention indicated, Grade 5= death related to AE. Participants who discontinued treatment due to treatment related AEs were captured under AEs leading to treatment discontinuation. SAE was any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; life-threatening (immediate risk of death); required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); congenital anomaly/birth defect or that was considered as an important medical event., From first dose of study treatment up to 28 days after last dose (maximum follow up approximately up to 52.3 months; maximum exposure to treatment was 51.3 months)
This study is a phase 4 study, to continually access Xalkori to Chinese patients who were recruited in previous studies of Crizotinib in China, and only collect the safety data.