Anesthesia and Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Recurrence
There has been ongoing debate about the relationship between cancer recurrence and anesthetic management. Therefore, the investigators will test the hypothesis that the recurrence free survival (RFS) after curative resection of NSCLC is higher in patient who received total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) than volatile anesthetics in this multi-center randomized trials.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Surgery|Anesthesia
DRUG: Propofol|DRUG: Inhaled anesthetics
Recurrence free survival, Time from surgery to the earliest date of local recurrence/metastasis or death from any cause, whichever comes first, Within 3 year after curative resection for NSCLC
Overall survival, Time from index surgery to death due to any causes, Within 3 year after curative resection for NSCLC|Postoperative complications, Rate of complications which will be assessed with Clavien-Dindo classification and postoperative complications defined by the Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) general thoracic surgery databases, within 7 days post-surgery or at discharge if earlier
Surgery is the primary treatment for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but microscopic residual disease may be unavoidable. Preclinical studies have shown that volatile anesthetics might suppress host immunity and promote a pro-malignant environment which supports cancer cell proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis, whereas propofol may preserve cell-mediated immunity and inhibits tumor angiogenesis. However, clinical evidence that propofol-based total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) can reduce tumor recurrence after curative resection remains inconsistent due to retrospective observational nature of previous studies. Therefore, the investigators will test the hypothesis that the recurrence free survival (RFS) after curative resection of NSCLC is higher in patient who received TIVA than volatile anesthetics in this multi-center randomized trials.

This double-blind, randomized trial will enroll patients at 22 international sites, subject to study registration, institutional review board approval, and patient written informed consent. Eligible patients are adult patients undergoing lung resection surgery with curative intent for NSCLC. At each study site, enrolled subjects will be randomly allocated into the TIVA and GAS group with a 1:1 ratio. A centralized, password-protected, and encrypted web-based electronic case report form will be used for randomization and data upload. This pragmatic trial does not standardize any aspect of patient care. However, potential confounders will be balanced between the study arms.

The primary outcome will be recurrence free survival (RFS). Secondary outcomes will be overall survival and complications within postoperative 7 days. Enrollment of 5384 patients will provide 80% power to detect a 3% treatment effect (hazard ratio of 0.83) at alpha 0.05 for RFS at 3 years.

Confirmation of the study hypothesis would demonstrate that a relatively minor and low cost alteration in anesthetic management has the potential to reduce cancer recurrence risk in NSCLC, an ultimately fatal complication. Rejection of the hypothesis would end the ongoing debate about the relationship between cancer recurrence and anesthetic management.