A Feasibility and Safety Study of Intratumoral Diffusing Alpha Radiation Emitters for the Treatment of Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
A unique approach for cancer treatment employing intratumoral diffusing alpha radiation emitter device for advanced pancreatic cancer
Pancreatic Cancer|Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer|Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: Radiation: Diffusing Alpha Radiation Emitters Therapy (DaRT)
Feasibility - DaRT seed placement, Feasibility will be determined according to the rate of successful placement of DaRT seeds via imaging, From Day 0|Safety - Adverse events, Safety will be determined according to the overall incidence of device related SAE's graded according to CTCAE v5.0 criteria, up to 3 months
Efficacy -Alpha DaRT seeds, The secondary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of the Alpha DaRT seeds for advanced pancreatic cancer patients with respect to quality of life and tumor size., 1 month and 3 months]|Efficacy-Alpha DaRT seeds, Change in CA19-9 levels, 1 month and 3 months|Efficacy-Alpha DaRT seeds, Tumor Coverage, immediately following the insertion procedure
Exploratory objective-Blood samples will be collected for immune response biomarker analyses. Blood samples will be analyzed using FACS and change to the following immune biomarkers will be assessed: CD3, CD4, CD8, CD69, CD137, • Changes in immune markers following treatment with the Alpha DaRT seeds for the treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer. o CD3

* CD4
* CD8
* CD69
* CD137, 1 month|Exploratory objective, Tumor response using EUS, 1&3 months|Blood radioactivity measurements, Exploratory Objective-Blood samples will be collected and shipped using a designated sample collection kit provided by the Sponsor. The vials will be sent to a central vendor per the instruction provided in the associated laboratory manual., week 0 and week 7, 1 and 2 months|Urine radioactivity measurements, Urine samples will be collected and shipped using a designated sample collection kit provided by the Sponsor . the vials will be sent to central vendor per the instruction provided in the associated laboratory manual, week 0 and week 7, 1 and 2 months
This is a Prospective, interventional, open label, single arm, multiple center study. The study is designed to evaluate the feasibility and safety of the DaRT seeds for the treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer.

The study will be comprised of a screening period, DaRT insertion visit, acute follow-up phase of 4- 8 weeks and a long-term follow up phase of 3 months. The total duration of the study will be 3 months from the DaRT insertion procedure.

15 patients with advanced pancreatic cancer will be recruited by the investigational site.

Eligible patients who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria (as assessed during the screening period) will be invited to the site for the procedure of DaRT seeds insertion. The patients will be monitored for a period of 3 months post insertion