Sotevtamab (AB-16B5) Combined With FOLFOX as Neoadjuvant Treatment Prior to Resection of Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastasis
This Phase II study will recruit 17 colorectal cancer patients with liver-dominant metastases. All recruited patients will receive Sotevtamab at a dose of 800 mg once weekly for 6 cycles combined with FOLFOX once every 2 weeks for the first 4 cycles followed by liver metastases resection surgery with or without primary cancer resection. One cycle of treatment will consist of 14 days (2 weeks).
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Sotevtamab|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: FOLFOX
Rubbia-Brandt score at surgery, To characterize the pathological response of resected colorectal liver metastases as determined by the Rubbia-Brandt score. The Rubbia-Brandt score distinguishes five Tumor Regression Grades (TRG1-TRG5) according to the presence of residual tumor cells and extent of fibrosis., 16-18 weeks|Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Incidence, relatedness, and severity of treatment-emergent adverse events, 14-16 weeks
Objective Response Rate (ORR), To determine the objective response rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1, 9-10 weeks|Quantity of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), To evaluate minimal residual disease detection rate after colorectal liver metastases resection, Weeks 1 and 5, at surgery and post-surgery|Sotevtamab concentrations in plasma, To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of sotevtamab in the trial population, Weekly for 12 weeks and between Weeks 14 and 16|Presence of ADA, To evaluate the presence of anti-sotevtamab antibodies (ADA) in the trial population and their effect on exposure and tumor response, Weeks 1, 3, 8 and between Weeks 14 and 16
This is an open-label, single-arm, single-center proof-of-concept Phase II trial of sotevtamab in combination with FOLFOX-based preoperative neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy in participants with resectable liver-dominant metastases and candidate to neoadjuvant FOLFOX followed by partial hepatectomy. Approximately 17 participants will be enrolled in this trial and will receive 4 cycles of FOLFOX (Cycle 1 to Cycle 4) as preoperative systemic chemotherapy and 6 cycles of sotevtamab (Cycle 1 to Cycle 6). One cycle of treatment will consist of 14 days (2 weeks). Sotevtamab will be administered by intravenous (IV) infusion at 800 mg on Day 1 and Day 8 of each cycle. FOLFOX will be administered on Day 1 of Cycle 1 to Cycle 4 as follows: oxaliplatin 85 mg/m² IV infusion + leucovorin 400 mg/m² IV infusion + 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) 400 mg/m² IV bolus + 5-FU 2400 mg/m² continuous IV infusion over 46 hours. Participants will undergo liver metastasis resection with or without primary cancer resection following recovery from preoperative neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy.