Phase II Study of Regorafenib in Metastatic Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This is an international (France, Austria and Germany), randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of regorafenib in patients with histologically proven metastatic and/or unresectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma (STS) after failure or intolerance to doxorubicin (or other anthracycline).

Five cohorts will be defined:

Cohort A: Liposarcoma Cohort B: Leiomyosarcoma Cohort C: Synovial sarcoma Cohort D: other sarcomas (see Appendix C) Cohort E: Leiomyosarcoma, Synovial sarcoma and other sarcomas listed in Appendix C previously treated with pazopanib Approximately 226 patients who meet the eligibility criteria will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to one of the treatment groups.
Sarcoma
DRUG: Regorafenib|DRUG: Placebo
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival will be measured from the date of randomization until the date of radiological progression or death (if death occurs before progression).

Progression-free rate at 3 and 6 months (PFR-3 and PFR-6), time to progression, response rate and duration of response, overall survival according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, Up to 2 years
Growth modulation index, Growth modulation index in patients receiving regorafenib after randomization, Up to 2 years|Toxicity according to NCI-CTC AE V4.0., The monitoring of the toxicity of the regorafenib which can have a liver toxicity for exemple., Baseline, every 4 weeks, up to the end of study|Progression-free rate at 3 and 6 months (PFR-3 and PFR-6), According to the RECIST 1.1, At month 3 and at month 6|Time to progression, According to the RECIST 1.1 Every 4 weeks, Up to 2 years, Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause, Up to 2 years|Response rate, the proportion of patients with the best overall tumor response of partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) according to RECIST 1.1 guidelines that is achieved during treatment or within 30 days after termination of study medication., Up to 2 years|Duration of response, the number of days from the date of first documented objective response of PR or CR, whichever is noted earlier, to first disease progression or death before progression. Patients without progression or death before progression at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of their last tumor assessment., Up to 2 years
Potential predictive factors for regorafenib response., The monitoring of the factors which can induce a regorafenib response (Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded (FFPE) or fresh frozen tissue samples collected either from the primary tumor or from metastatic sites, or both will be analyzed), Up to 2 years
The standard of care for metastatic soft tissue sarcoma is doxorubicin +/- ifosfamide. After failure or intolerance to doxorubicin, there is no standard of care. In Europe, two are currently approved for the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma after failure/intolerance to doxorubicin: trabectedin (Yondelis®) for all histological subtype and pazopanib (Votrient ®) for all subtypes excluding liposarcomas. Nevertheless, none of these drugs improve the overall survival over placebo.

The study is composed of 3 periods:

1. A Screening Period,
2. A Treatment Period,
3. And a Survival Follow-up Period. Patients randomized to be treated with regorafenib will receive the treatment orally for 3 weeks of every 4 week (28 days) cycle (ie, 3 weeks on/1 week off).

Patients randomized to the placebo arm will be treated for 3 weeks of every 4 weeks cycle (ie, 3 weeks on/1 week off).

In addition to the regorafenib and placebo treatments, patients will receive best supportive care. Best supportive care includes any method to preserve the comfort and dignity of the patients and excludes any disease-specific anti-neoplastic therapy such as any kinase inhibitor,chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or surgical intervention.

Patients receiving placebo, who experience disease progression may be offered open-label regorafenib(cross-over option).