Efficacy and Safety of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) With Platinum Doublet Chemotherapy as Neoadjuvant/Adjuvant Therapy for Participants With Resectable Stage II, IIIA, and Resectable IIIB (T3-4N2) Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (MK-3475-671/KEYNOTE-671)
This trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in combination with platinum doublet neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) before surgery \[neoadjuvant phase\], followed by pembrolizumab alone after surgery \[adjuvant phase\] in participants with resectable stage II, IIIA, and resectable IIIB (T3-4N2) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The primary hypotheses of this study are that neoadjuvant pembrolizumab (vs. placebo) in combination with NAC, followed by surgery and adjuvant pembrolizumab (vs. placebo) will improve: 1) event free survival (EFS) by biopsy assessed by local pathologist or by investigator-assessed imaging using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1); and 2) overall survival (OS).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Event Free Survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the time from randomization until radiographic disease progression, local progression precluding surgery, inability to resect the tumor, local or distant recurrence, or death due to any cause. EFS determined either by biopsy assessed by local pathologist or by investigator-assessed imaging using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). The EFS for all participants is presented (through database cut-off date of 10-Jul-2023)., Up to approximately 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization until death from any cause. The OS for all participants is presented (through database cut-off date of 10-Jul-2023)., Up to approximately 5 years
Major Pathological Response (mPR) Rate, mPR rate is defined as the percentage of participants having ≤10% viable tumor cells in the resected primary tumor and all resected lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant therapy. The mPR rates as assessed by blinded independent pathologist are presented., Up to approximately 8 weeks following completion of neoadjuvant treatment (up to Study Week 20)|Pathological Complete Response (pCR) Rate, pCR rate is defined as the percentage of participants having an absence of residual invasive cancer in resected lung specimens and lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant therapy. The pCR rates as assessed by blinded independent pathologist are presented., Up to approximately 8 weeks following completion of neoadjuvant treatment (up to Study Week 20)|Change From Baseline in Neoadjuvant Phase in European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status (Item 29) Score, Change from baseline in GHS/QoL score using the EORTC QLQ-C30 will be determined. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is the most widely used cancer-specific, health-related QoL instrument comprised of 30 individual items arranged as both multi-item scales and individual items. Specifically, these items are divided into 5 functional scales (15 items total), 3 symptom scales (7 items total), 6 individual items, and a GHS/QoL scale composed of 2 items: GHS and QoL. The GHS/QoL score measured here refers to only the composite score calculated for the GHS/QoL scale. Both items on the GHS/QoL scale are scored from 1 (very poor GHS/QoL) to 7 (excellent GHS/QoL) and scores for both items are averaged and a linear transformation applied to standardize the overall GHS/QoL score from 0 to 100, with higher overall scores indicating higher GHS/QoL., Baseline (cycle 1 in neoadjuvant phase) and neoadjuvant week 11|Change From Baseline in Adjuvant Phase in European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status (Item 29) Score, Change from baseline in GHS/QoL score using the EORTC QLQ-C30 will be determined. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is the most widely used cancer-specific, health-related QoL instrument comprised of 30 individual items arranged as both multi-item scales and individual items. Specifically, these items are divided into 5 functional scales (15 items total), 3 symptom scales (7 items total), 6 individual items, and a GHS/QoL scale composed of 2 items: GHS and QoL. The GHS/QoL score measured here refers to only the composite score calculated for the GHS/QoL scale. Both items on the GHS/QoL scale are scored from 1 (very poor GHS/QoL) to 7 (excellent GHS/QoL) and scores for both items are averaged and a linear transformation applied to standardize the overall GHS/QoL score from 0 to 100, with higher overall scores indicating higher GHS/QoL., Baseline (cycle 1 in neoadjuvant phase) and adjuvant week 10 (up to Study Week 30)|Number of Participants Who Experience an Adverse Event (AE), Up to approximately 71 weeks|Number of Participants Who Experience Perioperative Complications, Perioperative complications are a discrete set of both intraoperative and postoperative complications, potentially contributing to increased length of inpatient care and/or delay of adjuvant therapy. The number of participants experiencing perioperative complications will be assessed., Up to approximately 51 weeks following surgery|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an Adverse Event (AE), Up to approximately 57 weeks
This trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in combination with platinum doublet neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) before surgery \[neoadjuvant phase\], followed by pembrolizumab alone after surgery \[adjuvant phase\] in participants with resectable stage II, IIIA, and resectable IIIB (T3-4N2) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The primary hypotheses of this study are that neoadjuvant pembrolizumab (vs. placebo) in combination with NAC, followed by surgery and adjuvant pembrolizumab (vs. placebo) will improve: 1) event free survival (EFS) by biopsy assessed by local pathologist or by investigator-assessed imaging using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1); and 2) overall survival (OS).