Trial to Assess the Clinical Efficacy and Safety of MSJ-0011 in Inducing Ovulation in Anovulatory or Oligo-ovulatory Japanese Women
This is an open-label, parallel-group, randomized, multicenter Phase III trial to compare the efficacy and safety of a single 250 microgram (mcg) subcutaneous dose of MSJ-0011 to a single 5,000 international units (IU) intramuscular dose of urinary human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in inducing ovulation in Japanese women diagnosed with anovulation or oligo-ovulation. Ovulation induction therapy will be undertaken with follitropin alfa. The primary objective is to show that MSJ-0011 is non-inferior to urinary hCG, as assessed by the ovulation rate.
Anovulation|Oligo-ovulation|Hypothalamic-pituitary Dysfunction|Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome
DRUG: MSJ-0011|DRUG: urinary hCG (u-hCG)|DRUG: Follitropin alpha
Percentage of Subjects With Ovulation Mid-luteal Serum Progesterone (P4) Level of Greater Than or Equal (>=) 5 Nanogram Per Milliliter (ng/mL) or Clinical Pregnancy, Ovulation was defined as mid-luteal serum progesterone level of \>= 5 ng/mL or clinical pregnancy. Clinical pregnancy was defined as the presence of at least a fetal sac on transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS)., Mid-luteal phase progesterone assessed (Day 5 to 10) or clinical pregnancy (Day 35 to 42) post hCG treatment
Percentage of Subjects With Ovulation Mid-Luteal Serum Progesterone (P4) Level of Greater Than or Equal (>=) 9.4 Nanogram Per Milliliter (ng/mL) or Clinical Pregnancy, Ovulation was defined as mid-luteal serum progesterone level of \>= 9.4 ng/mL or clinical pregnancy. Clinical pregnancy was defined as the presence of at least a fetal sac on TVUS., Mid-luteal phase progesterone assessed (Day 5 to 10) or clinical pregnancy (Day 35 to 42) post hCG treatment|Mid-luteal Endometrial Thickness, Endometrial thickness was measured using TVUS., Day 5 to 7 post hCG treatment|Percentage of Participants With Biochemical Pregnancy, Percentage of subjects with biochemical pregnancy was assessed. Biochemical pregnancy was defined as any miscarriage without any evidence of a fetal sac on TVUS on the Day 35 to 42 post hCG treatment, but with a positive serum β-hCG pregnancy test on Day 15 to 20 post hCG treatment (Beta-hCG level greater than \[\>\] 10 IU/Liter), Day 35 to 42 post hCG treatment|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Pregnancy, Percentage of subjects with clinical pregnancy was assessed. Clinical pregnancy was defined as the presence of at least a fetal sac on TVUS., Day 35 to 42 post hCG treatment
This is an open-label, parallel-group, randomized, multicenter Phase III trial to compare the efficacy and safety of a single 250 microgram (mcg) subcutaneous dose of MSJ-0011 to a single 5,000 international units (IU) intramuscular dose of urinary human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in inducing ovulation in Japanese women diagnosed with anovulation or oligo-ovulation. Ovulation induction therapy will be undertaken with follitropin alfa. The primary objective is to show that MSJ-0011 is non-inferior to urinary hCG, as assessed by the ovulation rate.