Viral Therapy in Treating Young Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of viral therapy in treating young patients with solid tumors that have come back or that have not responded to standard therapy. Some tumors have cells with a genetic weakness that makes them unable to fight off a virus called wild-type reovirus. The virus causes cells with this weakness to die, and may therefore be able to kill tumor cells without damaging normal cells. Cyclophosphamide is a drug used in chemotherapy that stops tumor cells from dividing and causes them to die. Giving wild-type reovirus together with cyclophosphamide may kill more tumor cells.
Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
BIOLOGICAL: wild-type reovirus|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD), defined as the maximum dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), graded using the NCI CTCAE v. 4.0, Up to 28 days
Time course of viral clearance of wild-type reovirus, Summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit)., Up to 3 months|Development of neutralizing antibodies to wild-type reovirus, Summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit)., Up to 3 months|Disease response, assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Will be reported descriptively., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of REOLYSIN (wild-type reovirus) administered as an intravenous infusion daily for 5 days, every 28 days to children with relapsed or refractory solid tumors.

II. To define and describe the toxicities of Reolysin in these patients. III. To define the toxicity and tolerability of combining Reolysin with oral cyclophosphamide in these patients.

IV. To characterize the pharmacokinetics (time course of viral clearance) of Reolysin in children with refractory cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the antitumor activity of Reolysin within the confines of a phase I study.

II. To evaluate the development of neutralizing antibodies to Reolysin following intravenous administration of Reolysin alone and in combination with cyclophosphamide.

III. To assess the biologic activity of Reolysin.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of wild-type reovirus.

Patients receive wild-type reovirus intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes once daily (QD) on days 1-5. Some patients also receive cyclophosphamide orally (PO) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 1 year.