External Beam Radiation Therapy - Target Volume
Delivery of conformal radiation therapy following radical prostatectomy is limited by the inability to define the clinical target volume (CTV). This stems from a poor understanding of patterns of local recurrence and limitations of standard imaging techniques.Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is a promising modality for imaging the prostatic bed following radical prostatectomy. MRI provides more detailed postoperative anatomy to guide CTV delineation, the ability to document local recurrence patterns, and a method to assess intrafraction prostatic bed motion and deformity to define appropriate planning target volume margins. The aim of this pilot study is to develop a technique for external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) following radical prostatectomy based on MRI-delineation of the CTV. Twenty patients will be enrolled in this pilot, development phase.
Prostatic Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: External Beam Radiotherapy
To develop a technique for MRI-delineation of the clinical target volume (CTV) for EBRT following radical prostatectomy, After data acquisition
To compare the reproducibility of clinical target volume and rectal wall volume delineation on MRI and CT., After data acquisition|To compare the location of the urethral anastomosis defined on MRI as compared to a fiducial marker placed under TRUS-guidance adjacent to the anastomosis., After data acquisition|To measure the amount of intrafraction movement and deformity of the prostatic bed and seminal vesicles with current bowel regimen of daily milk of magnesia using cinematic MRI., After data acquisition|To determine the optimal radiation technique that encompasses the MRI-defined PTV whilst respecting bowel and bladder dose constraints., After data acquisition|To measure the amount of interfraction movement and deformity of the bladder, rectum, and surgical clips within the operative bed using daily cone-beam CT imaging., After data acquisition|To explore the utility of IV contrast for the delineation of gross tumor recurrence and normal blood vessels., After data acquisition
Delivery of conformal radiation therapy following radical prostatectomy is limited by the inability to define the clinical target volume (CTV). This stems from a poor understanding of patterns of local recurrence and limitations of standard imaging techniques.Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is a promising modality for imaging the prostatic bed following radical prostatectomy. MRI provides more detailed postoperative anatomy to guide CTV delineation, the ability to document local recurrence patterns, and a method to assess intrafraction prostatic bed motion and deformity to define appropriate planning target volume margins. The aim of this pilot study is to develop a technique for external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) following radical prostatectomy based on MRI-delineation of the CTV. Twenty patients will be enrolled in this pilot, development phase.