Effects of Slow-Stroke Back Massage on CRF
Chemotherapy-related fatigue (CRF) is common in patients with breast cancer and it can be seen between 27% and 96% depending on the stage of cancer and treatment method. At the same time, CRF is reported as the most important symptom that reduces the functional capacity of patients with breast cancer and impairs their quality of life. For this reason, there is a need for an intervention that could decrease or prevent of CRF in breast cancer patients. In the literature, it is stated in the evidence-based guidelines that massage, which is one of the non-pharmacological methods, can be effective in CRF management.
Chemotherapy-releated Fatigue
OTHER: Slow-stroke back massage
Brief Fatigue Inventory, The Brief Fatigue Inventory consisting of 10 items. First item evaluates whether patients with cancer experienced fatigue differently than usual in the previous week. Inventory includes items assessing general fatigue levels of patients (fatigue felt at the time of the interview, fatigue in general and the worst fatigue suffered in the past 24 hours) and the interference of fatigue with daily activities (general activity, mood, walking ability, work life, relationships with other people, the joy of life) in the past 24 hours. Scoring ranges between "0" and "10", "0" indicating no impact at all and "10" indicating the highest level of impact. Global Brief Fatigue Inventory score is calculated by taking the arithmetic mean of other 9 items. The total score to be obtained from the inventory is between 0 and 90. Çınar et al. performed the validity and reliability study of the Turkish version of Brief Fatigue Inventory and the internal consistency of the scale was determined to be 0.98., It was filled before and after the 2nd, 3rd and 4th chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days). Changes in the Brief Fatigue Inventory scores were recorded before and after each three cycles.
This an assessor-blinded,parallel group randomized controlled trial aimed that investigating the effect of slow-stroke back massage on CRF in breast cancer patients.This trial was conducted in the chemotherapy outpatient clinic of University Hospital located in Turkey. All patients were women who received Adriamycin-Cyclophosphamide (AC)/ Cyclophosphamide-Adriamycin-5 Fluoro-uracil (CAF) regimens every 21 days.