Aspirin in Preventing Colorectal Cancer in Patients With Colorectal Adenoma
This phase IIa trial studies how well aspirin works in preventing colorectal cancer in patients with colorectal adenoma. Aspirin may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Colorectal Adenoma|Colorectal Carcinoma
DRUG: Aspirin|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Rectal Biopsy
Ratio of Cell Proliferation to Apoptosis Biomarkers (Ki67 Index and BAX Index), Change in the ratio of proliferation to apoptosis biomarkers (Ki67 density index: BAX density index, measured continuously after IHC staining) in colorectal mucosa of compliant participants, Baseline to end of intervention up to 12 weeks
Ratio of Cell Proliferation (Ki-67)/Apoptosis (TdT-mediated dUTP Nick End Labeling [TUNEL]) in Rectal Biopsies, Change in the ratio of proliferation to apoptosis biomarkers (Ki67 density index: TUNEL density index, measured continuously after IHC staining) in colorectal mucosa of compliant participants., Baseline to end of intervention up to 12 weeks|Ratio of Cell Proliferation (Ki-67)/Necroptosis (MLKL) in Rectal Biopsies, Change in the ratio of proliferation to necroptosis biomarkers (Ki67 density index: pMLKLdensity index, measured continuously after IHC staining) in colorectal mucosa of compliant participants, Baseline to end of intervention up to 12 weeks|Fecal Occult Blood Test (Measures of Adverse Events) as Measured by Stool Samples, The number of participants who started intervention and had a positive fecal occult blood test result, Baseline to end of intervention up to 12 weeks.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To test for the equivalency of the two aspirin schedules.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effects of aspirin treatments on:

Ia. The ratio of cell proliferation (Ki-67)/apoptosis (TUNEL) in rectal biopsies; Ib. The ratio of cell proliferation (Ki-67)/necroptosis (pMLKL) in rectal biopsies; Ic. Fecal occult blood test (measures of adverse events) as measured by stool samples.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effects of aspirin treatments on:

Ia. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in rectal biopsies; Ib. Bcl-2-like protein 4 (BAX) in rectal biopsies; Ic. Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member (7TRPM7) in rectal biopsies; Id. Joint index of COX-2 with TRPM7 expression in rectal biopsies; Ie. Joint index of TRPM7 with BAX in rectal biopsies; If. Methylation assays using the MethylationEPIC BeadChip to identify methylation biomarkers in genes (i.e. CDKN2A \[cell cycle regulation\], MGMT \[deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair\], DAPK1 \[apoptosis\], CDH1 \[cell invasion\], WNT16 \[Wnt pathway\] and RASSF1 \[RAS signaling\]) involved in colorectal carcinogenesis, and other epigenome-wide methylation biomarkers as measured in rectal biopsies; Ig. Metagenomics analysis to measure abundance of Escherichia coli (E. coli) and Fusobacterium and other microbiota in rectal swabs.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive aspirin orally (PO) daily for 12 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood, urine, stool, rectal swab samples, and rectal biopsies throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive aspirin PO daily at weeks 1-3 and 7-9 and placebo PO daily at weeks 4-6 and 10-12 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood, urine, stool, rectal swab samples, and rectal biopsies throughout the trial.

ARM III: Patients receive placebo PO daily for 12 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood, urine, stool, rectal swab samples, and rectal biopsies throughout the trial.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1 month.