DAY101 In Gliomas and Other Tumors
This research study is studying a drug Tovorafenib/DAY101 (formerly TAK-580, MLN2480) as a possible treatment a low-grade glioma that has not responded to other treatments.

The name of the study drug involved in this study is:

• Tovorafenib/DAY101 (formerly TAK-580, MLN2480)
Low-grade Glioma
DRUG: DAY101
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), A DLT is defined as an AE assessed as at least possibly related to the study medication, which occurs during Cycle 1 (typically 28 days following the first dose of DAY101), Greater and equal 28 days
Blood samples for DAY101 concentration measurements (i.e. pharmacokinetic measures), measurement of phosphorylated ERK in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, will be performed on all patients in the phase I component of the trial, cycle 1 day 1 1-4 hours post dose; cycle 1 day 3-6 random level; cycle 2 day 1 pre-dose; cycle 3 day 1 random level; end of therapy or at time of toxicity requiring patient be taken off study or dose held; time of surgery if applicable)|Best Overall Response, Pediatric patients (\>1 year and \<25 years of age). each evaluable patient will be classified as either a responder (complete response, partial response, or stable disease) or a non-responder (\<stable disease), 48 Weeks|Number of participants with adverse events, Frequency of adverse events (AEs) with once weekly administration of DAY101, 48 Weeks|Number of participants with serious adverse events, Frequency of serious adverse events (SAEs) with once weekly administration of DAY101, 48 weeks
This is a Phase I clinical trial. A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved DAY101 as a treatment for any disease.

This is the first time that DAY101 will be given to children. There is limited experience with DAY101 in humans.

The purpose of this study is to test the safety DAY101 in children and adolescent participants with brain tumors. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, it has on participants and the participant's brain tumor, and find the dose of DAY101 that is tolerated by participants without too many side effects to use in Phase II of the study.

Research in the laboratory has shown that DAY101 may have activity against cancer cells. DAY101 belongs to a group of drugs called type II BRAF inhibitors. BRAF abnormalities are found in cancer cells. There are no type II BRAF inhibitors approved by the FDA for humans at the time of this study's start. DAY101 functions by binding the mutant BRAF molecule and causing a conformation change in the molecule thereby blocking the signal that tells the tumor cell to divide.