Glycoprotein in Immunotherapy Response and Efficacy Prediction of Lung Cancer
Immunotherapy has improved the prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, but about 80% of patients do not respond at all (primary resistance), and some patients initially respond to immunotherapy, later relapse and develop disease progression (acquired resistance).

So the objective of this research is to explore the sugar chain heterogeneity of primary and acquired resistance to immunotherapy in patients with NSCLC.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Immune checkpoint inhibitor
Objective response rate (ORR), The investigator (and the chief radiologist) used the RECIST 1.1 evaluation criteria to evaluate the efficacy indicators. CT or MRI imaging data of the chest and abdomen collected regularly during the screening/baseline period and the study period were used for tumor evaluation. Only when there may be primary or metastatic disease in the pelvis, pelvic imaging is recommended. Any other disease-affected areas (for example, the pelvis and brain) should undergo additional imaging studies based on the individual patient's signs and symptoms. If an unplanned evaluation is performed and it is shown that the patient has not progressed, follow-up evaluation should be performed at the next scheduled visit as much as possible. Scanning/tumor evaluation continued throughout the study period until RECIST 1.1 appeared, Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Calculate the time from the immunotherapy to the tumor progression/all-cause death/the end of the follow-up period., Up to 5 years
Overall survival (OS), Calculate the time from the immunotherapy to the end of the all-cause death/follow-up period., Up to 5 years
Immunotherapy has improved the prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, but about 80% of patients do not respond at all, which is called primary resistance. Absence of the PD-L1 expression is regarded as one of primary resistant reasons to immunotherapy, there are some other reasons which have been reported to be related with the primary resistance, including tumor mutation burden (TMB), microsatellite instability (MSI), tumor neoantigen burden (TNB), HLA genotype, loss of heterozygosity (LOH), intra tumoral heterogeneity (ITH), genome wide doubling (WGD), and ploidy. While some patients initially respond to immunotherapy, later relapse and develop disease progression, which is called acquired resistance, like escaping of interferon signaling pathways or mutations in some important genes such as B2M/JAK1/JAK2.

Sugar chains, as the third chain of life except nucleic acids and proteins. More than half of the proteins in the human body have sugar chain modifications. During the occurrence, development, and metastasis of malignant tumors such as lung cancer, colorectal cancer, and gastric cancer, protein glycosylation undergoes corresponding changes as the disease progresses. Discovering and elucidating disease-related glycoproteins and their characteristic sugar chains is of great significance for searching for disease-specific biomarkers.

So the objective of this research is to explore the comprehensive characteristic sugar chain markers of primary and acquired resistance to immunotherapy in patients with Chinese advanced NSCLC.