Phase II Evaluating Efficacy of Temsirolimus in 2 Line Therapy for Patients With Advanced Bladder Cancer
In the absence of standard treatment in this indication, this test evaluates a new drug type targeted therapy in this indication, evaluating its efficacy in terms of tumor response and survival.
Relapsed Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Temsirolimus
Non-progression Rate at 2 Months, Non-progression rate is defined as the rate of participants in complete or partial response or stable disease according to RECIST V1.1.

Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions, partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters and stable disease occurs when neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progression, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., 2 months
Overall Survival, OS was was defined as the time from the treatment initiation to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death were censored at the date of the last follow-up or last patient contact. The OS was calculated using the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data., Through Database Cutoff Date of 23-Jan-2015 (up to approximately 5 years and 7 months - median follow-up time of 14 months)|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the initiation of treatment to the first documented progression (as per RECIST v1.1) or death (due to any cause), whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Patients alive and progression free were censored at the date of last follow-up or last patient contact. The PFS per RECIST 1.1 was calculated using the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data., Through Database Cutoff Date of 23-Jan-2015 (up to approximately 5 years and 7 months - median follow-up time of 14 months)
In the absence of standard treatment in this indication, this test evaluates a new drug type targeted therapy in this indication, evaluating its efficacy in terms of tumor response and survival. This study will also search for genes involved in the response to treatment.