Comparison of the Effectiveness of Supervised, Video-based and Home-based Resistance Exercise Program in Patients With Prostate Cancer
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of video-based application method of resistance exercise training and supervised exercise training on mobility, body composition, quality of life, fatigue, muscle strength and physical performance in patients with prostate cancer receiving androgen deprivation therapy treatment.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Home based exercise|OTHER: Video-based resistive exercise|OTHER: Supervised resistive exercise
Muscle strength, Muscle strength of the patients' reference muscles gluteus maximus, quadriceps, hamstring, gastrocsoleus, gluteus medius, will be evaluated with Hand Held dynamometer.For each muscle group, 3 measurements will be made at 1 minute intervals and the average of the measurements will be accepted as the evaluation result., 8 weeks|Body composition- fat percentage, Total body fat percentage, will be measured using Dual-Energy Xray Absorptiometry (DEXA) at baseline and after treatment in percentile., 8 weeks|Body composition- Body mass index( BMI in kg/m^2), Total body fat mass, will be measured using Dual-Energy Xray Absorptiometry (DEXA) at baseline and after treatment in BMI in kg/m\^2., 8 weeks|Short Physical Performance Battery, The physical performance level of the patients will be assessed with the short physical performance battery, which is a combined test that includes a chair stand test along with gait speed and balance assessment. The maximum score is 12 and a score of ≤8 indicates poor physical performance., 8 weeks|Quality of Life- Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate cancer (FACT-P), FACT-P is a scale that assesses the quality of life of patients with prostate cancer. The 27-question general version consists of sections assessing emotional, social or family, physical and functional status. There are 12 questions about the treatment of patients with prostate cancer and additional concerns. The lowest score is 0 and the highest score is 156. A high score indicates good quality of life., 8 weeks
Grip strength, Grip strength was evaluated by hand grip dynamometry. Measurements were performed in affected side according to positions defined by American Society of Hand Therapists (sitting with the shoulder adducted to the side and the elbow flexed 90° with the forearm and wrist in the neutral mid-position), 8 weeks|Fatigue -Functional assessment of chronic illness therapy - fatigue, FACIT-F consists of 13 questions assessing the level of fatigue during daily activities in the last week. The maximum score is 52. A high score indicates a high level of fatigue. It is a Likert-type scale scored between 0-4., 8 weeks|Sarcopenia Risk Survey, Sarcopenia Risk Survey is a 5-item questionnaire self-reported by patients as a screening for sarcopenia risk. It assesses 5 components: strength, supported walking, getting up from a chair, climbing stairs and falling. Scoring for each component ranges from 0-2, with a total score of 0-10. A score of 4 or more indicates sarcopenia., 8 weeks|Anxiety - The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) Anxiety and depression levels of the patients will be evaluated with the HADS questionnaire.This scale has subscales for anxiety and depression. It includes a total of 14 questions. Seven items measure anxiety and the other seven items measure depression. The lowest score is "0" and the highest score is "21". An increase in the total score indicates an increase in the level of anxiety and depression., 8 weeks
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of video-based application method of resistance exercise training and supervised exercise training on mobility, body composition, quality of life, fatigue, muscle strength and physical performance in patients with prostate cancer receiving androgen deprivation therapy treatment.