Celecoxib in Preventing Hand/Foot Syndrome Caused By Capecitabine With Metastatic Breast or Colorectal Cancer
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving radiation therapy together with capecitabine may kill more tumor cells. Celecoxib may prevent or lessen hand-foot syndrome caused by capecitabine.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying how well celecoxib works in preventing hand/foot syndrome caused by capecitabine in patients with metastatic breast or colorectal cancer.
Breast Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Pain
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Celecoxib|PROCEDURE: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Placebo
Incidence of Hand/Foot Syndrome (HFS) > Grade 1 at 16 Weeks Based on the CTC 3.0 Criteria., The primary classification of palmar planter erythrodysethesia according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) 3.0 criteria used to determine the incidences of \> grade 1 hand and foot syndrome (HFS) by 16 weeks from the commencement of therapy., At 16 Weeks, with evaluations and blood test every 3 weeks.
Incidence of Hand/Foot Syndrome (HFS) > Grade 1 at 16 Weeks Based on WHO Criteria., A secondary classification of palmar planter erythrodysethesia according to World Health Organization (WHO) criteria will be used for determination of the incidences of \> grade 1 HFS by 16 weeks from the commencement of therapy., At 16 Weeks
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the efficacy of celecoxib in reducing the incidence and severity of hand/foot syndrome caused by capecitabine in patients with metastatic breast cancer or colorectal cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to metastatic disease (breast vs colorectal), ECOG performance status (0 or 1 vs 2), prior chemotherapy (yes vs no).

Patients receive 1 of 2 treatment regimens.

* Regimen A (concurrent radiotherapy): Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5-6 weeks and receive oral capecitabine twice daily 5 days a week. Following completion of radiotherapy, patients may continue oral capecitabine as in regimen B.
* Regimen B (no radiotherapy): Patients receive oral capecitabine once daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days.

Patients are also randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily on days 1-21.
* Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily on days 1-21. In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 342 patients will be accrued for this study.