Ixabepilone in Treating Young Patients With Refractory Solid Tumors
This phase II trial is studying how well ixabepilone works in treating young patients with refractory solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ixabepilone, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Adult Rhabdomyosarcoma|Adult Synovial Sarcoma|Alveolar Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Childhood Synovial Sarcoma|Embryonal Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Previously Treated Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma/Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Recurrent Wilms Tumor and Other Childhood Kidney Tumors
DRUG: ixabepilone
Time to progression, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From enrollment until disease progression, death because of treatment complications, resection of measurable tumor or last patient follow-up whichever is first, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), The probability of PFS at 6 months will be summarized., At 6 months|Response rate (complete response [CR] and partial response [PR]) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST) and World Health Organization (WHO) criteria, Response rates will be calculated as the percent of patients whose best response is a CR or PR, and the fraction of responses obtained will have a 95% confidence interval, which takes into consideration the two-stage nature of the design., Up to 5 years|Toxicity as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, Toxicity information recorded will include the type, severity, time of onset, time of resolution, and the probable association with the study regimen. Tables will be constructed to summarize the observed incidence by severity and type of toxicity., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate to ixabepilone in various strata of recurrent solid malignant tumors of childhood and young adulthood, including all of the following: Embryonal or alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, osteosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma/peripheral neuroectodermal tumor, synovial sarcoma or malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, Wilms' tumor, and neuroblastoma.

II. Determine the time to progression for each tumor stratum. III. Prospectively evaluate the feasibility and utility of automated volumetric tumor measurement in patients with measurable pulmonary metastases, and descriptively compare volumetric measurements to 1-dimensional (RECIST criteria) and 2-dimensional (WHO criteria) measurements.

IV. Define and describe the toxicities of ixabepilone.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease (Ewing's sarcoma/ peripheral neuroectodermal tumor vs osteosarcoma vs alveolar or embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma vs Wilms' tumor vs neuroblastoma vs synovial sarcoma/malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor).

Patients receive ixabepilone IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every year for 5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 120 patients will be accrued for this study.