START-MET HS Prostate Cancer. : SbrT & Androgen Receptor Therapy METastatic HSPC
Phase III study of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) plus standard of care in castration sensitive oligometastatic prostate cancer patients, defined as androgen deprivation therapy plus radiotherapy to the primary tumor in previously not treated patients and second generation hormonal treatments (Apalutamide/Abiraterone+Prednisone/Enzalutamide) vs androgen deprivation therapy plus radiotherapy to the primary tumor in previously not treated patients plus second generation hormonal treatments, for the treatment of oligometastatic prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer|Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
RADIATION: SBRT|RADIATION: STANDARD OF CARE
Radiological progression-free survival (rPFS), based on RECIST 1.1 criteria, An average of two years
Overall survival, Defined as the time from trial randomization to the date of death from any cause. Patients not experiencing an event will be censored at the last known time they were alive., 3 years|Time to cytotoxic chemotherapy, Time from trial randomization to start of first cytotoxic chemotherapy, An average of two years|Time to PSA progression, Counted from the day of randomization to the day of either first recorded biochemical progression\[30\]. Patients not experiencing a biochemical failure are censored at time of last assessment, An average of two years|Local control, based on RECIST 1.1 criteria, 3 years|Time to castration resistance, Defined as the time from trial randomization until castration resistant status, 3 years|Time to skeletal-related event, Time from randomization until the occurrence of a skeletal related event (SRE), An average of two years|Quality of life. FACT-P, FACT-P, Three years after the study completion|Safety profile, To determine acute and late toxicity due to radiotherapy, scored using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) versión 4.3., Three years after the study completion|Pain. BPI, Evaluate the impact of the treatment on the patient's quality of life using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) questionnaire, Three years after the study completion
A total of 266 patients with a histological diagnosis of metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer, with limited disease (≤ 3 lesions based on CT and Bone Scan and ≤ 5 lesions based on Choline or PSMA PET/TC) at the diagnosis or in an oligorrecurrent stage will be included in the study. Candidates will be first screened for metastatic sites through bone scintigraphy and computerised tomography (CT) scans. Those who meet the ≤3 metastatic sites criteria will be second screened for metastatic sites based on Choline or PSMA PET/TC, which will be used to define the treatment volume of metastatic disease with SBRT/HIGRT and to confirm the oligometastatic status before the inclusion in the study.

Once included in the study, patients will be randomize (1:1) to standard of care + SBRT vs standard of care.

* Interventional arm: STANDARD OF CARE + SBRT (all metastatic lesions). ADT+ RT to the primary tumor (previously not treated) + Second generation hormonal treatment
* Control arm: STANDARD OF CARE. ADT+ RT to the primary tumor (previously not treated) + Second generation hormonal treatment

Patients will be stratified according to prior local treatment (yes/no) or the new imaging technique used (Choline vs PSMA PET/TC).