Low Dose Versus Standard Dose Dexamethasone for Reduction of Swelling in Patients with Primary or Metastatic Brain Tumors
This phase II trial studies whether low dose dexamethasone works as well as standard dose dexamethasone to reduce brain swelling after brain surgery in patients with primary brain tumors or cancer that has spread from other places in the body to the brain (metastatic). Surgery is an important part of the treatment of brain tumors; however, it results in injury to surrounding brain tissue, leading to brain swelling. Dexamethasone is effective for controlling the swelling of the brain; however, dexamethasone can cause many unwanted side effects. To minimize the side effects of dexamethasone, the lowest dose needed to control swelling of the brain should be used. This research study is assessing the safety of using a lower than standard dose of dexamethasone after the surgery to control brain swelling.
Malignant Brain Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain|Recurrent Malignant Brain Neoplasm
DRUG: Dexamethasone
Lack of feasibility, Defined as a participant requiring more than 18 mg of dexamethasone beyond the planned dose per treatment arm during the 9 day period from surgery through post-operative day 8. Feasibility will be monitored sequentially (after each patient completes study treatment), by arm. The feasibility review boundary is based on a Wald sequential probability ratio test. Rates and associated 90% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., Up to post-operative day 8|Incidence of toxicity, All grade toxicities attributed to dexamethasone at the possible or above level. All toxicities and side effects will be summarized in tables by organ, severity, and attribution. Rates and associated 90% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., Up to 30 days
Volume of cerebral edema for each post-surgery brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Measured by strategically acquired gradient echo (STAGE)., Up to 30 days|Qualitative assessments of cerebral edema on serial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images for each post-surgery brain MRI, Descriptive statistics will be provided for cerebral edema volume as measure by STAGE for each arm by strata and time point., Up to 30 days
Volume of cerebral edema for pre-operative and post-operative day 1 brain MRIs as measured by STAGE, Descriptive statistics will be provided for cerebral edema volume as measure by STAGE for each arm by strata and time point., At pre-operative and post-operative day 1|Qualitative assessments of cerebral edema on serial FLAIR images for pre-operative and post-operative day 1 brain MRIs, At pre-operative and post-operative day 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the feasibility of administering lower doses of dexamethasone post-operatively in patients who have mild to moderate cerebral edema pre-operatively.

II. Describe the toxicity profile associated with post-operative lower doses and standard doses of dexamethasone, separately.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Descriptively assess the consistency between the quantitative data produced by strategically acquired gradient echo (STAGE) and qualitative assessments of changes in cerebral edema on serial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images.

II. Quantitatively assess changes in the volume of cerebral edema post-operatively in participants on Arm 1 (standard dose) and Arm 2 (low dose).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Describe changes in the volume of cerebral edema between pre-operative and post-operative day 1 brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) in Arm 1 (standard dose) and Arm 2 (low dose) participants, separately.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive standard dose dexamethasone orally (PO) every 12 hours (q 12 h) for 3 days. On the day of surgery, patients receive standard dose dexamethasone intravenously (IV) before and after the surgery. Patients receive standard dose dexamethasone IV q 12 h on days 1-3 post surgery and tapered dexamethasone PO q 12 h on days 4-14 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additional doses of dexamethasone are given if needed.

ARM II: Patients receive lower dose dexamethasone PO q 12 h for 3 days. On the day of surgery, patients receive lower dose dexamethasone IV before and after the surgery. Patients receive lower dose dexamethasone IV q 12 h on days 1-3 post surgery and tapered dexamethasone PO q 12 h on days 4-14 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additional doses of dexamethasone are given if needed.

After completion of surgery, patients are followed up after 30 days.