Impact of Screen Size on Colorectal Adenoma Detection
The purpose of this study is to assess whether the use of large screen during colonoscopy will increase adenoma detection rate.
Colon Polyp|Colon Adenoma|Colorectal Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Large Screen
Adenoma Detection Rate (ADR), ADR is defined as the proportion of an endoscopist's screening colonoscopies in which one or more adenomas have been detected in patients, 12 months
Mean number of adenomas detected per colonoscopy, Mean number of adenomas detected per colonoscopy found in each arm, 12 months|Mean number of sessile serrated polyps, Mean number of sessile serrated polyps found in each arm, 12 months|Caecal intubation rate, percentage of caecal intubation rate in each arm, 12 months|Bowel cleansing level, According to the Boston bowel preparation scale (0=worst bowel preparation to 9= best bowel preparation). Comparison of each arm., 12 months|Procedure Time, Both intubation and withdrawal time will be recorded. Comparison of each arm., 12 months|Severe adverse events, SAEs of both arms for comparisons, 12 months
Colorectal cancer is the 3rd most common cancer in the world. Recently in Hong Kong it has surpassed lung cancer to be the most common cancer. Hence it is essential not only to have up-to-date surgical and oncological treatment but also a need an effective preventative strategy.

In the past few decades, removal of pre-malignant colonic lesions such as adenomas have been shown to prevent development of colorectal cancers. Colonoscopy is currently the only technique which can perform both detection and treatment during the same procedure. However, concerns have been raised about the effectiveness of colonoscopy in the prevention of CRC after several studies reported unexpected high incidence rates of interval carcinomas (IC), especially in the proximal colon. Most ICs are suspected to arise from missed colon lesions during colonoscopy. Factors concerning missed colonic lesions are multifactorial such as adequate bowel preparation, skill level of endoscopists, the number of endoscopy staff in the room as "eyes" to help with polyp detection and withdrawal time.

Following a pilot study in our endoscopy unit, we believe the size of the screen projecting the endoscopic image may have a positive influence on adenoma detection. Therefore, we feel that a well-designed and adequately powered randomised controlled trial may help to confirm this.