Study of Trametinib and Ruxolitinib in Colorectal Cancer and Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
The purpose of this research study to find out if the drug trametinib in combination with ruxolitinib is safe, tolerable and has beneficial effects in people who has certain type of cancers including the type that you have. Patients with RAS mutant colorectal cancer and pancreatic adenocarcinoma are invited to participate in this study. This is the first time that both trametinib and ruxolitinib are studied in combination. Trametinib is marketed in several countries with the brand name Mekinist® for the treatment of melanoma (a type of skin cancer). Trametinib has been studied extensively in cancer and has been tested in many patients. Ruxolitinib is an oral inhibitor of JAK1 and JAK2 tyrosine kinases and is approved for treatment of adult polycythemia vera and myelofibrosis. Ruxolitinib has been studied extensively in many patients.
Colorectal Cancer|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Trametinib|DRUG: Ruxolitinib
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Highest dose level at which less than one-third of the patients in the dose level experienced dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) during the first cycle of treatment, 28 days (1 cycle)
Frequency and severity of treatment-emergent Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, To assess the safety of the drug combination. During the dose escalation phase, this includes the incidences of dose limiting toxicities during the first 2 cycles of treatment., From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Changes between baseline and post-baseline hematology laboratory parameters during treatment - Haemoglobin, Unit of measure: g/dL. To assess the safety of the drug combination, From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Changes between baseline and post-baseline hematology laboratory parameters during treatment - White blood count, Platelets, Absolute neutrophil count, Unit of measure: x 10\^9/L. To assess the safety of the drug combination., From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Changes between baseline and post-baseline hematology laboratory parameters during treatment - Neutrophils, Unit of measure: Percentage component of white blood cells. To assess the safety of the drug combination., From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Changes between baseline and post-baseline biochemistry laboratory parameters during treatment - Urea, Sodium, Potassium, Chloride, Bicarbonate, Glucose, Magnesium, Calcium, Phosphate, Total cholesterol, High and low density lipoprotein, Triglycerides, Unit of measure: mmol/L. To assess the safety of the drug combination, From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Changes between baseline and post-baseline biochemistry laboratory parameters during treatment - Uric acid, Creatinine, Total bilirubin, Unit of measure: umol/L. To assess the safety of the drug combination, From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Changes between baseline and post-baseline biochemistry laboratory parameters during treatment - Total protein, Albumin, Unit of measure: g/L. To assess the safety of the drug combination, From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Changes between baseline and post-baseline biochemistry laboratory parameters during treatment - Alkaline phosphatase, Alanine transaminase, Aspartate transaminase, Lactate dehydrogenase, Beta-human chorionic gonadotrophin, Unit of measure: U/L. To assess the safety of the drug combination, From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Frequency of dose interruptions, To assess the tolerability of the drug combination., From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Frequency of dose reductions, To assess the tolerability of the drug combination, From time of first study drug administration until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Trough concentrations of trametinb, Trough concentrations of trametinb at different cycles of combination treatment with ruxolitinib, From cycle 1-6 of study (each cycle is 28 days)|Tumour Markers: CEA and CA 19-9 in blood samples, Changes from baseline tumour markers (CEA and CA 19-9) in blood samples, From cycle 1 up to last cycle of treatment (each cycle is 28 days)|Overall Response Rate, The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression (PD)/ recurrence (taking as reference for PD the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., From time of first study drug administration until first occurrence of disease progression, up to 2 years|Disease Control Rate, Percentage of patients who have achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease in accordance to RECIST 1.1., From time of first study drug administration until best overall response, first occurence of disease progression, up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival, Time elapsed between treatment initiation and tumour progression or death from any cause, with censoring of patients who are lost to follow-up., From time of first study drug administration until first occurence of disease progression, or death from any cause, up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Time elapsed between treatment initiation and death from any cause, with censoring of patients who are lost to follow-up., From time of first study drug administration to death from any cause, up to 2 years
The purpose of this research study to find out if the drug trametinib in combination with ruxolitinib is safe, tolerable and has beneficial effects in people who has certain type of cancers including the type that you have. Patients with RAS mutant colorectal cancer and pancreatic adenocarcinoma are invited to participate in this study. This is the first time that both trametinib and ruxolitinib are studied in combination. Trametinib is marketed in several countries with the brand name Mekinist® for the treatment of melanoma (a type of skin cancer). Trametinib has been studied extensively in cancer and has been tested in many patients. Ruxolitinib is an oral inhibitor of JAK1 and JAK2 tyrosine kinases and is approved for treatment of adult polycythemia vera and myelofibrosis. Ruxolitinib has been studied extensively in many patients.