Schedule De-Escalation of 177Lu-PSMA-617 for the Treatment of Metastatic Castrate Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how to improve the usage of Lu 177 vipivotide tetraxetan (177Lu-prostate-specific membrane antigen \[PSMA\]-617) for treating patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site), to other places in the body (metastatic) utilizing a treatment pause after 5 cycles of therapy versus standard continuous treatment for 6 cycles. Lutetium is a radioligand therapy (RLT). RLT uses a small molecule (in this case 177Lu-PSMA-617) that carries a radioactive component to destroy tumor cells. When lutetium is injected into the body, it attaches to the PSMA receptor found on tumor cells. After lutetium attaches to the PSMA receptor, its radiation component destroys the tumor cell. Giving 177Lu-PSMA-617 for 5 cycles versus 6 cycles may better treat patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|OTHER: Clinical Observation|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Gallium Ga 68 Gozetotide|DRUG: Lutetium Lu 177 Vipivotide Tetraxetan|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography
Progression-free survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time interval between randomization date and the date of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression will be defined in keeping with Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3) guidelines. The median progression free survival of each arm, corresponding 95% confidence intervals, and hazard ratio comparing the treatment arm to the control arm will be reported., Up to 5 years
Time to subsequent treatment (TTST), TTST is defined as the time from randomization to subsequent treatment. Median TTST will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Patients who do not progress to a subsequent treatment while on study will be censored at the last known follow-up date. The median TTST and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported by randomized arm. The log-rank test will be used to compare the two arms on the distribution of TTST., Up to 5 years|Time to progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression. Median TTP will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Patients who do not experience disease progression while on study will be censored at the last disease assessment date. Deaths will be censored. The median TTP and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported by randomized arm. The log-rank test will be used to compare the two arms on the distribution of TTP., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from study entry to death from any cause. Vital status and death dates will be obtained be electronic medical record review where possible, and by phone call where unavailable. Median OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Patients who do not experience death while on study will be censored at the last known date alive. The median OS and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported by randomized arm. The log-rank test will be used to compare the two arms on the distribution of OS., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be summarized by frequency and severity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 5.0. The proportion of patients who experience a grade 3+ adverse event at least possibly related to treatment will be reported by arm., Up to 5 years|Quality of life - FACT-RNT, Will be collected using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Radionuclide Therapy (FACT-RNT). The FACT-RNT is a 15-item measure assessing symptoms and toxicities on a 0-4 scale. Total scores range from 0-60, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. Mean values at each collection timepoint will be plotted and stratified by randomized arm., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether progression-free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 with Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria is non-inferior among patients randomized to treatment pause versus standard treatment in patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who have minimal residual disease on post-therapy single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) after 2 to 5 cycles of 177Lu-PSMA-617 treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare time to subsequent treatment (TTST) in this patient population between randomized arms.

II. To assess time to progression (TTP) between randomized arms in this patient population between randomized arms.

III. To assess overall survival (OS) in this patient population between randomized arms.

IV. To compare toxicities in treatment pause versus standard treatment in this patient population.

V. To assess changes in patient quality of life (QOL) as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Radionuclide Therapy (FACIT-RNT) for each randomized arm.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive 177Lu-PSMA-617 intravenously (IV) over 10-15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 42 days for 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with a near complete response may receive 1 additional cycle. Patients receive 68Ga-prostate specific membrane antigen-11 (gallium Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11) IV and undergo positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) and a bone scan during screening and on the trial. Patients also undergo SPECT/CT and blood sample collection on the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive 177Lu-PSMA-617 IV over 10-15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 42 days for 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo clinical observation until documented first progression. After progression, patients resume treatment with 77Lu-PSMA-617 for another cycle. Patients receive gallium Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 IV and undergo PET/CT and a bone scan during screening and on the trial. Patients also undergo SPECT/CT and blood sample collection on the trial.

ARM III: Patients undergo clinical observation until documented first progression. After progression, patients receive 177Lu-PSMA-617 IV over 10-15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 42 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive gallium Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 IV and undergo PET/CT and a bone scan during screening and on the trial. Patients also undergo SPECT/CT and blood sample collection on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 2 years or progressive disease.