Trial of S-1 Maintenance Therapy in Metastatic Esophagogastric Cancer
The aim is to assess the relative efficacy of S-1 de-escalation therapy vs. continuation of chemotherapy after induction therapy in patients with metastatic esophagogastric cancer in terms of overall survival.
Unresectable, Locally Advanced or Metastatic, Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach, or of the Gastro Esophageal Junction|Gastric Neoplasm|Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Esophageal Neoplasms
DRUG: S-1 de-escalation|DRUG: Chemotherapy by Investigator's choice
Overall Survival (OS), OS will be defined as the time length between randomization and the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up in case of no documentation of death., approx. 12 month
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time length between the date of randomization and the date of first disease progression or death (whichever occurs first)., approx. 12 month|Quality of Life, Quality of life will be evaluated using the validated European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 questionnaire and the gastric module STO22., approx. 12 month
Malnutrition, Explorative descriptive statistical methods will be applied to describe the results of the Nutritional Risk Screening stratified by visit and treatment arm., approx. 12 month|Overall Survival of non-randomized patients, For exploratory purposes, the overall survival experience of non-randomized patients will be considered. The survival time is defined as the time length between start of induction therapy and the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up in case of no documentation of death., approx. 12 month|Adverse Events, For descriptive analysis of toxicity/safety, summary tables will be presented showing the total number of patients reporting at least one specific event stratified by System Organ Class, Common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) term, CTCAE grade and causality., approx. 12 month
Open-label, multi-center, controlled, randomized, parallel-group phase II trial in patients with metastatic esophagogastric cancer having received induction chemotherapy.

Patients will be registered before or after application of a three-months induction chemotherapy . This 12-week induction therapy will consist of one of the following regimens: FLO/mod. Folfox-6, Cisplatin/5-FU, Cisplatin/S-1, FLOT, EOX/EOF or XP. Regarding dose adjustments, Investigators should refer to Section 6.3 and to the summary of product characteristics of the chemotherapeutical agents. Patients having finished the preplanned induction therapy without tumor progression (i.e. with complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR), stable disease (SD) or non-CR/non-PD in patients with non-measurable disease only according to RECIST Criteria Version 1.1) at week 12, being able to swallow capsules and having Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance score of 0-1 will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive Arm A or B.

In Arm A patients will continue with S-1 de-escalation phase starting at week 13 until disease progression, toxicities requiring discontinuation, withdrawal of consent, pregnancy, death or lost to follow up whichever occurs first. In patients with drug-related severe toxicity S-1 dose will be adjusted or study treatment will be terminated.

In Arm B patients will continue to receive the same polychemotherapy as during induction therapy until tumor progression, toxicities requiring discontinuation, withdrawal of consent, pregnancy, death or loss to follow up whichever occurs first.