TAS-102 and Irinotecan in 2L+ Gastric and Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma
This is a phase Ib single-arm, open-label clinical trial determining the feasibility and efficacy of TAS-102 and irinotecan in subjects with advanced gastric and gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. These are subjects who are not candidates for curative treatments and who have received at least one prior line of chemotherapy with a fluoropyrimidine and platinum agent.
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|GastroEsophageal Cancer
DRUG: TAS-102|DRUG: Irinotecan
Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, This is defined as the percentage of subjects who are free of progression 6 months after study treatment start. Progression is defined as death, radiographic progression or clinical deterioration attributed to disease progression as judged by an investigator. Radiographic progression is defined using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions and an absolute increase of an least 5 mm and/or appearance of new lesions., 6 Months
Number of Participants With Grade 3-5 Adverse Events, To evaluate the tolerability of administering TAS-102 in combination with Irinotecan in patients with advanced recurrent or unresectable gastric and gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma for the first 2 cycles of study treatment. Toxicity and adverse events are based on the CTCAE (NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 5.0., 8 Weeks|Objective Response Rate as Assessed by RECIST v1.1 Criteria of Patients Who Received TAS-102 and Irinotecan, To assess the objective response rate to the combination of TAS-102 and Irinotecan. Objective response rate (ORR) is defined as confirmed complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1): Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) is defined as a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions. ORR = CR + PR, From date of registration until first date of disease progression, toxicity, delay of treatment, or withdrawal of treatment, whichever came first, an average of 1 year.|Overall Survival of Patients of Patients Who Received TAS-102 and Irinotecan, To evaluate overall survival in patients with advanced recurrent or unresectable and gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma treated with this combination of TAS-102 and Irinotecan., From date of registration for up to 18 months after last patient is enrolled or until death from any cause, whichever came first.
Treatment on study will be administered in 14 day cycles.