Testing the Combination of Belinostat and SGI-110 (Guadecitabine) or ASTX727 for the Treatment of Unresectable and Metastatic Conventional Chondrosarcoma
This phase II trial studies the effect of belinostat and SGI-110 (guadecitabine) or ASTX727 in treating patients with conventional chondrosarcoma that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) and has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Belinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as guadecitabine and ASTX727, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving belinostat in combination with guadecitabine or ASTX727 may lower the chance of unresectable and metastatic chondrosarcoma growing or spreading.
Locally Advanced Unresectable Primary Central Chondrosarcoma|Metastatic Primary Central Chondrosarcoma|Unresectable Primary Central Chondrosarcoma
DRUG: Belinostat|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Decitabine and Cedazuridine|DRUG: Guadecitabine|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Objective response rate, Within 6 months after initiating study treatment
Presence of treatment related adverse events (AEs), Adverse events will be recorded at each clinical visit and will be categorized according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The attribution of AEs to each of the study drugs will also be recorded. Adverse event rates that are possibly, probably, or definitely related to treatment will be reported as counts and percentages per AE by grade and the number of patients with a given maximal grade of toxicity. Will be reported separately for the population of patients receiving belinostat and SGI-110 (guadecitabine) and the population of patients receiving belinostat and ASTX727., Up to 24 months post treatment|Occurrence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT), DLTs are defined as the following toxicities which are attributed to the study drug(s) and not to disease, and which occur (or first become evident) during a prespecified timeframe. Will also report the frequency and percentage of DLTs. Will be reported separately for the population of patients receiving belinostat and SGI-110 (guadecitabine) and the population of patients receiving belinostat and ASTX727., During the first cycle (28 days)|Progression free survival (PFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to evaluate time to event endpoints. Median PFS will be reported with a 95% confidence interval. Data will be presented as Kaplan Meier plots. Will be reported separately for the population of patients receiving belinostat and SGI-110 (guadecitabine) and the population of patients receiving belinostat and ASTX727., Time from first treatment with the study drug to the earliest of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months
IDH1/2 mutational status, Will compare the difference in the objective response rate among patients with IDH1/2 mutations as compared those without IDH1/2 mutations using Fisher's exact test., Up to 24 months post treatment|Changes in expression of conventional chondrosarcoma genes, Data from ribonucleic acid sequencing will be analyzed. Differential expression profiles between baseline and on-treatment samples will be analyzed at the gene level and gene expression changes defined as significant based on absolute log2 fold changes \> 2 and adjusted p values \< 0.005 for each comparison with consideration of the false discovery rate., Baseline up to 24 months post treatment|Changes in global deoxyribonucleic acid methylation, A Wilcoxon signed-rank test with continuity correction will be used to calculate P values for comparing methylation level distribution at the different time points., Baseline up to 24 months post treatment|Changes in tumor microenvironment, For quantitative immune multiplexing, data is derived from inForm software, and changes in defined immune cell subsets and expression between baseline and on-treatment samples will be assessed using paired T-tests., Baseline up to 24 months post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To conduct a phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate whether combination treatment with belinostat and decitabine and cedazuridine (ASTX727) shows preliminary evidence of clinical activity in unresectable or metastatic conventional chondrosarcoma (CS) using an objective response rate endpoint.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity profile associated with the belinostat and ASTX727. II. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) associated with the belinostat and ASTX727.

III. To evaluate the toxicity profile, objective response rate and progression free survival among the initial six patients treated with belinostat and SGI-110 (guadecitabine) prior to Amendment 5 in which ASTX727 was substituted for SGI-110 (guadecitabine).

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the IDH1/2 mutational status of subject's tumors and to evaluate for a relationship between presence of IDH1/2 mutation and clinical benefit from study treatment.

II. To conduct ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq) analysis using baseline and on-treatment tissue biopsies to study the effects of study treatment on CS gene expression patterns and identify candidate genes which may underlie treatment efficacy.

III. To evaluate for changes in global deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation levels using baseline and on-treatment biopsies and correlate changes in global methylation with clinical benefit from study treatment.

IV. To use multiplex immunohistochemistry to interrogate the immune microenvironment in baseline and on-treatment tissue biopsies to define changes in infiltrating immune cell subsets and PD-L1/major histocompatibility complex (MHC) expression by immune and tumor cells associated with study treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) or ASTX727 orally (PO) on days 1-5. Patients also receive belinostat intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood during screening, tumor biopsy during screening and on study, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 24 months.