89Zr-labeled Pembrolizumab in Patients With Non-small-cell Lung Cancer
After a screening phase of up to 42 days, eligible subjects will undergo two whole body immuno-PET scans with a non-therapeutic tracer dose (2 mg) of 89Zr-pembrolizumab; one with and one without a preceding "cold" therapeutic dose of pembrolizumab. For the first 3 patients, PET scans will be obtained at 1, 72 and 120 hours post tracer injection to determine the optimal scan time point and to perform biodistribution measurements and dosimetry. All subsequent patients receive only 1 PET scan post-injection (i.e. two PET scans). The optimal time point is expected to be at day 5 post-injection. Pembrolizumab treatment will continue every three weeks until two years of therapy have been administered, disease progression, or unacceptable adverse event(s).
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: 89Zr-Pembrolizumab
Treatment-related adverse events of 89Zr-pembrolizumab will be assessed by CTCAE v 4.0., Safety assessment will be measured through adverse events, changes in laboratory test results, changes in vital signs, and exposure to 89Zr-pembrolizumab. Adverse event data will be recorded and summarized according to NCI CTCAE v4.0., up to 2 years|Description of 89Zr-pembrolizumab uptake in tumor lesions by measuring standardized uptake value (SUV) on the 89Zr-pembrolizumab-PET scans, Description of 89Zr-pembrolizumab uptake in tumor lesions by measuring standardized uptake value (SUV) on the 89Zr-pembrolizumab-PET scans, up to 2 years|Visual 89Zr-pembrolizumab uptake in tumor lesions will be scored as positive or negative., Visual 89Zr-pembrolizumab uptake in tumor lesions will be scored as positive or negative., up to 2 years|Characterize tumor uptake heterogeneity between patients and within and between tumor lesions of the same patient, Intrapatient and interpatient 89Zr-pembrolizumab tumor uptake heterogeneity is expected and can be visualized., up to 2 years
Characterize the relationship between 89Zr-pembrolizumab tumor uptake and tumor and TIL PD-1 and PD-L1 expression as well as other blood and tissue parameters, Differences in 89Zr-pembrolizumab tumor uptake can be explained by (spatial) differences in tumor and TIL PD-1 and PD-L1 expression., up to 2 years|Explore the relationship between 89Zr-pembrolizumab organ uptake with irAEs. The focus will be on the gut, lung, liver, thyroid and pituitary., The level of tracer uptake in target irAE tissues correlates with immune-related toxicity., up to 2 years|Assess uptake of 89Zr-pembrolizumab in normal tissues by measuring standardized uptake value (SUV) to evaluate the biodistribution and dosimetry., Assess uptake of 89Zr-pembrolizumab in normal tissues by measuring standardized uptake value (SUV) to evaluate the biodistribution and dosimetry., up to 2 years
After a screening phase of up to 42 days, eligible subjects will undergo two whole body immuno-PET scans with a non-therapeutic tracer dose (2 mg) of 89Zr-pembrolizumab; one with and one without a preceding "cold" therapeutic dose of pembrolizumab. For the first 3 patients, PET scans will be obtained at 1, 72 and 120 hours post tracer injection to determine the optimal scan time point and to perform biodistribution measurements and dosimetry. All subsequent patients receive only 1 PET scan post-injection (i.e. two PET scans). The optimal time point is expected to be at day 5 post-injection. Pembrolizumab treatment will continue every three weeks until two years of therapy have been administered, disease progression, or unacceptable adverse event(s).