Adenoma Detection Rate Using AI System in China
The primary aim of this study is

- to explore the usefulness of Artificial Intelligence system in colonoscopy on adenoma detection rate (ADR). Other aims include to explore the data below when Artificial Intelligence is used.

Mean adenomas detected per procedure, MAP Proximal Adenoma detection rate, pADR Polyp detection rate, PDR Proximal polyp detection rate, pPDR Mean polyps detected per procedure, MPP Withdrawal time, WT Cecal intubation rate, CIR Cecal intubation time, CIT
Colorectal Neoplasms|Colonic Polyp|Adenoma
DEVICE: CSK AI system|DEVICE: Standard Colonoscopy
Adenoma detection rate, ADR, ADR refer to the rate of adenoma detection, calculated as the proportion of subjects with at least one adenoma., At the end of the procedure, up to 1 hour.
Polyp detection rate, PDR, PDR refer to the rate of polyp detection, calculated as the proportion of subjects with at least one polyp., At the end of the procedure, up to 1 hour.
Colorectal cancer is common in China. Most colorectal cancers happen when an adenoma becomes cancerous. Doctors use colonoscopy to look inside the colon and rectum and find adenomas and remove them. Removing adenomas is known to reduce the chances of a person developing colorectal cancers. The ability of colonoscopists finding adenomas varies, and there is a lot of researches into how to improve "adenoma detection rates".

A new AI system, called the CSK endoscopic diagnosis and treatment system has been designed to improve the rate of polyp detection at colonoscopy. Previous tests have shown that there is a significant improvement in detection of adenomas when the system is used. This study will randomize patients coming for colonoscopy to have their procedure performed as usual or as an AI-assisted colonoscopy. The investigators will record polyp and adenoma detection rates, duration of procedure, participant comfort levels, and complications. All patients referred for colonoscopy will be invited in 4 centers, recruiting a total of 800 participants.