Immunotherapy Targeting of Cytomegalovirus Antigens in Glioblastoma
In Australia, glioblastoma (GBM) has a higher annual fatality rate than a variety of other cancers, such as melanoma, bladder, and kidney tumors. While the 5-year survival rate for other cancers, such as breast and prostate cancer, has increased, there have been no notable advancements in GBM during the past ten years, and the incidence and mortality patterns have barely changed between 1982 and 2011. In particular, GBM poses a challenging therapeutic dilemma for patients and physicians due to its aggressive biology and resistance to available treatments. Recent studies showed that cytomegalovirus (CMV) is expressed in GBM tumors, making it a good target for immunotherapy trials. This phase I trial aims to determine the safety and tolerability of the PEP-CMV vaccine in patients with newly diagnosed MGMT-unmethylated GBM in combination with one cycle of adjuvant temozolomide.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: PEP-CMV vaccine
Percentage of participants with treatment-related adverse events according to NCI CTCAE V5.0., To assess the safety of PEP-CMV vaccination in combination with adjuvant TMZ, the percentage of patients with unacceptable toxicity will be estimated within each arm. All patients who receive any PEP-CMV vaccine will be included in these analyses., 2 weeks after the 3rd vaccine, which is approximately 12 weeks after consent.
Immunologic response as measured by peak number of T cells that secrete IFNy by ELISPOT in response to component A of PEP-CMV., Through study completion, an average of 1.5 years.
In Australia, glioblastoma (GBM) has a higher annual fatality rate than a variety of other cancers, such as melanoma, bladder, and kidney tumors. While the 5-year survival rate for other cancers, such as breast and prostate cancer, has increased, there have been no notable advancements in GBM during the past ten years, and the incidence and mortality patterns have barely changed between 1982 and 2011. In particular, GBM poses a challenging therapeutic dilemma for patients and physicians due to its aggressive biology and resistance to available treatments. Recent studies showed that cytomegalovirus (CMV) is expressed in GBM tumors, making it a good target for immunotherapy trials. This phase I trial aims to determine the safety and tolerability of the PEP-CMV vaccine in patients with newly diagnosed MGMT-unmethylated GBM in combination with one cycle of adjuvant temozolomide.