Radiotherapy for Extracranial Oligometastatic Breast Cancer
More and more evidence suggests that local radiotherapy can improve the outcomes for patients with oligometastatic disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the impact of radiotherapy, compared with standard systemic therapy alone, on survival, local control and toxicities in patients with extracranial oligometastatic breast cancer. Eligible patients are randomized in a 1:2 ratio between the control arm (standard systemic therapy), and the WLRT arm (standard systemic therapy + radiotherapy). Randomization will be stratified by three factors: visceral metastasis (yes vs.no), number of metastases(≤2 vs. \>2), hormone receptor(positive vs. negative). SBRT technique is preferred. During and after radiotherapy, the patients are followed and the efficacy and toxicities of radiotherapy are evaluated.
Breast Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: standard of care|RADIATION: radiotherapy + standard of care
Progression-free Survival, Time from randomization to disease progression at any site or death., 2 years
Overall Survival, Time from randomization to death from any cause., 2 years|Local control rate, Incidence of tumor control within RT fields during follow up., 2 years|Incidence of toxicities, Incidence of acute and late toxicities from treatment graded according to radiation therapy oncology group (RTOG) radiation injury criteria and National Cancer Institute CTCAE version 4.0, 2 years|Quality of Life measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- General (FACT-G), Assessment of quality of life scores by FACT-G, 2 years|Translational exploration, Assessment of circulating tumor cells (CTCs), ctDNA, as prognostic and predictive markers of survival, and for early detection of progression., 2 years|Proportion of acceptable SBRT completion, Proportion of patients who completed SBRT with acceptable dose prescriptions, 2 years
More and more evidence suggests that local radiotherapy can improve the outcomes for patients with oligometastatic disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the impact of radiotherapy, compared with standard systemic therapy alone, on survival, local control and toxicities in patients with extracranial oligometastatic breast cancer. Eligible patients are randomized in a 1:2 ratio between the control arm (standard systemic therapy), and the WLRT arm (standard systemic therapy + radiotherapy). Randomization will be stratified by three factors: visceral metastasis (yes vs.no), number of metastases(≤2 vs. \>2), hormone receptor(positive vs. negative). SBRT technique is preferred. During and after radiotherapy, the patients are followed and the efficacy and toxicities of radiotherapy are evaluated.