Role of ChatGPT in Vestibular Schwannoma Management
Previous studies have demonstrated that patients frequently undergo significant decision conflict regarding major medical decisions in otolaryngology. There lack validated tools available for decision support for patients. While limited evidence has demonstrated that clinical decision support tools can alleviate decision conflict for patients with diagnosis in otolaryngology, conversational language models were not employed in these studies and may provide additional benefit in this context. This study seeks to evaluate the efficacy of using ChatGPT, a conversational language model with basic clinical knowledge, in alleviating decision conflict for patients with new diagnosis in otolaryngology. For this pilot study, vestibular schwannoma, a benign tumor that develops on the vestibular nerve with known clinical equipoise, has been chosen for the initial study diagnosis. Efficacy will be evaluated by comparison of responses to the Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) and Satisfaction with Decision (SWD) scores between a group given training in ChatGPT and a control group (no ChatGPT training).
Vestibular Schwannoma
BEHAVIORAL: Use of chatGPT for 1 week
Changes in scores of Decisional Conflict Scale after ChatGPT use, The Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) measures 5 dimensions of decision making (feeling: uncertain, uninformed, unclear about values, unsupported; ineffective decision making). 15-item validated questionnaire. Score range 5-75 (higher score corresponding to higher levels of conflict in decision making), baseline, 1 week follow up, 2 week follow up|Changes in scores of Satisfaction with Decision after ChatGPT use, The Satisfaction with Decision (SWD) scale measures satisfaction with health care decisions. 6-item validated questionnaire. Score range 5-30 (higher score corresponding to higher levels of satisfaction with decision), baseline, 1 week follow up, 2 week follow up|Changes in scores for Knowledge on vestibular schwannoma management after ChatGPT use, 4-item questionnaire (Likert scale) assessing participants' confidence in understanding the diagnosis and treatment options for vestibular schwannoma. Score range 5-20 (higher score corresponding to higher levels of confidence in understanding diagnosis and management of vestibular schwannoma), baseline, 1 week follow up, 2 week follow up
Previous studies have demonstrated that patients frequently undergo significant decision conflict regarding major medical decisions in otolaryngology. There lack validated tools available for decision support for patients. While limited evidence has demonstrated that clinical decision support tools can alleviate decision conflict for patients with diagnosis in otolaryngology, conversational language models were not employed in these studies and may provide additional benefit in this context. This study seeks to evaluate the efficacy of using ChatGPT, a conversational language model with basic clinical knowledge, in alleviating decision conflict for patients with new diagnosis in otolaryngology. For this pilot study, vestibular schwannoma, a benign tumor that develops on the vestibular nerve with known clinical equipoise, has been chosen for the initial study diagnosis. Efficacy will be evaluated by comparison of responses to the Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) and Satisfaction with Decision (SWD) scores between a group given training in ChatGPT and a control group (no ChatGPT training).