Dexamethasone and Azeliragon for Management of Post-Resection Cerebral Edema in Patients with Glioblastoma
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of dexamethasone when given with azeliragon in managing cerebral edema after surgery (post-resection) in patients with glioblastoma. Cerebral edema is a pathological increase in the water mass contained within the brain interstitial space. Dexamethasone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It is used to reduce inflammation and lower the body's immune response to help lessen the side effects of chemotherapy drugs. Azeliragon is an oral RAGE inhibitor. Blocking the RAGE pathway at the time of surgery (peri-operatively) may decrease cerebral edema. Giving dexamethasone with azeliragon may help control post-operative cerebral edema in decreasing doses of concurrently administered dexamethasone.
Glioblastoma|Malignant Glioma
DRUG: Azeliragon|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Dexamethasone|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Brain with and without Contrast
Lack of feasibility, Defined by exceeding the planned total dose of dexamethasone (per dose level) during post-operative days 1 to 8 by approximately 50%., Up to 8 days after surgery|Incidence of adverse events, Azeliragon related adverse events and dose limiting toxicity rate assessed per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days post-last dose of protocol therapy
Cytokines/chemokines, Will assess cytokines/chemokines in brain interstitium and peripheral blood. The cytokine and chemokine levels will be measured as concentrations (pg/mL) and reported as a median with range., Up to 3 days after surgery|Volume of cerebral edema, Will assess volume of cerebral edema for each post-surgery brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as measured qualitatively and quantitatively by manual segmentation and computer assisted techniques., Up to 8 days after surgery|Azeliragon concentrations, Will assess azeliragon concentrations in tumor samples compared to azeliragon concentrations in blood., Up to 8 days after surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the lowest dose of dexamethasone that needs to be co-administered with azeliragon for treatment of post-resection cerebral edema in patients with glioblastoma.

II. Assess the safety of administering azeliragon peri-operatively to patients with glioblastoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe post-operative changes in levels of cytokines and chemokines in brain interstitium and peripheral blood in study participants.

II. Quantitatively assess changes in the volume of cerebral edema post-operatively in study participants.

III. Determine brain concentrations of azeliragon in resected tumor tissue from Arm 1 participants.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe post-operative changes in levels of RAGE ligands in brain interstitium, peripheral blood, and resection cavity fluid (when possible to obtain) in study participants.

II. Describe changes in levels of cytokines, chemokines, and immune cell populations in resection cavity fluid (when possible to obtain).

III. Describe differences in levels of cytokines, chemokines and RAGE ligands between patients in Arm 1 and Arm 2.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive azeliragon orally (PO) and dexamethasone PO or intravenously (IV) throughout the study. Patients also undergo collection of cavity fluid and blood samples, computed tomography (CT) scan, and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with or without contrast throughout the study.

ARM II: Patients receive dexamethasone PO or IV throughout the study. Patients also undergo collection of cavity fluid and blood samples, CT scan, and brain MRI with or without contrast throughout the study.