Concurrent Tislelizumab and Radiotherapy in Newly Diagnosed Extranodal NK/T-cell Lymphoma, Nasal Type
This clinical trial intends to analyze the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitor combined with radiotherapy for newly diagnosed NK/T-cell lymphoma. The investigational product in this clinical trial is tislelizumab, a PD-1 inhibitor.

As a rationale for using PD-1 inhibitors in patients with NK/T-cell lymphoma, their efficacy has been proved several times mostly in patients with relapsed NK/T-cell lymphoma.

Patients with low-stage NK/T-cell lymphoma usually receive high-concentration cytotoxic chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy, with treatment response rates of approximately 60 to 80%, but 80-90% of them experience hematological and non-hematologic toxicities during treatment.

Therefore, this study intends to determine the efficacy and safety of PD-1 inhibitor(Tislelizumab) combined with radiotherapy as a first-line therapy compared with pre-existing cytotoxic chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy in patients with NK/T-cell lymphoma with low stage and International Prognostic Index.
Lymphoma
DRUG: Tislelizumab
Complete response rate, The percentage of subjects with complete response(CR), After induction therapy is completed, Every 6 cycles of maintenance, up to 51 months every 6month|Overall response rate, After induction therapy is completed, Every 6 cycles of maintenance, up to 51 months every 6month
Duration of response, Up to 51 months|Progression free-survival, The time until defined by date of all-cause mortality from the date of investigational procuct administration, Up to 51 months|Overall survival, It is a measure of the period of survival without disease progression, the time between the date of treatment start and the date of death due to any cause of disease progression assessed up to 51 months|Time to response, Up to 51 months|Adverse events, Investigation of adverse events occurred in subject, From the day 1 of the clinical trial to 28 days after last drug administration
This clinical trial intends to analyze the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitor combined with radiotherapy for newly diagnosed NK/T-cell lymphoma. The investigational product in this clinical trial is tislelizumab, a PD-1 inhibitor.

As a rationale for using PD-1 inhibitors in patients with NK/T-cell lymphoma, their efficacy has been proved several times mostly in patients with relapsed NK/T-cell lymphoma.

However, a tumor-immune microenvironment(TIME) analysis at our institution confirmed that patients with relapsed or refractory NK/T-cell lymphoma had a peritumoral microenvironment with suppressed activity of T cells and macrophages (immune suppression, IS), in which case the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitor decreased compared to a more immune-active microenvironment (immune evasion or immune tolerance, IE or IT). On the other hand, most patients who were newly diagnosed with NK/T-cell lymphoma had a peritumoral microenvironment with active T cells and macrophages(IE or IT).

Patients with low-stage(Stage IE or IIE) NK/T-cell lymphoma usually receive high-concentration cytotoxic chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy, with treatment response rates of approximately 60 to 80%, but 80-90% of them experience grade 3 or 4 hematological and non-hematologic toxicities during treatment.

Therefore, based on the tumor microenvironment of NK/T-cell lymphoma, this study intends to determine the efficacy and safety of PD-1 inhibitor(Tislelizumab) combined with radiotherapy as a first-line therapy compared with pre-existing cytotoxic chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy in patients with NK/T-cell lymphoma with low stage and International Prognostic Index.