A Multicentre,Study of IBI133 in Subjects With Unresectable, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumours
This is a multicentre, open-label, first-in-human, phase 1/2 study of IBI133 in subjects with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic solid tumours. Phase 1 section includes three parts, IBI133 dose escalation part, and IBI133 monotherapy dose expansion part. The objective of phase 1 section is to identify MTD/recommended dose for expansion (RDE) of IBI133 monotherapy . The objective of phase 2 section is to further explore efficacy, safety and tolerability of IBI133 monotherapy at RDE in specified tumour population. The treatment cycle of the study is defined as every 3 weeks (21 days).
Locally Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic Solid Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: IBI133
Dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), DLTs are assessed during the DLT observation period to determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD)and /or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), 21 days after the first dose of IBI133|Safety: Adverse events (AEs);treatment emergent adverse event(TEAEs),serious adverse events(SAEs), Adverse events will be assessed by investigator(s)according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0, Up to 90 days after the last administration
maximum concentration (Cmax), PK parameters maximum concentration(Cmax)of IBI133,total antibody,can will be determined, Up to 2 years|area under the curve (AUC), PK parameters clearance rate of IBI133,total antibody,exate can will be determined, Up to 2 years|clearance rate(CL), PK parameters clearance rateof IBI133,total antibody,exate can will be determined, Up to 2 years|half-life (T1/2), PK parameters half-life of IBI133,total antibody,exate can will be determined, Up to 2 years|anti-drug antibody (ADA), the incidence and characterization of ADA OF IBI133 will be determined, Up to 2 years|Preliminary efficacy including objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects with a CR or PR. Number and percentage of subjects with CR or PR will be summarized., Through study completion,Up to 2 years|duration of response (DoR), DoR is defined as the time from the date first achieved CR or PR until the date of first documents disease progression based on RECIST v1.1 or death, Through study completion,Up to 2 years|disease control rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of subjects with a CR, PR or SD, and will be analysed in the same fashion as ORR., Through study completion,Up to 2 years|,time to response (TTR), TTR is defined as the time from the date of first study drug to the date first achieved CR or PR based on RECIST v1.1., Through study completion,Up to 2 years|progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of first study drug to death or disease progression based on RECIST v1.1, whichever occurs first., Through study completion,Up to 2 years
This is a multicentre, open-label, first-in-human, phase 1/2 study of IBI133 in subjects with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic solid tumours. Phase 1 section includes three parts, IBI133 dose escalation part, and IBI133 monotherapy dose expansion part. The objective of phase 1 section is to identify MTD/recommended dose for expansion (RDE) of IBI133 monotherapy . The objective of phase 2 section is to further explore efficacy, safety and tolerability of IBI133 monotherapy at RDE in specified tumour population. The treatment cycle of the study is defined as every 3 weeks (21 days).