Testing How the Body Responds to the Drug CX-5461 (Pidnarulex) in Patients With Metastatic Solid Cancers
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of pidnarulex (CX-5461) in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Pidnarulex is an oral inhibitor of ribonucleic acid polymerase I, with potential antineoplastic activity. It blocks a certain enzyme needed for cell division and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair and may kill cancer cells.
Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Pidnarulex
RAD51 response, Will be defined as at least 5 percent of cells with at least 5 positive foci per nucleus. Will target a 30% Rad51 response rate. Will be compared descriptively across the 2 cohorts, with and without homologous repair deficiency mutations., Up to 3 years
Incidence of adverse events, Will be summarized using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 3 years|Overall response, From the time measurement criteria are met for complete response or partial response until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented; assessed up to 3 years|Pharmacokinetics (PK), PK will be measured using plasma., At baseline, post-infusion on cycle 1 day 1 (C1D1), before the biopsy on C1D2, pre-infusion and post-infusion C1D8, and C1D15|Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage and repair signaling markers, Up to 3 years
Genomic alterations, Will be measured using circulating tumor DNA. Will be assessed using non-parametric analyses., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess whether pidnarulex induces a Rad51 response, which will be determined by an integral biomarker of percentage of cells with Rad51 nuclear foci in tumor biopsy specimens in patients with and without homologous repair deficiency (HRD) genetic mutations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of pidnarulex. II. To determine the overall response rate (complete responses plus partial responses) in patients with advanced, refractory solid tumors.

III. To measure the pharmacokinetics of pidnarulex. IV. To evaluate other DNA damage and repair signaling markers including Top2, G4 stabilization, RPA32, pSer33-RPA32, γH2AX, 53BP1, pSer8-RPA32, pKap1m and pNBS1.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To examine genomic alterations in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) that may be associated with response or resistance.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pidnarulex intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), biopsy, and collection of blood samples throughout the trial. Patients may undergo echocardiography (ECHO) at screening and then as clinically indicated.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.