Survivor Choices for Eating and Drinking - Colorectal Cancer
Epidemiologic data suggest that a Western dietary pattern after diagnosis of colorectal cancer increases risk of disease recurrence and death. High intake of red and processed meat, dairy, refined grains, and sweets/desserts characterize a 'Western dietary pattern'. This study aims to translate the epidemiologic findings into a patient-centered, web-based dietary intervention with text messaging to inform and modify users' dietary choices. The investigators' specific aims are to: 1) Develop a web-based dietary intervention with text messaging for colorectal cancer survivors; and 2) Conduct a 12-week pilot randomized controlled trial to determine the acceptability and feasibility of the dietary intervention among 50 colorectal cancer survivors. All participants will receive standard of care print materials regarding diet following a colorectal cancer diagnosis. Participants in the intervention group will also receive access to a web-based dietary intervention with text messaging for 12 weeks. This study will generate preliminary data on the effect of the intervention on dietary choices among colorectal cancer survivors for future studies.
Colon Cancer|Rectal Cancer|ColoRectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Website and text messages
Adherence, Frequency of logging on to website and responding to text messages, 12-weeks
Dietary change assessed via diet records, Change in consuming vegetables, whole grains, fish, processed meat, sugar-sweetened beverages, and alcohol, 12-weeks|Quality-of-life (EORTC C30), Change in quality-of-life, 12-weeks|Colorectal cancer-specific quality-of-life (EORTC C30 CR29), Change in colorectal cancer-specific quality-of-life, 12-weeks|Change in body mass index, Change in objectively measured BMI, 12-weeks|Change in waist circumference, Change in objectively measured waist circumference, 12-weeks|Change in fasting blood lipids, Change in fasting blood lipids, 12-weeks|Change in fasting glucose, Change in fasting glucose, 12-weeks
Epidemiologic data suggest that a Western dietary pattern after diagnosis of colorectal cancer increases risk of disease recurrence and death. High intake of red and processed meat, dairy, refined grains, and sweets/desserts characterize a 'Western dietary pattern'. This study aims to translate the epidemiologic findings into a patient-centered, web-based dietary intervention with text messaging to inform and modify users' dietary choices. The investigators' specific aims are to: 1) Develop a web-based dietary intervention with text messaging for colorectal cancer survivors; and 2) Conduct a 12-week pilot randomized controlled trial to determine the acceptability and feasibility of the dietary intervention among 50 colorectal cancer survivors. All participants will receive standard of care print materials regarding diet following a colorectal cancer diagnosis. Participants in the intervention group will also receive access to a web-based dietary intervention with text messaging for 12 weeks. This study will generate preliminary data on the effect of the intervention on dietary choices among colorectal cancer survivors for future studies.