Revisiting Omental Transposition in Locally Advance and Locally Recurrent Breast Cancer
Locally advance breast cancer and extensive locoregional recurrence are still considered as complexity of reconstruction. Although previous studies concluded that omental transposition was considerably indicated in poor vascularity in irradiated tissue, secondary infection and large defect become the obstacles of local tissue flaps. While some centres showed the excellent healing of omental transposition. Meanwhile, many studies showed the preferable outcome in escalating radiotherapy in term of locoregional control. In the investigators' institute, omental transposition in breast cancer has been developed for twenty years. The only institute in Thailand enhanced using this procedure in order to closure of large primary breast cancer and chest wall recurrence. This procedure is undertaken by single surgeon (Dr. K.J.). The investigators' protocol of omental transposition is including preoperative chemotherapy, preoperative accelerated radiation up to 80 Gy, approval of breast cancer centre committee, and meticulous wound care including vacuum assisted wound dressing, non-adhesive dressing. As a result, survival time could be improved.
Survival Rate
PROCEDURE: Omental transposition
Survival time, 22 years
Locally advance breast cancer and extensive locoregional recurrence are still considered as complexity of reconstruction. Although previous studies concluded that omental transposition was considerably indicated in poor vascularity in irradiated tissue, secondary infection and large defect become the obstacles of local tissue flaps. While some centres showed the excellent healing of omental transposition. Meanwhile, many studies showed the preferable outcome in escalating radiotherapy in term of locoregional control. In the investigators' institute, omental transposition in breast cancer has been developed for twenty years. The only institute in Thailand enhanced using this procedure in order to closure of large primary breast cancer and chest wall recurrence. This procedure is undertaken by single surgeon (Dr. K.J.). The investigators' protocol of omental transposition is including preoperative chemotherapy, preoperative accelerated radiation up to 80 Gy, approval of breast cancer centre committee, and meticulous wound care including vacuum assisted wound dressing, non-adhesive dressing. As a result, survival time could be improved.