Evaluation of the Minimalist Music and Birdsongs in the Anxiety of Nursing Professionals in Oncology
This project aims to investigate the effects of an intervention involving minimalist piano music and bird singing on the anxiety of nursing professionals working in the Oncology sector of a hospital.
Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms
OTHER: Minimalist music group|OTHER: Minimalist music + birdsongs group
Change from baseline levels of anxiety at immediately post intervention, To assess the anxiety of the study participant, the reduced scale of trait anxiety (STAI-S-6), validated in Brazil in a large sample of Brazilians, will be used. There are 6 questions that assess how the individual is feeling at the present moment and can be answered with 4 options on a 4-point Likert scale: 1- almost never; 2- sometimes; 3- frequently; 4- almost always. This gives a score range from 6 to 24. To create scores compatible with the original STAI-S scores, the STAI-6 scores will be divided by 6 and multiplied by 20 to give a range from 20 to 80.STAI scores are commonly classified as "no or low anxiety" (20-37), "moderate anxiety" (38-44), and "high anxiety" (45-80)., immediately pre intervention and immediately post intervention.
The demand for care with mental health of nursing professionals is increasingly present, considering the high rate of anxiety symptoms presented by the teams providing health care within hospitals. Oncology is one of the sectors where professionals have constant contact with situations of suffering and death, being a place where the enlargement of therapeutic tools for handling anxiety symptoms may bring benefits. Scientific literature has never described the effectiveness of works with minimalist music and birds singing used simultaneously with anxiety relief resources. Objective: Assess the effects of music intervention, with minimalist repertoire, with or without association to birds singing over anxiety of nursing professionals that work in Oncology. Method: Randomized Clinical controlled trial. The study will be performed in the Oncology sector of Israeli Hospital Albert Einstein located in São Paulo, Brazil and the population consists in 100 nursing professionals. The intervention will consist in a musical part, especially developed for this study and in recording of birds singing, played live for each one of the participants, individually with 10 to 15 minutes duration. The instrument for anxiety assessment chosen for this project is short-form of state-trait anxiety inventory (STAI-S-6). The project was approved by the research ethics committee, whose identification number on Plataforma Brasil (CAAE) is 59498222.6.0000.0071