Nurse AMIE: Addressing Metastatic Individuals Everyday
Determine the acceptability and feasibility of a supportive care software platform to improve quality of life and function in metastatic breast cancer patients. Acceptability will be defined as the proportion of women offered the intervention who agree to participate. Feasibility will be defined as the proportion of women who consent, take a tablet home, who actually interact with the tablet and participate at least one month of the program.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Supportive Care
Feasibility of the Application: The proportion of women who consent, take a tablet home, who actually interact with the tablet and participate at least one month of the program., Feasibility is defined as the proportion of women who consent, take a tablet home, who actually interact with the tablet and participate at least one month of the program., 3 Months
Acceptability of the Application: The proportion of patients who agree to participate among those deemed eligible and cleared by oncologist., The proportion of patients who agree to participate among those deemed eligible and cleared by oncologist., 3 Months
Quality of Life: Short Form 36, The Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) is a 36-item, patient-reported survey of patient health. The SF-36 is a measure of health status and an abbreviated variant of it.

The SF-36 consists of eight scaled scores, which are the weighted sums of the questions in their section. Each scale is directly transformed into a 0-100 scale on the assumption that each question carries equal weight. The lower the score the more disability. The higher the score the less disability i.e., a score of zero is equivalent to maximum disability and a score of 100 is equivalent to no disability., Through study completion, an average of 9 months|Quality of Life: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- Breast, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B), is a 44-item self-report instrument designed to measure multidimensional quality of life (QOL) in patients with breast cancer.

The FACT-B questionnaire includes 44 items, consisting of 5 subscales, all subscale items are summed to a total. The higher the score the better QOL, Through study completion, an average of 9 months|Physical Function: Short Physical Performance Battery, Objectively-measured physical function will be assessed using the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB). The SPPB is an accumulation of balance tests, 4-meter gait speed, and 5-chair stands. Based on the time needed to complete the chair stands, a score is given. A summation of scores from all tests is taken, ranging from 0 -12. A higher score = Higher physical function., Through study completion, an average of 9 months|Sleep: Sleep Quality Assessment (PSQI), Sleep quality and sleep problems will be assessed with the validated and frequently used Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI).

In scoring the PSQI, seven component scores are derived, each scored 0 (no difficulty) to 3 (severe difficulty). The component scores are summed to produce a global score (range 0 to 21). Higher scores indicate worse sleep quality., Through study completion, an average of 9 months|Pain: Brief Pain Inventory (Short Form), Bodily pain will be assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory- Short form (BPI-SF).

The BPI gives two main scores: a pain severity score and a pain interference score. The pain severity score is calculated from the four items about pain intensity. Each item is rated from 0, no pain, to 10, pain as bad as you can imagine, and contributes with the same weight to the final score, ranging from 0 to 40. The pain interference score corresponds to the item on pain interference. The seven sub-items are rated from 0, does not interfere, to 10, completely interferes, and contributes with the same weight to the final score, ranging from 0 to 70., Through study completion, an average of 9 months|Fatigue: Brief Fatigue Inventory, The Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) is used to rapidly assess the severity and impact of cancer-related fatigue. An increasing focus on cancer-related fatigue emphasized the need for sensitive tools to assess this most frequently reported symptom. The six interference items correlate with standard quality-of-life measures., Through study completion, an average of 9 months
Goals of the Nurse AMIE software program are to regularly assess psychosocial, functional, and symptom needs among metastatic breast cancer patients and to provide appropriate interventions via YouTube style videos, weekly phone calls with a patient navigator at Penn State, and appropriate referrals to phone or in person consultations as needed. The proposed Nurse AMIE software program will allow for the provision of resources (YouTube style videos, audio files, exercises) to intervene on many of the common symptoms and challenges experienced by metastatic patients. This is an identified need on the part of both metastatic patients and their medical care teams. Finally, it will also allow patient navigators to check in with patients, reviewing responses to surveys, discerning whether new or different interventions are needed, and connecting women to palliative care and other services if additional care is warranted.