A Phase I/II, Multicenter, Open-label Study of EGFRmut-TKI EGF816, Administered Orally in Adult Patients With EGFRmut Solid Malignancies
This is a Phase I/II, multi-center, open-label study, composed with a Phase I part (dose-escalation phase) followed by a Phase II part (expansion phase).

The dose escalation phase was designed to determine as primary objective the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of EGF816 monotherapy in adult subjects with locally advanced (stage IIIB) or metastatic (stage IV) NSCLC harboring specific EGFR mutations. Patients may have or not have received prior lines of antineoplastic therapy. An adaptive Bayesian Logistic Regression Model (BLRM) employing the escalation with overdose control (EWOC) principle will be used during the dose escalation part for dose level selection and MTD recommendation. The primary objective of the Phase II part is to estimate antitumor activity of EGF816 as measured by overall response rate (ORR) determined by Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) assessment in accordance to RECIST 1.1.
Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: EGF816
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) (Phase I Part), Number of participants with DLTs during the first 28 days of therapy. A DLT is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications that occurs within the first cycle of treatment with EGF816 and meets any of the criteria described in the protocol. A participant with multiple occurrences of DLTs under one treatment is counted only once., First 28 days of dosing|Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) (Phase II Part), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) determined by BIRC assessment in accordance to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1)., From baseline up to 64 weeks
Progression-free Survival (PFS) by Investigator Assessment (Phase I & Phase II Parts), PFS is defined as time from date of first dose of study treatment to date of first documented disease progression or death due to any cause determined by Investigator assessment in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years|Duration of Response (DOR) by Investigator Assessment (Phase I & II Parts), DOR is defined as the time from first documented response (PR or CR) to the date of first documented disease progression or death due to any cause determined by Investigator assessment in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years|Observed Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of EGF816 and Metabolite LMI258 (Phase I & Phase II Part), To characterize the PK properties of EGF816 and metabolite LMI258, Cmax will be calculated (Phase I \& II parts).

Cmax is maximum (peak) observed plasma drug concentration (mass x volume-1)., Cycle (C) 1 Day (D) 1 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hours (hrs) post-dose), C1D15 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hrs post-dose) (for Phase I part only) and C2D1 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hrs post-dose).|Time to Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax) of EGF816 and Metabolite LMI258 (Phase I & Phase II Part). Tmax is the Time to Reach Maximum (Peak) Plasma Drug Concentration (Time)., To characterize the PK properties of EGF816 and metabolite LMI258, Tmax will be calculated (Phase I \& II parts). Tmax is the time to reach maximum (peak) plasma drug concentration (time)., Cycle (C) 1 Day (D) 1 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hours (hrs) post-dose), C1D15 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hrs post-dose) (for Phase I part only) and C2D1 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hrs post-dose).|Area Under the Serum Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to the End of the Dosing Interval Tau (AUCtau) of EGF816 and Metabolite LMI258 (Phase I & Phase II Part), To characterize the PK properties of EGF816 and metabolite LMI258, AUCtau will be calculated (Phase I \& II parts). AUCtau is the AUC calculated to the end of a dosing interval (tau) (amount x time x volume-1)., Cycle (C) 1 Day (D) 1 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hours (hrs) post-dose), C1D15 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hrs post-dose) (for Phase I part only) and C2D1 (pre-dose and 0.5,1,2,3,4,6,8,12 and 24 hrs post-dose).|Percentage Change From Baseline in H-score for Immunohistochemistry (IHC) Biomarkers From Tumor Tissue Samples (Phase I Part), Changes in EGFR signaling pathway of newly obtained tumor samples following EGF816 treatment were evaluated by IHC of three pharmacodynamics (PD) biomarkers: p-EGFR, p-AKT and p-ERK. The assigned H-score semi-quantitatively assessed the expression level of these protein markers and their phosphorylated forms., Baseline and Cycle 1 Day 15|Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Investigator Assessment (Phase I & II Parts), ORR is defined as percentage of patients with best overall response of partial response (PR)+ complete response (CR) determined by Investigator assessment in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 4 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR) by Investigator Assessment (Phase I & II Parts), DCR is defined as the proportion of patients with best overall response of CR, PR, or SD determined by Investigator assessment in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 4 years|Time to Response (TTR) by Investigator Assessment (Phase I & II Parts), TTR is defined as the time from the date of the first dose to the date of first documented response (CR or PR) determined by Investigator assessment in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years|Number of Participants With Dose Interruptions and Dose Reductions (Phase I & II Parts), Assessment of the tolerability of EGF816 will be performed continuously during the treatment phase, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years|Duration of Response (DOR) by BIRC (Phase II Part), DOR is defined as the time from first documented response (PR or CR) to the date of first documented disease progression or death due to any cause determined by BIRC in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR) by BIRC (Phase II Part), DCR is defined as the percentage of patients with best overall response of CR, PR, or SD determined by BIRC in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) by BIRC (Phase II Part), PFS is defined as time from date of first dose of study treatment to date of first documented disease progression or death due to any cause determined by BIRC in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years|Time to Response (TTR) by BIRC (Phase II Part), TTR is defined as as the time from the date of first dose of study treatment to the date of first documented response (CR or PR) determined by by BIRC in accordance to RECIST 1.1, At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years|Overall Survival (OS) (Phase II Part), OS is defined as the time from first dose of the study treatment to the date of death due to any cause., At least 24 weeks up to approx. 9 years
Following completion of screening procedures and confirmation of patient eligibility, the participants are enrolled in the study. The study treatment begin on Cycle 1, Day 1 with the first administration of EGF816. A treatment cycle is defined as 28 days. Oral EGF816 is administered once daily on a continuous schedule until patient experiences unacceptable toxicity, progressive disease (PD), and/or treatment is discontinued at the discretion of the investigator, patient withdrawal of consent, or due to any other reasons. Treatment with EGF816 may be continued beyond RECIST 1.1 defined PD, if, in the judgment of the investigator, there is evidence of clinical benefit and the patient wishes to continue with the study treatment.