Sacral Erector Spinae Block for Pilonidal Sinus Surgery
The incidence of pilonidal sinus disease (PD) is estimated to be around 26/100,000 individuals mostly men.PD can cause the development of abscess or a draining sinus tract and that may lead to a loss of productive power and long-term morbidity.Different surgical technique approaches were proposed for treatment with different rates of success.
Post Operative Pain
PROCEDURE: Sacral erector spinae plane block
Pain score, NRS scor for post operative pain scale from 0 to 100, 24 hours
Opioid consumption., Total opioid consumbtion in mg, 24 hours|Lower limb motor affection, Modified Bromage scale for motor affection from 1 to 6, 24 hours|Adverse effects, Side effect as nausea, vomiting, itching will be recorded, 24 hours
Sacral erector spinae plane block was first described by Tulgar et al. To provide sensory blockade in the parasacral region in two cases who had pilonidal sinus surgeries. Since then, the block was used for multiple surgeries like anorecatal, hip surgery and parasacral reconstructive surgeries.After obtaining the ethical committee approval from Menoufia University. patients scheduled for pilonidal sinus surgery will be randomly allocated into one of two groups Patients will be randomized to a study group using a computer-generated random number table, and the allocation concealment will be performed using a sealed envelope technique.The sealed opaque envelopes will be kept locked in dedicated research safe and will be accessed by a research coordinator only when a patient consented for the study. The anesthetist will perform the intervention with the doses and concentration of drugs as per the protocol.

The patients and the follow up researcher will be blinded to the type of intervention used. The patient follow-up time will be scheduled intraoperatively PACU, 1 hour and 24hours postoperatively. The anesthetist who did the intervention will have no access to the reported documents or contact with the patient postoperatively.

For induction of anesthesia all patients will receive medication as per the facility protocol where propofol 1-2mg/Kg, fentanyl 2μg/Kg (actual BW), rocuronium 0.5 mg/kg will be used for induction and an endotracheal tube intubation will be inserted to secure the airway. After intubation and confirmation of endotracheal tube placement by auscultation and capnography, the patient will be turned into prone position.

Maintenance of anesthesia will be maintained by sevoflurane 1-1.2 MAC and rocuronium 0.1mg/kg guided by the TOF. All patients will receive multimodal analgesia in the form of paracetamol 1gm and parecoxib 40 mg (Pizer manufacturing Belgium). After exclusion of other causes of tachycardia and hypertension Morphine 2mg increments will be administrated to keep the heart rate or blood pressure within 20 percent of the patient's baseline parameters.