Brentuximab Vedotin in Combination With CHEP in Patient With PTCL
A Phase II Open Label Study of Brentuximab Vedotin in Combination with CHEP in Patients with Previously Untreated CD30-expressing Peripheral T-cell Lymphomas (PTCL)
Lymphoma, T-Cell, Peripheral
DRUG: Adcetris 50 MG Injection|DRUG: Endoxan|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Prednisone tablet
PET-negative complete response (CR) rate at the end of treatment, Complete response, 6m months
Type, incidence, severity, seriousness, and relatedness of treatment emergent adverse events., Type, incidence, severity, seriousness, and relatedness of treatment emergent adverse events., 38 months|Type, incidence, severity, seriousness, and relatedness of adverse events in the follow-up period., ype, incidence, severity, seriousness, and relatedness of adverse events in the follow-up period., 38 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from C1D1 to the date of the first clinically or radiologically or histologically/cytologically documented disease progression or death due to any cause. If a patient has not progressed, relapsed, or died as of the clinical cut-off date for final analysis, PFS will be censored on the date of last disease assessment when the patient is known to be alive and progression-free. If no tumour assessments are performed after the baseline visit or all post-baseline tumour assessment results have overall responses of "not evaluable", PFS will be censored on the date of study entry.

Kaplan Meier plots will be used to estimate the distribution of PFS. The PFS probabilities at 12 and 24 months, and the associate 95% CI will be summarized., 12 months, 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from C1D1 until death from any cause and documented by the date of death.

Kaplan Meier plots will be used to estimate the distribution of OS. The OS probabilities at 12 and 24 months, and the associate 95% CI will be summarized for each treatment arm., 12months, 24 months,|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the time from C1D1 to the date of the first clinically or radiologically documented disease progression or death due to any cause or start of new anti-lymphoma treatment (pre-planned radiotherapy or pre-planned HDT with ASCT are not counted as an event). If a patient has not progressed, relapsed, or died or started a new anti-lymphoma treatment at the analysis cut-off date, EFS will be censored on the date of last contact.

Kaplan Meier plots will be used to estimate the distribution of EFS. The EFS probabilities at 12 and 24 months, and the associate 95% CI will be summarized., 12months, 24 months,|Objective Response Rate (ORR) at the end of treatment, The ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with CR or PR based on the response achieved at the end of treatment.

The ORR along with 95% CI will be presented. The number and percentage of patients with CR and the number of patients with PR will also be presented., 38 months|Rate of pre-planned upfront HDT/ASCT, The rate of pre-planned upfront HDT/ASCT is defined as the proportion of patients who underwent the pre-planned HDT/ASCT after end of treatment.

The rate of pre-planned upfront HDT/ASCT along with 95% CI will be presented., 38 months|Duration of response (DoR), Duration of response (DoR) is defined as the time from the date of the first occurrence of a documented CR or PR to the date of disease progression, relapse or death from any cause (PFS), as assessed by the investigator for the subgroup of patients with the CR or PR assessment at EoT evaluation. For patients achieving a response who have not experienced disease progression, relapse, or died prior to the time of the analysis, the duration of response will be censored on the date of last disease assessment.

Kaplan Meier plots will be used to estimate the distribution of DoR., 38 months
Efficacy assessments will be made according to the revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma based on the guidelines of the Lugano Classification (as reported by Cheson B et al. 2014) and will be based on investigator assessment Efficacy will be evaluated in terms of CR rate, ORR, PFS, EFS, OS.

The safety and tolerability of study treatment will be evaluated by means of AE reports (nature, severity, frequency, causality), performance status, physical examinations, ECG and laboratory safety evaluations.