Neurobehavioural and Cognitive Changes in Cancer Cachexia (CANCOG)
The goal of this observational study is to to look for changes within the brain, and changes in body-to-brain signals in people with cancer and people who do not have cancer. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Are there differences in areas of the brain known to be related to appetite control, food reward and motivation, between participants with cancer related weight loss and healthy volunteers
2. Do responses to questionnaires and computer based tasks suggest participants with cancer related weight loss have reduced appetite and reduced motivation to eat compared to healthy volunteers, and if so, do questionnaires suggest that this is associated with any other symptoms?

Researchers will compare the structure and blood flow in relevant areas of the brain using MRI images between participants with cancer related weight loss and healthy volunteers. Participants will complete questionnaires and computer based tasks to allow researchers to assess areas of the brain which become more active in response to different stimuli. Some computer based tasks will be performed during the MRI scan. This is called functional MRI.

A further objective is to obtain an archive of blood samples which will be stored securely for future analysis if relevant hormones or analytes are identified that may be relevant to metabolism or body composition
Cancer|Cachexia|Cachexia-Anorexia Syndrome|Appetite Loss|Weight Loss
PROCEDURE: MRI/ Functional MRI|BEHAVIORAL: Self-reported questionnaires|BEHAVIORAL: Computer based tasks
To characterise structural and functional neuroanatomy as well as neurometabolism through MRI brain imaging in participants with cancer related weight loss and healthy volunteers., Eligible participants will undergo an MRI scan during a 1-hour scanning session at Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre., 1 hour
To determine if there is a difference in food motivation and reward -based behaviour using functional MRI., Participants will be asked to perform one computer based task during their MRI scan, which is called functional MRI. Imaging analysis of the results of this task will indicate differences in MRI responses in areas of the brain related to food reward and food motivation, between people with cancer and weight loss and healthy volunteers., 1 hour|Participants will be asked to perform two computer based tasks after the MRI scan, which have been validated to assess food reward and motivation., Participants will be asked to perform two computer based tasks using a laptop. The generated results of these tasks will indicate participants' level of food reward and food motivation and will allow for comparison between people with cancer and weight loss, and healthy volunteers., 2 hours|To compare responses to questionnaire-based measures of food attitudes, food intake and relevant psychopathology across patients with cancer related weight loss and healthy volunteers., The following questionnaires cover food attitudes and intake, and measures of psychopathology including depression and anxiety. These will be derived from standardised scales, used the setting of eating disorders and neuroscience of appetite studies. Questionnaire scores will be compared between people with cancer and weight loss and healthy volunteers.

Godin Leisure Time Exercise Questionnaire Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy- Fatigue Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Therapy Activities of daily living questionnaire Instrumental activities of daily living scale Scored Patient Generated Subjective Global Assessment Edmonton Symptom Assessment Brief Pain Inventory Patient Health Questionnaire- 9 General Anxiety disorder Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale Body Perception Questionnaire Snaith Hamilton Pleasure Scale The three factor eating questionnaire DSM-5 Self rated Level 1 Cross-cutting symptom measure, 1 hour|To secure an archive of blood samples for potential future analysis as other targets may become available with research progression locally or within the wider CANCAN consortium, A 10-20ml blood sample will be collected from all participants, 5 minutes
Cancer cachexia is a complex disorder involving progressive loss of muscle and fat in people with cancer, which cannot be corrected with dietary supplements. It affects 50-80% of the cancer population, and accounts for up to 20% of cancer related deaths.To date there are no effective treatments for cancer cachexia and further research is needed to highlight possible treatments for this condition.

Previous research into conditions such as obesity and anorexia have shown the importance of signals between the body and the brain in controlling appetite. This study will focus on how cancer affects signals within the body which are communicated to the brain. In people with cancer, these signals may be altered, leading to changes in appetite and less pleasure from eating, ultimately resulting in weight loss (cancer cachexia).

The study will be observational and will be carried out in one centre at the Translational Research Facility, Addenbrookes Hospital. Researchers aim to recruit 50 participants (30 with cancer and weight loss, and 20 healthy volunteers).

Potential participants will be identified by clinical teams in oncology clinics, via recruitment posters and multi-disciplinary team meetings on the hospital site. Participants will attend for one study visit lasting 4 hours. During this time, participants will undergo an MRI scan, complete questionnaires and perform computer based tasks. Researchers will look for changes within the brain, and changes in body-to-brain signals in people with cancer and people who do not have cancer. Researchers will assess attitudes to eating and body perceptions using questionnaires and computer based tasks. This will indicate whether cancer is driving changes in behaviour which may cause weight loss (cachexia). The ultimate goal is to develop treatment strategies in future to prevent weight loss and improve outcomes for people with cancer