Feasibility of Day-surgery Management for Patients Undergoing Robotic Radical Prostatectomy: a Randomized Trial
To compare the day-surgery approach versus routine management in patients undergoing robotic radical prostatectomy, aimed at evaluating the feasibility of a one-day hospitalization regimen for robotic radical prostatectomy.

The study will allow to evaluate the patients'compliance and subsequently investigate the safety, the impact on the patient's quality of life and on the healthcare costs resulting from day-surgery management of patients undergoing robotic radical prostatectomy.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Day surgery regimen for patients|OTHER: Ordinary management
Study enrollment rate among eligible patients., RCT (randomized controlled trial) enrollment measured as the relative frequency percentage of patients who meet the eligibility criteria and agree to participate in the proposed trial (numerator), divided by the number of all eligible patients in the recruitment period (denominator). Patients who withdraw consent before knowing the outcome of randomization will be counted as having refused participation. The expected result is an enrollment rate of at least 30%. Therefore, the primary objective will be considered achieved if at least 30% of eligible patients agree to participate in the aforementioned trial, 30 months
Study Retention Rate, The retention rate will be measured as the relative percentage frequency of patients who remain in the study (numerator) of the total number of randomized patients (denominator). Patients who withdrew consent before knowing the outcome of randomization will be excluded from the denominator. In addition, the specific reasons for failure to remain will be listed. The retention rate will be compared between the two treatment arms., 30 months
The clinical study is aimed at evaluating the compliance of patients, candidates for robot-assisted radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer, to be enrolled in an RCT that provides for assignment to day surgery management (experimental arm) or ordinary management (control arm). The study involves the evaluation of the compliance of patients, candidates for robot-assisted radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer, to be enrolled in an RCT that provides for assignment to day surgery management (experimental arm) or ordinary management (control arm).

The study will allow us to test a protocol for day-surgery management that includes all the clinical and technological measures at our disposal, including single-port robotic surgery and telemedicine. Using the experience and results obtained from this trial, it will then be possible to design a confirmatory multicenter RCT that compares day-surgery management vs ordinary management. The latter will then have the task of demonstrating with a high level of evidence that robotic radical prostatectomy can be performed safely in day-surgery, guaranteeing economic advantages to the facility while also favoring a more rapid recovery of the patient. Considering that approximately 20,000 radical prostatectomies are performed every year in Italy, this paradigm shift could guarantee a significant economic advantage. A transition of this type requires robust scientific evidence in order to convince doctors, patients and health systems to rely on a more efficient health model based on better management of resources.