KeraStat Skin Therapy in Treating Radiation Dermatitis in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Stage 0-IIIA Breast Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies KeraStat Skin Therapy in treating radiation dermatitis in patients with newly diagnosed stage 0-IIIA breast cancer. Radiation dermatitis is an itchy, painful skin rash that can occur following treatment with radiation. KeraStat Skin Therapy may be a better treatment for radiation dermatitis.
Ductal Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Skin Reactions Secondary to Radiation Therapy|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: dermatologic complications management/prevention|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Occurrence of any RT-induced EASR defined as a grade 4 or higher toxicity using the Modified Oncology Nursing Society Criteria for Radiation-Induced Acute Skin Toxicity, At each time point the proportion of women who have RT-induced EASR present will be estimated and a 95% confidence interval will be calculated around this estimate., Up to 2 months after completion of radiation therapy
Categorical confounders, such as race/ethnicity, age, hormone therapy, smoking history/status, diabetes, high blood pressure, breast size, RT characteristics, and RT dosimetry characteristics, using the Baseline Study Risk Questionnaire, A series of 2xr tables will be examined to determine the relationship between each of the categorical confounders and the primary endpoint. Chi-squared statistics will be estimated for each of these tables to give some preliminary descriptive data to identify potential variables that may be associated with the primary outcome., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain a preliminary estimate the incidence of early adverse skin reaction (EASR) during radiation therapy (RT) and up to two months post RT after the application of the cosmetic cream KeraStat Skin Therapy during RT in breast cancer patients in a pilot study.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To associate personal characteristics (e.g., race/ethnicity, age, hormone therapy, smoking status, comorbidities, breast size) and treatment characteristics (e.g., RT dose) to incidence of EASR at any time point.

OUTLINE:

Patients apply KeraStat Skin Therapy topically twice daily (BID) during radiation therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 2 months.