Brachytherapy With Durvalumab or Tremelimumab for the Treatment of Patients With Platinum-Resistant, Refractory, Recurrent, or Metastatic Gynecological Malignancies
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well brachytherapy with durvalumab or tremelimumab work for the treatment of gynecological malignancies that is resistant to platinum therapy (platinum-resistant), does not respond to treatment (refractory), has come back (recurrent), or has spread to other places in body (metastatic). Brachytherapy, also known as internal radiation therapy, uses radioactive material placed directly into or near a tumor to kill tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab and tremelimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. This trial is being done to see whether brachytherapy with durvalumab or tremelimumab works better in treating patients with gynecological malignancies.
Metastatic Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Platinum-Resistant Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|RADIATION: Internal Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Tremelimumab
Incidence of adverse events (safety lead-in), Toxicity will be assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.) 5.0 criteria., Up to 90 days|Progression free survival (PFS) (dose expansion), PFS will be estimated in each study arm by Kaplan-Meier estimate, where PFS is a composite endpoint based on radiologic progression, clinical deterioration or death. Furthermore, log rank test will be used to test if there is significant difference in PFS between two arms. In addition, PFS will be also estimated for localized subjects and metastatic subjects separately within each arm and stratified log rank test will be used as well., From the first day of the treatment to the first occurrence of disease progression as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v 1.1 or death, assessed up to 2 years
Local control at the irradiated site, Will be determined by RECIST v 1.1 from the date of randomization to the date of first local progression., Up to 2 years|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be as determined by RECIST v 1.1. The ORR will be defined as the number (%) of subjects with at least 1 visit response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Data obtained up until progression, or the last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression, will be included in the assessment of ORR. Subjects who go off treatment without progression receive a subsequent therapy, and then responds will not be included as responders in the ORR. The overall response rate will also be compared between treatment groups., Up to 2 years|Response at non-irradiated lesions in subjects with multiple sites of disease, As determined by RECIST v 1.1 with response (PR and CR) sites away from the primary irradiated tumor., Up to 2 years|Duration of response (DoR), Will be defined as the time from the date of the first documented response until the first date of documented progression or death. The end of response should coincide with the date of progression or death from any cause used for the RECIST 1.1 PFS endpoint. The time of initial response will be defined as the latest of dates contributing towards the first visit response of CR or PR. If a subject does not progress following a response, then their DoR will be censored at the PFS censoring time. DoR will not be defined for those subjects who do not have a documented response., Up to 2 years|Disease-specific survival, From the first day of treatment to the date of death related to treatment and/or disease, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, From the first day of treatment to the date of death due to any cause as determined, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of the treatment combination consisting of brachytherapy and tremelimumab. (Safety lead-in) II. To determine the median progression-free survival with brachytherapy and checkpoint inhibition with either durvalumab or tremelimumab. (Dose expansion)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the efficacy of brachytherapy and durvalumab or brachytherapy and tremelimumab in terms of:

Ia. Local control of the irradiated tumor. Ib. Overall response rate. Ic. Response at non-irradiated lesions in subjects with multiple sites of disease subjects.

Id. Duration of response. Ie. Disease specific survival. If. Overall survival. II. To further determine the safety and tolerability of brachytherapy with durvalumab and brachytherapy with tremelimumab (expansion cohorts).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore the immunologic changes associated with the combination of brachytherapy with durvalumab and brachytherapy with tremelimumab.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo brachytherapy on day 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive tremelimumab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2-4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo brachytherapy on day 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks.