An Observational Study On TheAccuracy Of Whole-Body Magnetic Resonance Imaging (Wb-Mri) ScreeningTo Predict Clinically Significant Diagnoses In General Population Subjects Interested In Proactive And Advanced General Preventive Healthcare.
This is a prospective, single-arm, observational study capturing data from whole-body magnetic resonance imagining (WB-MRI) from up to 100,000 male and female subjects 18 years of age or older recruited at multiple clinical sites within the United States. Study subjects must meet a set of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Potential subjects arriving at the study sites will be evaluated for enrollment. It is the Principal Investigator's (PI) responsibility to enroll only subjects who satisfy the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Recruitment can occur by subject presentation at the sites for elective standard screening, word-of-mouth, flyers, healthcare professional (HCP) referrals, advertisement online, or any other means, subject to approval by the associated institutional review board (IRB) or ethics committee (EC) when applicable.
Cancer|Metabolic Disease|Aneurysm|Neurologic Disorder
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: MRI Scan
Primary Endpoint and 5-point scale of CSD (Clinically Significant Disease) of CSD diagnosed post-baseline in general population subjects., Clinically significant disease represents the primary output of WB-MRI image analysis, and thus, the primary endpoint for this study. This outcome will be expressed as a 5-point scale similar to the standard Likert scale used in clinical studies. Higher the number higher the risk of clinically significant finding., Up to 10 Years
Secondary Endpoint of ONCO-RADS Score (Oncological relevant findings reporting and data system) diagnosed in the follow-up period, including but not limited to, types of cancers, aneurysms, metabolic disorders, neurologic disorders, renal function, etc, Additionally, for the purposes of more specifically distinguishing CSD's of oncological-concern, following the ONCO-RADS7 guidelines for cancer screening utilizing WB-MRI, an additional ONCO-RADS score tag ("ONCO") will be attached to each CSD to reflect oncologic-specific risk according to the screening WB-MRI criteria. Higher the number worse the risk of having Cancer., Up to 10 Years
This is a prospective, single-arm, observational study capturing data from whole-body magnetic resonance imagining (WB-MRI) from up to 100,000 male and female subjects 18 years of age or older recruited at multiple clinical sites within the United States. Study subjects must meet a set of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Potential subjects arriving at the study sites will be evaluated for enrollment. It is the Principal Investigator's (PI) responsibility to enroll only subjects who satisfy the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Recruitment can occur by subject presentation at the sites for elective standard screening, word-of-mouth, flyers, healthcare professional (HCP) referrals, advertisement online, or any other means, subject to approval by the associated institutional review board (IRB) or ethics committee (EC) when applicable.