Reach for Health Study: Obesity-related Mechanisms and Mortality in Breast Cancer Survivors
This objective of this randomized controlled trial is to conduct a 2x2 test of a lifestyle intervention and metformin (a drug used to treat diabetes) to investigate how these treatments, alone or in combination, affect biomarkers associated with breast cancer survival. The Reach for Health Study will enroll 340 overweight/obese, postmenopausal breast cancer survivors. After completing the screening process and baseline measures, participants will be randomized in equal numbers to: (1) placebo, (2) metformin, (3) lifestyle intervention and placebo, or (4) lifestyle intervention and metformin. The intervention was powered on the main effects and the planned analyses are to compare: Metformin to Placebo and a separate comparison of Lifestyle intervention to control. The interventions will last for 6 months. Concentrations of circulating biomarkers will be assessed at baseline and 6 months.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: Placebo|BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Standard printed dietary guidelines
Insulin, Insulin measured as percent change from baseline, change from baseline to 6 months|Glucose, Glucose measured as percent change from baseline, change from baseline to 6 months|C-reactive Protein, C-reactive protein measured as percent change from baseline, change from baseline to 6 months|Bioavailable Testosterone, Bioavailable testosterone measured as percent change from baseline, change from baseline to 6 months|Serum Hormone Binding Globulin, Serum hormone binding globulin measured as percent change from baseline, change from baseline to 6 months
This objective of this randomized controlled trial is to conduct a 2x2 test of a lifestyle intervention and metformin (a drug used to treat diabetes) to investigate how these treatments, alone or in combination, affect biomarkers associated with breast cancer survival. The Reach for Health Study will enroll 340 overweight/obese, postmenopausal breast cancer survivors. After completing the screening process and baseline measures, participants will be randomized in equal numbers to: (1) placebo, (2) metformin, (3) lifestyle intervention and placebo, or (4) lifestyle intervention and metformin. The intervention was powered on the main effects and the planned analyses are to compare: Metformin to Placebo and a separate comparison of Lifestyle intervention to control. The interventions will last for 6 months. Concentrations of circulating biomarkers will be assessed at baseline and 6 months.