Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Erlotinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
This randomized phase II trial studies how well combination chemotherapy with or without erlotinib hydrochloride works in treating patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck that has spread to other parts of the body or has come back. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, cisplatin, and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving combination chemotherapy with or without erlotinib hydrochloride may be an effective treatment for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVC Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to summarize PFS. In the primary analysis, differences in PFS in Arm A versus Arm B will be tested using a stratified log-rank test with a two-sided alpha of 0.10. Hazard ratios for PFS will be presented using point estimates and 95% confidence intervals., 5 years
Overall Survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to summarize OS. Hazard ratios for OS will be presented using point estimates and 95% confidence intervals., 5 years|Number of Participants With Tumor Response (Complete Response [CR] + Partial Response [PR]), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, 5 years|Disease Control (CR + PR + Stable Disease [SD]), Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) + Stable disease, 5 years|Rash Rates, Participants with a Rash of at least grade 2 within cycle 1., 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the efficacy of adding erlotinib hydrochloride (erlotinib) to chemotherapy to improve progression free survival in patients with metastatic or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate overall survival, response rate, disease control rate, and duration of response by treatment with or without erlotinib.

II. Evaluate quality of life (patient reported outcomes) by treatment with or without erlotinib.

III. Evaluate the safety profile of erlotinib in combination with chemotherapy. IV. Correlate the occurrence of erlotinib-induced rash with outcomes. V. To evaluate the steady-state pharmacokinetics of erlotinib. VI. To explore the prognostic and predictive value of epidermal growth factor receptor related biomarkers and other biomarkers, including blood and tissue proteomic and blood and tissue genomic markers, that may be associated with clinical outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 2 hours or carboplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1, and erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response, partial response, or stable disease may continue erlotinib hydrochloride treatment.

ARM B: Patients receive docetaxel and cisplatin or carboplatin as in Arm I and placebo PO daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response, partial response, or stable disease may continue placebo treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.