Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel and Gemcitabine With or Without S-1 as First-Line Treatment for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This study is a prospective, open-label, randomized controlled trial that enrolled previously untreated patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer. Participants were randomly assigned to receive either albumin-bound paclitaxel and gemcitabine, or albumin-bound paclitaxel, gemcitabine, and S-1 as first-line treatment. After patients who met the inclusion criteria signed an informed consent form, the study observed patients from the start of treatment until death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, or the end of the study. Eligible participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either the albumin-bound paclitaxel and gemcitabine treatment group (AG ) or the albumin-bound paclitaxel, gemcitabine, and S-1 treatment group (GAS). A total of 128 patients were planned for inclusion in the study, with 64 in each treatment group. Baseline data related to demographics, disease, treatment, adverse events, and tumor status were collected by the treating physician during the first visit and follow-up visits. Follow-up visits were conducted according to a fixed schedule, with survival assessed every three months through phone calls, WeChat, or by contacting other physicians. The final visit recorded patient death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, or the conclusion of the study.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine, albumin-bound paclitaxel, S-1|DRUG: Gemcitabine, albumin-bound paclitaxel
Objective Response Rate (ORR), 1 year
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), 2 years|Progression-free survival(PFS), 1 year|Disease Control Rate(DCR), 1 year|Duration of Response (DOR), 1 year
This study is a prospective, open-label, randomized controlled trial that enrolled previously untreated patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer. Participants were randomly assigned to receive either albumin-bound paclitaxel and gemcitabine, or albumin-bound paclitaxel, gemcitabine, and S-1 as first-line treatment. After patients who met the inclusion criteria signed an informed consent form, the study observed patients from the start of treatment until death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, or the end of the study. Eligible participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either the albumin-bound paclitaxel and gemcitabine treatment group (AG ) or the albumin-bound paclitaxel, gemcitabine, and S-1 treatment group (GAS). A total of 128 patients were planned for inclusion in the study, with 64 in each treatment group. Baseline data related to demographics, disease, treatment, adverse events, and tumor status were collected by the treating physician during the first visit and follow-up visits. Follow-up visits were conducted according to a fixed schedule, with survival assessed every three months through phone calls, WeChat, or by contacting other physicians. The final visit recorded patient death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, or the conclusion of the study.