A Study To Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety Of Atezolizumab or Placebo in Combination With Neoadjuvant Doxorubicin + Cyclophosphamide Followed By Paclitaxel + Trastuzumab + Pertuzumab In Early Her2-Positive Breast Cancer
This study (also known as IMpassion050) will evaluate the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab compared with placebo when given in combination with neoadjuvant dose-dense anthracycline (doxorubicin) + cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab (ddAC-PacHP) in patients with early HER2-positive breast cancer (T2-4, N1-3, M0).
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab Emtansine
Percentage of Participants With Pathological Complete Response (pCR) in the PD-L1-Positive Population (IC 1/2/3), pCR is defined as the absence of residual invasive cancer on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NAST) (i.e., ypT0/is ypN0 in the current American Joint Committee on Cancer \[AJCC\] staging system, 8th edition). Treatment comparison was made using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by disease stage (T2 vs. T3-4) and hormone receptor status (estrogen receptor (ER) positive and/or progesterone receptor (PgR) positive vs. ER negative and PgR negative)., From randomization to approximately 6 months|pCR in the ITT Population, pCR is defined as the absence of residual invasive cancer on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NAST) (i.e., ypT0/is ypN0 in the current American Joint Committee on Cancer \[AJCC\] staging system, 8th edition). Treatment comparison was made using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by disease stage (T2 vs. T3-4) and hormone receptor status (ER positive and/or PgR positive vs. ER negative and PgR negative)., From randomization to approximately 6 months
Percentage of Participants With pCR Based on Hormone Receptor Status, pCR (ypT0/is ypN0) based upon hormone receptor status (estrogen receptor \[ER\]/progesterone receptor \[PgR\] positive or ER/PgR negative)., From randomization to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants With pCR in the PD-L1-Negative Population, pCR (ypT0/is ypN0) in the IC 0 Population, From randomization to approximately 24 months|Event-Free Survival (EFS), EFS defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease recurrence, unequivocal tumor progression determined by the treating investigator, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, in all patients and based upon hormone receptor status (ER/PgR positive or ER/PgR negative) and PD-L1 status (IC 0; IC 1/2/3)., From randomization to first documented disease recurrence, unequivocal tumor progression determined by the treating investigator, or death from any cause (up to approximately 54 months)|Disease-Free Survival (DFS), DFS defined as the time from surgery to the first documented disease recurrence or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, in all patients who undergo surgery and based upon PD-L1 status (IC 0; IC 1/2/3)., Time from surgery to first documented disease recurrence or death from any cause (up to approximately 54 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause in all participants and based upon PD-L1 status (IC 0; IC 1/2/3)., From randomization to date of death from any cause (up to approximately 54 months)|Mean Changes From Baseline in Function (Role, Physical), EORTC QLQ-C30 is a self-reported questionnaire that included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), global health scale/quality of life (GHS/QOL) and single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties). Questions 1-28 on the QLQ-C30 were on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Questions 29-30 (GHS scale) were on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). For this instrument, GHS/QOL and functional scales were linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where lower scores indicate poorer functioning (e.g., worsening) and higher scores indicate better functioning (e.g., improvement)., Baseline; Day 1 of Cycle 1-9, on Day 1 of every other cycle thereafter until Cycle 22; at the treatment discontinuation or early termination visit and follow up visit. Cycle 1-4, each cycle is 14 days. Cycle 5-22, each cycle is 21 days.|Mean Changes From Baseline in Global Health Status, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a self-reported questionnaire that included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), GHS/QOL and single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties). Questions 1-28 on the QLQ-C30 were on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Questions 29-30 (GHS scale) were on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). For this instrument, GHS/QOL and functional scales were linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where lower scores indicate poorer functioning (e.g., worsening) and higher scores indicate better functioning (e.g., improvement)., Baseline; Day 1 of Cycle 1-9, on Day 1 of every other cycle thereafter until Cycle 22; at the treatment discontinuation or early termination visit and follow up visit. Cycle 1-4, each cycle is 14 days. Cycle 5-22, each cycle is 21 days.|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, From randomization up end of study (approximately 4 years and 7 months)|Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Atezolizumab, Cmax is the maximum (or peak) concentration that a study drug achieves in the body., 30 minutes post infusion on Day 1 Cycle (C) 1.|Minimum Serum Concentration (Cmin) of Atezolizumab, Cmin is the minimum (or trough) concentration that a study drug achieves in the body., Pre-dose on Day 1 Cycle (C) 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 16, ATDV (an average of 1 year). C 2-4, each C is 14 days. C 8-16, each C is 21 days. With protocol version 5, collection is only required ATDV/completion (an average of 1 year).|Trough Concentration (Ctrough) for Pertuzumab and Trastuzumab in Serum, Pre-dose on Day 1 Cycle (C) 8, 12, and at treatment discontinuation visit (ATDV) (an average of 1 year). C 1-4, each C is 14 days. C 8-12, each C is 21 days. With protocol version 5, collection is only required ATDV/completion (an average of 1 year).|Cmax of Trastuzumab Emtansine in Serum, Cmax is the maximum (or peak) concentration that a study drug achieves in the body., Day 1 of Cycle 9 and Cycle 12, at treatment disontinuation visit (an average of 1 year). Cycle 9 and 12 are each 21 days. With protocol version 5, collection is only required at the time of treatment discontinuation/completion (an average of 1 year).|Cmin of Trastuzumab Emtansine in Serum, Cmin is the minimum (or trough) concentration that a study drug achieves in the body., Day 1 of Cycle 9 and Cycle 12, at treatment disontinuation visit (an average of 1 year). Cycle 9 and 12 are each 21 days. With protocol version 5, collection is only required at the time of treatment discontinuation/completion (an average of 1 year).|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADAs) to Atezolizumab, Participants were considered to be treatment-emergent ADA-positive if they were ADA-negative or had missing data at baseline but developed an ADA response following study drug exposure (treatment-induced ADA response), or if they were ADA-positive at baseline and the titer of one or more post-baseline samples was at least 0.60 titer units greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment-enhanced ADA response). Participants were considered to be treatment-emergent ADA-negative if they were ADA-negative or were missing data at baseline and all post-baseline samples were negative, or if they were ADA-positive at baseline but did not have any post-baseline samples with a titer that was at least 0.60 titer units greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment unaffected)., Day 1 Cycle (C) 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 16, at treatment discontinuation visit (ATDV) (an average of 1 year). C 1-4, each C is 14 days. C 8-16, each C is 21 days. With protocol version 5, collection is only required ATDV/completion (an average of 1 year).|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent ADAs to Trastuzumab, Participants were considered to be treatment-emergent ADA-positive if they were ADA-negative or had missing data at baseline but developed an ADA response following study drug exposure (treatment-induced ADA response), or if they were ADA-positive at baseline and the titer of one or more post-baseline samples was at least 0.60 titer units greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment-enhanced ADA response). Participants were considered to be treatment-emergent ADA-negative if they were ADA-negative or were missing data at baseline and all post-baseline samples were negative, or if they were ADA-positive at baseline but did not have any post-baseline samples with a titer that was at least 0.60 titer units greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment unaffected)., Day 1 Cycle (C) 1, 8, 12 and at treatment discontinuation visit (ATDV) (an average of 1 year). C 1-4, each C is 14 days. C 8-12, each C is 21 days. With protocol version 5, collection is only required ATDV/completion (an average of 1 year).|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent ADAs to Pertuzumab, Participants were considered to be treatment-emergent ADA-positive if they were ADA-negative or had missing data at baseline but developed an ADA response following study drug exposure (treatment-induced ADA response), or if they were ADA-positive at baseline and the titer of one or more post-baseline samples was at least 0.60 titer units greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment-enhanced ADA response). Participants were considered to be treatment-emergent ADA-negative if they were ADA-negative or were missing data at baseline and all post-baseline samples were negative, or if they were ADA-positive at baseline but did not have any post-baseline samples with a titer that was at least 0.60 titer units greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment unaffected)., Day 1 of Cycle (C) 1, 8, 12, and at treatment discontinuation visit (ATDV) (an average of 1 year). C 1-4, each C is 14 days. C 8-12, each C is 21 days. With protocol version 5, collection is only required ATDV/completion (an average of 1 year).|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent ADAs to Trastuzumab Emtansine, Participants were considered to be treatment-emergent ADA-positive if they were ADA-negative or had missing data at baseline but developed an ADA response following study drug exposure (treatment-induced ADA response), or if they were ADA-positive at baseline and the titer of one or more post-baseline samples was at least 0.60 titer units greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment-enhanced ADA response). Participants were considered to be treatment-emergent ADA-negative if they were ADA-negative or were missing data at baseline and all post-baseline samples were negative, or if they were ADA-positive at baseline but did not have any post-baseline samples with a titer that was at least 0.60 titer units greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment unaffected)., Day 1 of Cycle 9 and Cycle 12, at treatment disontinuation visit (an average of 1 year). Cycle 9 and 12 are each 21 days. With protocol version 5, collection is only required at the time of treatment discontinuation/completion (an average of 1 year).|Percentage of Participants With pCR Based on PIK3CA Mutation Status, pCR is defined as the absence of residual invasive cancer on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NAST) (i.e., ypT0/is ypN0 in the current American Joint Committee on Cancer \[AJCC\] staging system, 8th edition)., From randomization to approximately 24 months|EFS Based on PIK3CA Mutation Status, From randomization to first documented disease recurrence, unequivocal tumor progression determined by the treating investigator, or death from any cause (up to approximately 54 months)|DFS Based on PIK3CA Mutation Status, Time from surgery to first documented disease recurrence or death from any cause (up to approximately 54 months)|OS Based on PIK3CA Mutation Status, From randomization to date of death from any cause (up to approximately 54 months)
This study (also known as IMpassion050) will evaluate the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab compared with placebo when given in combination with neoadjuvant dose-dense anthracycline (doxorubicin) + cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab (ddAC-PacHP) in patients with early HER2-positive breast cancer (T2-4, N1-3, M0).