A Study of Trastuzumab Emtansine (Trastuzumab-MCC-DM1, T-DM1) in Combination With Pertuzumab Administered to Patients With Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor-2 (HER2)-Positive Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer Who Have Previously Received Trastuzumab
This was a multi-institutional, multinational, open-label, single-arm Phase Ib/II study designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and efficacy of trastuzumab emtansine (trastuzumab-MCC-DM1) administered by intravenous (IV) infusion in combination with pertuzumab in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2)-positive locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who had previously received trastuzumab.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab emtansine [Kadcyla] 3.0 mg/kg|DRUG: Trastuzumab emtansine [Kadcyla] 3.6 mg/kg|DRUG: Pertuzumab 420 mg
Objective Response Assessed by the Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), A patient had an objective response if they had a complete response or a partial response on 2 consecutive occasions ≥ 4 weeks apart. For target lesions, a complete response was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; a partial response was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter. For non-target lesions, a complete response was defined as the disappearance of all non-target lesions; a partial response was defined as the persistence of 1 or more non-target lesions., Baseline through the end of the study (up to 2 years 3 months)
Duration of Objective Response Assessed by the Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Duration of objective response was defined as the time from initial response to disease progression (PD) or death from any cause. For target lesions, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD was defined as the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Target lesions should be selected on the basis of their size (those with the longest diameter) and their suitability for accurate repeated measurements by imaging techniques or clinically. All measurable lesions up to a maximum of 5 lesions per organ and 10 lesions in total, representative of all involved organs, should be identified as target lesions., Baseline through the end of the study (up to 2 years 3 months)|Progression-free Survival Assessed by the Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to first documented disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause within 30 days of the last treatment, whichever occurred first. For target lesions, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD was defined as the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Target lesions should be selected on the basis of their size (those with the longest diameter) and their suitability for accurate repeated measurements by imaging techniques or clinically. All measurable lesions up to a maximum of 5 lesions per organ and 10 lesions in total, representative of all involved organs, should be identified as target lesions., Baseline through the end of the study (up to 2 years 3 months)
There were 2 phases in the study, a Dose Escalation phase (Phase 1b) and a Dose Expansion phase (Phase 2a). In the Dose Escalation phase, 3 patients were enrolled at the first dose level (3.0 mg/kg trastuzumab emtansine) and and 6 patients were enrolled at the second dose level (3.6 mg/kg trastuzumab emtansine). An additional 58 patients were enrolled at the 3.6 mg/kg trastuzumab emtansine dose level in the Dose Expansion phase (Phase 2a) of the study.