Treatment of Resistant Port-wine Stains With Bosentan and Pulsed Dye Laser: a Pilot Study
Pulsed dye laser (PDL) is the gold standard treatment for port-wine stains (PWS). However, the outcomes are highly variable due to the new angiogenesis occurring after laser irradiation. Studies suggest that endothelin is involved in the neoangiogenesis that occurred after treatment of port-wine stains by PDL. The main objective of this pilot clinical trial is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of an inhibitor of endothelin orally taken, the Bosentan, following PDL treatment. Four patients with facial port-wine stain resistant to the PDL treatment will be included. The treatment by Bosentan (2 mg/kg twice daily, maximum 62,5 mg twice daily) will be given one day before the PDL irradiation and continued for 14 days. Only one test area of PWS will be treated with PDL. The primary outcome measure will be an important or complete improvement (Investigator Global Assessment 3 or 4) between treated area and non treated one, 14 days after the end of the treatment which corresponds to one month after the laser PDL session. The evaluation will been performed on standardized pictures by 2 independent physicians blinded to the region treated or not.
Port-wine Stains
DRUG: Bosentan|DEVICE: Pulsed dye laser (PDL)
Investigator Global Assessment, The primary outcome measure will be an important or complete improvement (Investigator Global Assessment) between treated area and non treated one, at 1 month after the start of treatment by bosentan and Pulsed Dye Laser, at 1 month after the start of treatment with bosentan and Pulsed Dye Laser
Patient satisfaction, The secondary outcome measure will be the satisfaction of the patients (or their parents), or the patient alone if major, about the efficiency and the safety of the treatments at 1 month after the start of treatment by bosentan and Pulsed Dye Laser. A visual analogical scale will be used., 1 time at 1 month after the start of treatment with bosentan and Pulsed Dye Laser|Side effects, Frequency, severity and occurrence of side effects will be noted., 3 times : First time the day of start of bosentan. Second time, one day after the start of treatment with bosentan. The third time, 30 days after the start of treatment with bosentan and pulsed dye laser|Satisfaction of the patients of the treatment using visual analogical scale, The secondary outcome measure will be the satisfaction of the patients (or their parents), or the patient alone if major, about the safety of the treatments at 1 month after the start of treatment with bosentan and Pulsed Dye Laser, 1 time at 1 month after the start of treatment by bosentan and Pulsed Dye Laser
Pulsed dye laser (PDL) is the gold standard treatment for port-wine stains (PWS). However, the outcomes are highly variable due to the new angiogenesis occurring after laser irradiation. Studies suggest that endothelin is involved in the neoangiogenesis that occurred after treatment of port-wine stains by PDL . The main objective of this pilot clinical trial is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of an inhibitor of endothelin orally taken, the Bosentan, following PDL treatment. Four patients with facial port-wine stain resistant to the PDL treatment will be included. The treatment by Bosentan (2 mg/kg twice daily, maximum 62,5 mg twice daily) will be given one day before the PDL irradiation (maximum surface 100 cm²) and continued for 14 days. Only one test area of PWS will be treated with PDL. The primary outcome measure will be an important or complete improvement (Investigator Global Assessment 3 or 4) between treated area and non treated one, 14 days after the end of the treatment which corresponds to one month after the laser PDL session. The evaluation will been performed on standardized pictures by 2 independent physicians blinded to the region treated or not.