A Study of MM-111 in Combination With Multiple Treatments in Patients With HER2 Positive Cancer
This study is an open-label, dose-escalation study of MM-111 with five different combination treatments with the main goal of determining the safety of MM-111 with each combination.
HER-2 Gene Amplification
DRUG: Cisplatin, Capecitabine, Trastuzumab and MM-111|DRUG: Lapatinib +/- Trastuzumab and MM-111|DRUG: Paclitaxel, Trastuzumab and MM-111|DRUG: Lapatinib, trastuzumab, paclitaxel, and MM-111|DRUG: Docetaxel, trastuzumab and MM-111
Determine patient's safety (# of adverse events/serious adverse events) and tolerability of MM-111 in combination with multiple treatment regimens, To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and any dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of MM-111 when administered in combination with either 1. cisplatin, capecitabine, and trastuzumab; 2. lapatinib +/- trastuzumab; 3. paclitaxel and trastuzumab 4. lapatinib, paclitaxel, trastuzumab; or 5. docetaxel and trastuzumab in patients with HER 2 positive solid tumors, 30 months
To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) profile of MM-111 when administered in combination with multiple treatment regimens. The PK profile will help to determine the phase 2 dose, Treatment regimens include either: 1. cisplatin, capecitabine, and trastuzumab; 2. lapatinib +/- trastuzumab; 3. paclitaxel and trastuzumab; 4. lapatinib, paclitaxel, trastuzumab; or 5. docetaxel and trastuzumab in patients with HER2+ solid tumors., 33 months|To establish the recommended Phase 2 dose(s) of MM-111 when administered in each of the combinations assessed (based on PK profile, safety data and overall patient tolerability), 33 months
To determine the MTD and any DLT of MM 111 when administered in combination with either 1) cisplatin, capecitabine, and trastuzumab; 2) lapatinib +/- trastuzumab; 3) paclitaxel and trastuzumab 4) lapatinib, paclitaxel and trastuzumab or 5) docetaxel and trastuzumab in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2+) solid tumors