Palliative, Rehabilitation, and Integrated Medicine Handbook for Self Care at Work
This study investigates the usefulness of the Self Care at Work Handbook in order to generate an improved version. Information from this study may help researchers identify potential factors associated with perception and usefulness of the Self Care at Work Handbook.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Survey Administration
Global perception of usefulness, Will be assessed by survey question E, which has five options: very useful, useful, neither useful nor useless, useless and very useless. The main interest is the proportion of responders who select very useful and useful., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Frequency of consultation, Will be assessed by survey question D, which has five options: never, once a month or less, a few times a month, a few times a week and daily. The main interest is the proportion of responders who select daily and a few times a week., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Perceived usefulness of individual items, Will be assessed by survey question F 1-9. Frequency and proportion will be used to summarize each item. For responders who select neither useful nor useless, useless and very useless, additional questions about whether one item should be retained, discarded or modified will be summarized using frequency and proportion. Comments or suggestions will be collected for qualitative analysis., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Adherence to individual items, Will be assessed by survey question G 1-9. Frequency and proportion will be used to summarize each item. For responders who select neither useful nor useless, useless and very useless, additional questions about whether one item should be retained, discarded or modified will be summarized using frequency and proportion. Comments or suggestions will be collected for qualitative analysis., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Personal ideas about the handbook, Will be collected by survey question I and question J. Comments and suggestions will be collected and used to aggregate opinions toward handbook improvement., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Responders' self-reported professional satisfaction, Will be assessed by survey question K, L1, and L3. Association between the perceived usefulness and professional satisfaction will be evaluated by Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test whichever appropriate. Association between the adherence and professional satisfaction will be evaluated by Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test whichever appropriate., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Responders' profession, Will be summarized by survey question A, and responders' demographics will be summarized by survey question B and C. Responders' work satisfaction after coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) will be examined by survey question L2 and L4. Association between the perceived usefulness and responders' profession/demographics/work satisfaction after COVID-19 will be evaluated by Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test whichever appropriate. Association between the adherence and responders' profession/demographics/work satisfaction after COVID-19 will be evaluated by Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test whichever appropriate., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Responders' global perceptions of usefulness and adherence to the handbook during COVID-19, Will be assessed by survey question M, N and O, and frequency and proportion will be used to summarize the results., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the global perception of the perceived usefulness of the handbook, and the frequency that the handbook is consulted.

II. To explore the perceived usefulness of and adherence to each individual item of the handbook.

III. To solicit personnel for their ideas about the handbook, and particularly any additional handbook items they might suggest.

IV. To explore any relationships between the actual use or the perceived importance of each handbook item with respondents' self-reported professional satisfaction.

V. To explore any associations between responses to handbook items and professional, demographic, and work satisfaction characteristics before and during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) crisis.

VI. To explore respondents' global perceptions of the usefulness and adherence to the handbook before and during the COVID-19 crisis.

OUTLINE:

Participants complete a survey over 20 minutes.