A Phase I/II Study to Evaluate AZD5851 in GPC3+ Advanced/Recurrent Hepatocellular Carcinoma
A Phase I/II study to evaluate AZD5851 in patients with GPC3+ advanced/recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: AZD5851
1. Incidence of participants with dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), adverse events (AEs), including adverse events of special interest (AESI) and serious adverse events (SAEs). Determination of the recommended dose of AZD5851 for expansion phase, Determine if treatment with AZD5851 is safe and tolerable through assessment of DLTs, AEs, SAEs and changes from baseline in vital signs, ECGs, and laboratory parameters, Through study completion, an average of 2 years
1. Proportion of participants with a confirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), Evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment by assessment of the Overall Response Rate according to RECIST v1.1 (ORR), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|2. Interval between the date of AZD5851 infusion dose and first documented evidence of CR or PR, Evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment by assessment of time to first response (TTR), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|3. Proportion of participants who have a confirmed CR, PR, or who have stable disease (SD) for at least 5 weeks after the date of AZD5851 infusion, Evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment by assessment of disease control rate according to RECIST v1.1 (DCR), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|4. The proportion of participants who have a confirmed response (CR/PR) with a duration of at least a specific number of months, Evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment by assessment of durable response rate according to RECIST v1.1 (DRR), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|5. The best response the participant achieved according to RECIST v1.1, Evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment by assessment of best overall response according to RECIST v1.1 (BoR), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|6. Interval between the date of first documented objective response date of first documented disease progression or the last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression, Evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment by assessment of duration of response according to RECIST v1.1 (DoR), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|7. Interval between the date of first T cell infusion and the earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause, Evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment by assessment of progression-free survival (PFS), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|8. Interval between the date of first T cell infusion and date of death due to any cause, Evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment by assessment of overall survival (OS), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|9. Pharmacokinetics - maximum serum concentration of AZD5851, Maximum blood concentration (Cmax), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|10. Pharmacokinetics -time to peak serum concentration of AZD5851, Time to peak (maximum) blood concentration (Tmax), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|11. Pharmacokinetics -time to last measurable serum concentration of AZD5851, Time to last detectable blood concentration (Tlast), Through study completion, an average of 2 years|12. Pharmacokinetics - Exposure of AZD5851, Area under the curve (AUC), Through study completion, an average of 2 years
This first-time in human, single-arm, open-label multicentre Phase I/II study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, antitumour activity, cellular kinetics, pharmacodynamics, and immunogenicity of AZD5851 in adult participants with GPC3+ advanced/recurrent HCC, where at least one line of prior therapy has failed/or was intolerable, or participant/investigator decision.