Study of Nintedanib and Chemotherapy for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
The study will perform a clinical study evaluating the safety and tolerability of nintedanib when combined with standard chemotherapy (Gemcitabine + nab-Paclitaxel) for metastatic pancreatic cancer. It will utilize advanced imaging correlates including dynamic contrast enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DCE-MRI) which correlates with tumor grade and microvessel density.
Cancer of Pancreas
DRUG: Nintedanib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), A standard 3+3 phase 1 trial design will be used for Nintedanib monotherapy for a two week period (Days 1-14) followed by combination therapy of nintedanib plus chemotherapy. Two dose levels of nintedanib will be explored 150 mg BID and 200 mg BID. The combination phase will include gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel, and nintedanib. Treatment will be administered intravenously on days 1, 8, 15 every 28 days.

One cycle of Nintedanib monotherapy followed by a total of eight cycles of both Nintedanib and the chemotherapeutic agents, or until disease progression, whichever comes first.

1. Nintedanib dose escalation: 150 mg PO BID and 200mg PO BID
2. Nab-paclitaxel: 125 mg/m2 day 1,8,15 every 28 days
3. Gemcitabine: 1000 mg /m2 day 1,8,15 every 28 days

MTD assessed after combination therapy., Each 28 day cycle for up to 2 years
Preclinical data suggest nintedanib inhibits primary tumor growth in in vivo xenograft models of pancreatic cancer, as well as inhibiting metastasis in pancreatic cancer models. This effect appears primarily due to nintedanib anti-angiogenic properties. The study will perform a clinical study evaluating the safety and tolerability of nintedanib when combined with standard chemotherapy (Gemcitabine + nab-Paclitaxel) for metastatic pancreatic cancer. It will utilize advanced imaging correlates including dynamic contrast enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DCE-MRI) which correlates with tumor grade and microvessel density.

For each patient, treatment will have two phases: nintedanib monotherapy for a two week period (Days 1-14) followed by combination phase of nintedanib plus chemotherapy (Cycle 2+).