A Clinical Research of CAR T Cells Targeting HER2 Positive Cancer
Chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T) therapy has not yet been fully explored in solid tumors. Human epidermal growth factor receptor-2(HER2) is widely expressed in cancers. Investigators have developed anti-HER2 CAR-modified T cells and validated the efficiency targeting HER2-positive cancer in preclinical studies. This study is aimed to confirm its adverse effects including cytokine storm response and any other adverse effects. In addition, CAR-T cells persistence, tumor elimination and disease status after treatment will be evaluated.
Breast Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Lung Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Glioma|Pancreatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-HER2 CAR-T
Determine the toxicity profile of the HER2 targeted CAR T cells with Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) version 4.0., Observe and handle the toxicity profile of the HER2 targeted CAR T cells with Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) version 4.0., 3 years
Survival time of Anti-HER2 CAR T cells in vivo., Detect the existence of CAR-T cells in the blood of participants through qPCR or flow cytometry., 1 year|Efficacy of anti-HER2 CAR T cells to confirm the ability of CAR T cells to eliminate HER2 positive cancer cells, Evaluate the anti-tumor efficacy of CAR-T therapy by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 and Immune-Related Response Criteria（iRECIST）., 12 weeks|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of HER2 targeted CAR T cells, Determine the maximum tolerated dose of each participant through the grades of side effects., 4 weeks
Chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T) therapy has not yet been fully explored in solid tumors. Human epidermal growth factor receptor-2(HER2) is widely expressed in cancers. Investigators have developed anti-HER2 CAR-modified T cells and validated the efficiency targeting HER2-positive cancer in preclinical studies. This study is aimed to confirm its adverse effects including cytokine storm response and any other adverse effects. In addition, CAR-T cells persistence, tumor elimination and disease status after treatment will be evaluated.