Umbralisib and Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well umbralisib and pembrolizumab work in treating patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Umbralisib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving umbralisib and pembrolizumab may work better in treating classical Hodgkin lymphoma.
Hodgkin's Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Umbralisib
Complete Response Rate, Proportion of subjects with relapsed/ refractory classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (CHL) who achieve a complete response (CR) with a regimen of umbralisib (oral, daily) and pembrolizumab (IV, day 1 of 21-day cycles). Per Response Evaluation Criteria Lugano 2014 for target lesions and assessed by PET-CT, Complete Metabolic Response (CMR), Deaville score of 1, 2, or 3 in nodal or extranodal sites with or without residual mass., Up to 1 year
Overall Response Rate, Proportion of subjects with relapsed/ refractory classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (CHL) who achieve an overall response (OR) with a regimen of umbralisib (oral, daily) and pembrolizumab (IV, day 1 of 21-day cycles). Per Response Evaluation Criteria Lugano 2014 for target lesions and assessed by PET-CT, Complete Metabolic Response (CMR), Deaville score of 1, 2, or 3 in nodal or extranodal sites with or without residual mass; Partial Metabolic Response, Deauville score of 4 or 5 with reduced uptake compared to baseline and residual mass(es) of any size; No Response or Stable Disease, Deauville score of 4 or 5 with no significant change in FDG uptake from baseline at interim or end of treatment., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Measured via CTCAE v4.0. Incidence of adverse events is defined as the count of participants who experienced an adverse event., Up to 28 days post-treatment, approximately 2 years
OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 for up to 16 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive umbralisib orally (PO) daily on days 1-21 days. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 days, then up to 1 year.