The Role of Ghrelin in Cancer Cachexia
Cancer is often coupled with a condition called cachexia. In this condition, individuals continue to lose weight and lean body mass, which means their muscles are getting smaller and weaker. Studies have shown that cancer patients who are losing weight often are responding poorly to chemotherapy, are at greater risk of infection and have a reduced life expectancy. Also, people may not want to eat. To date, there are no approved treatments available for this condition.

This study is going to study the benefits of the use of the study drug, Anamorelin hydrochloride (HCl) in treatment or prevention of cachexia associated with cancer. Studies done before with the study drug have shown that the drug can help the cachectic condition. The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the effectiveness of Anamorelin HCl compared to placebo on body composition (amount of cell mass, fat, muscle, etc.) including measurements of body potassium and nitrogen stores.

In addition to the above, the study will also assess the effect of the study drug on handgrip strength, body weight, lean muscle mass, quality of life, appetite \& food intake, certain blood markers, energy expenditure (the amount of energy participants burn), functional performance, safety and tolerability of Anamorelin HCl.
Cancer Cachexia
DRUG: Anamorelin HCl|DRUG: Placebo
Total Body Potassium., percentage change from baseline, day 84
Lean Mass Measured by Densitometry., lean body mass measured by DEXA. Percentage of change day 84-baseline., day 84|Muscle Strength as Measured by Grip Strength., Dominant hand grip strength day 84 - percent change from baseline, day 84|Body Weight., percent change from day 84-baseline, day 84|Quality of Life., Quality of life as assessed using the FACIT-F Patient Reported Outcome assessments - percentage of change day 84-baseline, day 84|Appetite., Appetite measured by a visual analogue scale ASAS. Percentage of change day84-baseline, day 84|Resting Energy Expenditure., % change between day 84 and baseline, day 84|Functional Performance., Functional performance using stair-climbing power day 84 percent change from baseline, day 84|Body Composition., Body composition as measured by Total body nitrogen. Percentage of change day 84-baseline, day 84|Stair Climbing Power, Percent change from baseline, day 84|1-repetition Max. Strength, leg extension - percentage of change day 84 to baseline, day 84|Food Diary Calorie Count, change between day 84 and baseline, day 84
Subjects enrolled in the study will be randomly chosen to receive either Anamorelin HCL at a dose of 100 mg per day for 12 weeks or matching placebo. The chances of receiving anamorelin or placebo are 1 in 2. Which subject receives anamorelin or placebo will be decided at random. Neither the subject nor the study doctor will know which study drug the subject is receiving. The subject will be asked to visit the clinic at Day 1, Day 28, Day 56 and Day 84. There will also be a Day 112 follow-up visit and the medical records will be checked after that to see how the subjects are doing.