Effect of Multi-modal Intervention Care on Cachexia in Patients With Advanced Cancer Compared to Conventional Management (MIRACLE)
Background

Cancer Cachexia (CC) is a multi-factorial process characterized by progressive weight loss, muscle mass and fat tissue wasting, and adversely affecting their quality of life and survival in patients with advanced stage of cancer.

Megestrol acetate (MA), which can help maintain body weight in advanced cancer patients, has not been proven to be effective in improving quality of life or lean body mass. Furthermore, its use is often limited due to various adverse event such as Cushing syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, or thromboembolic risk.

CC has a complex and multi-factorial pathophysiology, and there is no established standard treatment.

Hypothesis CC is irreversible once it occurs and is also difficult to suppress its progression with any single treatment modality.

The investigators hypothesized that a multi-modal intervention comprised of anti-inflammation, omega-3-fatty acids, oral nutritional supplement with counselling by nutritionist, physical exercise, psychiatric intervention as well as Bojungikki-tang which mediates immune-modulation and reverse both of chronic inflammation and wasting condition as a complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) could prevent the development of CC or improve the CC in advanced cancer patients during chemotherapy compared to those who received usual supportive.
Gastric Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Biliary Tract Cancer|Lung Cancer|Precachexia|Cachexia
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Multi-modal intervention
Median change (kilogram, kg) in total lean body mass (LBM), The average of the change (kg) from baseline at week 7 and change from baseline at week 13 measured by DEXA (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), Change of value between baseline and week13|Median change (kg) in handgrip strength, The average of the change (kg) from baseline at week 7 and change from baseline at week 13 measured by DEXA (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), Change of value between baseline and week13
Median change (kg) in fat mass, The average of the change (kg) from baseline at week 7 and change from baseline at week 13 measured by DEXA (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), Change of value between baseline and week13|Median change (kg) in total body mass, The average of the change (kg) from baseline at week 7 and change from baseline at week 13 measured by DEXA (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), Change of value between baseline and week13|Median change (kg) in body weight (kg), The average of the change (kg) from baseline at week 7 and change from baseline at week 13 measured by the calibrated scale, Change of value between baseline and week13|Median change (kg) in lean body mass of trunk, The average of the change (kg) from baseline at week 7 and change from baseline at week 13 measured by DEXA (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), Change of value between baseline and week13|Median change (kg) in lean body mass of both upper and lower extremities, The average of the change (kg) from baseline at week 7 and change from baseline at week 13 measured by DEXA (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), Change of value between baseline and week13|Change from Anorexia-Cachexia scale, Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Treatment (FAACT) version 4, The higher the score, the better the quality of life (QoL) with range 0-156., Change of value between baseline and week 13|Change in quality of life (QoL), The EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3) uses for the questions 1 to 28 a 4-point scale. The scale scores from 1 to 4: 1 ("Not at all"), 2 ("A little"), 3 ("Quite a bit") and 4 ("Very much"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 3. For the raw score, less points are considered to have a better outcome.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3) uses for the questions 29 and 30 a 7-points scale. The scale scores from 1 to 7: 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 6. First of all, raw score has to be calculated with mean values. Afterwards linear transformation is performed to be comparable. More points are considered to have a better outcome., Change of value between baseline and week 13|Rate of toxicity with clinical significance, and possible relationship to either study intervention, Assessed by the investigator, based on toxicity grade (according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI CTCAE\] v5.0), Change of value between baseline and week 13
\[PICOT\] Population: Patients with recurrent or metastatic solid cancer (gastric, colorectal, pancreas, biliary tract and lung)

Intervention: Multimodal treatment

Comparison: Conventional palliative care

Outcome: Change of total lean body mass, Change of handgrip strength Time: 12 weeks of study period for each subject during the first- or second-line palliative chemotherapy