Pilot Trial of Colchicine in Urothelial Cancer and Other Solid Tumors
This open-label, non-randomized study aims to determine the anti-inflammatory effect of colchicine on the reduction of peripheral blood CRP in patients with solid tumors or localized urothelial cancer. There are two cohorts, which will enroll separately and parallelly. Cohort 1 will include two successive groups with advanced/recurrent solid tumors (15 patients will receive low-dose colchicine and 15 for high-dose colchicine) who will receive 14 days of colchicine. In Cohort 2, 15 patients with post-radical surgery for high-risk clinically localized urothelial cancer will be enrolled. They will receive one 28-day cycle of colchicine. The primary outcome, post-treatment decline in CRP level, a continuous measure, will be defined as the maximum percentage decline from baseline in post-treatment CRP value within two weeks of colchicine (Cohort 1) or one cycle of colchicine (cohort 2), where the baseline value is measured before any treatment is initiated.
Urothelial Cancer|Metastatic Solid Tumor
DRUG: Colchicine
Percent Change in Peripheral blood CRP level, The primary outcome, post-treatment decline in peripheral blood CRP level, a continuous measure, will be defined as the maximum percent decline of post-treatment CRP from baseline obtained during the treatment period, where the baseline value is measured before any treatment initiated For a patient with an advanced/recurrent solid tumor who receive 2-weeks of treatment, it will be the maximum percentage decline during the 28 days of treatment. For a patient who receive colchicine less than 28 days, it will be the maximum percentage decline from baseline to the last day of treatment., Baseline and Within 28 days
This open-label, non-randomized study aims to determine the anti-inflammatory effect of colchicine on the reduction of peripheral blood CRP in patients with solid tumors or localized urothelial cancer. There are two cohorts, which will enroll separately and parallelly. Cohort 1 will include two successive groups with advanced/recurrent solid tumors (15 patients will receive low-dose colchicine and 15 for high-dose colchicine) who will receive 14 days of colchicine. In Cohort 2, 15 patients with post-radical surgery for high-risk clinically localized urothelial cancer will be enrolled. They will receive one 28-day cycle of colchicine. The primary outcome, post-treatment decline in CRP level, a continuous measure, will be defined as the maximum percentage decline from baseline in post-treatment CRP value within two weeks of colchicine (Cohort 1) or one cycle of colchicine (cohort 2), where the baseline value is measured before any treatment is initiated.