Phase Ib/II Study of the Efficacy and Safety of the R-CMC544/R-GEMOX Combination in Diffuse Lage B-cell Lymphoma at First or Second Relapse
The purpose of this study is to determine the recommended dose of CMC544 administered in combination with rituximab (R-CMC544), and in alternance with rituximab, gemcitabine and oxaliplatin (R-GEMOX) in the first phase of the study. After that, efficacy and safety of this combination will be evaluated preliminarily in patients with DLBCL in relapse or refractory, who are no candidates for autologous transplant.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Rituximab, CMC544, Gemcitabine and Oxaliplatine
Determination of the Recommended Dose of R-CMC544, Determination of recommended dose will be based on safety parameters and particularly on incidence of DLTs, Up to 16 weeks
OVERALL RESPONSE RATE, Assessment of response will be based on the International Workshop to Standardize Response criteria for NHL (Criteria for evaluation of response in Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson, 1999 and 2007). Patient is defined as a responder if he/she has a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at the end of treatment. A descriptive analysis will also be performed considering as non-responders all patients who relapsed or died during treatment phase even if they were prematurely withdrawn as responder, Up to 32 weeks|PROGRESSION-FREE SURVIVAL, Progression-Free Survival will be measured from the date of inclusion to the date of first documented disease progression, relapse or death from any cause. Responding patients and patients who are lost to follow up will be censored at their last tumor assessment date., Up to 3.5 years|EVENT FREE SURVIVAL, Event-Free Survival will be measured from the date of inclusion to the date of first documented disease progression, relapse, initiation of new anti-lymphoma therapy or death from any cause. Responding patients and patients who are lost to follow up will be censored at their last tumor assessment date., Up to 3.5 years|OVERALL SURVIVAL, Overall survival will be measured from the date of inclusion to the date of death from any cause. Patients who are alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of the last contact., Up to 3.5 years|COMPLETE RESPONSE RATE, Assessment of response will be based on the International Workshop to Standardize Response criteria for NHL (Criteria for evaluation of response in Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson, 2007)).

Patient without response assessment (due to whatever reason) will be considered as nonresponder., 30 or 32 weeks (depending on induction cycle length)
This study is a multicenter, phase Ib/II, open-label, single arm trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of R-CMC544 alternated with R-GEMOX in patients with CD20 and CD22 positive DLBCL in relapse after/refractory to 1st or 2nd line treatment, who are no candidates for autologous transplant.

The study consists of 2 phases. In part 1 (potential dose de-escalation phase) subjects will be enrolled at a fixed dose of CMC544. In case of occurrence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT), cohorts of 3 to 6 subjects will evaluate a de-escalating dose of CMC544 in combination with set doses of rituximab, gemcitabine and oxaliplatin in order to obtain the MTD or recommended dose of CMC544 in this regimen. In part 2 (dose expansion phase) further safety and preliminary efficacy data of the proposed combination will be analyzed.

All patients will receive two 56 day induction cycles of alternating R-CMC544 (given on day 1) and R-GEMOX (given on day 29 and 43). Patients who obtain CR or PR, will then go on a consolidation of another two 56 day cycles of alternating R-CMC544 (given on day 1) and R-GEMOX (given on day 29 and 43).