Serratus Plane Block (SPB) Versus Capsaïcine Versus Botox-A for Chronic Neuropathic Pain in Post-mastectomy Syndrome
The goal of this phase II clinical trial is to study the effectiveness of a second line treatment with Serratus Plane Block (SPB) or Botox-A in comparison with capsaicin for the control of chronic neuropathic pain of post-mastectomy syndrom. The primary outcome will be the pain evaluation at 8 weeks.

123 patients with chronic neuropathic pain of post-mastectomy syndrom in failure of a first-line will be recruited over 24 months at the Centre Oscar Lambret.

Patients will be randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups (41 patients per group):

Capsaicin Botulinum toxin A SPB

Patients will be followed for 24 weeks after the study treatment. The follow-up will include remote evaluation and 2 medical visits. The follow-up will include evaluation of pain and quality of life.
Post-Mastectomy Neuropathic Pain Syndrome
DRUG: Capsaicin 8% Patch|PROCEDURE: Serratus Plane Block|PROCEDURE: Botulinum Toxin A
Pain assessment using Numerical Pain Scale (END), The primary outcome measure is pain assessed by self-evaluation using the Numerical Pain Scale (END) ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain imaginable) at rest, evaluated 8 weeks after treatment (or 9 weeks after randomization if treatment was not performed). The patient's self-assessment reflects individual treatment efficacy. In case of treatment interruption due to immediate intolerance or technical issues, the baseline END will be considered for the primary analysis., 8 weeks after treatment initiation, or the closest measurement within +/- 1 week if the 8-week data is missing.
Success of Pain Control, Defined as a reduction in pain of 3 points or more on the Numerical Pain Scale (END) at 8 weeks, with failure indicated in other cases., Assessed at 8 weeks post-treatment.|Evolution of Pain Scores, Change in pain levels as self-reported by the patient using the END at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 weeks after treatment (and at 13, 14, 16, and 18 weeks if treatment is repeated at 12 weeks)., Assessed at multiple time points: 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 weeks.|Neuropathic Component Evaluation, Change in neuropathic symptoms assessed via the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI) at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 weeks after treatment (and at 13, 14, 16, and 18 weeks if treatment is repeated at 12 weeks)., Assessed at multiple time points: 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 weeks.|Early Treatment Failure, Early failure of local analgesic treatment defined by failure to perform the procedure (due to intolerance or technical issues) or failure to control pain as evaluated at 7 and 14 days post-procedure., Assessed at 7 and 14 days post-treatment|Introduction of New Analgesic Treatment, Documentation of any new analgesic treatments (e.g., antiepileptics, antidepressants, opioids) introduced, with dosages collected at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 weeks after treatment (and at 13, 14, 16, and 18 weeks if treatment is repeated)., Assessed at multiple time points: 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 weeks.|Adverse Events, Monitoring of adverse events possibly related to the treatment (capsaicin, botulinum toxin type A, or SBP block) during and after the local procedure, graded according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0., From study treatment to 24-weeks follow-up|HADS Scale Evaluation, Assessment of anxiety and depression using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) at baseline, 8 weeks, and 24 weeks., Assessed at baseline, 8 weeks, and 24 weeks.|Quality of Life Assessment, Evaluation of health-related quality of life using the SF12 scale at baseline, 8 weeks, and 24 weeks., Assessed at baseline, 8 weeks, and 24 weeks.|Patient General Impression of Change (PGIC), Self-assessment of change in condition from 1 (no change or worse) to 7 (considerable improvement) measured at 8 weeks and 24 weeks., Assessed at 8 weeks and 24 weeks
SerCaBot is a randomized, open-label, phase II clinical trial designed to evaluate the efficacy of a second-line treatment with Serratus Plane Block (SPB) or Botox-A compared to capsaicin for the control of chronic neuropathic pain of post-mastectomy syndrome.

123 patients with will be recruited over 24 months at the Centre Oscar Lambret.

This clinical trial will be proposed to patients with chronic neuropathic pain of post-mastectomy syndrome in failure of a first-line treatment.

After consent, an inclusion assessment will be carried out including clinical examination, anamnesis, pain evaluation (questionnaires PCS, NPS, DN4, NPSI and collect of antalgic treatment) and evaluation of quality of life (questionnaire SF12) and depression (questionnaire HADS).

Patients will then be randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups : Capsaicin, Botox-A, SPB (41 patients per group). The randomization will be balanced 1:1:1, controlled by minimisation (with a random factor set at 0.8) for the distribution of the following factors:

* Pain level at enrolment (continuous NPS)
* Duration of pain (\<3 months vs. ≥3 months) ;
* Axillary dissection (yes vs. no)
* Loco-regional adjuvant radiotherapy (yes vs. no)

The study treatment will be administered 1 to 2 weeks after randomization. Treatment will be stopped prematurely in the event of unacceptable toxicity or complication. In each group, a repeat of the treatment may be considered after 12 weeks if further pain control is required. In the SPB group, a repeat is also possible every 2 weeks.

Patients will be followed for 24 weeks after the study treatment. Follow-up will include:

* 2 medical visits at 8 weeks and at 24 weeks including pain assessment (questionnaires NPS, NPSI, record of antalgic treatment), record of adverse events related to study treatment and assessment of quality of life (SF12 questionnaire) and depression (questionnaire HADS).
* remote assessment at week-1, week-2, week-4 and week-6 including assessment of pain (questionnaires NPS, NPSI, record of antalgic treatment) and record of adverse events.

Patients will withdraw from the study after the 24 week medical visit. Early withdrawal will be possible in case of patient's decision of withdrawal, breast surgery during follow-up, or death.