Remote Monitoring of Lung Cancer Patient-Reported Outcomes Using Moovcare®
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate how Moovcare®, a mobile medical application, can be used to monitor Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) related to cancer treatment, cancer complications, and cancer relapse in patients with lung cancer. PROs are symptoms directly reported by patients through the completion of a survey. Up to 50 patients undergoing treatment and/or surveillance for new or existing diagnoses of lung cancer at the University of North Carolina's Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center will be prospectively enrolled to the use of the mobile medical application Moovcare® for 6 months. Moovcare® is not FDA approved, and its role in improving clinical care is being studied through this research. Moovcare® automatically delivers electronic patient reported outcome (ePRO) surveys on common symptoms experienced by lung cancer patients.
Lung Cancer|Neoplasms, Lung|Neoplasms, Pulmonary|Pulmonary Cancer|Pulmonary Neoplasms|Cancer of Lung
DEVICE: Moovcare® use
Feasibility of Self-reporting Symptoms Using Moovcare®, Feasibility of self-reporting symptoms using Moovcare® is defined as the mean percentage of e-PRO surveys completed per subject using Moovcare® by 6 months or coming off study per protocol if sooner., Up to 6 months
Patient Satisfaction, Percentage of subjects surveyed at 6 months in study satisfied with care team communication.

Participant satisfaction was measured using a survey questionnaire that includes 11 mixed types of multiple-choice questions. Some questions have "yes" or "no" choices while others have multiple choices., Baseline and at 6 months|Health-related Quality of Life Change, Health-related quality of life change was assessed using European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) scores and the mean differences between 6 months and baseline was calculated.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer-specific instrument with 30 questions that incorporates 9 multi-item scales: 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social); 9 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties); and a global health and quality-of-life scale. Most questions used 4 point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'); 2 questions used a 7-point scale (1 'Very poor' to 7 'Excellent'). The scores of these scales were averaged from the scores of the component items, transformed, and analyzed on a 0 - 100 scale. A higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., Baseline and 6 months|Change in Health-related Quality of Life Lung Specific, Health-related quality of life lung-specific change was assessed using European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire and Lung Cancer Module (QLQ-LC13) scores and the mean differences between 6 months and baseline were calculated.

EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a validated instrument to assess the quality of life and is composed of one multi-item scale. Possible scores range from 0 to 100; a higher score represents an increasing symptom level.

A negative difference indicates quality of life improvement while a positive difference indicates worsened quality of life., 6 months|Participant Survey Completion Rate, Percentage of participants who completed surveys completed at each weekly delivery time point using Moovcare., Up to 6 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method, with time starting at enrollment and ending at last contact (6 months) or death, whichever came first., From time of enrollment through last contact (Up to 6 months)
This is a single site nonrandomized feasibility study of approximately 50 participants on treatment and/or surveillance for new or existing diagnoses of lung cancer who will be assigned to a single-arm involving monitoring of their patient-reported outcomes using a mobile medical application. The study procedures include monitoring of patient symptoms using automated weekly PRO surveys delivered by Moovcare® and assessment of outcomes including quality of life at baseline and at monthly intervals, as well as patient satisfaction at 6 months. The clinical care team will receive an alert if the PRO survey suggests increased or worsening symptoms. The care team will follow their usual protocols for the management of symptoms. The patient clinical information will also be abstracted from the medical record to assess clinical outcomes. The provider's satisfaction survey will be assessed via surveys.