Efficacy of Neoadjuvant PD-1 Blockade Plus Chemotherapy for Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of Camrelizumab plus concurrent chemotherapy as neoadjuvant approach for patients with opearble esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. In addition, potential clinical utility of ctDNA in monitoring tumor burden and dynamics of tumor clonality during neoadjuvant immunotherapy will be assessed as well. At the same time, CD8 and PD-L1 will also be used as monitoring indicators.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Immunotherapy
DRUG: camrelizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel for injection (albumin-bound)|DRUG: Cisplatin
Pathologic complete remission (PCR), Primary tumor or lymph node surgery specimen pathological examination without residual tumor cell, 4 weeks after surgery
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate Determine the tumor shrinkage rate, tumor boundary and the adhesion of tumor, At the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 21 days)|2-year progression-free survival (PFS), From date of surgery until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, every 2 months (up to 24 months)|Progression-free survival (PFS), From date of surgery until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, every 2 months (up to 24 months)|Overall survival (OS), Defined from date of Signing ICF to date of first documentation of death from any cause or censored at the date of the last follow-up., every 2 months (up to 24 months)
safety of neoadjuvant PD-1 Blockade Plus Chemotherapy, Incidence of grade 3-5 adverse events \[Safety and Tolerability\], Every 3 weeks (up to 3 months after surgery)|Evaluation of molecular features and ctDNA changing in pre, per and post-treatment plasma, All DNA samples were tested to calculate single nucleotide variants (SNV's), small insertions or deletions (Indels), copy number variations (CNV's), splice variations (SV's), gene fusions (GF's), tumor mutation burden (TMB) and micro-satellite instability (MSI) and others value by all enrolled. NGS (Next generation sequencing)-panel (688 genes) for monitoring on post-treatment residual disease in order to identify mechanisms of response. Measurement of different baseline ctDNA for their prognostic value., every 2 months (up to 12 months)|Evaluation of Immunomicroenvironment changing in pre, per and post-treatment plasma, the tumor immune microenvironment evaluated with multiplexed immunohistochemistry (mIHC), The evaluation of immune microenvironment uses the method of multiple immunofluorescence, through the detection of CD8, CD163, CD68, PD-1 and PD-L1 four bio-markers, determine the situation of related immune cells in the process and efficacy., every 2 months (up to 12 months)|perioperative adverse events, The participants were followed up daily and perioperative adverse events as defined by the American College of Surgeons National Quality Improvement Program. The participants were followed up until discharge or 30 days of in hospital stay and the secondary outcome measures entered into a questionnaire., Time to discharge or 30 days of in hospital stay whichever came first
Immunotherapy improves clinical outcome of patients with advanced stage or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). In addition, superior effect of immunotherapy for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma was also reported recently. While, clinical application of ctDNA, PD-L1 and CD8 T cell monitoring in neoadjuvant immunotherapy for patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is largely unknown. This trial will evaluate firstly the efficacy and the safety of Camrelizumab plus chemotherapy （albumin-bound paclitaxel plus cisplatin）as neoadjuvant approach. The evaluation indicators include pathological complete response rate (pCR) and objective imaging response rate after neoadjuvant therapy (ORR). ), 2-year progression-free survival (2y-PFS), postoperative progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) after treatment. Objective response rate (ORR) based upon immune-Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST v1.1). Major pathological response assessed by post-operational pathological review ctDNA efficacy will also be evaluated along with clinical management. Monitoring tumor burden, clonality as well as tumor heterogeneity evaluation will be correlated to radiological assessment and pathological findings.