Utility of Hyperpolarized 13C-pyruvate Metabolic Magnetic Resonance Imaging
This is a two-tiered pilot study in which there will be no randomization and no placebo treatment. This study will be to perform metabolic magnetic resonance imaging on men suspected to have a prostate cancer to understand if metabolic MRI can be safely performed on this population
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Hyperpolarized 13C-Pyruvate
CTCAE v4.0 higher than grade 2, Quantify the number of participants who get this scan and have treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0 higher than grade 2. Determine the number of participants who successfully complete a scan which meets a minimum quality standard as measured by signal to noise ratio on the scan.

hyperpolarized metabolic MRI in the diagnosis of prostate cancer., Within three years post treatment
Accuracy of metabolic MRI to diagnose prostate cancer, To study the accuracy of hyperpolarized metabolic MRI to diagnose prostate cancer. Compare the prediction of cancer from the MRI scan compared to actual diagnosis of cancer by any subsequent workup or procedure the participant undergoes. Prediction of cancer from MRI scan will be performed by assigning a standardized score (PIRADS v2.0). Actual diagnosis of cancer will be based on tissue pathology (with cancer grade characterized using the prostate cancer ISUP Grade Group system) from any procedure the patient undergoes., Within three years post treatment|Utility of metabolic MRI over standard MRI imaging in the diagnosis of prostate cancer, To examine the added utility of metabolic MRI over standard MRI imaging. Quantify the number of participants in which the MRI provided extra information that otherwise was not available during the course of the patient's workup., Within three years post treatment|Correlative metabolic analysis of tissue metabolite concentrations versus cancer diagnosis, To perform correlative metabolic analysis related to cancer diagnosis. Using the research tissue when it is available. Analyze tumor samples when available from participants and characterize the metabolite concentration (microgram/mg of tissue) within the tumor to determine how the concentration value compares to two outcomes of interest: 1: the numerical suspicion score (PIRADS v2.0 system) from the imaging from the patient and 2: The presence of cancer and grade of cancer (ISUP Grade Group system), when present, from pathology analysis performed on the tissue from the patient available. Analyze tumor samples when available from participants and characterize the metabolite concentration within the tumor to determine how this compares to the information from the imaging from the patient and pathology analysis performed on the tissue, Within three years post treatment
This is a two-tiered pilot study in which there will be no randomization and no placebo treatment. This study will be to perform metabolic magnetic resonance imaging on men suspected to have a prostate cancer to understand if metabolic MRI can be safely performed on this population