Haploidentical Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Using TCR Alpha/Beta and CD19 Depletion
Patients with medical conditions requiring allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) are at risk of developing a condition called graft versus host disease (GvHD) which carries a high morbidity and mortality. This is a phase I/II study that will test the safety and efficacy of hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) with ex-vivo T cell receptor Alpha/Beta+ and CD19 depletion to treat patients' underlying condition. This process is expected to substantially decrease the risk of GvHD thus allowing for the elimination of immunosuppressive therapy post-transplant. The study will use blood stem/progenitor cells collected from the peripheral blood of parent or other half-matched (haploidentical) family member donor. The procedure will be performed using CliniMACS® TCRα/β-Biotin System which is considered investigational.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Chronic Myeloid Leukemia|Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytoses|Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases|Hemoglobinopathies|Severe Aplastic Anemia|Cytopenia|Bone Marrow Failure Syndrome|Severe Chronic Active Epstein-Barr Virus Infection
DEVICE: CliniMACS
Cumulative incidence of neutrophil engraftment and platelet engraftment, Cumulative incidence of neutrophil and platelet engraftment will be reported as rate and its associated 95% confidence interval.

Neutrophil engraftment is defined as the first of 3 consecutive days with a peripheral blood absolute neutrophil count of ≥ 0.5x10\^9/L

Platelet engraftment is defined as the first day with platelet count of ≥ 20 x10\^9/L without transfusion support for 7 consecutive days, 42 days post-HCT|Cumulative incidence of grade III or higher acute GVHD, Cumulative incidence of grade III or higher acute GVHD among patients who achieve engraftment will be reported as rate and its associated 95% confidence interval, 100 days post-HCT
Cumulative incidence of transplant-related mortality (TRM), Cumulative incidence of transplant related mortality will be reported as rate and its associated 95% confidence interval.

TRM is defined as death due to any transplantation-related cause, other than disease, 100 days and 365 days post-HCT|Overall survival (OS), The length of time from the day of transplant to death, Up to one year post-HCT|Cumulative incidence of chronic graft versus host disease, Cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD among patients who achieve engraftment will be reported as rate of chronic GvHD and its associated 95% confidence interval., Up to two years post HCT
This is a phase I/II study of haploidentical HCT (HHCT) with ex vivo TCRαβ+ and CD19+ depletion using the CliniMACS device in patients with hematological malignancies and non-malignant disorders. HHCT will be performed according to current standards of care at the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy (CAGT) within Texas Children's Hospital (TCH) and Houston Methodist Hospital (HMH), including the use of a standard chemotherapy conditioning regimens, supportive care and standard follow-up laboratory assessments. The study will determine efficacy of this strategy in terms of engraftment, and safety in terms of rates of acute and chronic graft versus Host Disease (GvHD), one-year overall survival (OS) and transplant-related mortality (TRM).

The peripheral blood hematopoietic cell product will undergo negative selection of TCR αβ following the standardized protocol in the user's manual for the CliniMACS (Miltenyi Biotech, Germany). TCR αβ+ T-cells are labeled by CliniMACS TCR αβ-Biotin (murine anti-TCR αβ monoclonal antibodies conjugated to biotin) which allows the TCR αβ+ T-cells to be magnetically labeled with CliniMACS Anti-Biotin Microbeads (murine anti-biotin monoclonal antibodies conjugated to superparamagnetic iron dextran particles) for depletion. The CD19+ B cells are labeled by CliniMACS CD19 microbeads which allows the CD19+ B cells to be magnetically labeled for depletion. All unlabeled cells are selected as target cells which should contain a minimum amount of TCR αβ+ and CD19+ cells. The microbeads used for labeling are approximately 50 nanometers in diameter and do not require removal prior to patient infusion.

In January 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the Miltenyi Biotec's CliniMACS CD34 Reagent System as a Humanitarian Use Device for the prevention of GvHD in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in first complete remission undergoing allo-HCT from HLA-matched related donor.