Enchasing Polyp Detection: The Effect of Adding Polyp Detection Attachment Device to Computer Aid Detection System.
Despite the widespread use of colonoscopy, the ongoing challenge of potentially missing polyps remains. Previous studies have independently shown that both Endocuff, a colonoscope attachment device for polyp detection, and Computer-Aided Detection (CADe) systems have individually demonstrated enhanced lesion detection and safety. This study seeks to evaluate the efficacy of combining the Endocuff CADe versus using CADe alone in colonoscopy procedures for colorectal cancer screening and surveillance. This research project aims to ascertain whether the synergistic application of these technologies yields superior outcomes.
Colon Cancer Screening|Colon Cancer Surveillance
DEVICE: Endocuff and GI Genius|DEVICE: GI Genius
Adenoma detection rate, It is the percentage of patients who have at least one adenoma detected during the colonoscopy, 18 months
Polyp detection rate, 18 months|Number of cancerous lesions, 18 months|Differences in polyps histology between the groups, 18 months|Differences in polyps size, 18 months|Polyps location (cecum, ascending, transverse, descending, sigmoid, or rectum), 18 months|Cecal intubation rate, 18 months|Cecal intubation time, 18 months|Colonoscopy withdrawal time, 18 months|Procedure complication (bleeding or perforation) by the end of the procedure. (Following lexicon for endoscopic adverse events methods), 18 months
Despite the widespread use of colonoscopy, the ongoing challenge of potentially missing polyps remains. Previous studies have independently shown that both Endocuff, a colonoscope attachment device for polyp detection, and Computer-Aided Detection (CADe) systems have individually demonstrated enhanced lesion detection and safety. This study seeks to evaluate the efficacy of combining the Endocuff CADe versus using CADe alone in colonoscopy procedures for colorectal cancer screening and surveillance. This research project aims to ascertain whether the synergistic application of these technologies yields superior outcomes.