Sacituzumab Govitecan + Toripalimab as First - Line Therapy for Advanced Triple - Negative Breast Cancer and Biomarker Exploration
The goal of this study is to explore the efficacy and safety of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with toripalimab as first - line treatment in patients with advanced triple - negative breast cancer.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. To investigate the efficacy and safety of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with toripalimab as first - line treatment for advanced triple - negative breast cancer.
2. To explore the biomarkers that can predict the efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with toripalimab as first - line treatment for advanced triple - negative breast cancer.

Participants will:

Have their progression - free survival (PFS) observed and evaluated. Have all adverse events and immune - related adverse events monitored to assess safety.

Have their objective response rate measured as a secondary outcome. Have their survival period tracked as a secondary outcome. Have biomarkers associated with efficacy observed and explored as a secondary outcome.
TNBC
DRUG: Sacituzumab Govitecan (SG)+Toripalimab
Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of objective progressive disease (PD) or death (whichever comes first)., Enrollment up for approximately 36 months.
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause., Enrollment up for approximately 53 months.|Percentage of Participants Experiencing Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), First dose date up to 30 days post last dose, up to approximately 53 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed by BICR per RECIST Version 1.1, ORR is defined as the proportion of participants who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) that is confirmed at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response., Enrollment up for approximately 53 months.|Percentage of Participants Experiencing Clinically Significant Laboratory and/or Vital Sign Abnormalities, First dose date up to 30 days post last dose, up to approximately 53 months
1. Research Objectives： The overall objective of this study is to explore the efficacy and safety of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with toripalimab as first - line treatment for advanced triple - negative breast cancer.

Primary Objectives：1）To observe and evaluate the efficacy (progression - free survival, PFS) of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with toripalimab as first - line treatment for advanced triple - negative breast cancer under real - world conditions.2）To observe and evaluate the safety (all adverse events and immune - related adverse events) of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with toripalimab as first - line treatment for advanced triple - negative breast cancer under real - world conditions. Secondary Objectives：Objective response rate.Survival.To observe and explore biomarkers associated with efficacy. 2. Significance of the Research：Currently, chemotherapy remains the main treatment for advanced triple - negative breast cancer. However, whether it is single - agent or combination chemotherapy, the efficacy is rather poor. Improving the efficacy and safety of first - line treatment for advanced triple - negative breast cancer is an urgent problem to be solved. Both sacituzumab govitecan and toripalimab are major drugs for the treatment of advanced triple - negative breast cancer, and combination therapy may further enhance the effectiveness of treatment. At present, there is no literature reporting the efficacy and safety data of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with toripalimab as first - line treatment. This study is a prospective, single - arm, multicenter, non - interventional, observational clinical trial, aiming to observe the efficacy and safety of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with toripalimab as first - line treatment for advanced triple - negative breast cancer in the real world.