Efficacy of Pulsed Electromagnetic Field Therapy on Acute Radiodermatitis in Breast Cancer Patients
This study aims to evaluate the impact of PEMF on acute radiodermatitis in breast cancer patient and post mastectomy patients.
Dermatitis, Radiation Induced
OTHER: Pulsed electromagnetic field|OTHER: traditional skin care
Ultrasonography skin thickness measurement., Ultrasonography was performed before radiotherapy and every two week during radiotherapy, approximately at the same time as skin toxicity assessments.

The machine (L15-4 linear-array transducer; Supersonics Aixplorer; Supersonic Imagine; France) and settings were used for all examinations, including gain, depth and frequency. Exams are performed at room temperature of 20-25°C with the patient supine, hands raised above the head and the ultrasound scans are performed by an experienced sonographer. Standard echo gel is used as a couplant between the skin surface and the probe. To ensure good coupling of the probe/skin interface, in addition to the gel, a sound-guiding pad with a size of 130 × 120 × 10 mm was used. During all examinations, special care was taken to avoid any pressure on the skin surface, and the probe is gently applied to the surface, pre treatment, every two weeks of treatment( total weeks 8 weeks) of treatment for up to 2 months total time.
Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) SCALE, 0 No change

1. Faint erythema or dry desquamation
2. Moderate to brisk erythema; patchy, moist desquamation, mostly confined to skin folds and creases; moderate edema
3. Moist desquamation in areas other than skin folds and creases; bleeding induced by minor trauma or abrasion
4. Life-threatening consequences; skin necrosis or ulceration of full thickness dermis; spontaneous bleeding from involved site; skin graft indicated, pre treatment, every two weeks of treatment( total weeks 8 weeks) of treatment for up to 2 months total time.
The objective is to understand the effect of PEMF on skin thickness and toxicity after radiotherapy on breast cancer.

The study included 50 adult female breast cancer undergoing whole-breast irradiation.

This is a randomized, controlled clinical trial was conducted at the outpatient clinic of the Faculty of Physical Therapy, Ahram Canadian University, Egypt.