Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy in Rectal Cancer
Rectal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors, with 9% to 23% of patients experiencing pelvic sidewall lymph node metastasis. According to the current Chinese guidelines for diagnosing and treating colorectal cancer, pelvic sidewall lymph node dissection is recommended for patients who have experienced or are suspected of having lateral lymph node metastasis. Lateral lymph node dissection can result in longer operation times, increased bleeding, and complications such as urinary and sexual dysfunction after surgery. Currently, the presence of metastasis is primarily determined by the size and enhancement characteristics of lateral lymph nodes observed through imaging studies. However, the pathological lymph node metastasis rate of specimens collected after lateral lymph node dissection based on current imaging criteria is only 20.5%. Therefore, a pressing clinical challenge is accurately determining the presence of lateral lymph node metastasis and avoiding unnecessary lateral lymph node dissection in patients who have not experienced lateral lymph node metastasis.

Sentinel lymph node biopsy has been widely used in clinical practice. It has replaced traditional lymph node dissection in some breast cancer and melanoma patients, reducing surgical risks and complications and improving patients' quality of life. This study aims to use indocyanine green as a tracer for fluorescence-guided laparoscopic navigation to locate the lateral sentinel lymph nodes of rectal cancer in the pelvic cavity. By studying the accuracy, specificity, and false-negative rate of predicting lateral lymph node status using the sentinel lymph node, we can further clarify the clinical significance of the lateral sentinel lymph node.
Rectal Cancer Stage III|Rectal Cancer Stage IV
PROCEDURE: Sentinel lymph node biopsy|DRUG: Indocyanine green solution|DEVICE: fluorescence laparoscope|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: pathological examination|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: rapid frozen pathological examination|PROCEDURE: total mesorectal excision
False negative rate, The false negative rate of predicting lateral lymph node metastasis status using rapid frozen pathology results of lateral sentinel lymph nodes in mid-to-low rectal cancer.

Namely, the false negative rate= total false negative cases/(total false negative cases+total true positive cases)., up to 14 days|Accuracy, The accuracy of predicting lateral lymph node metastasis status using rapid frozen pathology results of lateral sentinel lymph nodes in mid-to-low rectal cancer.

Namely, the accuracy = (total true negative cases+total true positive cases)/total number of cases., up to 14 days
Detection rate, The detection rate of lateral sentinel lymph nodes in middle and low rectal cancer.

Namely, the detection rate = (total true positive cases+total false positive cases)/total number of cases., up to 14 days|Specificity, The specificity of predicting lateral lymph node metastasis status using rapid frozen pathology results of lateral sentinel lymph nodes in mid-to-low rectal cancer.

Namely, the specificity = total true negative cases/(total true negative cases+total false positive cases)., up to 14 days|Sensitivity, The Sensitivity of predicting lateral lymph node metastasis status using rapid frozen pathology results of lateral sentinel lymph nodes in mid-to-low rectal cancer.

Namely, the sensitivity= total true positive cases/(total true positive cases+total false negative cases)。, up to 14 days
This study is a prospective single-arm clinical study. 87 patients with middle and low rectal cancer are planned to be included in the study. After general anesthesia during the operation, indocyanine green is injected around the tumor through the anus. After the sentinel lymph nodes are developed and located by fluorescent laparoscopy, they are removed and sent to rapid frozen pathological examination, and then the lateral lymph nodes are cleaned. Through pathological examination and statistical analysis of the fluorescent stained lateral sentinel lymph nodes and all the cleaned lateral lymph nodes, To evaluate the clinical significance of lateral sentinel lymph nodes located by this technique in predicting the status of lateral lymph nodes.