Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
Primary Objective:

To evaluate the safety of aflibercept in participants with mCRC treated with irinotecan/5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) combination (FOLFIRI) after failure of an oxaliplatin-based regimen (participants similar to those evaluated in the VELOUR trial \[EFC10262, NCT00561470\]) according to side effects prevention and management guidelines.

Secondary Objective:

To document the Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL) of aflibercept in this participant population.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: AFLIBERCEPT|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received investigational medicinal product (IMP) was considered an AE without regard to possibility of causal relationship with this treatment. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were defined as AEs that developed or worsened or became serious during on-treatment period. On-treatment period was defined as the time from the first dose of treatment to 30 days after the last dose of treatment (either Aflibercept or FOLFIRI). A serious adverse event (SAE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death, life-threatening, required initial or prolonged in-patient hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect, or considered as medically important event. Any TEAE included participants with both serious and non-serious AEs., Baseline upto 30 days after the last treatment administration (either Aflibercept or FOLFIRI whichever comes last) (maximum exposure:723 days)
Change From Baseline in Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) European Organization for Research and Treatment for Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a cancer-specific instrument with 30 questions for evaluation of new chemotherapy and provides an assessment of participant reported outcome dimensions. First 28 questions used 4-point scale (1=not at all,2=a little,3=quite a bit,4=very much) for evaluating 5 functional scales (physical,role,emotional,cognitive,social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue,nausea/vomiting,pain) \& other single items. For each item,high score represented high level of symptomatology/problem. Last 2 questions represented participant's assessment of overall health \& quality of life, coded on 7-point scale (1=very poor to 7=excellent). EORTC QLQ-C30 observed values and change from baseline for global health status (scoring of questions 29 \& 30) and 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales and other single items (scoring of questions 1 to 28). Answers were converted into grading scale, with values between 0 and 100. A high score represented a favorable outcome with a best quality of life for participant., Pre-dose at Baseline, Day 1 of every odd cycle; and at end of treatment (30 days after last study treatment) (maximum exposure: 99 weeks)|Change From Baseline in HRQL European-Quality of Life-5 Dimension Instrument-3 Levels (EQ-5D-3L) Index Score, EQ-5D was a standardized HRQL questionnaire consisting of EQ-5D descriptive system and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). EQ-5D descriptive system comprised of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression measured on 3 levels (no problem, some problems \& severe problems) within a particular EQ-5D dimension. 5 dimensional 3-level system was converted into single index utility score. Possible values for single index utility score ranged from -0.594 (severe problems in all dimensions) to 1.0 (no problem in all dimensions) on scale where 1 represented best possible health state., Pre-dose at Baseline, Day 1 of every odd cycle; and at end of treatment (30 days after last study treatment) (maximum exposure: 99 weeks)|Change From Baseline in HRQL EQ-5D-3L VAS Score, EQ-5D VAS was used to record a participant's rating for his/her current health-related quality of life state and captured on a vertical VAS (0-100), where 0 = worst imaginable health state and 100 = best imaginable health state. Baseline corresponded to last evaluable assessment before treatment administration., Pre-dose at Baseline, Day 1 of every odd cycle; and at end of treatment (30 days after last study treatment) (maximum exposure: 99 weeks)
Each participant was treated until disease progression (DP), unacceptable toxicity, death, Investigator's decision or participant's refusal for further treatment (whichever come first). Participants were followed-up during treatment and for at least 30 days after its last study treatment (either Aflibercept or FOLFIRI) administration, up to a maximum of 6 months.