Early Prophylactic Donor Lymphocyte Infusion After Allo-HSCT for Patients With AML
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (Allo-HSCT) is a curative option for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, transplantation related toxicity and mortality as well as the existence of HLA identical sibling donor represent major limitations. Over the 20 past years, the development of reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen and the use of alternative donors allowed extending the possibility of Allo-HSCT for AML, with decreased toxicity and mortality. This invited to propose this strategy to more advanced patients, making that AML recurrence has become one of the main issues after Allo-HSCT. Thus, to develop prophylactic and preemptive strategies to minimize disease recurrence after Allo-HSCT is now the main challenge in the field. Among cellular and/or pharmacological treatments after Allo-HSCT, donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) is probably one of the most commonly used treatments after Allo-HSCT. Indeed, DLI were reported as a potential efficient immunotherapy more than 20 years ago for the treatment of patients with leukemia relapsing after Allo-HSCT. However, most of experiences were reported in the setting of relapse after Allo-HSCT and no prospective evaluation of prophylactic DLI is available so far. Thus no strong recommendation for the use of DLI after Allo-HSCT can be made. Our study proposal would like to assess the question of prophylactic DLI efficacy, as a proof of concept of early immune intervention after Allo-HSCT. The investigators, therefore, designed a prospective multicenter randomized trial evaluating the impact of early DLI on outcome after Allo-HSCT for AML.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: prophylactic donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI)
Relapse-free survival (RFS) at 2 years after randomization, RElpase-free survival will be evaluated in an intent-to-treat analysis by Kaplan Meier estimate and Log Rank test. Survival will be calculated from the date of randomization, 2 years
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (Allo-HSCT) is a curative option for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, transplantation related toxicity and mortality as well as the existence of HLA identical sibling donor represent major limitations. Over the 20 past years, the development of reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen and the use of alternative donors allowed extending the possibility of Allo-HSCT for AML, with decreased toxicity and mortality. This invited to propose this strategy to more advanced patients, making that AML recurrence has become one of the main issues after Allo-HSCT. Thus, to develop prophylactic and preemptive strategies to minimize disease recurrence after Allo-HSCT is now the main challenge in the field. Among cellular and/or pharmacological treatments after Allo-HSCT, donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) is probably one of the most commonly used treatments after Allo-HSCT. Indeed, DLI were reported as a potential efficient immunotherapy more than 20 years ago for the treatment of patients with leukemia relapsing after Allo-HSCT. However, most of experiences were reported in the setting of relapse after Allo-HSCT and no prospective evaluation of prophylactic DLI is available so far. Thus no strong recommendation for the use of DLI after Allo-HSCT can be made. Our study proposal would like to assess the question of prophylactic DLI efficacy, as a proof of concept of early immune intervention after Allo-HSCT. The investigators, therefore, designed a prospective multicenter randomized trial evaluating the impact of early DLI on outcome after Allo-HSCT for AML.