MCS110 With BRAF/MEK Inhibition in Patients With Melanoma
This research study is studying a combination of targeted therapies as a possible treatment for advanced melanoma that was found to have a BRAF V600E or BRAF V600K genetic mutation.

The interventions involved in this study are:

* MCS110
* Dabrafenib
* Trametinib
Melanoma
DRUG: MCS110|DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: Trametinib
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) [Phase I], A DLT was defined as an adverse event that (a) was possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study medication regimen and (b) experienced during the first cycle of treatment, and (c) met any of the following criteria: ≥ Grade 3 non-hematological toxicity; grade 3 thrombocytopenia with clinically significant bleeding; grade 4 thrombocytopenia; ≥ grade 3 febrile neutropenia; grade 4 anemia; holding of any study medication due to toxicity for a period of greater than 8 consecutive days or two separate periods of any duration during the first cycle, any other significant toxicity deemed by the principal investigator to be dose limiting., Participants were followed up to 21 days.|Maximum Tolerated Dose of MCS110 [Phase I], The trial used 3+3 design to determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD), escalating on 0/3 or 1/6 DLTs, and de-escalating if two DLTs were encountered. See subsequent primary outcome measure for the DLT definition. MTD was the highest dose level at which 0/3 or 1/6 subjects experienced a DLT., Participants were followed up to 21 days.
Overall Response Rate (ORR) [Phase I], ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Participants were followed up to 30 months.|Median Progression Free Survival [Phase I], PFS is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) requiring removal from the study or death. Participants alive without PD were censored at the earliest of the date of the last disease evaluation or start of new anticancer therapy. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase. For non-target lesions, progression-free means no new lesions or unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions or not evaluated., Participants were followed up to 30 months.
This is a Phase I/II clinical trial. A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved MSC110 as a treatment for any disease.

The FDA has approved dabrafenib and trametinib as treatment options for this disease.

Dabrafenib and trametinib attack different proteins that promote the growth of cancerous cells. These two treatments work in cancers with a mutation in the BRAF gene which alters a protein signaling pathway in cancer cells. The BRAF mutation status will be confirmed during this trial by review or procedure in order to make sure this clinical trial is right for the participant. Dabrafenib is a BRAF inhibitor that works by preventing altered BRAF proteins from stimulating the growth of the melanoma cancer cells. Trametinib works by blocking a protein related to BRAF called MEK that has been known to stimulate cells that also promote melanoma growth. In order to participate in the study, the participant disease needs to be tested positive for a mutation (a permanent change in the DNA sequence of a gene) of the BRAF gene that belongs to a class of genes known as oncogenes. When mutated, oncogenes have the potential to cause normal cells to become cancerous. Once the BRAF gene is mutated, the normal functioning of the BRAF protein may be changed. It is normal for patients with a BRAF mutation to receive these types of inhibitor therapies at some point in their treatment.

MCS110 is a colony-stimulating factor-1 (CSF-1) inhibitor. It is a human monoclonal antibody which binds CSF-1. A monoclonal antibody is a type of protein made in the laboratory that can locate and bind to substances in the body, including tumor cells. MCS110 is being developed as a treatment for patients with advanced cancer.

In this research study, the investigators are adding MCS110 to the treatment with dabrafenib and trametinib at the time when the participant's disease is growing despite these medications. The hope is that MCS110 will enhance how the cancer will respond to dabrafenib and trametinib and overcome any resistance to these medications that has developed. In previous laboratory studies performed by treating melanoma cancer cells with a CSF-1R (CSF-1 Receptor which interacts with the CSF-1 protien) inhibitor and a BRAF inhibitor, it was found that the CSF-1R inhibitor was successful in increasing efficacy.