Cognitive Function After Treatment of Primary CNS Malignancy
In this study, the investigators propose to evaluate cognitive function and determine the feasibility of neurocognitive assessment using a select CogState test battery in patients with primary intracranial malignancies receiving photon- or proton-based cranial irradiation with curative intent. The investigators will use the CogState software to quantify changes in verbal learning, memory, and executive function over the initial months and years following radiation treatment. Cognitive changes and temporal patterns of function will be compared to baseline performance for each patient. Data regarding cognitive function, fatigue, quality of life, and standard patient reported outcomes will be collected to characterize the daily impact of treatment. In addition, observed outcomes will be correlated with dosimetry values, radiation dose volumes, and anatomic dose distribution.
CNS Malignancy
characterize the rate and magnitude of change in cognitive performance within 12 months of completion of therapy in patients with intracranial malignancies receiving photon- or proton-based cranial irradiation with curative intent, Using the CogState software, baseline, completion of treatment, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years after radiotherapy
In this study, the investigators propose to evaluate cognitive function and determine the feasibility of neurocognitive assessment using a select CogState test battery in patients with primary intracranial malignancies receiving photon- or proton-based cranial irradiation with curative intent. The investigators will use the CogState software to quantify changes in verbal learning, memory, and executive function over the initial months and years following radiation treatment. Cognitive changes and temporal patterns of function will be compared to baseline performance for each patient. Data regarding cognitive function, fatigue, quality of life, and standard patient reported outcomes will be collected to characterize the daily impact of treatment. In addition, observed outcomes will be correlated with dosimetry values, radiation dose volumes, and anatomic dose distribution.