Efficacy of Aponeurectomy on the 2-year Recurrence Rate of Dupuytren's Disease
Dupuytren's disease is a frequent hereditary disease in Northern Europe. It is a degenerative disease affecting the palmar aponeurosis of the hand. It develops a progressive contractile fibrosis which cuts the hypodermic fatty tissue, adheres to the skin and the phalanges, gradually bending the affected rays, resulting in significant functional impotence.

Various medical and surgical treatments are available.
Dupuytren's Disease
PROCEDURE: Aponeurectomy with grafting|PROCEDURE: Aponeurectomy alone
2-year recurrence rate of Dupuytren's disease, Recurrence being defined as follows: appearance, at 2 years post-op compared to 6 weeks post-op, of a contracture of more than 20 degrees, with palpable cord, on any treated joint., 2 Years after intervention
3-year recurrence rate in both groups, Recurrence being defined as follows: Appearance of a contracture of more than 20 degrees, with palpable cord, on any treated joint, at 3 years post-op compared to 6 weeks post-op, 3 Years after intervention|5-year recurrence rate in both groups, Recurrence being defined as follows: Appearance of a contracture of more than 20 degrees, with palpable cord, on any treated joint, at 5 years post-op compared to 6 weeks post-op, 5 Years after intervention|Comparison of the appearance of scars in both groups, Use of questionnaire The Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS). This questionnaire consists of 2 separate scales of 6 items each (one scale for the observer and one scale for the patient). Each item is evaluated on 10 points. The lowest score is "1" which corresponds to the appearance of normal skin. A score of 10 indicates the greatest deviation from normal skin. The total score for each of the scales is obtained by adding the score for each of the 6 items. This total score can vary between 6 and 60 for each of the scales., 1 Year after intervention|Comparison of the appearance of scars in both groups, Use of questionnaire The Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS). This questionnaire consists of 2 separate scales of 6 items each (one scale for the observer and one scale for the patient). Each item is evaluated on 10 points. The lowest score is "1" which corresponds to the appearance of normal skin. A score of 10 indicates the greatest deviation from normal skin. The total score for each of the scales is obtained by adding the score for each of the 6 items. This total score can vary between 6 and 60 for each of the scales., 2 Years after intervention|Comparison of the complication rates in both groups, Complications are defined as Hematoma, infection, graft lysis, disunion or nerve damage., 1 Week after intervention|Comparison of the complication rates in both groups, Complications are defined as Hematoma, infection, graft lysis, disunion or nerve damage., 6 Weeks after intervention|Comparison of the rate of occurrence of algodystrophy, regardless of cause, Collection of information on the occurrence of algodystrophy, considered as Adverse Event of Special Interest., 1 Year after intervention|Comparison of the rate of occurrence of algodystrophy, regardless of cause, Collection of information on the occurrence of algodystrophy, considered as Adverse Event of Special Interest., 2 Years after intervention|Comparison of the rate of occurrence of algodystrophy, regardless of cause, Collection of information on the occurrence of algodystrophy, considered as Adverse Event of Special Interest., 3 Years after intervention|Comparison of the rate of occurrence of algodystrophy, regardless of cause, Collection of information on the occurrence of algodystrophy, considered as Adverse Event of Special Interest., 5 Years after intervention|Evaluation of hypodermic fat volume loss, Measurement of hypodermal fat thickness on MRI for five patients of experimental group, only include in the coordinating center.

The evolution is measured with preoperative, immediate postoperative (day of surgery) and 1-year MRI., 1 Year after intervention|Comparison of the effect on quality of life in both groups, Use of Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire. The score consists of 11 questions that assess the function of the upper limb for the gestures of daily life. The final score is between 0 and 100, with 0 corresponding to normal function, and 100 to almost no function., 6 Weeks after intervention|Comparison of the effect on quality of life in both groups, Use of Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire. The score consists of 11 questions that assess the function of the upper limb for the gestures of daily life. The final score is between 0 and 100, with 0 corresponding to normal function, and 100 to almost no function., 1 Year after intervention|Comparison of the effect on quality of life in both groups, Use of Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire. The score consists of 11 questions that assess the function of the upper limb for the gestures of daily life. The final score is between 0 and 100, with 0 corresponding to normal function, and 100 to almost no function., 2 Years after intervention|Comparison of the effect on quality of life in both groups, Use of Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire. The score consists of 11 questions that assess the function of the upper limb for the gestures of daily life. The final score is between 0 and 100, with 0 corresponding to normal function, and 100 to almost no function., 5 Years after intervention|Evaluation of the safety of aponectomy surgery associated or not with adipose tissue grafting, Collection of adverse events, 6 Weeks after intervention|Evaluation of the primary endpoint on the second hand operated on., The surgery being done with or without fat according to the treatment of the 1st randomized hand (cross-over scheme).

Data collection for the second surgery only if it occurs between the 1st hand surgery and the patient's protocol discharge., Within five years after intervention
Among these treatments, none to date can eliminate recurrences, which are still too frequent.

Open aponeurectomy (consisting of surgical curettage of the fibrotic cords) remains for the moment the reference technique for treating Dupuytren's disease, with recurrences (between 12 and 39%), but less frequent than the needle technique (50 to 85%).

Could the addition of adipose tissue in the resection areas of Dupytren's fibrosis reduce the rate of recurrence (by the inhibitory action of ADCs on myofibroblasts) in addition to reconstructing the hypodermis in the cavity left by the resection of the cords and improving the quality of the scars? The investigators insist on the fact that this is a homotopic and homologous adipose tissue graft, in closed circuit without denaturation or adjuvant products.

Since, to our knowledge, no other team has used "lipofilling" as an adjuvant treatment to the open resection technique of Dupuytren's cords (aponeurectomy), the investigators first conducted a clinical feasibility and safety study on 70 patients between 2012 and 2017 (currently being published by Springer Editions).

The investigators now wish to conduct a prospective comparative study between patients operated by aponeurectomy WITH (experimental group) and WITHOUT (control group) addition of autologous adipose tissue in the resection areas of Dupuytren's cords.