Study to Assess Safety and Tolerability of MLN8237, In Combination With Erlotinib to Treat Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and the best dose of MLN8237 when given together with erlotinib hydrochloride and to see how well it works in treating patients with recurrent locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). MLN8237 and erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Recurrent
DRUG: MLN8237 and Erlotinib
Safety and tolerability of the combination treatment (Phase I), Toxicity will be evaluated according to the NCI CTCAE, version 4.0., Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment (up to 2 years) through 30 days of completion of treatment|MTD of alisertib when given in combination with standard dose erlotinib hydrochloride (Phase I), MTD is the highest dose tried for which there were either 0 or at most 1 dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in 6 patients. Any dose that leads to 2 DLTs will be considered too toxic and no additional patients will be treated at that level. Although DLTs may occur at any point during treatment, only DLTs occurring during course 1 of treatment during the Phase 1 portion of this study will necessarily influence decisions regarding dose escalation, expansion of a dose level, or evaluation of intermediate dose levels., Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment (up to 2 years)|PFS (Phase II), PFS and OS will be treated by the method of Kaplan and Meier. The Phase II component will follow a two stage design that allows for early termination of the study if the primary end point of PFS is not met. The phase II part will use an early stopping design 36 that evaluates patients at 9 weeks and again at 18 weeks. Patients still progression free at 9 weeks will remain on study until progression or the end of their follow up period., Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment (up to 2 years) until the date of first documented progression or date of death for any cause, whichever came first
PK parameters of erlotinib hydrochloride and alisertib, including, but not limited to Cmax, Tmax, and AUC 0-tlast, Day 7 and day 21 (optional) of course 1|ORR (Phase II), RECIST v1.1 criteria will be used for objective tumor response assessment. Assessments will be performed after every three cycles of treatments (every 9 weeks). Once protocol treatment has been completed subjects will be assessed every three months or sooner as indicated and judged by treating physicians., Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment (up to 2 years) until the date of first documented progression or date of death for any cause, whichever came first|DOR (Phase II), The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment (up to 2 years) until the date of first documented progression or date of death for any cause, whichever came first|TTP (Phase II), Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment (up to 2 years) until the date of first documented progression or date of death for any cause, whichever came first|OS (Phase II), PFS and OS will be treated by the method of Kaplan and Meier., Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment (up to 2 years) until the date of first documented progression or date of death for any cause, whichever came first|AEs, SAEs, and assessments of clinical laboratory values (Phase II), AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom or disease temporally associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure. Attributable AE, with CTCAE v4 grading should be monitored and recorded until resolved to =\< grade I or determined to be irreversible., Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment (up to 2 years) through 30 days of completion of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Safety and tolerability of the combination treatment. (Phase I) II. Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MLN8237 (alisertib) when given in combination with standard dose erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride). (Phase I) III. Progression free survival. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of erlotinib and MLN8237, including, but not limited to maximum concentration of drug (Cmax), time of occurrence for maximum drug concentration (Tmax), and area under the curve from time zero to the last measurable concentration(AUC0-t last).

II. Overall response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR), time to progression (TTP), and overall survival (OS). (Phase II) III. Adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), assessments of clinical laboratory values. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of alisertib followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7 and erlotinib hydrochloride PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.