Penguin Cold Caps in the Prevention of Hair Loss in Breast Cancer Patients
The goal of this study is to estimate the efficacy of Penguin cold caps in preventing or reducing hair loss in patients receiving (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy (one of four common regimens) for early stage breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Penguin Cold Caps
Deans Alopecia Scale, Number of patients who score from 0-2 on Deans Alopecia Scale, 30 days post chemotherapy treatment
Was it Worth it Questionnaire, Number of patients reporting positive or beneficial effects of Cold Cap therapy on the Was it Worth it Questionnaire., 30 days post chemotherapy treatment|European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30, Number of patients reporting positive or beneficial effects of Cold Cap therapy on the EORTC QLQ-C30, 30 days post chemotherapy treatment|Body Image Scale Questionnaire, These outcomes will be reported as the proportion of patients (and confidence intervals) reporting the study cold-cap therapy as positive and beneficial on the Body Image Scale Questionnaire, 30 days post chemotherapy treatment|Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0, The proportion of patients (and confidence intervals) with grade 1 or 2 alopecia according to CTCAE rating scale, 30 days post chemotherapy treatment
This will be a phase II prospective, open label, non-randomized study conducted to determine the safety and efficacy of Penguin TM cold cap system in preventing or reducing chemotherapy-induced alopecia in patients with early stage breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy.

Eligible subjects will be enrolled to one of 4 study arms (Table 5) determined by type of chemotherapy. Subjects will have early stage breast cancer of any receptor subtype, for which standard of care includes chemotherapy. Eligible subjects will be enrolled at Providence Portland Medical Center (PPMC) and Providence St. Vincent Medical Center (PSVMC).

The PenguinTM cold cap therapy will be administered to all enrolled subjects according to the dosing schedule specified by the study arms. PenguinTM cold caps is a portable scalp cooling system which uses gel-filled cold caps that are cooled on dry ice and exchanged every 30 minutes in order to maintain optimum temperature. Its unique crylon gel formula is specifically created to maintain cold temperatures for much longer periods of time than other conventional cooling gels and foams. No scalp preparation is required before use.