Clinical Trial of Vincristine vs. Prednisolone for Treatment of Complicated Hemangiomas
The goal of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of Prednisolone and Vincristine for treatment of large, complicated infantile hemangiomas. The diagnostic, therapeutic and response criteria experimentally determined in this study will be used as a framework for future infantile hemangioma studies.
Hemangioma
DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Prednisone
Response of Hemangioma (IH) to Treatment, Response of IH not confined to the dermis will be coded using the following criteria: Progressive disease: \>40% increase in volume by MRI, Partial response: \>65% reduction in volume by MRI, Complete response: no visual or radiographic evidence of disease, Stable disease: none of the above or \<40% increase or \<65% decrease in volume by MRI.

Response of superficial IH will be coded using the following criteria (based on RECIST): Progressive disease: \>30% increase in IH size, Partial response: \>30% reduction in size, Complete response: no evidence of disease, Stable disease: none of the above.

Our first 3 patients showed limits to using MRI volume to measure IH size/response to therapy. Unlike other solid tumors, the superficial distribution of some IH made getting volume by MRI difficult, resulting in smaller tumor estimation compared to clinical assessment. Based on these observations, we amended the protocol to report response based on RECIST criteria instead of change in IH volume., 6 weeks
Toxicity to Medications, Adverse events were closely monitored and recorded at weekly visits during treatment period and for two years after treatment ceased. Laboratory values were taken every other week during the treatment period.

Please see Adverse Events module for more details., Initial visit, 2, 4, 6, 10 and 12 weeks of therapy
Infants with large hemangiomas are often treated systemically with oral steroids (Prednisolone) to prevent complications. The best treatment for hemangiomas is not known and there are no medications approved by the FDA for treatment of hemangiomas. Also, the best method to measure the response of hemangioma to treatment is not known. Patients enrolling on this study will be randomly assigned to receive either daily Prednisolone by mouth or weekly Vincristine in a vein. Response to treatment will be monitored by clinical exams every two weeks and by an MRI at study entry and six and twelve weeks later. Patients with evidence of progressive disease (larger hemangiomas) on the week 6 MRI will be switched to the other drug to complete a total of 12 weeks of therapy. Side effects of each medication will be monitored closely determined from histories, physical exams, blood tests and other studies as necessary. Participation in this study will last up to 12 weeks and follow up for protocol.