Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Younger Patients With Newly Diagnosed, Non-metastatic Desmoplastic Medulloblastoma
This phase II trial studies how well combination chemotherapy works in treating younger patients with newly diagnosed, non-metastatic desmoplastic medulloblastoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, etoposide, and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Desmoplastic/Nodular Medulloblastoma|Medulloblastoma|Medulloblastoma With Extensive Nodularity|Nevoid Basal Cell Carcinoma Syndrome
DRUG: Carboplatin|OTHER: Cognitive Assessment|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Etoposide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time interval from diagnosis to the earliest of disease progression/recurrence or death from any cause, or to the date of last follow-up for patients without events. PFS was estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. 2-year estimates are reported with 95% CI's., 2 years from diagnosis|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from diagnosis to death from any cause, or to the date of last follow-up for survivors. OS was estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. 2-year estimates are reported with 95% CI's, as the data are not mature to 72 months., Assessed up to 72 months, reported at 2 years from diagnosis|Event-free Survival (EFS), Event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the time from diagnosis to the earliest of disease progression/recurrence, second malignancy or death from any cause, or to the date of last follow-up for patients without events. EFS was estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. 2-year estimates are reported with 95% CI's., 2 years from diagnosis|Percentage of Patients With Responses at 189 Days, The percentage of patients with complete response (CR) at the end of induction (\~189 days) was reported and presented with the associated exact 95% confidence interval., 189 days from start of treatment|Percentage of Patients With Responses at 273 Days, The percentage of patients with complete response (CR) at the end of therapy (\~273 days) was reported and presented with the associated exact 95% confidence interval., 273 days from start of treatment
Feasibility of Rapid Central Pathology Screening Review Defined as Success Rate of Timely Central Pathology Review Based on the Expectation That at Least 95% of the Cases Will be Reviewed Within 10 Days, At the end of the trial the feasibility of such a prescreening process will be assessed by reporting the percentage and the associated confidence interval of cases where the central review was obtained within 10 days from receipt of slides., Up to 10 days|Molecular Profile, Contingency table analysis will be used to examine the association of molecular profile with histology., Up to 2 years|Change in Neurocognitive and Adaptive Functioning Assessed Using Full Scale IQ Score (FSIQ) and General Adaptive Composite Score (GAC), Changes will be described via paired tests and confidence intervals both for FSIQ and GAC in order to capture any deterioration over time., Baseline to up to 60 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate of the progression free survival (PFS) distribution for patients 0-\<4 years of age with M0 desmoplastic medulloblastoma (nodular desmoplastic or medulloblastoma with extensive nodularity) treated with the modified HIT SKK regimen (excluding the use of intraventricular methotrexate).

OTHER PRE-SPECIFIED OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the feasibility of a rapid central pathology screening review for treatment allocation according to histology and assess agreement between institutional and central pathology review diagnoses as well as among central pathology review diagnoses.

II. Prospectively evaluate the molecular profile of nodular desmoplastic (ND)/medulloblastoma with extensive nodularity (MBEN) medulloblastoma in young children.

III. Monitor and describe the neurocognitive and adaptive functioning of young children with ND/MBEN medulloblastoma treated on this protocol using the ALTE07C1 protocol.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) over 1 minute or infused via minibag on days 1, 15, and 29; cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3; methotrexate IV over 24 hours on days 15 and 29; etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 43-45; and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days 43-45. Treatment repeats every 63 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONTINUATION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute or infused via minibag on day 1, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 21-23, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days 21-23. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, 12, 16, 20, 24, 36, 48, 60, and 72 months.