Phase II Study of Niraparib in Metastatic TNBC Patients With Homologous Recombination Deficiency
The incidence of homologous recombination deficiency in metastatic triple negative breast cancer was 52%-59%，PARP plays a key role in sensing DNA damage and converting it into intracellular signals that activate the base excision repair (BER) and single-strand break repair pathways. Treatment with PARP inhibitors could represent a novel opportunity to selectively kill a subset of cancer cells with deficiencies in DNA repair pathways. This is a multicenter, single-arm, phase II study evaluating the efficacy and safety of niraparib in patients with HRD positive metastatic triple negative breast cancer.
Homologous Recombination Deficiency|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Niraparib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions as assessed by the Investigator: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months., From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Percentage of participants with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) lasting 24 weeks or longer as defined in RECIST v1.1., From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.|Time to response (TTR), TTR defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the first objective tumor response when CR or PR is observed., From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.|Overall survival (OS), Time to death from any cause from the date of first dose of study treatment, From date of first dose until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months.
Simon's two-stage optimization method is used to estimate the sample size. The first kind of error α Set to 0.1, type II error β Set to 0.25, P0 to 30%, P1 to 44%. 22 patients were enrolled in the first stage. If the number of effective cases ≤ 6, the trial was terminated. Otherwise, continue to enroll 26 patients in the second stage. If the number of effective cases in the two stages is ≤ 18, there is no need to further study the drug. Assuming an abscission rate of 5%, it is estimated that 50 subjects will be enrolled in the trial.