A Study of Carfilzomib, Lenalidomide, Vorinostat, and Dexamethasone in Relapsed and/or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This study will evaluate the feasibility of combining four of the most active agents available for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Further the investigators will attempt to assess the activity of this combination.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Vorinostat, Lenalidomide, Carfilzomib, Dexamethasone
Safety and dose of carfilzomib, lenalidomide, vorinostat and dexamethasone for MM, Primary Objective: To evaluate safety and establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) \[and/or a protocol defined dose below the MTD\] of carfilzomib, lenalidomide, vorinostat and dexamethasone in relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma subjects.

Secondary Objectives: To observe evidence of efficacy (response rate, duration of response, time to progression, time to next treatment), Within 30 days of the last administration of study treatment
Overall response rate (ORR) Time to next treatment (TTNT) Time to progression (TTP) Duration of response (DOR, Secondary Objectives: To observe evidence of efficacy (response rate, duration of response, time to progression, time to next treatment), Within 30 days of the last administration of study treatment
Phase I/II studies of the novel proteasome inhibitor, carfilzomib, have shown it to have significant activity in patients with advanced multiple myeloma, including patients with bortezomib refractory disease. This drug, unlike bortezomib, has minimal neurotoxicity and appears to have minimal gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity. Experience with the combination of bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone has shown both neuropathy and chronic diarrhea to be limiting.

Vorinostat is a histone deacetylase inhibitor with modest single agent activity in multiple myeloma. Dysesthesia, GI issues and fatigue have been problematic in this patient population. More recent studies combining vorinostat with lenalidomide and dexamethasone or with bortezomib have demonstrated a much more robust activity, including in patients refractory to lenalidomide or bortezomib-based combinations. Again, neuropathy, fatigue and GI issues have been problematic.

The investigators own anecdotal experience with combinations of proteasome inhibitor, histone deacetylase inhibitor, immunomodulators and dexamethasone has shown this combination to be extremely active and well tolerated. The combination of vorinostat, carfilzomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone should offer the opportunity to maximize activity while limiting toxicities, particularly neuropathy and GI.