Neoadjuvant Low-Dose Radiotherapy Combined With Adebrelimab and Single-Agent Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel Chemotherapy for Early-Stage Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Prospective, Single-Arm Clinical Trial
This is a prospective, single-arm, Phase II clinical trial. The included population consisted of untreated patients with histologically confirmed stage I-II oral squamous cell carcinoma. Eligible patients received neoadjuvant low-dose radiotherapy combined with adibelizumab and monotherapy with albumin paclitaxel for two cycles. Radical surgical resection is planned to be carried out 3 to 4 weeks after neoadjuvant therapy. Patients who obtain PCR after evaluation by the researchers after the operation will be maintained for 6 cycles of immunomonotherapy. The primary endpoints were the rate of pathological response and the rate of exemption from cervical lymph node dissection. The secondary endpoints included progression-free survival, local control rate, distant metastasis-free rate, overall survival, safety and quality of life of patients, as well as the exploration of biomarkers
Early-Stage Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Adebrelimab Combined With Albumin Paclitaxel
MPR, The percentage of viable tumor cells remaining in the tumor bed after neoadjuvant therapy is ≤10%, regardless of whether viable tumor cells remain in the lymph nodes, From enrollment to the end of surgery,assessed up to 6 months|The rate of exemption from cervical lymph node dissection surgery, During the operation, multiple biopsies were performed on the primary lesion. If no tumor cells were found, cervical lymph node dissection was waived, From enrollment to the end of surgery,assessed up to 6 months
PFS, The calculation starts from the day of enrollment until treatment failure, death due to any cause, or the last follow-up occurs, with the first occurrence as the endpoint, From enrollment to the first appearance of disease progression or date of deathfrom any cause,whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months|LRFS, The calculation starts from the day of enrollment until local and/or regional recurrence occurs or at the last follow-up, From enrollment to the first appearance of disease progression or date of deathfrom any cause,whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months
This is a prospective, single-arm, Phase II clinical trial. The included population consisted of untreated patients with histologically confirmed stage I-II oral squamous cell carcinoma. Eligible patients received neoadjuvant low-dose radiotherapy combined with adibelizumab and monotherapy with albumin paclitaxel for two cycles. Radical surgical resection is planned to be carried out 3 to 4 weeks after neoadjuvant therapy. Patients who obtain PCR after evaluation by the researchers after the operation will be maintained for 6 cycles of immunomonotherapy. The primary endpoints were the rate of pathological response and the rate of exemption from cervical lymph node dissection. The secondary endpoints included progression-free survival, local control rate, distant metastasis-free rate, overall survival, safety and quality of life of patients, as well as the exploration of biomarkers