Aspirin Use for Gastric Cancer Prevention in the Early Gastric Cancer Patients
This study aimed to investigate the effect of low-dose (100 mg) asprin on the prevention of gastric cancer in the early gastric cancer patients with negative H. pylori status who underwent endoscopic submucosal dissection.
Aspirin|Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Aspirin 100mg|DRUG: Placebo oral tablet
The incidence of gastric cancer between the intervention and placebo groups, Histologically confirmed gastric cancer detected at follow-up endoscopy or registered at the Korean Cancer Registry, Until last enrolled patients take 5-year trial medication
All-cause mortality, Mortality from any causes, Until last enrolled patients take 5-year trial medication|The incidence of cardiovascular disease and cerebrovascular disease between the intervention and placebo groups, Cardiovascular diseases (stable and unstable angina, myocardial infarction); Cerebrovascular diseases (transient ischemic attack, cerebral infarction, other small vascular infarction, etc), Until last enrolled patients take 5-year trial medication|The incidence of other organ cancers between the intervention and placebo groups, Cancers detected at follow-up visits or registered at the Korean Cancer Registry, Until last enrolled patients take 5-year trial medication|The incidence of gastric dysplasia (adenoma) between the intervention and placebo groups, Histologically confirmed gastric dysplasia (adenoma) detected at follow-up endoscopy, Until last enrolled patients take 5-year trial medication|Complication related to the aspirin use, Gastrointestinal bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and other bleeding complications, Until last enrolled patients take 5-year trial medication|Improvement of atrophy and intestinal metaplasia, Change in histologic atrophy and intestinal metaplasia grades from enrollment to subsequent endoscopic assessment, At the time of 5-year trial medication
Aspirin has been widely used as an anti-platelet drug for the primary or secondary prevention of cardiovascular events, including ischemic heart disease and stroke. In 2016, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended initiating low-dose aspirin use for the primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases and colorectal cancer in adult aged 50 to 59 years who have a 10% or greater 10-year cardiovascular disease risk, are not at increased risk of bleeding, have a life expectancy of at least 10 years, and are willing to take low-dose aspirin daily for at least 10 years. In addition, a meta-analysis reported that long-term aspirin use was associated with reduced the risk of gastrointestinal cancers including colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, and gastric cancer. However, most studies that reported the cancer prevention effect of long-term aspirin use were conducted as a secondary analysis or subgroup analysis of primary studies investigating the aspirin use for cardiovascular disease prevention. Thus, there is a limitation that appropriate sample sizes and follow-up periods for the cancer prevention effect of aspirin were not considered.

In 2018, we reported that H. pylori treatment reduced the development of metachronous gastric cancer after endoscopic resection in early gastric cancer patients. However, metachronous gastric cancer could develop after successful H. pylori eradication with an annual incidence of 1%-3%. Therefore, we designed a multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate whether long-term low-dose (100 mg) aspirin uses prevents gastric cancer in early gastric cancer or high-grade dysplasia patients who underwent endoscopic resection.