Pre- and Postoperative Nutrition in Head and Neck Cancer Patients
The purpose of the project is to investigate the effect of wound healing of a combined pre- and postoperative oral supplement, consisting of zinc, vitamin C, arginine and multivitamin, as a supplement for adequate nutrition in patients operated for head and neck cancer.
Head and Neck Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutritional supplement (Protein + MIX)|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutritional supplement (Protein)
POSAS-scale (The Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale v2.0 / EN), points on POSAS-questionaire (7-70), 2 months
Appearance of the scar (scale), blind professional rating based on rank (from photographs)(1-10), 2 months|Ultrasound scanning, Number of cavities in the wound, 2 months|Biochemical measurements (micromol/l) at start and finish, Changes in the concentrations of micronutrients in the intervention period:

p-albumin, p-C-Reactive Protein, p-cobalamin, p-folic acid, p-magnesium, p-ferritin, 2 months|Size of the scar (cm), measured with ruler, 2 months
Peripheral oxygen tension (partial pressure, kPa), Peripheral oxygen tension measured on the finger tip, 2 months|Difficulty in swallowing (scale), assessed by rank-scale (1-100), 2 months
The project will be conducted as an open, randomized intervention study, and includes patients with head and neck cancer that are planned for operation. 40 participants are allocated to the intervention or control group, respectively. For both groups, the experiment will last for five to six weeks, depending on when the trial participants are planned for surgery. The intervention group must take a dietary supplement and a protein drink for 35 days (7 days preoperatively and 28 days postoperatively), which is delivered 7 days preoperatively. The same applies to the control group that only receives protein drinks. The length of the intervention period is based on the design of previous studies. During the project, compliance will be evaluated by counting the amount of remaining dietary supplements and protein drinks that the participants return on a regular basis. The control group receives standard treatment as well as protein drinks. For all participants included in the experiment blood tests and an ultrasound scanning will be performed.