Feasibility and Preliminary Efficacy of Hatha Yoga in Head and Neck Cancer Survivors
Treatment for head and neck cancer can result in marked musculo-skeletal impairment (MSI). This study will examine the effects of Hatha Yoga as a therapeutic modality to address MSI.
Head Neck Cancer
OTHER: Baseline Study Measures|BEHAVIORAL: Yoga Evaluation|BEHAVIORAL: Yoga Program|BEHAVIORAL: Yoga Practice Plan|OTHER: Study Assessments
Number of patients who complete a modified Yoga program for HNC survivors, Number of patients that complete an 8-week course of guided yoga sessions and that complete a Participant Practice Log to document their non-guided home yoga sessions, at 8 weeks
Change in range of motion (ROM) jaw maximal inter-incisoral opening, Change in ROM from baseline in the jaw maximal inter-incisoral opening, measured in millimeters (mm), at 8 weeks|Change in cervical ROM, Change from baseline in cervical ROM, measured in degrees of neck movement, at 8 weeks|Change in head and neck-related treatment systems, Change from baseline in the Vanderbilt Head and Neck Symptom Survey: 9 questions on treatment-related symptoms with 0 = least amount of problems to 10 = most amount of problems. Higher scores indicate increased treatment-related distress, at 8 weeks|Change in Brief Pain Inventory, Change from baseline in scores for the Brief Pain Inventory: 9 items with 0 = no pain to 10 = pain as bad as you can imagine. Higher sum of scores indicate greater pain burden, at 8 weeks|Change in Body Image Quality of Life Inventory, Change from baseline in scores in the Change in Body Image Quality of Life Inventory. 18 questions with minus 3 = very negative effect to plus 3 = very positive effect. sum of scores with higher scores indicating a more positive body image, at 8 weeks|Change in Anxiety and Depression Scale, Change from baseline in scores on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Inventory with a score of \>/= 8 as possible cause for mental health referral, 8 weeks
The use of aggressive treatment for head and neck cancer (HNC) particularly combined modality treatment regimens has resulted in an increase in survival. Unfortunately, this improvement has come with a marked increase in acute and late-effects. Acute HNC treatment-related toxicities have been clearly and extensively documented; however, data pertaining to adverse late-effects, those most likely to impact the survivor's long term symptom burden, functionality, and overall quality of life (QOL), are limited. This pilot study will be conducted to examine the feasibility of tailored Hatha Yoga as a therapeutic modality to address MSI in patients who have survived HNC.