The Association Between Skeletal Muscle Mass and Severity of Polycystic Liver Disease and Polycystic Kidney Disease
Primary sarcopenia is used to describe aging and progressed with the physiologic decline. Secondary sarcopenia is associated many chronic disease, including acquired immune deficiency syndrome, cancer, chronic heart failure, chronic lung disease, liver cirrhosis, chronic kidney disease and rheumatoid arthritis. In the past, nutrition status is evaluated by body mass index, mid-upper -arm circumference and serum albumin. Bioelectrical impedance analysis is also a common method to measured body composition, but bioelectrical impedance analysis will be affected by tissue edema and ascites. In contrast, cross-section imaging, such as computed tomography and magnetic resonance can analyzed abdominal muscle and fat accurately.

Since computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging can evaluate the severity of polycystic liver and kidney disease. Investigators can use cross section imaging at 3rd lumber level to separate skeletal muscle and fat tissue. Previous studies showed the quantity and quality of abdominal muscle are important prognostic factor after liver transplantation. Besides, chronic kidney disease and receiving renal placement therapy lead protein catabolism and make patients with end stage renal disease have sarcopenia. Finally, patients with polycystic liver and kidney disease have organomegaly, which causes abdominal distention and poor appetite. Therefore, the aim of this study is to observe the association between skeletal muscle mass and the severity of disease and to study whether change in hepatic and renal volumes is associated with change in muscle mass.
Polycystic Kidney Diseases|Polycystic Liver Disease|Muscle Loss
PROCEDURE: Renal artery embolization
Total psoas muscle change, The change of psoas muscle area before and after procedures., 6 months by imaging study
Total kidney volume change, The change of total kidney volume before and after procedures, 6 months by imaging study
The imaging study (CT or MRI) will be performed within one month before the procedure to measure total kidney volume and psoas muscle area.

The procedure will use transcatheter embolization to renal artery. The follow-up imaging study will be performed six months after the procedure to measure total kidney volume and psoas muscle area..