Lipomas Treated with Subcutaneous Injections of Cooled Sodium Chloride
Lipomas are benign tumors composed of mature adipose tissue. While harmless, these are the most common type of soft tissue growths with some patients developing numerous lipomas. Patients often seek removal for cosmesis, or symptoms caused by location and/or compression of surrounding structures. This exploratory study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of subcutaneous injections of cooled normal saline as a treatment option for lipomas. The study will assess whether this technique could serve as a viable alternative to existing treatment options, especially compared to topically applied fat-freezing devices. The Investigators propose that this method may offer a more comfortable nonsurgical option for targeted fat reduction, as the cold temperatures are applied directly to the lipomas.
Lipoma
DRUG: Cooled Sodium Chloride Injection
Post-Injection Pain (First Treatment), Pain is assessed using a scale of 0-10 reported by the patient, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain ever experienced., 15 minutes post injection (treatment)|Post-Injection Pain (Second Treatment), Pain is assessed using a scale of 0-10 reported by the patient, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain ever experienced., 15 minutes post injection (treatment)|Post-Injection Pain (Third Treatment), Pain is assessed using a scale of 0-10 reported by the patient, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain ever experienced., 15 minutes post injection (treatment)|Post-injection erythema (First Treatment), Post-injection erythema is assessed using a scale of 0-4 as per the Clinical Erythema Assessment grading scale with: 0 = clear, 1 = almost clear, 2 = mild erythema, 3 = moderate erythema, and 4 = severe erythema. The higher score indicates a worse outcome., 15 minutes post injection (treatment)|Post-injection erythema (Second Treatment), Post-injection erythema is assessed using a scale of 0-4 as per the Clinical Erythema Assessment grading scale with: 0 = clear, 1 = almost clear, 2 = mild erythema, 3 = moderate erythema, and 4 = severe erythema. The higher score indicates a worse outcome., 15 minutes post injection (treatment)|Post-injection erythema (Third Treatment), Post-injection erythema is assessed using a scale of 0-4 as per the Clinical Erythema Assessment grading scale with: 0 = clear, 1 = almost clear, 2 = mild erythema, 3 = moderate erythema, and 4 = severe erythema. The higher score indicates a worse outcome., 15 minutes post injection (treatment)|Change in Lipoma Size, Change in Lipoma Size from the First Treatment (Baseline) to the Second Treatment. There is a 4 week interval between each treatment. Lipoma size is assessed using approximate lipoma area (cm × cm) determined by ultrasound, with the final percentage change being the following quotient: \[(final area - initial area) ÷ initial area\] × 100., Baseline to Second Treatment (4-week interval between treatments)|Change in Lipoma Size, Change in Lipoma Size from the First Treatment (Baseline) to the Third Treatment. Lipoma size is assessed using approximate lipoma area (cm × cm) determined by ultrasound, with the final percentage change being the following quotient: \[(final area - initial area) ÷ initial area\] × 100., Baseline to Third Treatment (4-week interval between treatments)
Lipomas are benign tumors composed of mature adipose tissue. While harmless, these are the most common type of soft tissue growths with some patients developing numerous lipomas. Patients often seek removal for cosmesis, or symptoms caused by location and/or compression of surrounding structures. This exploratory study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of subcutaneous injections of cooled normal saline as a treatment option for lipomas. The study will assess whether this technique could serve as a viable alternative to existing treatment options, especially compared to topically applied fat-freezing devices. The Investigators propose that this method may offer a more comfortable nonsurgical option for targeted fat reduction, as the cold temperatures are applied directly to the lipomas.