Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Previously-Treated Participants With Advanced Carcinoma of the Esophagus or Esophagogastric Junction (MK-3475-180/KEYNOTE-180)
In this study participants with advanced/metastatic adenocarcinoma of the esophagus (EAC), squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus (ESCC), or advanced/metastatic Siewert type I adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction (EGJ), who had been previously treated with two standard therapies, will be treated with pembrolizumab.
Esophageal Carcinoma|Esophagogastric Junction Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: pembrolizumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. The percentage of participants who experienced a CR or PR based on modified RECIST 1.1 was reported per protocol for the first course of treatment., Up to approximately 28 months
Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product, was also an adverse event. The number of participants who experienced ≥1 AE was reported per protocol for the first course of treatment., Up to approximately 59 months|Number of Participants That Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product, was also an adverse event. The number of participants that discontinued study treatment due to an AE was reported per protocol for the first course of treatment., Up to approximately 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR) According to RECIST 1.1 Assessed by BICR, For participants who demonstrated a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first documented evidence of a CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. DOR assessments were based on blinded central imaging review with confirmation. The DOR per RECIST 1.1 for all participants who experienced a confirmed CR or PR was reported per protocol for the first course of treatment., Up to approximately 67 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST 1.1 Assessed by BICR, PFS was defined as the time from first day of study treatment to the first documented PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of ≥1 new lesions was also considered PD. PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review per RECIST 1.1 was reported per protocol for the first course of treatment., Up to approximately 67 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from first day of study treatment to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the final analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up. OS was reported per protocol for the first course of treatment, Up to approximately 67 months
In this study participants with advanced/metastatic adenocarcinoma of the esophagus (EAC), squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus (ESCC), or advanced/metastatic Siewert type I adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction (EGJ), who had been previously treated with two standard therapies, will be treated with pembrolizumab.