Short Course Radiotherapy Followed Intensive Chemotherapy With Delayed Surgery for Rectal Cancer With Synchronous Distant Metastasis
Radical treatment of primary rectal cancer with synchronous distant metastases includes surgical resection of primary and metastatic lesion. However, primary rectal cancer in case of metastasized disease are often locally advanced disease and need downsizing before surgery. It is reported that pelvic recurrence rates and distant metastasis rates outside liver are 30\~35% and 60%, respectively. Therefore, combined treatment with radiotherapy and chemotherapy is used. However, the sequence of treatment modalities is not yet definitely established and preoperative chemoradiotherapy and surgical resection is accepted as an option of treatment. Conventional long course chemoradiotherapy delays administration of full-dose chemotherapy, and metastatic lesion can be progressed during chemoradiotherapy. In present study, we evaluate the efficacy of short course radiotherapy (SCRT) followed by full-dose chemotherapy with delayed surgical resection of the primary tumor and metastases.
Rectal Cancer|Liver Metastasis|Lung Metastasis
RADIATION: Short Course Radiotherapy|DRUG: Chemotherapy|PROCEDURE: Delayed Surgery
R0 resection rate, R0 resection rate of primary and metastatic lesions, Expected average of 12 weeks (after resection)
Overall survival rate, From the first date of radiotherapy to the date of death or last follow-up, 2 years|Progression free survival rate, From the first date of radiotherapy to the date of first failure or last follow-up, 2 years|Tumor regression grade, Tumor regression grade of primary lesion, Just after resection & pathologic report|Toxicity, Adverse events using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, 1 year
Radical treatment of primary rectal cancer with synchronous distant metastases includes surgical resection of primary and metastatic lesion. However, primary rectal cancer in case of metastasized disease are often locally advanced disease and need downsizing before surgery. It is reported that pelvic recurrence rates and distant metastasis rates outside liver are 30\~35% and 60%, respectively. Therefore, combined treatment with radiotherapy and chemotherapy is used. However, the sequence of treatment modalities is not yet definitely established and preoperative chemoradiotherapy and surgical resection is accepted as an option of treatment. Conventional long course chemoradiotherapy delays administration of full-dose chemotherapy, and metastatic lesion can be progressed during chemoradiotherapy. In present study, we evaluate the efficacy of short course radiotherapy (SCRT) followed by full-dose chemotherapy with delayed surgical resection of the primary tumor and metastases.