Cognitive Behavioral Therapy With or Without Armodafinil in Treating Cancer Survivors With Insomnia and Fatigue After Chemotherapy
RATIONALE: Sleep disorder counseling may reduce fatigue and insomnia as well as improve the well-being and quality of life of cancer survivors. Armodafinil may help relieve insomnia and fatigue in patients with cancer after chemotherapy. PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying how well cognitive behavioral therapy with or without armodafinil works in treating cancer survivors with insomnia and fatigue after chemotherapy.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
PROCEDURE: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Placebo|PROCEDURE: Fatigue Assessment and Management|PROCEDURE: Sleep Disorder Therapy|DRUG: Armodafinil|PROCEDURE: Quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Fatigue Assessment and Management|PROCEDURE: Management of Therapy|PROCEDURE: Sleep disorder therapy|PROCEDURE: cognitive assessment|PROCEDURE: Quality of Life assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Placebo|PROCEDURE: Fatigue assessment and management|PROCEDURE: Management of therapy and complications|PROCEDURE: Sleep disorder therapy|DRUG: Armodafinil|PROCEDURE: Cognitive Assessment|PROCEDURE: Quality of Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Fatifue assessment and management
Severity of insomnia as assessed by the insomnia severity index and daily sleeep diaries.|Fatigue as assessed by the brief fatigue index|Adverse Events, Mid-point and end of treatment
Fatigue as assessed by the functional assessment of chronic illness therapy-fatigue|Sleep latency, wake after sleep onset, and total sleep time
Detailed DescriptionOBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if one or more of the intervention strategies (i.e., CBT-I, armodafinil, or both), when compared to a placebo only group, reduce insomnia in cancer patients following the conclusion of chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy.

II. To determine if one or more of the intervention strategies (i.e, CBT-I, armodafinil, or both), when compared to a placebo only group, reduce fatigue in cancer patients following the conclusion of chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy.

III. To determine if one or more of the intervention strategies (i.e., CBT-I, armodafinil, or both), when compared to a placebo only group, improve QOL in cancer patients following the conclusion of chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms (cognitive behavioral therapy, armodafinil, both, or neither).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days.