Pazopanib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving pazopanib works in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic invasive breast cancer. Pazopanib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: pazopanib hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: pharmacological study|PROCEDURE: laboratory biomarker analysis
Number of Participants With Partial and Complete Response., Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT / MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 3 years
Duration of Objective Response, From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 3 years|Duration of Stable Disease, From the start of the treatment until the criteria for progression are met, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a nontarget lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, 6 months|Overall Survival, Computed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years|Adverse Events Graded According to the NCI CTCAE Version 3.0, grade 3- 4 toxicities - transaminitis, hypertension, and neutropenia in three patients each (14% each) and grade 3 gastrointestinal hemorrhage in one patient (5%)., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the antitumor activity of pazopanib, in terms of objective response rate (partial and complete response), in patients with recurrent or metastatic invasive breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of objective response, rate and duration of stable disease.

II. To determine 6-month progression-free and median and overall survival rates in patients treated with this drug.

III. To document the safety and tolerability of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open label study.

Patients receive oral pazopanib once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Blood samples are collected at baseline and at 1, 4, and 8 weeks for correlative laboratory studies. Blood samples are evaluated for the following tumor markers by ELISA: VEGF, bFGF, sFLT-1, sTIE-2, sE-Selectin, VCAM-1, PDGF-AA, PDGF-AB and PDGF-BB. TSP-1 in plasma is measured by Accucyte™ competitive immunoassay.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.