De-escalation of Anti-TNF Therapy in Inflammatory Bowel Disease
BACKGROUND/RATIONALE:

Treatment outcomes of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) have improved enormously during the past decade due to the use of anti-tumour necrosis factor (anti-TNF) therapy. As a result, 67 to 91% of paediatric patients and 66% of adult patients is still in sustained remission two years after the initiation of anti-TNF therapy. Prolonged use of anti-TNFs comes with disadvantages such as dose dependent susceptibility to infections and dermatological adverse effects. Preliminary, mostly uncontrolled studies suggest that dose reduction by dosing interval lengthening is a realistic option in a relevant proportion of patients with IBD, provided that intensive follow-up is applied.

OBJECTIVE:

To evaluate whether a faecal calprotectin (FC) guided strategy of anti-TNF dosing interval lengthening is non-inferior in maintaining remission in patients with IBD, compared with an unchanged dosing interval.
Inflammatory Bowel Diseases|Crohn Disease|Colitis, Ulcerative
BIOLOGICAL: Infliximab|BIOLOGICAL: Adalimumab
cumulative incidence of out-of-range fecal calprotectin results at 48 weeks follow-up, Out-of-range FC results are defined as fecal calprotectin above the target range (i.e. \>250 μg/g for CD patients; \>150 μg/g for UC patients) and at least 100 μg/g increase compared with the previous result, unless the previous result was already above the target range., 48 weeks
Time to get out-of-range fecal calprotectin results, The time from study baseline until the first out-of-range fecal calprotectin result, up to 48 weeks|Cumulative incidence of anti-TNF-associated respiratory infections and dermatological adverse effects at 48 weeks follow-up, Dermatological adverse effect include skin infections, new-onset or worsening of psoriasis, psoriasiform lesions, eczema, acne and alopecia, 48 weeks|Evolution of FC and anti-TNF trough levels in the first 16 weeks after reverting to previous dosing interval, Proportion of patients with return of FC levels to target range without switch to out-of-class biological, Up to 48+16 weeks|Proportion of patients developing loss-of-response in the first 16 weeks after reverting to the previous dosing interval, Loss-of-response is defined as the appearance of symptoms of active IBD in combination with persistent out-of-range fecal calprotectin results, Up to 48+16 weeks|Identification of predictors of successful de-escalation., Predictors of successful de-escalation will be assessed by calculating odds ratios with the use of univariate logistic regression analysis. Candidate predictors with p\<0.10 in univariate analysis will be selected for use in the multivariate analysis., 48 weeks
Patients' attitudes towards deprescribing anti-TNF agents, We will use the revised Patients' Attitudes Towards Deprescribing (rPATD) questionnaire, 48 weeks
STUDY DESIGN:

International, multi-centre, prospective, partially randomised patient-preference trial.

STUDY POPULATION:

Study population: Eligible patients are aged 12-25 years with luminal Crohn's disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC), who have three consecutive faecal calprotectin (FC) results in the target range (i.e. \<250 µg/g for CD patients; \<150 µg/g for UC patients) over a period of 6 months at study entry or recently confirmed endoscopic remission.

DE-ESCALATION STRATEGY:

In patients treated with adalimumab, the dosing interval will be lengthened from 2 to 3 weeks. In patients treated with infliximab, the dosing interval will be lengthened from 8 to 12 weeks. FC rapid tests will be performed every 4 weeks and rapid tests for anti-TNF trough levels will be performed every 12 weeks.

MAIN STUDY ENDPOINTS:

The primary outcome is the cumulative incidence of out-of-range FC results at 48 weeks follow-up. Secondary endpoints include time to get out-of-range FC results, cumulative incidence of anti-TNF associated adverse effects, proportion of patients progressing from out-of-range FC to loss-of-response and identification of predictors of successful de-escalation.

ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS:

Patients with reduced anti-TNF exposure may have a higher risk of out-of-range FC results and, on the other hand, may benefit from fewer hospital visits or injections and possibly a decrease in adverse effects of anti-TNF therapy. Tight monitoring of FC levels (i.e. 4-weekly) will allow institution of re-escalation before the patient manifests clinical signs of relapse. This study cannot be conducted without the participation of minors and young adults, who typically have a short disease duration. Early treatment with anti-TNF agents possibly modifies the course of their disease, which makes provision for safe deescalation.