A Study of Vitamin C in the Treatment of Liver Cancer to Determine if it is Safe and Effective
This protocol is a phase I/II, study of ascorbic acid (AA) infusions combined with treatment with sorafenib versus treatment with sorafenib alone in subjects with metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma. The phase I aspect will assess the safety and efficacy of the concurrent treatments and the phase II aspect will utilize CT (computer-tomography) scans to assess overall tumor response rate and evaluate disease progression
Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Liver Cancer
DRUG: Ascorbic Acid + Sorafenib|DRUG: Sorafenib
Number of Participants That Experience Serious Adverse Events., The primary aim is to assess whether or not (IV) Ascorbic Acid (AA) with sorafenib therapy is relatively safe and well-tolerated according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)v4.0, 16 weeks +/- 2 weeks
Overall Tumor Response Rate, To utilize CT or PET/CT scans to assess overall tumor response rate (complete) in subjects with advanced metastatic hepatocellular cancer treated with the combination of ascorbic acid and sorafenib versus sorafenib alone., 16 weeks +/- 2 weeks|Mean Value Collected Using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) Quality Assessment Instrument, To evaluate quality of life using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) quality assessment instrument. The FACT-G questionnaire will be used to assess quality-of-life longitudinally. Quality-of-life scores obtained from the FACT-G will be summarized at multiple time points. Five-point scale from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much), 16 weeks +/- 2 weeks|Number of Participants That Are Alive After 15 Weeks of Treatment., To evaluate duration of tumor response and progression-free survival, 15 weeks+
Intravenous Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) is a widely used alternative cancer treatment. This trial will study an intravenous Vitamin C treatment for persons with liver cancer that has spread, who are also receiving Sorafenib (a standard cancer drug), to see whether the combination of Vitamin C and Sorafenib is safe and well tolerated. Phase I will involve 6 persons who will receive the Vitamin C for 8 weeks to more specifically assess the safety of getting Vitamin C in combination with Sorafenib. Phase II will be randomized to receive either Vitamin C plus Sorafenib or Sorafenib alone for 16 weeks. If Vitamin C has a beneficial effect on tumour cells, patients may experience a regression of tumor or tumor markers. Additional benefits include scans at no charge to the patient.