Acalabrutinib With R-CHOP in Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This is a multicenter, open-label, non-randomized, phase II clinical trial conducted in Canada. The purpose of the study is to determine the remission rate of acalabrutinib in combination with R-CHOP in patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma prior to autologous stem cell transplantation. This study is composed of 2 cohorts, A and B. In Cohort A all patients will receive six cycles of R-CHOP chemotherapy together with continuous acalabrutinib at the standard dose twice per day orally. All patients will undergo response assessment at the end of six cycles of R-CHOP + acalabrutinib with CT scan, PET/CT scan, and bone marrow biopsy. Responding patients will proceed with stem cell mobilization, apheresis, and processing. Following ASCT, patients will receive standard maintenance rituximab every 3 months for 2 years. Enrollment for Cohort A component of the study has been completed. Cohort B, involves using acalabrutinib with R-CHOP (same as Group A) but without an autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) as part of the regimen. The study doctors hope to evaluate how participants respond to the treatment in terms of the time between treatment initiation and time when stable disease is achieved. The enrollment for cohort B is currently ongoing.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|DRUG: R-CHOP chemotherapy
Complete response (CR) rate by PET/CT scan using Lugano Classification for Malignant Lymphoma - Cohort A, 1-2 weeks after completing six cycles (21 days) of R-CHOP + acalabrutinib.|To evaluate FFS in patients receiving acalabrutinib + R-CHOP followed by 2 years of maintenance acalabrutinib + rituximab - Cohort B, 2-year failure-free survival (FFS), defined as time from treatment initiation to stable disease after at least 4 cycles of induction, relapse/progression at any time, or death from any cause
Adverse events of acalabrutinib and R-CHOP by using CTCAE version 5.0, Baseline through end of study treatment (up to 18 weeks)|Measures of efficacy by using the RECIL 2017 criteria., Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)|Rate of minimal residual disease negativity (MRD) prior to transplant by flow cytometry, Up to 18 weeks|Event-free in patients who discontinue acalabrutinib at the point of MRD negativity prior to transplant by flow cytometry, Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)|Changes in scores of partient reported outcomes (PRO) as measured by FACT-Lym, Composed of the FACT-G plus the 15-item Lymphoma Subscale (LymS)., Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)|Overall survival in patients who discontinue acalabrutinib at the point of MRD negativity, Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)|Changes in scores of partient reported outcomes (PRO) as measured by FACT-Cog, Participants rated their cognitive function on a scale of 0 to 4 where 0 was never and 4 was several times a day., Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)|Changes in scores of partient reported outcomes (PRO) as measured by EORTC QLQ-C30, Participants rated their quality of life on a scale of 1 to 4 where 1 was not at all and 4 was very much., Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)|To evaluate event-free and overall survival in patients who achieve MRD negativity, Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)
To explore the use of tumor-specific circulating DNA in plasma/serum as a non-invasive diagnostic and prognostic tool, with paired diagnostic tissue material, through treatment of MCL and at follow-up, Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)|To explore the performance of the MCL proliferation signature, assessed using the MCL35 assay, in patients receiving BTK inhibition in combination with chemoimmunotherapy., Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)|To explore the use of microRNAs in plasma serum through treatment of MCL and at follow-up., Baseline to end of study (up to 2 years)
This is a multicenter, open-label, non-randomized, phase II clinical trial conducted in Canada. The purpose of the study is to determine the remission rate of acalabrutinib in combination with R-CHOP in patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma prior to autologous stem cell transplantation. This study is composed of 2 cohorts, A and B. In Cohort A all patients will receive six cycles of R-CHOP chemotherapy together with continuous acalabrutinib at the standard dose twice per day orally. All patients will undergo response assessment at the end of six cycles of R-CHOP + acalabrutinib with CT scan, PET/CT scan, and bone marrow biopsy. Responding patients will proceed with stem cell mobilization, apheresis, and processing. Following ASCT, patients will receive standard maintenance rituximab every 3 months for 2 years. Enrollment for Cohort A component of the study has been completed. Cohort B, involves using acalabrutinib with R-CHOP (same as Group A) but without an autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) as part of the regimen. The study doctors hope to evaluate how participants respond to the treatment in terms of the time between treatment initiation and time when stable disease is achieved. The enrollment for cohort B is currently ongoing.