Impact of Specific Monitoring of Intraoperative Analgesia Under General Anesthesia on Chronic Pain After Ovarian Cancer Surgery
This is a single-center, randomized, phase II, non-comparative, single-blind clinical study that will determine whether morphine reduction through intraoperative monitoring by ANI (Analgesia Nociception Index) significantly reduces chronic post-surgical pain at three months after laparotomy for ovarian carcinoma with regard to standard care.
Ovarian Neoplasm
OTHER: Arm A : intraoperative ANI monitoring of nociception|OTHER: Arm B : no specific monitoring of nociception
Proportion of patients with a pain score on the self-assessment VAS > 4, three months after the surgery., The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) is a validated, reliable and reproducible tool. The VAS will be used to measure pain. This self-assessment scale allows the patient to evaluate his or her pain from 0 to 10 "0=No pain" to "10=Maximum imaginable pain ". A pain VAS score of 4 and above is considered clinically significant., 3 months after surgery
Arm A : total dose of opioids received intraoperatively, Surgery|Arm B : total dose of opioids received intraoperatively, Surgery|Arm A : Patients' pain score on the VAS immediately postoperatively, The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) is a validated, reliable and reproducible tool. The VAS will be used to measure pain. This self-assessment scale allows the patient to evaluate his or her pain from 0 to 10 "0=No pain" to "10=Maximum imaginable pain ". A pain VAS score of 4 and above is considered clinically significant., within one hour of extubation|Arm B : Patients' pain score on the VAS immediately postoperatively, The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) is a validated, reliable and reproducible tool. The VAS will be used to measure pain. This self-assessment scale allows the patient to evaluate his or her pain from 0 to 10 "0=No pain" to "10=Maximum imaginable pain ". A pain VAS score of 4 and above is considered clinically significant., within one hour of extubation|Arm A : proportion of patients with a DN4 questionnaire score> 4, three months after surgery, 3 months after surgery|Arm B : Arm A : proportion of patients with a DN4 questionnaire score> 4, three months after surgery, 3 months after surgery
Prior to carrying out the research, the informed consent of the person must be obtained after being informed of the purpose of the research, its conduct and duration, benefits, potential risks and constraints of the study.

Before inclusion,all eligibility criteria will be verified, VAS pain score and VAS anxiety will be performed.

The surgical procedure for ovarian carcinoma will be performed by laparotomy and the intraoperative monitoring of nociception wil depend of the randomization arm : Intraoperative ANI monitoring of nociception (experimental arm) versus no specific monitoring of nociception (control arm). The total dose of opioids (in micrograms) received by the patients will be recorded at the end of the surgery.

VAS pain score will be performed immediately postoperatively and at three months after the intervention. A DN4 questionnaire (neuropathic pain) will be evaluated at three months after the intervention.