Carfilzomib, Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone In Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Patients
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the association of Carfilzomib, Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone (CCd) as induction treatment is safe and provides benefits in patients with newly diagnosed Multiple Myeloma (MM).
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: CARFILZOMIB, CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE, DEXAMETHASONE
Toxicity: Assessment of adverse events will be performed at the end of third cycle according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria of Adverse Events (CTCAE version 4.0), Toxicity is defined as the first occurrence of a grade 4 hematologic drug-related toxicity excluding anemia, (grade 4 neutropenia must last longer than 3 days and grade 4 thrombocytopenia must last longer than 7 days in order to be considered a toxicity) with the exception of (grade 4 neutropenia \> 3 days , or grade 4 thrombocytopenia \>7 days duration) or grade 3 non-hematologic drug-related toxicity., 4 years|Efficacy will be assessed by considering partial response (PR) following the proposed regimen. Assessment of Partial Response rate will be performed at the end of third cycle according to the criteria of the International Myeloma Working Group., 4 years
Response rate, 4 years|Duration of Progression Free Survival, 4 years|Time to progression (TTP), 4 years|Duration of Response (DOR), 4 years|Duration of Overall Survival, 4 years|Time to next therapy, 4 years|Progressio Free Survival, Relation between responses and Progression Free Survival, in responding and non-responding patients., 4 years|β2-microglobulin as prognostic factors, Subgroups analysis on prognostic factors, 4 years|peripheral neuropathy, Rates of peripheral neuropathy, according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (version 4.0), 4 years|Progression Free Survival, Effect on Progression Free Survival of maintenance with low dose of Carfilzomib (days 1 and 2 every other week), 4 years|C reactive protein as prognostic factors, Subgroups analysis on prognostic factors, 4 years|cytogenetics as prognostic factors, Subgroups analysis on prognostic factors, 4 years|microRNA, Subgroups analysis on prognostic factors, 4 years|gene expression profile, Subgroups analysis on prognostic factors, 4 years|Overall Survival, Effect on Overall Survival of maintenance with low dose of Carfilzomib (days 1 and 2 every other week), 4 years
This protocol is a phase II multicenter, international, non-comparative, open label study designed to jointly assess the safety and the efficacy of the association Carfilzomib with Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone (CCd) as induction treatment and Carfilzomib alone as maintenance in newly diagnosed MM patients.

Patients will be evaluated at scheduled visits in up to 4 study periods: pre-treatment, treatment, maintenance and long-term follow-up.

The pre-treatment period includes screening visits, performed at study entry. After providing written informed consent to participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for study eligibility. The screening period includes the availability of inclusion criteria described above.

The treatment period includes administration of Carfilzomib, Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone for 9 4-week courses. In order to assess the toxicity of treatment, patients will attend the study centre visits at each scheduled Carfilzomib administration. The response will be assessed after each 4-week cycle.

The maintenance period includes carfilzomib alone on days 1, 2, 15, 16 at 36mg/m2. For patients who show evidence of progression during maintenance phase, the frequency of Carfilzomib can be increased to days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16 at the discretion of the investigator. It will be initiated at the end of the 9th course and will be stopped at progression or intolerance. The median expected duration of the maintenance treatment is approximately 2 years.

The Long Term Follow Up periods will start after development of confirmed Progression Disease, all patients are to be followed for survival during the Long Term Follow Up period every 3 months via telephone or office visit.

Approximately 15 Italian centers and foreign centers will participate to the protocol.

Patients with symptomatic newly diagnosed MM whose age is ≥ 65 years or who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplantation. Up to 53 patients will be enrolled from different centers.

The duration of the treatment is approximately 9 months. This length of time is required to complete 9 courses of CCd. At the end of the first stage (19 patients), the trial will be temporarily stopped until all 19 patients complete the toxicity and efficacy evaluation (3 cycle): if there are more than 7 responses and less than 8 toxicities, a further group of 34 patients (total=53) will be enrolled. Otherwise, the trial will be definitively stopped or the DSMC will recommend testing other doses of the drugs.

The maintenance period in both phases will start at the end of the 9th course and will be stopped at progression or intolerance. The median expected duration of the maintenance treatment is approximately 2 years. The duration of follow-up from relapse will be approximately 2 years. The occurrence of PD will determine the duration of TTP of each patient. The occurrence of death will determine the duration of overall survival. The first analysis to evaluate safety and efficacy is planned when the 19 patients enrolled in the first stage of the study have completed the third cycle of induction treatment.

The trial will be stopped if there are \< 6 responses, or \> 9 toxicities or the Data Safety Monitoring Committee recommends testing other doses of the drugs; Otherwise, a further group of 34 patients (total=53) will be enrolled. The final conclusion will be negative if there are ≤ 23/53 responses, or ≥ 20/53 drug-related toxicities.