Robotic Total Gastrectomy for Locally Advanced Proximal Gastric Cancer
The purpose of this study is to explore the clinical Efficacy of robotic assisted spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection for patients with locally advanced upper third gastric adenocarcinoma（cT2-4a, N-/+, M0）.
Stomach Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Robotic Assisted No.10 Lymph Node Dissections
overall postoperative morbidity rates, Refers to the incidence of early postoperative complications. The early postoperative complication are defined as the event observed within 30 days after surgery, 30 days
Numbers of No.10 lymph node dissection, Numbers of dissected No.10 lymph nodes, 9 days|Rates of positive No.10 lymph node, The Rates of positive No.10 lymph node are defined as the incidence of positive No.10 lymph node (divide number of positive No.10 lymph nodes by number of total No.10 lymph nodes), 9 days|3-year overall survival rate, 3-year overall survival rate, 36 months|3-year disease free survival rate, 3-year disease free survival rate, 36 months|3-year recurrence pattern, Recurrence patterns are classified into five categories at the time of first diagnosis: locoregional, hematogenous, peritoneal, distant lymph node, and mixed type, 36 months|Rates of splenectomy, The Rates of splenectomy are defined as the incidence of splenectomy within operation., 1 days|Intraoperative morbidity rates, The intraoperative postoperative morbidity rates are defined as the rates of event observed within operation., 1 days|Time to first ambulation, Time to first ambulation in hours is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Time to first flatus, Time to first flatus in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Time to first liquid diet, Time to first liquid diet in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Time to first soft diet, Time to first soft diet in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Duration of postoperative hospital stay, Duration of postoperative hospital stay in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|The variation of weight, The variation of weight on postoperative 3, 6, 9 and 12 months are used to access the postoperative nutritional status and quality of life., 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|The variation of album, The variation of album in gram/liter on postoperative 3, 6, 9 and 12 months are used to access the postoperative nutritional status and quality of life., 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|The variation of white blood cell count, The values of white blood cell count from peripheral blood before operation and on postoperative day 1, 3, 5 are recorded to access the inflammatory and immune response., Preoperative 3 days and postoperative 1, 3, and 5 days|The variation of C-reactive protein, The values of C-reactive protein IN milligram/liter from peripheral blood before operation and on postoperative day 1, 3, 5 are recorded to access the inflammatory and immune response., Preoperative 3 days and postoperative 1, 3, and 5 days|Technical performance, Technical performance were assessed by the Objective Structured Assessments of Technical Skills (OSATS) and the Generic Error Rating Tool., 1 days|The Surgery Task Load Index (SURG-TLX), Surgeons were required to complete one modified SURG-TLX questionnaire for each procedure., 1 days|Lymph node noncompliance rate, Lymph node noncompliance was defined as the absence of lymph nodes that should have been excised from more than 1 lymph node station. Major lymph node noncompliance was defined as more than 2 intended lymph node stations that were not removed., 1 days
The incidence of No. 10 lymph node metastasis is high in advanced proximal gastric cancer, reported to range from 9.8%-20.9%, and the presence of No. 10 lymph node metastasis is closely related to survival. Therefore, in East Asia, D2 lymph node dissection of potentially curable locally advanced upper third gastric cancer including No. 10 lymph node is the standard surgical treatment.

Robotic surgery has been developed with the aim of improving surgical quality and overcoming the limitations of conventional laparoscopy in the performance of complex mini-invasive procedures. However, it remains a controversial international issue if it is safe and feasible to conduct robotic assisted spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection for advanced upper third gastric cancer. There is no prospective study to identify the results.

The study is through a prospective, open, single-arm study,to explore the clinical outcomes of the robotic assisted spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection in the treatment of locally advanced gastric adenocarcinoma （cT2-4a, N-/+, M0）.