A Phase I/II Trial of 2-Deoxyglucose (2DG) for the Treatment of Advanced Cancer and Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer
Subjects will be asked to participate in this clinical trial to examine the safety of 2-deoxyglucose (an agent which is quite similar to glucose) in the treatment of solid tumors and hormone refractory prostate cancer. This agent works by blocking the metabolism of glucose in the cells of the body. Although all cells require glucose for metabolism, it is believed that cancer cells require significantly more glucose than normal cells to grow. Therefore, even slight effects of glucose metabolism in cancer cells might result in the shrinkage of certain cancers. This agent has been given to humans before and has only caused mild nausea, vomiting and glucopenia (low blood sugar) at the doses given in these studies. This study will further examine the safety of 2-deoxyglucose in the treatment of advanced solid tumors and hormone refractory prostate cancer. The information obtained in this study will be used to design future clinical studies with 2-deoxyglucose. Subjects will be asked to take an oral solution of 2-deoxyglucose daily, by mouth, while on this study. They will be asked to have CT Scans, Bone Scans, and optional PET (Positron Emission Tomography) Scans prior to starting this study. PET scans will also be performed shortly after the start of the study and after 2 cycles (6 weeks) of therapy. Subjects will be asked to have a comprehensive physical examination and blood work prior to the start of the study. During the first 2 cycles of the study subjects will be asked to have blood drawn at different time intervals for the first 2 days of each cycle. While on the study, they will be asked to return to the clinic at intervals of 1 week for a physical examination and blood tests. Subjects will also be asked to have CT Scans and Bone Scans at intervals of 9 weeks while on the study.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: 2-deoxyglucose
To Determine the Biochemical Response of This Regimen in Patients With HRPC, A PSA response is defined as a PSA decrease of 50% from baseline maintained for at least 28 days., 5 years
Duration of Response, 5 years|Progression-free Survival, 5 years|Overall Survival, 5 years
Subjects will be asked to participate in this clinical trial to examine the safety of 2-deoxyglucose (an agent which is quite similar to glucose) in the treatment of solid tumors and hormone refractory prostate cancer. This agent works by blocking the metabolism of glucose in the cells of the body. Although all cells require glucose for metabolism, it is believed that cancer cells require significantly more glucose than normal cells to grow. Therefore, even slight effects of glucose metabolism in cancer cells might result in the shrinkage of certain cancers. This agent has been given to humans before and has only caused mild nausea, vomiting and glucopenia (low blood sugar) at the doses given in these studies. This study will further examine the safety of 2-deoxyglucose in the treatment of advanced solid tumors and hormone refractory prostate cancer. The information obtained in this study will be used to design future clinical studies with 2-deoxyglucose. Subjects will be asked to take an oral solution of 2-deoxyglucose daily, by mouth, while on this study. They will be asked to have CT Scans, Bone Scans, and optional PET (Positron Emission Tomography) Scans prior to starting this study. PET scans will also be performed shortly after the start of the study and after 2 cycles (6 weeks) of therapy. Subjects will be asked to have a comprehensive physical examination and blood work prior to the start of the study. During the first 2 cycles of the study subjects will be asked to have blood drawn at different time intervals for the first 2 days of each cycle. While on the study, they will be asked to return to the clinic at intervals of 1 week for a physical examination and blood tests. Subjects will also be asked to have CT Scans and Bone Scans at intervals of 9 weeks while on the study.