Safety of TAS-102 in Combination With Temozolomide for Metastatic Pancreatic NETs
The goal of this study is to establish maximum tolerated doses/recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of temozolomide (TMZ) and TAS-102 when these agents are used in combination and to evaluate the safety profile of this drug combination.
Neuroendocrine Tumors|Neoplasms|Cancer|Tumors
DRUG: TAS-102|DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Filgrastim|DRUG: Pegfilgrastim
Part 1: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of TAS-102, Investigate the safety and determine the MTD of TAS-102 administered in combination with TMZ in patients with advanced NETs. Treatments will continue to disease progression according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)., Up to 2 years|Part 2: Overall Response Rate, Response rate defined as the percentage of subjects with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), assessed as per RECIST criteria. Assessments performed using RECIST criteria., Up to 5 years
Part 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from the start of treatment to the date of first documented progression or any cause of death during the study, assessed according to RECIST. Analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years|Part 2: Overall Survival, Defined as the time from the start of treatment to the date of expiration. Analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years|Part 2: Disease Control Rate, Defined as the percentage of patients who achieved complete response, partial response, and stable disease by investigator assessment as per RECIST., Up to 5 years|Part 2: Duration of Response, Analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years|Part 2: Safety and Tolerability, Assessed per RECIST Criteria, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Up to 5 years|Part 2: Biochemical Response defined as normalization or >50% reduction in levels of Chromogranin A, A major biochemical response will be defined as normalization or \>50% reduction in levels of Chromogranin A. Chromogranin A is elevated in up to 60% of functioning and nonfunctioning pancreatic endocrine tumors., Up to 5 years
The study is a two part phase 1B clinical trial consisting of three study periods: a screening period of 14 days or less, a treatment period, and a safety follow-up period 30 days after treatment discontinuation.

Part 1 is a dose finding phase with the objective to assess the safety and tolerability of the proposed drug combination and to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and a recommended phase 2 dose.

Part 2 is an open-label expansion study, which will enroll patients with metastatic pNETs who have not been previously treated with chemotherapy. Part 2 will obtain further safety data of the proposed drug combination.