OSE2101 Versus Chemotherapy in HLA-A2 Positive Patients With Advanced NSCLC After Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Failure
The aim of this clinical trial was to determine if the therapeutic cancer vaccine OSE2101 (TEDOPI) was more effective than standard chemotherapy (docetaxel or pemetrexed) in treating HLA-A2 positive patients with metastatic NSCLC who progressed after sequential or concurrent chemotherapy and immune checkpoint inhibitor given in first or second-line treatment.

The main questions were to compare the survival, the tolerance to treatment and the quality of life of patients between the two arms of treatment (OSE2101 versus standard chemotherapy)
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: OSE2101|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from randomisation to death from any cause in patients with ICI secondary resistance, Approx. 24 months
Post-Progression Survival, Post-progression survival was defined as the time from the earliest date of progression according to RECIST 1.1 until death in patients with ICI secondary resistance, approximately 24 months|Time to Worsening ECOG PS, Time to Worsening ECOG PS was defined as the time from randomization to the earliest date when ECOG PS was \>1 in patients with ICI secondary resistance. Time to worsening ECPG PS was summarized by treatment arm using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median event time for each treatment arm and the corresponding 2-sided 95% confidence interval were provided. By protocol, ECOG PS was not collected when a patient permanenetly discontinued the study treatment. Patients without ECOG PS worsening were censored at the last time when an ECOG value was recorded., Approx. 24 months|Mean Changes in Functional Subscales of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) From Baseline to Treatment Discontinuation in Patients With ICI Secondary Resistance, Mean change from baseline to treatment discontinuation in Quality of Life (QoL) score of the following functional subscales analyzed separately: global health status, physical, role, cognitive, emotional and social functioning. Each score range from 0 to 100 after normalisation. Highest scores correspond to a better quality of life. The mean score change was assessed using a mixed-effects model for repeated measures analysis with the patient as the random effect, treatment, visit and treatment-by-visit interaction as explanatory variables and baseline score as covariates. If the mean score change is negative, it means a deterioration of QoL. If the mean score change is positive or 0, it means an improvement or stability of QoL, Approx. 24 months|Mean Changes in Symptoms Subscales of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) From Baseline to Treatment Discontinuation in Patients With ICI Secondary Resistance, Mean change from baseline to treatment discontinuation in Quality of Life (QoL) score of the following symptoms subscales analyzed separately: Fatigue, Constipation, Dyspnea, Nausea and Vomiting, Pain, Insomnia, Appetite loss, Diarrhea, Financial Difficulties. Each score range from 0 to 100 after normalisation. Lowest scores correspond to a better QoL. The mean score change was assessed using a mixed-effects model for repeated measures analysis with the patient as the random effect, treatment, visit and treatment-by-visit interaction as explanatory variables and baseline score as covariates. If the mean score change is negative, it means a deterioration of QoL. If the mean score change is positive or 0, it means an improvement or stability of QoL., Approx. 24 months|Mean Changes in Symptoms Subscales of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Core Lung Cancer (QLQ-LC13) From Baseline to Treatment Discontinuation in Patients With ICI Secondary Resistance, Mean change from baseline to treatment discontinuation in Quality of Life (QoL) score of the following symptoms subscales analyzed separately: Alopecia, Peripheral Neuropathy, Sore mouth, Dysphagia, Dyspnea, Pain in arm or shoulder, Pain in chest, Pain in other parts, Hemoptysis, Coughing. Each score range from 0 to 100 after normalisation. Lowest scores correspond to a better QoL. The mean score change was assessed using a mixed-effects model for repeated measures analysis with the patient as the random effect, treatment, visit and treatment-by-visit interaction as explanatory variables and baseline score as covariates. If the mean score change is negative, it means a deterioration of QoL. If the mean score change is positive or 0, it means an improvement or stability of QoL., Approx. 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) at 6 Months, DCR at 6 months defined as the number of patients with Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) assessed by investigator per "Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions based on CT scan in patients with ICI secondary resistance. Complete Response (CR) defined as disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) as \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable disease (SD) defined as neither sufficient shrinkage (compared to baseline) to qualify for CR or PR nor sufficient increase (taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters at baseline or while on study, whichever is smallest) to qualify for progressive disease (PD) (e.g. decrease of the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions \<30% or increase up to 20%), Approx. 6 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) in Patients With ICI Secondary Resistance, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the earliest date of progression assessed by investigator per "Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions based on CT scan in patients with ICI secondary resistance. Progressive disease (PD) defined as increase of target lesions \>=20% taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters at baseline or while on study, whichever is smallest), Approx. 24 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) in ICI Secondary Resistance, Objective Response rate (OOR) was defined as number of patients with Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) assessed by investigator per "Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions based on CT scan in patients with ICI secondary resistance. Complete Response (CR) defined as disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) as \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Investigator-assessed ORR was an exploratory endpoint as not relevant as primary, nor secondary endpoints to evaluate a cancer vaccine., Approx. 24 months|Percentage of Patients With Objective Response at 6 Months in ICI Secondary Resistance, Duration of Objective Response (OOR) was defined as number of patients with Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) at 6 months assessed by investigator per "Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions based on CT scan in patients with ICI secondary resistance. Complete Response (CR) defined as disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) as \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, Approx. 6 months|Time to Next Lung Cancer Therapy in ICI Secondary Resistance, Time to next lung cancer therapy was defined as the time from randomisation to the date of initiation of the first lung cancer therapy during the survival follow-up form, Approx. 24 months
The study was a two-step randomized (2:1) study. Patients were stratified by histology (non-squamous versus squamous), best response to first-line treatment \[complete response or partial response versus stable disease or progressive disease\] and line of treatment with prior ICI (first-line ICI when combined with platinum-based chemotherapy versus second-line ICI when administered as sequential treatment). Primary endpoint was overall survival (OS). Interim OS futility analysis was planned as per Fleming design. In April 2020 at the time of the interim analysis, a decision was taken to early stop the accrual due to COVID-19 after 219 out of 363 patients were randomized. It led to a decrease of the study power from 80% to 62%. At the time of the interim analysis, a subgroup of patients was identified from stratification factor based on a clinical and biological rationale: those who received ICI second line and having received at least 12 weeks ICI. This subgroup was defined as ICI secondary resistance. The final analysis was carried out in the subgroup of patients with ICI secondary resistance and in all patients (ICI primary and secondary resistance).