A Study to Find the Highest Dose of Imetelstat in Combination With Fludarabine and Cytarabine for Patients With AML, MDS or JMML That Has Come Back or Does Not Respond to Therapy
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of imetelstat in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory) or that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent). Imetelstat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as fludarabine and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving imetelstat in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine may work better in treating patients with refractory or recurrent AML, MDS, and JMML.
Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Refractory Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Childhood Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Refractory Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Cytarabine|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Hydrocortisone Sodium Succinate|BIOLOGICAL: Imetelstat|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|PROCEDURE: Lumbar Puncture|DRUG: Methotrexate
Dose limiting toxicities of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine, Frequency percent (%) of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in second or greater relapse or refractory to relapse therapy who experience a cycle 1 dose limiting toxicity to imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine stratified by dose level., During cycle 1 of therapy (each cycle is 28 days)
Incidence of adverse events of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine, Frequency (%) of patients with acute myeloid leukemia in second or greater relapse or refractory to relapse therapy who experience adverse events at least possibly attributable to imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine stratified by dose level graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 2 years from study entry|Area under the drug concentration curve of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine, Median (minimum \[min\], maximum \[max\]) of the area under the drug concentration curve of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine assessed during cycle 1 at 0, 0.5, 1, 4-5, 6-8 and 24-hours post administration., Up to 24 hours|Maximum serum concentration of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine, Median (min, max) of the maximum serum concentration of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine assessed during cycle 1 at 0, 0.5, 1, 4-5, 6-8 and 24-hours post administration., Up to 24 hours|Clearance of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine, Median (min, max) of the clearance of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine assessed during cycle 1 at 0, 0.5, 1, 4-5, 6-8 and 24-hours post administration., Up to 24 hours|Half-life of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine, Median (min, max) of the half-life of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine assessed during cycle 1 at 0, 0.5, 1, 4-5, 6-8 and 24-hours post administration., Up to 24 hours|PK parameters: Volume of distribution, Median (min, max) volume of distribution of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine assessed during cycle 1 at 0, 0.5, 1, 4-5, 6-8, and 24 hours post administration., Up to 24 hours|Antileukemic activity of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine, Frequency (%) of patients with best overall response of complete remission, partial response, or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery after up to two cycles of therapy with imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine., Up to 56 days|Overall survival (OS) of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine, Kaplan-Meier survival curves will estimate the median (95% CI) overall time-to-death due to any cause cause and stratified by dose level., Up to 5 years from study entry
Pharmacodynamics, Will characterize the pharmacodynamic properties of imetelstat in pediatric patients with refractory or second or greater relapse of AML, or first or greater relapse of myelodysplastic syndrome, or juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia., Up to 2 years|Telomerase activity, Will be assessed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells., Cycle 1 day 1, pre-dose and cycle 1 day 2 at 24 hours (each cycle is 28 days)|Cytogenetic abnormalities, Compare baseline cytogenetic abnormalities vs. change of cytogenetic abnormalities after treatment., At baseline and after cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Mutational status, Compare baseline mutational status vs. change of mutational status after treatment., After cycle 1 and 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine to children with second or greater relapse of acute myeloid leukemia or first or greater relapse of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define and describe the toxicities of imetelstat administered on this schedule in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine in patients with refractory and/or relapsed AML, MDS, or JMML.

II. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of imetelstat in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine in patients with refractory and/or relapsed AML, MDS, or JMML.

III. To preliminarily describe the antileukemic activity of imetelstat (CR \[complete remission\]/PR \[partial response\]/CRi \[complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery\] and rates of minimal residual disease \[MRD\] negative response after up to two cycles of therapy) in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine within the limits of a Phase 1 study.

IV. To estimate the overall survival (OS) of children with second or greater relapse of AML or first or greater relapse of MDS or JMML treated with imetelstat administered in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES; I. To conduct pharmacodynamics studies of imetelstat in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine in patients with refractory and/or relapsed AML, MDS, or JMML.

II. To analyze telomerase activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. III. To evaluate baseline and change of cytogenetic abnormalities after treatment with imetelstat in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine.

IV. To evaluate baseline mutational status and change of mutational status after treatment with imetelstat in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of imeletstat.

Patients receive imeletstat intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1 and 8, fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days 2-6, and cytarabine IV over 1-3 hours on days 2-6 of each cycle. Patients also receive cytarabine intrathecally (IT) or methotrexate IT, and hydrocortisone IT at the provider's discretion. Patients then receive leucovorin calcium IV or orally (PO) 24 and 30 hours after each IT triples dose. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO), bone marrow biopsy and/or aspirate, blood sample collection, and lumbar puncture for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample collection during screening and on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.