Cryoablation With Pembrolizumab Or Avelumab In Urothelial Carcinoma
This research study is examining the effectiveness of pembrolizumab plus cryoablation or aveluma plus cryoablation on people with urothelial carcinoma, including bladder cancer, that has spread.
Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma|Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Cryoablation|DRUG: Avelumab
Objective Response Rate, Evaluate objective response rate of non-ablated lesion(s) for combination pembrolizumab/avelumab and adjunctive cryoablation per RECIST v1.1 criteria, up to 2 years
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE Version 5.0, The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be utilized for AE reporting., up to 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Defined using RECIST v1.1, up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Reported with Kaplan Meier estimates., up to 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), Defined using RECIST v1.1, up to 2 years
This is an open label Phase 2, single-arm, multi-institutional clinical trial designed to study the combination of pembrolizumab and cryoablation or avelumab and cryoablation on people with urothelial carcinoma, including bladder cancer, that has spread.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved both cryoablation, pembrolizumab, and avelumab as treatment options for urothelial carcinoma, including bladder cancer, that has spread. However, the FDA has not yet approved the combination of the drugs, pembrolizumab or avelumab, and intervention, cryoablation, for urothelial carcinoma, including bladder cancer, that has spread.

Pembrolizumab is believed to work by binding to a chemical called PD-1 that is found on a special type of white blood cell in your body. Avelumab is believed to work by binding a similar molecule called PD-L1. This may help your body to be better at finding and destroying tumor cells.

Cryoablation is an intervention which may kill cancer cells using extreme cold. It may help the immune system better recognize tumors and act against it.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment, including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment as long as their disease does not get worse or they do not have any unacceptable side effects for up to two years. Participants will be followed for up to 2 years after ending the study treatment.

It is expected that about 30 people will take part in this research study.

Biocompatibles UK Ltd, a device company under Boston Scientific, is supporting this research study by providing funding for the needles used in the study intervention.