Clinico-immunological Characterization and Immune Tolerance Breakdown in CV2-autoimmunity
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes are rare syndromes caused by the remote effects of cancer. They have an immune-mediated pathogenesis, yet the underlying mechanisms are not fully elucidated. CV2/Collapsin response-mediator protein 5 (CRMP5)-IgG paraneoplastic neurological syndrome is characterized by heterogeneous clinical presentations, affecting both central and peripheral nervous system, and the most frequently associate tumor is small cell lung carcinoma. Central nervous system involvement along with CSF and neuroimaging findings have not been fully described in the literature in CV2/CRMP5 patients. Unraveling the complexities of CV2/CRMP5 paraneoplastic neurological syndrome is critical to improve diagnosis, treatment, and patients' care. Our intention is to perform a comprehensive analysis of the clinical characteristics and instrumental investigations of a large cohort of CV2/CRMP5 patients.
CV2 Autoimmunity
OTHER: Description of clinical, immunological and tumor features of patients harboring CV2 Abs
Modified Rankin Scale (mRs), Application of modified rankin scale, At baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 month
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes are rare syndromes caused by the remote effects of cancer. They have an immune-mediated pathogenesis, yet the underlying mechanisms are not fully elucidated. CV2/Collapsin response-mediator protein 5 (CRMP5)-IgG paraneoplastic neurological syndrome is characterized by heterogeneous clinical presentations, affecting both central and peripheral nervous system, and the most frequently associate tumor is small cell lung carcinoma. Central nervous system involvement along with CSF and neuroimaging findings have not been fully described in the literature in CV2/CRMP5 patients. Unraveling the complexities of CV2/CRMP5 paraneoplastic neurological syndrome is critical to improve diagnosis, treatment, and patients' care. Our intention is to perform a comprehensive analysis of the clinical characteristics and instrumental investigations of a large cohort of CV2/CRMP5 patients.