Spine SABR - Dose-escalated Stereotactic Ablative Body Radiotherapy (SABR) for Solid Tumour Spine Metastases
This study will look at treatment for patients that have already been diagnosed with cancer, but develop a new tumor(s) in the spine. Patients who are not recommended for surgery are usually treated with 5-10 sessions of radiotherapy to manage symptoms. For patients with a longer life expectancy (\>6 months), it is better to give a higher dose of treatment to potentially improve the duration of pain relief, cancer control and potentially survival. Higher doses of radiotherapy, however, may also cause worse toxicity and side effects. This study will look at delivering higher doses of radiation in 2 sessions rather than 5-10, using a more modern, targeted technique called image-guided Stereotactic Ablative Body Radiotherapy (SABR). This method requires special equipment and expertise compared to the traditional radiotherapy and this has limited availability in Ireland. This study aims to find out the highest dose that is safe to be given to patients and carefully examine the side effects. These results will help create national and international guidelines to benefit all cancer patients. Patients will be monitored closely during treatment and for 2 years afterwards. Patients have been involved in developing the treatment protocol and the patient information leaflet. Patients will also be asked to fill in quality of life (QOL) questionnaires at certain timepoints during the study. It is anticipated that this study will support the delivery of high quality SABR to all cancer patients in Ireland, resulting in potentially better quality of life, symptom and tumor control.
Solid Tumor Spine Metastases
RADIATION: Radiation: image guided dose escalated SABR using a simultaneous integrated boost (SIB)
The establishment of the MTD of 2-fraction spine SABR in patients with oligometastatic or oligoprogressive solid tumor metastases of the spine, by the number of patients experiencing DLTs within six months after treatment., DLT rate will be calculated as the proportion of evaluable patients (along with the 95% CI) experiencing a DLT, among the total evaluable patients.

All evaluable patients will be used in the DLT analysis which will be performed after they have been potentially followed for the 6-months observation period. Patients not evaluable will be reported separately. For each such patient, the reason for exclusion, protocol treatment received, and toxicities reported during the first year will be listed., From start of treatment to 6 months post treatment
Estimate local progression-free survival at 1 and 2 years post-treatment, using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)., Post treatment response and outcomes using MRI at 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, and 24 months post-RT will be evaluated.

The same patients used for DLT analysis will be used in these analyses. Radiation site (treated per study protocol) PFS (i.e. local PFS) at 1 year will be considered the key efficacy endpoint.

Local progression is progression within the radiation site treated per study protocol, as identified on serial imaging. When local progression is suspected, two or three MRI scans 6-8 weeks apart are recommended per Investigator discretion (in line with international consortium (SPINO guidelines) (Thibault et al., 2015)).

* Local control may be defined as the absence of progression within the radiation site treated per study protocol on serial imaging (MRI).
* Any new or progressive tumor within the epidural space
* Neurological deterioration attributable to pre-existing epidural disease with equivocal increased epidural disease dimensions on MRI, Up to 2 years post treatment|Estimate 6-month, 1-year and 2-year post-treatment overall survival rates., The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate overall survival at each dose level. Cox proportional hazards regression will be used to characterise overall survival rate as a function of dose. Overall survival will be measured from the date of study registration until the date of death due to any cause or censoring., Up to 2 years post treatment|Estimate the pain flare incidence 1 week post-treatment (i.e. 1 week after 2nd SABR fraction) using the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) 0-10., Pain score (including acute pain flare) at the radiation site treated per study protocol (assessed by numerical pain rating score, 0-10) (time frame: 1 week post treatment). \[with secondary endpoint 4:\] The changes in raw scores and percent change will be assessed over time using the Wilcoxon Signed rank test., 1 week post treatment|Pain score at radiation site (treated per study protocol) at 4 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years post-treatment, using the NPRS., Pain score (including acute pain flare) at the radiation site treated per study protocol (assessed by numerical pain rating score, 0-10) (time frame: 1 week post treatment). The changes in raw scores and percent change will be assessed over time using the Wilcoxon Signed rank test., Up to 2 years post-treatment|Acute toxicity profiles of ≥Grade 2 toxicities at 1- and 4-weeks post treatment, and at 3 months post-treatment using NCI CTCAE V5, Counts and frequencies will be provided for the worst grade toxicity experienced by the patient. Acute toxicity profiles of ≥Grade 2 toxicities and their relatedness to study RT will be calculated, summarised and presented in tabular format with proportions, plus 95% confidence intervals where appropriate, at 1 and 4 weeks post treatment and at 3 months post-treatment using NCI CTCAE V5., Up to 3 months post-treatment|Late toxicity profiles of ≥Grade 2 toxicities and DLTs at 6, 9, 12, 15, 18 and 24 months post-treatment using NCI CTCAE V5., Counts and frequencies will be provided for the worst grade toxicity experienced by the patient. Late toxicity profiles of ≥Grade 2 toxicities at 6, 9, 12, 15, 18 and 24 months post treatment completion, will be calculated, summarised and presented in tabular format with proportions, plus 95% confidence intervals where appropriate, using NCI CTCAE V5., Up to 2 years post-treatment|Estimates of time to onset of ≥ Grade 2 and ≥ Grade 3 acute toxicities., Time-to-event analyses will be conducted for time to onset of the worst grade ≥2 and grade ≥3 acute toxicities separately. Kaplan-Meier curves will be presented and median point estimates (with 95% Cis) will be reported. Patients free of an event at the time of analysis will be censored at last available toxicity assessment. Time to toxicity will be measured from treatment start date. Patients alive and free of event at the time of analysis and patients lost to follow-up will be censored at the last available assessment., Up to 3 months post-treatment
Estimate median time to onset of post-SABR ≥ Grade 2 VCF and rates of post-SABR ≥ Grade 2 VCF at 1 and 2 years. VCF is assessed via MRI., Time-to-event analyses will be conducted for time to onset of ≥ Grade 2 VCF. Kaplan-Meier curves will be presented and median point estimates (with 95% Cis) will be reported. Patients free of an event at the time of analysis will be censored at last available assessment.

Cox proportional hazards regression will be used to assess baseline demographic or clinical variables as risk factors for post-SABR VCF and to develop a nomogram to estimate risk of VCF for future studies., Up to 2 years post-treatment|Type of intervention (surgery or kyphoplasty) in the setting of post-SABR VCF at 1 and 2 years., Up to 2 years post-treatment, The type of intervention (surgery or kyphoplasty) in the setting of post-SABR VCF at 1 and 2 years will be described.|QoL outcomes at 6-months and 1-year post SABR (compared to baseline) using EORTC QLQ-BM22 (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients with Bone Metastases (22 questions))., The mean and standard deviation (SD) of the overall and domain- and symptom-specific QoL outcomes at 6-months and 1-year post SABR (compared to baseline) using EORTC QLQ-BM22 scores at baseline and 6 months' post treatment will be reported. Scoring will be performed in accordance with the published guidelines., Up to 1 year post-treatment
This study will look at treatment for patients that have already been diagnosed with cancer, but develop a new tumor(s) in the spine. Patients who are not recommended for surgery are usually treated with 5-10 sessions of radiotherapy to manage symptoms. For patients with a longer life expectancy (\>6 months), it is better to give a higher dose of treatment to potentially improve the duration of pain relief, cancer control and potentially survival. Higher doses of radiotherapy, however, may also cause worse toxicity and side effects. This study will look at delivering higher doses of radiation in 2 sessions rather than 5-10, using a more modern, targeted technique called image-guided Stereotactic Ablative Body Radiotherapy (SABR). This method requires special equipment and expertise compared to the traditional radiotherapy and this has limited availability in Ireland. This study aims to find out the highest dose that is safe to be given to patients and carefully examine the side effects. These results will help create national and international guidelines to benefit all cancer patients. Patients will be monitored closely during treatment and for 2 years afterwards. Patients have been involved in developing the treatment protocol and the patient information leaflet. Patients will also be asked to fill in quality of life (QOL) questionnaires at certain timepoints during the study. It is anticipated that this study will support the delivery of high quality SABR to all cancer patients in Ireland, resulting in potentially better quality of life, symptom and tumor control.