Adjuvant Immunotherapy Combined With ChemoRadiation for Patients With High-risk Resectable Extrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma（AICRC）
The purpose of this prospective, observational study is to investigate whether adjuvant chemoradiotherapy combined with immunotherapy for high-risk recurrence populations after extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma resection can improve patients' recurrence-free survival. The primary study endpoint of this prospective study is the 2-year recurrence-free survival.
Lymph Node Metastasis|Neurovascular Invasion|Pathology Showed R1 Resection
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Adjuvant Immunotherapy Combined With ChemoRadiation for Patients With High-risk resectable Extrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma（AICRC）
2-year recurrence-free survival rate, The target population is enrolled and receives postoperative adjuvant therapy according to the study protocol, the recurrence-free survival status of patients will be observed at 2 years., 2 Year
2-year overall survival rate, The target population is enrolled and receives postoperative adjuvant therapy according to the study protocol, the overall survival status of patients will be observed at 2 years., 2 Year|Incidence of adverse events, 2 Year|Completion rate of treatment, 2 Year
This is a single-arm, prospective clinical study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tislelizumab injection combined with capecitabine and radiotherapy as first-line adjuvant therapy for high-risk recurrence populations after extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ECC) resection. The study will enroll patients with ECC who have not received prior systemic therapy. The primary endpoint is the 2-year recurrence-free survival rate (2y-RFS), with a planned enrollment of approximately 65 subjects.

After providing full informed consent, eligible patients will receive treatment with tislelizumab injection combined with capecitabine and radiotherapy. Each study treatment cycle is 3 weeks, and treatment will continue until the criteria for terminating study treatment are met.

Treatment regimen for the treatment group:

1. Tislelizumab injection: 200 mg via intravenous infusion (D1), administered every 21 days (Q3W), with maintenance treatment for at least half a year or until disease progression.
2. Capecitabine: 1000 mg/m², twice daily (D1-14), administered every 21 days (Q3W) for a total of 6 treatment cycles.
3. Radiotherapy: 50Gy to regional lymph nodes and preoperative tumor bed.