Change in Penile Length Following Bilateral Nerve-Sparing Radical Prostatectomy
Some men complain of changes in the shape or dimensions of their penis after undergoing radical prostatectomy (removal of the prostate) for prostate cancer. Changes in penile dimensions include shortening or decreased girth. Changes in shape include a curvature or bending of the penis, and/or the appearance of indentation. These changes may be associated with formation of scar tissue involving the covering of the erection chambers, known as "plaque". The appearance of indurated plaque and a resultant curvature or indentation is a well described medical condition known as "Peyronie's Disease" and may occur in men who did or did not undergo radical prostatectomy. The purpose of this study is to evaluate these changes in penile shape and dimensions.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Penile Exam, Peyronie's Plaque and Erectile function assessment
Assess the impact of radical retropubic prostatectomy on penile dimensions., conclusion of the study|Assess the impact of radical retropubic prostatectomy on the development of Peyronie's Disease., conclusion of the study
Assess the association between penile length change and erectile function., conclusion of the study
Some men complain of changes in the shape or dimensions of their penis after undergoing radical prostatectomy (removal of the prostate) for prostate cancer. Changes in penile dimensions include shortening or decreased girth. Changes in shape include a curvature or bending of the penis, and/or the appearance of indentation. These changes may be associated with formation of scar tissue involving the covering of the erection chambers, known as "plaque". The appearance of indurated plaque and a resultant curvature or indentation is a well described medical condition known as "Peyronie's Disease" and may occur in men who did or did not undergo radical prostatectomy. The purpose of this study is to evaluate these changes in penile shape and dimensions.