RAB Versus Ultrathin Bronchoscopy With VBN in the Diagnosis of PPNs
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether the diagnostic yield of robotic-assisted bronchoscopy is not inferior to that of the virtual bronchoscopic navigation combined with ultrathin bronchoscopy.
Peripheral Pulmonary Nodules
DEVICE: Robotic bronchoscopy system|DEVICE: Ultrathin bronchoscope combined with virtual bronchoscopic navigation
Diagnostic yield, Diagnostic yield= (number of nodules diagnosed with malignancies or specific benign results by study procedure / total number of nodules biopsied by bronchoscopy in each group) \* 100%, 14 days post-procedure
Navigation success yield, Navigation success yield = (number of nodules successfully navigated / total number of nodules biopsied by bronchoscopy in each group) \* 100%, During the procedure|Navigation time, In the experimental group, the navigation time is measured from the tracheal carina after the registration to the moment the lesion is visible at the front-end camera of the catheter or confirmed by r-EBUS. In the control group, the navigation time is measured from the tracheal carina to the moment the lesion is confirmed by r-EBUS., During the procedure|Incidence of complications, Incidence of complications = (number of cases with complications / total number of sampled cases) \* 100%.

Complications are categorized according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0, and include events such as pneumothorax and bleeding., 14 days post-procedure
This is an investigator-initiated, prospective, multicenter, randomized , non-inferiority clinical trial, with a total of 184 participants planned for enrollment. Subjects with peripheral pulmonary nodules (PPNs) suspected of malignancy, requiring non-surgical biopsy detected by chest CT will be included in this study. Firstly, the physician will determine the lesion to be biopsied, then the subject will be randomly assigned to either the experimental or control group. The experimental group will undergo the procedure using the robotic-assisted bronchoscopy system and catheters, developed by Changzhou Langhe Medical Devices Co., Ltd. for the localization and sampling of PPNs. The control group will undergo ultrathin bronchoscopy guided by virtual bronchoscopic navigation. Radial endobronchial ultrasound (r-EBUS) will be available for all procedures. If the physician determines that biopsy sampling is feasible, a transbronchial lung biopsy will be performed. The primary endpoint is the diagnostic yield. Secondary endpoints include navigation success yield, arrival time, and incidence of complications.