Entolimod in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of entolimod in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors that cannot be removed by surgery. Biological therapies, such as entolimod, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: entolimod|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of entolimod, Evaluated using National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0., 3 weeks|Safety of entolimod, Evaluated using NCI-CTCAE Version 4.0., Up to 30 days post-treatment
Efficacy of entolimod in patients with advanced cancers in terms of objective response rate (ORR) and RECIST response, ORR will be calculated as the number of patients with a confirmed complete or partial response divided by the total number of patients. Tumor response will be summarized, and the 95% confidence interval for ORR (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) will be presented. Evaluated using the RECIST criteria., Up to 3 months|PK profiles of entolimod in patients with advanced cancers, Pre-dose, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24 hours, post dose for, days 1, 4, 8 and 11|PD profiles of entolimod in patients with advanced cancers, PD plasma: pre-dose, at 2, 4 and 6 hours post dose on day 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 22, and 43
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CBLB502 (entolimod) in patients with advanced cancers.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess any preliminary evidence of efficacy with the CBLB502 in patients with advanced cancers.

II. To evaluate pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) profiles of CBLB502 in patients with advanced cancers.

III. To characterize the effect, if any, of intramuscular or subcutaneous CBLB502 on QTcB.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate pre-treatment tissue expression of toll-like receptor 5 (TLR5) with clinical activity (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] tumor response) and PD response (as measured by cytokine levels) of CBLB502.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive entolimod intramuscularly (IM) on day 1 and subcutaneously (SC) on days 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.