A Study of Xeloda (Capecitabine) in Women With HER2-Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
This single-arm study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral Xeloda plus intravenous Avastin as first-line treatment in women with metastatic breast cancer. Patients received Xeloda 1000 mg/m² orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on Days 1-15, and Avastin 15 mg intravenously (IV) on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle. The anticipated time on study treatment was until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The target sample size was \<100 individuals.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from date of first treatment dose (Day 1) to date of death, across the study phases regardless of the cause of death, approximately 505 days (Median Time to Death)
Number of Subjects With Adverse Events, The secondary outcome measure was to evaluate the safety profile, including a summary of adverse events (AEs) assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0.

Intensity of AEs were graded according to NCI CTCAE version 3.0 on a 5-point scale: Grade 1=Mild Discomfort, Grade 2=Moderate, Grade 3=Severe, Grade 4=Life Threatening/Disabling and Grade 5=Death. An SAE was defined as any experience that suggested a significant hazard,contraindication, side effect, or precaution., Throughout study|Premature Withdrawal From Study Due to Adverse Events, The secondary outcome measure was to evaluate the safety profile, including a summary of premature withdrawals due to adverse events occurring in more than 1 patient in either study group, by system organ class., Throughout study|Number of Participants With Marked Laboratory Abnormalities, The secondary outcome measure was to evaluate the safety profile, including a summary of marked laboratory abnormalities in \>= 5% of patients. n=number of participants with the laboratory measure,Number=number of participants with the abnormality. Laboratory values were flagged as Low(L) or High(H) if they were below the lower limit or above the upper limit of Roche standard reference range, respectively. Marked laboratory abnormalities (flagged as HH and LL) were defined as those values that were outside the Roche marked reference range and showed a clinically relevant change from baseline., until progressive disease or for up to 3 years
This single-arm study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral Xeloda plus intravenous Avastin as first-line treatment in women with metastatic breast cancer. Patients received Xeloda 1000 mg/m² orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on Days 1-15, and Avastin 15 mg intravenously (IV) on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle. The anticipated time on study treatment was until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The target sample size was \<100 individuals.