A Feasibility Study for the Use of Multispectral Optoacoustic Tomography in the Detection of Tumors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and potential of a new experimental imaging instrument called multispectral optoacoustic tomography (MSOT) to detect tumors and lymph nodes with tumors.
Solid Tumor
DEVICE: MSOT Device|PROCEDURE: Temperature Measurement
Number of Participants With Adverse Events Due to MSOT Imaging, Adverse events as characterized by CTCAE v5.0 in patients that may result from MSOT imaging (≥44 degrees Celsius).

Measurement of skin temperature pre- and post-MSOT imaging (2 measurements total) with a touch thermometer as part of the safety evaluation of the MSOT device. The thermometer will be placed onto the skin until a temperature appears, about 1 minute, and the temperature will be recorded., 1-2 minutes|Evaluate Skin Temperature Pre and Post Imaging (Pre- and Post- Surgery), Percent of patients who experienced skin temperature readings \>44 degrees Celsius., 1-2 minutes after imaging
Tumor Positivity Based on Detection of Oxy-hemoglobin Using MSOT Device., MSOT device can identify and differentiate between tumor tissue and surrounding tissue due to detection of different oxygenation states of hemoglobin, with the idea that tumors have differential tissue oxygenation levels compared to non-tumor (control) values. Tumor positivity will be determined based on comparison of oxy-hemoglobin levels using MSOT localization from the same size polygon region of interest (ROI) analysis of the tumor tissue and a sample of non-cancer tissue from the same patient. Increased intensity of signal (output obtained in MSOT Arbitrary Units (MSOT A.U.)) indicates higher levels of oxy-hemoglobin which correlates with tumor tissue as confirmed by comparison with pathology reports. Paired t-tests will be performed and median difference and IQR reported., 6 months|Tumor Positivity Based on Detection of Deoxy-hemoglobin Using MSOT, MSOT device can identify and differentiate between tumor tissue and surrounding tissue due to detection of different oxygenation states of hemoglobin, with the idea that tumors have differential tissue oxygenation levels compared to non-tumor (control) values. Tumor positivity will be determined based on comparison of deoxy-hemoglobin levels using MSOT localization from the same size polygon region of interest (ROI) analysis of the tumor tissue and a sample of non-cancer tissue from the same patient. Increased intensity of signal (output obtained in MSOT Arbitrary Units (MSOT A.U.)) indicates higher levels of deoxy-hemoglobin which correlates with tumor tissue as confirmed by comparison with pathology reports. Paired t-tests will be performed and median difference and IQR is reported., 6 months|Tumor Positivity From Pathology Reports Compared to MSOT Readings, Tumor positivity will be compared (yes/no) from the standard pathology report with the MSOT readings. Percent of patients with matching readings will be calculated and reported., 6 months
This study will involve patients that are scheduled for routine standard of care surgery. It is a single-arm study designed to provide safety information regarding the use of the Acuity MSOT device in the clinical setting, and the ability of MSOT imaging data to correlate with clinical findings identified via pathology.

The device will be used to obtain images of the tumor or lymph node margins for investigational use only to compare to clinical pathology and patient's medical record. All images will be obtained pre- and post-surgery in a closed surgical patient. The temperature of the patient's skin will also be measured prior to and after MSOT imaging. MSOT imaging will be for research only and no treatment decisions will be based on the MSOT images obtained.