A Study to Collect Data About Analgesia in Patients With Bone Metastasis
Up to 180 patients with bone metastasis and requiring analgesic treatment will be followed during 4 to 10 weeks. All patients will continue to receive their cancer therapeutic treatments and be treated for pain relief exactly as they would normally be by the Investigator based on their needs. During their regular visits to the Investigator, patients will complete questionnaires and Clinical Pain Assessments.
Bone Metastasis
OTHER: Questionnaires completion|OTHER: Clinical Pain Assessments
Patient's Change From Baseline of Pain Severity, as Measured by the Weekly Means of the Daily Average Pain Scores (APS), 11-point Numeric Rating Scale from 0 to 10 with 0 meaning no pain and 10 pain as bad as you can imagine; baseline measure was the Weekly Average Pain Score (WAPS), over the week first visit (the last 7 days); end of study measure was the mean of the APS of the last 7 days prior to last visit (Visit 2), Time zero equals baseline up to after at least 4 weeks of observation (Visit 2)
Patient's Change From Baseline of Pain Severity, as Measured by the Weekly Means of the Daily Worst Pain Score (WPS), 11-point Numeric Rating Scale from 0 to 10 with 0 meaning no pain and 10 pain as bad as you can imagine; baseline measure was was the mean of the WPS of the first 7 days after first visit (Visit 1); end of study measure was the mean of the WPS of the last 7 days prior to last visit (Visit 2), Time zero equals baseline up to after at least 4 weeks of treatment (Visit 2)|Patient's Change From Baseline of Pain Severity as Measured by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), The pain severity score of BPI is an arithmetic average of the 4 severity scores reported on an 11- point NRS going from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as bad as you can imagine).

The BPI severity questions are:

3. Your pain at its worst in the last 24 hours? 4. Your pain at its least in the last 24 hours? 5. Your pain on the average? 6. How much pain you have right now?, Time zero equals baseline up to after at least 4 weeks of treatment (Visit 2)|Patient's Change From Baseline of Investigator Global Assessment of Changes (IGAC), Investigator subjective evaluation of patient condition using an 11-point NRS with 0 meaning best and 10 worst, Time zero equals baseline up to after at least 4 weeks of treatment (Visit 2)|Patient's Change From Baseline of Patient Global Assessment of Changes (PGAC), Patient subjective evaluation of patient condition using an 11-point NRS with 0 meaning best and 10 worst, Time zero equals baseline up to after at least 4 weeks of treatment (Visit 2)|Patient's Change From Baseline of Pain Intensity Measured After Clinical Pain Assessments (CPAs), Number of symptoms measured after Clinical Pain Assessments (CPAs), 0 no symptom to 3 all the three symptoms : Hyperalgesia, Hypoesthesia, and Sensory loss., Time zero equals baseline up to after at least 4 weeks of treatment (Visit 2)|Patient's Change From Baseline of Quality-of-Life Questionnaire in 30 Questions (QLQ-C30)., Pain scale of the Quality-of-Life Questionnaire in 30 questions (QLQ-C30); 2 items in the Pain scale ranging each from 1 to 4 (high score for a symptom scale / item represents a high level of symptomatology / problems); Pain score is sum of of the 2 items, Time zero equals baseline up to after at least 4 weeks of treatment (Visit 2)|Patient's Change From Baseline of Pain Interference as Measured by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), The pain interference score of BPI is an arithmetic average of the 7 interference scores reported on an 11-point NRS going from 0 (does not interfere) to 10 (completely interferes)

The BPI interference questions are:

9. Pain has interfered in the last 24 hours with

1. General Activity?
2. Mood?
3. Walking Abililty?
4. Work?
5. Relations with other people?
6. Sleep?
7. Enjoyment of life?, Time zero equals baseline up to after at least 4 weeks of treatment (Visit 2)
Up to 180 patients with bone metastasis and requiring analgesic treatment will be followed during 4 to 10 weeks. All patients will continue to receive their cancer therapeutic treatments and be treated for pain relief exactly as they would normally be by the Investigator based on their needs. During their regular visits to the Investigator, patients will complete questionnaires and Clinical Pain Assessments.