Bevacizumab and Erlotinib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
This randomized phase I/II trial is to see if combining erlotinib with bevacizumab works better in treating patients who have recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer. Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes needed for tumor cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them. Combining erlotinib with bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Salivary Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose of bevacizumab when used in combination with erlotinib hydrochloride determined by dose-limiting toxicities (Phase I), 28 days|Objective response rate (CR + PR) evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (Phase II), Up to 6 months|Progression-free survival rate (Phase II), Time from the start of treatment until disease progression or death, assessed up to 7 years|Overall survival rate (Phase II), Up to 7 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of bevacizumab when administered with erlotinib in patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer.

II. Determine the objective response rate and stable disease/absence of early progression in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bevacizumab followed by a randomized, multicenter study.

Phase I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and oral erlotinib on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bevacizumab until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Phase II: Course 1 is 28 days in length. All subsequent courses are 21 days.

Course 1: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 15 and oral erlotinib on days 1-28.

Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and oral erlotinib on days 1-28.

All subsequent courses: All patients receive bevacizumab as in arm II and oral erlotinib on days 1-21.

Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.