Managing Cancer and Living Meaningfully
The purpose of this study is to pilot test an empirically supported psychotherapeutic intervention, Managing Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM). Researchers hope to better understand the potential benefits of this intervention on brain tumor patients' mood and quality of life. This may lead to improvements in doctor's understanding of how to enhance brain tumor patient's wellbeing and overall functioning.
Mood|Cancer Brain
BEHAVIORAL: Managing Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy
Recruitment for CALM, Number of potential participants consented and enrolled, 1 day|Completion of CALM Sessions, Number of participants completing CALM sessions, 3 months|Post-session Assessment Completion, Number of participants completing post-session surveys, 4 months|Follow-up Assessment Completion, Number of participants that completed a follow-up survey, 6 months|Satisfaction With CALM Sessions, Average rating of CALM session satisfaction score (average score across all participants following each CALM session multiple timepoints). Rating option is a range from 1 to 5 with 1 being not at all satisfied and 5 being very much satisfied. Higher scores indicate greater satisfaction., Following each CALM session, every 2 weeks for 6 sessions: Weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12|Helpfulness of CALM Sessions, Average rating of CALM session helpfulness score (average score across all participants following each CALM session multiple timepoints). Rating option is a range from 1 to 5 with 1 being not at all helpful and 5 being very much helpful. Higher scores indicate greater helpfulness., Following each CALM session, every 2 weeks for 6 sessions: Weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12|Relevance of CALM, Average rating of CALM session relevance score (average score across all participants following each CALM session multiple timepoints). Rating option is a range from 1 to 5 with 1 being not at all relevant and 5 being very much relevant. Higher scores indicate greater helpfulness., Following each CALM session, every 2 weeks for 6 sessions: Weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12|Utility of CALM, Average rating of CALM session utility score (average score across all participants following each CALM session multiple timepoints). Rating option is a range from 1 to 5 with 1 being not at all useful and 5 being very much useful. Higher scores indicate greater helpfulness., Following each CALM session, every 2 weeks for 6 sessions: Weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12|Intervention Satisfaction, Mean rating of intervention satisfaction score (average score across all participants who completed the CALM intervention - one timepoint). Rating option is a range from 1 to 5 with 1 being not at all satisfied and 5 being very much satisfied. Higher scores indicate greater satisfaction., 3 month - one timepoint|Number of Participants Likely to Recommend the Program to Others, Rating of the likelihood of recommending the program to others., 3 month timepoint
In this study, participants will be asked to do the following things:

1. Complete \~15-minute online surveys before the program, immediately after the program (4 months), and at follow-up (6 months). . Questions will ask about mood, anxiety, death distress, quality of social relationships, and satisfaction with life.
2. Meet with an interventionist six times (biweekly) for individual sessions via Zoom, lasting 50-60 minutes each. Sessions will be audio-recorded to ensure all participants receive the same information. Participants will be asked to only use first names.
3. Complete weekly \~5 minute online surveys after each session on satisfaction with the program.
4. Complete an exit interview by telephone approximately 1 month after the 6-session intervention. This exit interview will last approximately 15-30 minutes.