Pembrolizumab and Chemoradiotherapy for the Treatment of Unresectable Gastroesophageal Cancer
This phase I trial investigates how well pembrolizumab and chemoradiotherapy works in treating patients with gastroesophageal cancer that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as fluorouracil, oxaliplatin and docetaxel work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy photons to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving pembrolizumab together with chemoradiotherapy may help to control gastroesophageal cancer.
Clinical Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Localized Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Locally Advanced Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Pathologic Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Clinical complete response (cCR), cCR, defined as at the time of post-chemoradiation staging, there is no evidence of cancer on endoscopic examination/histology/cytology and there is no evidence of cancer by imaging modality. Tumor assessment will be conducted every 9 weeks until the 54th week of the study and every 12 weeks after that. The best response will be recorded., Up to 2 years
Number of participants experiencing adverse events (AEs), Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of all relevant parameters including AEs, laboratory tests, and vital signs. Counts and percentages of subjects with AEs will be provided., Up to 90 days post treatment|Number of participants discontinuing study drug due to AEs, Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of all relevant parameters including AEs, laboratory tests, and vital signs. Counts and percentages of subjects with AEs will be provided., Up to 90 days post treatment|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., From start of treatment to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Median progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose with study drug to the earliest date of progression or death by any cause (in the absence of progression), assessed up to 2 years|PFS at 6 months, PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose with study drug to the earliest date of progression or death by any cause (in the absence of progression), assessed at 6 months|PFS at 12 months, PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose with study drug to the earliest date of progression or death by any cause (in the absence of progression), assessed at 12 months|PFS at 24 months, PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose with study drug to the earliest date of progression or death by any cause (in the absence of progression), assessed at 24 months
Tumor PD-L1 proportion, Up to 2 years|Tumor gene expression, Up to 2 years|Tumor genetics, Up to 2 years|Biomarker analysis, Up to 2 years|Tumor T cell infiltrate, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the clinical activity (as assessed by complete clinical response rate) of pembrolizumab plus chemoradiation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab plus chemoradiation.

II. To determine the overall survival efficacy of pembrolizumab plus chemoradiation.

III. Evaluate progression free survival (PFS) by local investigator review and by blinded central radiologists' review.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the association between PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry, somatic gene expression profiling, and clinical efficacy of pembrolizumab.

II. To explore the relationship between genomic variation and response to study treatment.

III. To identify molecular (genomic, metabolic, and/or proteomic) biomarkers that may correlate with clinical response/resistance, safety, pharmacodynamic activity, and/or the mechanism of action of pembrolizumab in combination with chemoradiation.

IV. To determine the effect of pembrolizumab plus chemoradiation treatment on tumor T cell infiltration.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 3 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV over 48 hours once every 2 weeks (Q2W) for 8 weeks (4 cycles) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION CHEMORADIATION: After a 3 week treatment free period, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 3 weeks for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV continuous over 5 days (Monday through Friday) for 5 weeks and docetaxel IV over 1 hour once a week (QW) for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Starting no later than 3 days after the beginning of the Consolidation Chemoradiation period, patients also undergo 28 fractions of radiation therapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After a 6-9 week treatment free period, patients continue pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 3 weeks for up to 30 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 9-12 weeks thereafter.