A Clinical Study to Find the Optimal Dose of an Investigational Treatment Called BNT323 When Used in Combination With Another Investigational Treatment, BNT327, and to Test if That Combination Treatment is Safe and Beneficial for Patients With Advanced Breast Cancer
This is a Phase I/II, multi-site, open-label, two-part study designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety, optimized dose and contribution of components of BNT323 in combination with BNT327 in participants with hormone receptor-positive (HR+) or hormone receptor-negative (HR-), Human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)2-low (immunohistochemistry \[IHC\] 1+ or IHC 2+/in situ hybridization -), HER2-ultralow (IHC 0, with membrane staining), or HER2-null breast cancer (BC).
Advanced Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: BNT323|DRUG: BNT327
Part 1 - Occurrence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), By dose level., During the DLT evaluation period (Cycle 1), i.e., the time of initiation of the first dose of investigational medicinal product (IMP) up to 21 days|Occurrence of Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), Grade ≥3 TEAEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), treatment-related TEAEs, treatment-related Grade ≥3 TEAEs, and treatment-related SAEs, In Part 1 by dose level. In Part 2 by cohort and arm., From the time of initiation of the first dose of IMP to 90 days after the last IMP dose|Occurrence of dose interruption, reduction, and discontinuation due to TEAEs, In Part 1 by dose level. In Part 2 by cohort and arm., From the time of initiation of the first dose of IMP to 90 days after the last IMP dose|Part 2 - Objective response rate (ORR), ORR defined as the proportion of participants in whom a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 \[RECIST 1.1\] based on the investigator's assessment) is observed as best overall response.

By cohort and arm., From the time of initiation of the first dose of IMP to end of study, i.e., up to 54 months
Part 1 - ORR, ORR defined as the proportion of participants in whom a confirmed CR or PR (per RECIST 1.1 based on the investigator's assessment) is observed as best overall response.

By dose level., From the time of initiation of the first dose of IMP to end of study, i.e., up to 54 months|Part 2 - Duration of response (DoR), DoR defined as the time from first objective response (CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 based on the investigator's assessment) to first occurrence of objective tumor progression (progressive disease \[PD\], per RECIST 1.1 based on the investigator's assessment) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.

By cohort and arm., From the time of initiation of the first dose of IMP to end of study, i.e., up to 54 months|Part 2 - Disease control rate (DCR), DCR defined as the proportion of participants with confirmed CR, PR, or stable disease (per RECIST 1.1 based on the investigator's assessment) as best overall response.

By cohort and arm., From the time of initiation of the first dose of IMP to end of study, i.e., up to 54 months|Part 2 - Time to response (TTR), TTR defined as the time from first dose of IMP to first objective response (CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 based on the investigator's assessment).

By cohort and arm., From the time of initiation of the first dose of IMP to end of study, i.e., up to 54 months|Part 2 Cohort 1 only - Progression free survival (PFS), PFS based on the investigator's assessment defined as the time from first dose of IMP to the first objective tumor progression (PD per RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.

By arm., From the time of initiation of the first dose of IMP to end of study, i.e., up to 54 months
The study consists of two parts:

* Part 1 - Dose escalation: In Part 1 of the study, participants with histologically confirmed, chemotherapy-pretreated advanced HR+, HER2-low or HER2-ultralow BC will receive BNT323 in combination with BNT327 (BNT323 + BNT327) in a dose escalation design. This will define the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) for the BNT323 + BNT327 combination therapy.
* Part 2 - Dose optimization and exploratory cohorts: Part 2 will be an expansion phase, aiming to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the optimal dose combination and providing a more robust comparison against the other treatments. It will start once the enrollment in Part 1 is completed and the sponsor in conjunction with the Safety Review Committee has assessed available Part 1 efficacy and safety data. Part 2 of the study will have three cohorts, i.e., Cohorts 1 (dose optimization cohort), and Cohorts 2 and 3 (exploratory cohorts).

Randomization is planned for Cohort 1 in Part 2, i.e., participants will be randomized in 2:2:1:1 ratio into one of the four arms (RP2D of BNT323 + BNT327, lower dose of RP2D of BNT323 + BNT327, BNT323 monotherapy, and BNT327 monotherapy). No randomization is planned for any other cohort in Part 2.