Concurrent Carboplatin and Reduced Dose Craniospinal Radiation for Medulloblastoma and Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor (PNET)
The purpose of this study is to study the efficacy of the combination of reduced dose craniospinal radiation (reduced from standard of care dosing at 36 Gy to 24 Gy) with concurrent carboplatin and vincristine administration for metastatic classical histology medulloblastomas and high-risk supratentorial PNETs and metastatic PNETs.
Metastatic Medulloblastoma|High Risk Supratentorial PNET|Metastatic PNET
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Vincristine|RADIATION: 24 Gy
Event-free Survival, MRIs of the head and spine. Number of participants with event free survival at 60 months is reported., Up to 60 months.|Overall Survival, Overall Survival will be measured at the end of study. number of surviving participants is reported., up to 5 years|Intellectual Competence Measured by IQ Score: Week 8, Neuropsychological testing will be performed after radiation in completed. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 5th edition (WISC-V) measures intellectual competence in Verbal Comprehension, Visual Spatial, Fluid Reasoning, Working Memory, and Processing Speed. The average score for the scale is fixed at 100, with a standard deviation of 15. Higher scores indicate higher levels of intellectual competence and a better outcome., Week 8|Intellectual Competence Measured by IQ Score: Month 24, Neuropsychological testing will be performed after radiation in completed. IQ score is reported. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 5th edition (WISC-V) measures intellectual competence in Verbal Comprehension, Visual Spatial, Fluid Reasoning, Working Memory, and Processing Speed. The average score for the scale is fixed at 100, with a standard deviation of 15. Higher scores indicate higher levels of intellectual competence and a better outcome., Month 24|Intellectual Competence Measured by IQ Score: Month 60, Neuropsychological testing will be performed after radiation in completed. IQ score is reported. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 5th edition (WISC-V) measures intellectual competence in Verbal Comprehension, Visual Spatial, Fluid Reasoning, Working Memory, and Processing Speed. The average score for the scale is fixed at 100, with a standard deviation of 15. Higher scores indicate higher levels of intellectual competence and a better outcome., Month 60
The purpose of this study is to study the efficacy of the combination of reduced dose craniospinal radiation (reduced from standard of care dosing at 36 Gy to 24 Gy) with concurrent carboplatin and vincristine administration for metastatic classical histology medulloblastomas and high-risk supratentorial PNETs and metastatic PNETs.