Cardiopulmonary Effects of Intrathoracic Pressure Overshoot During Carbon Dioxide Insufflation in Thoracoscopic Surgery
Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) has become a standard technique for addressing all types of thoracic pathology. Insufflation of carbon dioxide (CO2) into the operated chest cavity could increase lung collapse and improve surgical field view. The actual thoracic pressure values may not be identical with the presetting on the insufflator display. This overshoot pressure during VATS may compromise cardiac and pulmonary function. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of intrathoracic pressure overshoot during two-lung ventilation on the hemodynamic and respiratory function and clarify the relative safety of two different techniques of insufflation.
Esophageal Neoplasms
DEVICE: Insufflation of carbon dioxide (CO2)
thoracic pressure overshoot, Time and value of thoracic pressure overshoot during CO2 insufflation, one hour during CO2 insufflation|Hemodynamic change, Hemodynamic changes during each overshoot including Systolic Blood Pressure, Central Venous Pressure and Heart Rate, one hour during CO2 insufflation|Respiratory change, Respiratory changes during each overshoot including Peak Inspiratory Pressure, Pressure flat, Arterial Oxygen Saturation and End-tidal Carbon dioxide, one hour during CO2 insufflation
Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) has become a standard technique for addressing all types of thoracic pathology. Insufflation of carbon dioxide (CO2) into the operated chest cavity could increase lung collapse and improve surgical field view. The actual thoracic pressure values may not be identical with the presetting on the insufflator display. This overshoot pressure during VATS may compromise cardiac and pulmonary function. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of intrathoracic pressure overshoot during two-lung ventilation on the hemodynamic and respiratory function and clarify the relative safety of two different techniques of insufflation.