A Phase III Study for Patients With Metastatic Hormone-na誰ve Prostate Cancer
This is a multi-center phase III study to compare the clinical benefit of androgen deprivation therapy with or without docetaxel with or without local radiotherapy with or without abiraterone acetate and prednisone in patient with metastatic hormone-na誰ve prostate cancer.
Metastatic Prostate Cancer
DRUG: abiraterone acetate|RADIATION: radiotherapy|OTHER: Androgen Deprivation Therapy|DRUG: Docetaxel
Survival, Overall and radiographic progression-free survival in patients with metastatic hormone-na誰ve prostate cancer treated by androgen deprivation therapy and docetaxel, 7.5 years after the first inclusion|Survival, Overall and radiographic progression-free survival in hormone-na誰ve prostate cancer patients with low metastatic burden whatever the standard of care received, 9.5 years after the first inclusion
Castration resistance-free survival (CRFS), 9.5 years after the first inclusion|Serious Genitourinary event-free survival (S-GU-EFS), 9.5 years after the first inclusion|Prostate cancer specific survival, 9.5 years after the first inclusion|Time to next skeletal-related event, 9.5 years after the first inclusion|PSA response rate, 9.5 years after the first inclusion|Prospective correlative study of PSA response/progression at 8 months after initation of ADT, 9.5 years after the first inclusion|Time to pain progression, will be evaluated by questionnaires, 9.5 years after the first inclusion|Time to chemotherapy for CRPC, 9.5 years after the first inclusion|Quality of life questionnaire - Core 30 (QLQ-C30), Developed by the EORTC, this self-reported questionnaire assesses the health-related quality of life of cancer patients in clinical trials.

The questionnaire includes five functional scales (physical, everyday activity, cognitive, emotional, and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting), a health/quality of life overall scale, and a number of additional elements assessing common symptoms (including dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation, and diarrhea), as well as, the perceived financial impact of the disease.

All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., At baseline, 6 months, 18 months, and at the end of treatment (up to 9.5 years)|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P), The FACT-P is a self-assessment questionnaire to estimate the health-related quality of life in men with prostate cancer. This questionnaire, composed of 39 items consists of four subscales: Physical Well-Being (7 items), Social/Family Well-Being (7 items), Emotional Well-Being (6 items), Functional Well-Being (7 items), and prostate cancer subscale (12 items). Subscales are rated on 5-point Likert-type scale (from 0 = "Not at all" to 4 = "Very much"). For all subscales, a higher score represents better quality of life., At baseline, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, and at the end of treatment (up to 9.5 years)|Toxicity (with a specific focus on the use of long-term low-dose steroids), The National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4.0) is widely accepted in the community of oncology research as the leading rating scale for adverse events. This scale, divided into 5 grades (1 = "mild", 2 = "moderate", 3 = "severe", 4 = "life-threatening", and 5 = "death") determined by the investigator, will make it possible to assess the severity of the disorders., Throughout study completion, up to 9.5 years|Changes in bone mineral density, X-rays are used to measure how many grams of calcium and other bone minerals are packed into a segment of bone, At baseline, 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months|Correlation of biomarkers with outcome, Correlation of biomarkers with outcome, including the prognostic and predictive value on OS, rPFS and CRFS of a neuro-endocrine differentiation of the prostate cancer in the pathological specimen., 9.5 years after the first inclusion
Eligible patients can be randomize in the trial after his consent form has been signed, and after all inclusion and non-inclusion criteria have been checked.

The randomisation will result in the allocation of arm A (ADT +docetaxel), arm B (ADT +docetaxel +Abiraterone), arm C (ADT +docetaxel +radiotherapy) or arm D (ADT +docetaxel +Abiraterone +radiotherapy) in a 1:1:1:1 ratio.

The randomization will be stratified (by minimization) according to:

* enrolment center,
* performance status (0 vs. 1-2)
* disease extent: lymph nodes only vs. bone (with or without lymph nodes) vs. presence of visceral metastases.

CRPC is defined by cancer progression (either a confirmed PSA rise or a radiological progression) with serum testosterone being at castrated levels (\<0.50 ng/mL).

When the CRPC stage is reached, castration (either LHRH agonist or LHRH antagonist) will be maintained in all patients.

Investigators will be free to manage patients reaching CRPC at their discretion (using for example docetaxel, zoledronic acid, denosumab, sipuleucel-T, radium-223, cabazitaxel, etc) according to local uses and guidelines.

Abiraterone may be used in arm A and C if abiraterone has become the standard treatment for CRPC when this stage is reached.