Preoperative Acetaminophen and Carbohydrate Loading
The study's goal is to assess impact of preoperative acetaminophen and oral carbohydrate drinks on pain and functional status experienced by patients undergoing Mohs micrographic surgery for non-melanoma skin cancers. Patients are randomly assigned to receive standard of care or preoperative acetaminophen 1000 mg and Gatorade sports drinks 2 packets before surgery. Patients are then asked to rate their level of pain, anxiety, thirst, hunger, fatigue on a scale of 0-100 on day of surgery before surgery has started, after clearance of skin cancer, and at the end of the visit. Patients are contacted by phone 48 hours after their surgery to assess their maximum level of post-operative pain (rated from 0-100), usage of over the counter or prescribed pain medications, and presence of complications e.g. bleeding, infection, dehiscence. Differences in perioperative functional status and pain medication usage are compared between patients in control and intervention groups.
Non-melanoma Skin Cancer
DRUG: Acetaminophen
Maximum Pain Score, Rated on a pain scale of 0-100. Higher score means worse outcome; lower score means better outcome., Day of surgery
Thirst, Rated on a thirst scale of 0-100. Higher score means worse outcome; lower score means better outcome., Day of surgery|Hunger, Rated on a hunger scale of 0-100. Higher score means worse outcome; lower score means better outcome., Day of surgery|Anxiety, Rated on n anxiety scale of 0-100. Higher score means worse outcome; lower score means better outcome., Day of surgery|Fatigue, Rated on a fatigue scale of 0-100. Higher score means worse outcome; lower score means better outcome., Day of surgery|Number of Participants Using Post-operative Analgesic, Number of participants using over the counter and prescribed non-opioid and opioid pain medications, 48 hours after surgery|Maximum Post-op Pain Score, Rated on a maximum post-op pain scale of 0-100. Higher score means worse outcome; lower score means better outcome., 48 hours after surgery
The study's goal is to assess impact of preoperative acetaminophen and oral carbohydrate drinks on pain and functional status experienced by patients undergoing Mohs micrographic surgery for non-melanoma skin cancers. Patients are randomly assigned to receive standard of care or preoperative acetaminophen 1000 mg and Gatorade sports drinks 2 packets before surgery. Patients are then asked to rate their level of pain, anxiety, thirst, hunger, fatigue on a scale of 0-100 on day of surgery before surgery has started, after clearance of skin cancer, and at the end of the visit. Patients are contacted by phone 48 hours after their surgery to assess their maximum level of post-operative pain (rated from 0-100), usage of over the counter or prescribed pain medications, and presence of complications e.g. bleeding, infection, dehiscence. Differences in perioperative functional status and pain medication usage are compared between patients in control and intervention groups.