Mobile Health for Adherence in Breast Cancer Patients
This clinical trial compares the use of the connected customized treatment platform (CONCURxP), consisting of using a medication monitoring device called WiseBag along with text message reminders for missed or extra medication events, to enhanced usual care (EUC), where patients only use the WiseBag, to monitor medication adherence in patients with metastatic breast cancer who are taking a CKD4/6 inhibitor. To ensure CDK4/6 inhibitors achieve their full clinical benefit, patients need to take them as prescribed, following a complex treatment schedule. Forgetfulness was the most common reason reported for medication non adherence. Using the WiseBag along with CONCURxP or enhanced usual care may improve medication adherence in patients with metastatic breast cancer who are taking a CKD4/6 inhibitor.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Carcinoma|HER2-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Hormone Receptor-Positive Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Health Promotion and Education|PROCEDURE: Health Telemonitoring|OTHER: Interview|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigation|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Text Message-Based Navigation Intervention
Adherence using electronic monitoring, For each arm, mean and standard deviation (SD) adherence rates for all patients will be calculated. A two-sample t-test will be used to compare CDK4/6 inhibitor (CDK4/6i) adherence between the two arms at 12 months., At 12 months after initiation of medication
Adherence using self-report, Using the12-item Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Medication Adherence Scale compare mean score and changes in mean scores (from baseline) at each time point between the arms using two-sample t-tests., At 3, 6, and 12 months|CDK4/6i persistence, Defined as duration from CDK4/6i initiation to discontinuation of medication against medical advice, measured as the number of days from initiation until the first day of a gap that is 30 days or longer. For each arm, mean days of persistence, and the proportion of patients who discontinue the medication earlier than 12-month will be calculated and compared between the two arms using the two-sample t-test and chi-squared test, respectively., At 12 months after initiation of medication|Symptom burden, Using the 16-item National-Comprehensive Cancer Network Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Breast Cancer Symptom index compare mean score and changes in mean scores (from baseline) at each time point between the arms using two-sample t-tests., At baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months|Quality of life, Using the PROMIS-10- version (v)1.2-Global Health compare mean score and changes in mean scores (from baseline) at each time point between the arms using two-sample t-tests., At baseline and 12 months|Patient-provider communication, Using the Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems compare mean score and changes in mean scores (from baseline) at each time point between the arms using two-sample t-tests., At baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months|Self-efficacy for managing symptoms, Using PROMIS Item Bank v1.0 - Self-Efficacy for Managing Symptoms compare mean score and changes in mean scores (from baseline) at each time point between the arms using two-sample t-tests., At baseline, 3, 6, and12 months|Financial worry, Using the Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity compare mean score and changes in mean scores (from baseline) at each time point between the arms using two-sample t-tests., At baseline, 3, 6, and12 months
Longitudinal changes of patient-reported outcomes, Generalized estimating equation will be used to assess the longitudinal change over time., At baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months|Healthcare utilization, The difference of healthcare utilization between two arms will first be evaluated using the two sample t test for the continuous variables (e.g., length of stay or number of emergency department visits), and then be modeled through the regressions to allow for the control of other covariates if needed., At baseline, 3, 6, and12 months|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier curves and log-rank testing will be used to visualize and compare progression free survival between the connected customized treatment platform (CONCURxP) patient group and enhanced usual care group, and Cox proportional hazards model will be fit to evaluate the impact of potential moderators on the associations of progression-free survival with arms., At 3 and 12 months|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier curves and log-rank testing will be used to visualize and compare overall survival between the CONCURxP patient group and enhanced usual care group, and Cox proportional hazards model will be fit to evaluate the impact of potential moderators on the associations of overall survival with arms., At 3 and 12 months|CONCURxP arm patients and their provider experience, We will measure portal usability using patient-reported survey and will report mean and SD. For qualitative interviews, we will use conventional content analysis methods., Up to 12 months|Characteristics of National Cancer Institute Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) site patient population and the enrollees in EAQ221CD., Cox proportional hazards model will be fit to evaluate the impact of potential moderators (e.g., sociodemographic, insurance, cancer variables, endocrine therapy adherence, health literacy, health belief, medical history and NCORP practice characteristics., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare CDK4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6i) adherence at 12 months after completion of the baseline survey captured using electronic monitoring between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare CDK4/6i adherence at 12 months after completion of the baseline survey captured through self-report between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

II. To compare CDK4/6i persistence at 12 months after completion of the baseline survey captured using electronic monitoring between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

III. To compare symptom burden at 12 months between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

IV. To compare quality of life at 12 months between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

V. To compare patient-provider communication at 12 months between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

VI. To compare self-efficacy for managing symptoms at 12 months between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

VII. To compare financial worry at 12 months between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess longitudinal changes of patient-reported outcomes (self reported adherence, symptom burden, quality of life, and financial worry) from the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

II. To compare healthcare utilization at 12 months between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

III. To compare progression-free survival at 12 months between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

IV. To compare overall survival at 12 months between the EUC (Arm A) and CONCURxP (Arm B) arms.

V. To describe CONCURxP (Arm B) patients and their provider experience with various implementation outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms. Non-patient participants are assigned to arm C.

ARM A: Patients use the WiseBag medication dispenser and receive access to educational materials every 4 weeks over 12 months.

ARM B: Patients use the WiseBag medication dispenser and receive personalized text message reminders, medication tracking and healthcare provider follow ups as part of the CONCURxP platform over 12 months. Patients may complete an interview over 20-30 minutes within 6 months of study completion.

ARM C: Participants complete an interview over 20-30 minutes 15-39 months post-first patient enrollment.

After completion of study intervention, patients may be followed up to 6 months.