Patient-individualized Peptide Vaccination Based on Tumor-specific Mutations in Children and Young Adults With Primary/Relapsed ALL
The aim of this clinical study is to evaluate the feasibility and safety of an individualized peptide vaccination approach in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). For this purpose, tumor-specific mutations are analyzed by comparative exome sequencing of tumor and healthy reference tissue. Expression of variants is further validated by RNA sequencing. In a second step, HLA-binding (human leukocyte antigen-binding) peptides derived from mutated protein sequences are selected for vaccination. The peptides are administered as a vaccination cocktail with adjuvant GM-CSF and Imiquimod over a course of 9 months and a total of 16 vaccinations. Primary objective is the de novo induction of a specific T cell response without unacceptable toxicity and acute GvHD (graft versus host disease).
Primary/Relapsed Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) of Childhood, Adolescents and Young Adults
BIOLOGICAL: Individual peptide vaccination with adjuvant GM-CSF and Imiquimod
Primary endpoint is "success of treatment" defined as a patient showing a vaccination-induced T-cell response without unacceptable toxicity and acute GvHD of Grade III or higher or extensive chronic GvHD until day 120 (after 10 vaccinations)., Side effects wil be assessed according to NCI common toxicity criteria V4.0. GvHD will be graded according to Glucksberg criteria. A vaccine-specific response will be defined by an at least 2-fold elevated cytokine expression of CD4+ and/or CD8+ T cells over background in response to stimulation with the vaccine peptides. A vaccine-induced response will be defined by an at least 2-fold elevated response at a certain timepoint compared to pre-vaccination., 120 days
To evaluate CD4+ and/or CD8+ T-cell responses over the vaccination period., T-cell responses will be measured after completion of the study at day 246 and will be analyzed with regard to the T-cell responses at day 120., 246 days|To evaluate changes in minimal residual disease (MRD) during and after treatment., Possible reduction of MRD levels on days 36, 120 and 246 (after 7, 10 and 16 vaccinations) measured as reduction of 1 log compared to baseline yes/no., 246 days|To evaluate the relapse rate during and after treatment., Relapse rates will be assessed on days 120 and 246., 246 days|To evaluate the event-free survival (EFS) during and after treatment., EFS will be assessed on days 120 and 246., 246 days
The aim of this clinical study is to evaluate the feasibility and safety of an individualized peptide vaccination approach in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). For this purpose, tumor-specific mutations are analyzed by comparative exome sequencing of tumor and healthy reference tissue. Expression of variants is further validated by RNA sequencing. In a second step, HLA-binding (human leukocyte antigen-binding) peptides derived from mutated protein sequences are selected for vaccination. The peptides are administered as a vaccination cocktail with adjuvant GM-CSF and Imiquimod over a course of 9 months and a total of 16 vaccinations. Primary objective is the de novo induction of a specific T cell response without unacceptable toxicity and acute GvHD (graft versus host disease).