MV-NIS or Investigator's Choice Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Ovarian, Fallopian, or Peritoneal Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter (MV-NIS) compared to investigator's choice chemotherapy works in treating patients with ovarian, fallopian, or peritoneal cancer. Measles virus, which has been changed in a certain way, may be able to kill tumor cells without damaging normal cells.
Fallopian Tube Carcinosarcoma|Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Ovarian Carcinosarcoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Carcinosarcoma|Primary Peritoneal Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Oncolytic Measles Virus Encoding Thyroidal Sodium Iodide Symporter|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Topotecan Hydrochloride
Overall survival, Will be a comparison of the oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter versus investigator's choice chemotherapy using a one-sided log-rank test., Time from registration/randomization to death due to all causes, assessed up to 5 years
Progression-free survival, The distribution of progression-free survival for both arms of the study will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and be compared using a one-sided logrank test., Time from start of study therapy to the date of first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause (whichever comes first), assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival at 12 months distributions both arms of the study will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and be compared using a one-sided logrank test., At 12 months|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival at 6 months distributions both arms of the study will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and be compared using a one-sided logrank test., At 6 months|Objective response rates defined to be a complete response or partial response noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart, Objective response rates will be compared between treatment arms using chi-square or fisher exact methodology as appropriate., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Safety and tolerability of the oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter as compared to standard therapy will be evaluated using all patients who have received any study treatment as well as summarizing those who have been included in the efficacy analyses. The overall adverse event rates for grade 3 or higher adverse events will be compared between arms using Chi-Square tests., Up to 5 years|Quality of life as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian questionnaire, Quality of life as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian questionnaire will be compared between treatment arms. The assessment will be scored according to the assessment scoring algorithm at each collection time. Scores at end of each cycle will be compared using Wilcoxon procedures. Generalized linear mixed models that incorporate main effects of treatment arm, time and interaction of arm and time will be applied to analyze the longitudinal data of quality of life. Population-level and subject-level longitudinal plots will be plotted to display the trend of patient reported quality of life., Up to 5 years
Time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination and biodistribution of virally infected cells using single-photon emission computerized tomography/computed tomography imaging, Descriptive statistics and simple scatter plots will form the basis of presentation of these data. Correlations between these laboratory values and other outcome measures will be carried out by standard parametric and nonparametric correlation procedures (Pearson's and Spearman's coefficients)., Up to course 2|Viremia, viral replication, and viral shedding/persistence following intraperitoneal administration within the oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter treatment arm, Descriptive statistics and simple scatter plots will form the basis of presentation of these data. Correlations between these laboratory values and other outcome measures will be carried out by standard parametric and nonparametric correlation procedures (Pearson's and Spearman's coefficients)., Up to 5 years|Humoral and cellular immune responses to oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter, Descriptive statistics and simple scatter plots will form the basis of presentation of these data. Correlations between these laboratory values and other outcome measures will be carried out by standard parametric and nonparametric correlation procedures (Pearson's and Spearman's coefficients)., Up to 5 years|Changes in anti-ovarian cancer immune responses in both treatment arms, Descriptive statistics and simple scatter plots will form the basis of presentation of these data. Correlations between these laboratory values and other outcome measures will be carried out by standard parametric and nonparametric correlation procedures (Pearson's and Spearman's coefficients)., Baseline to up to 5 years|Gene expression profile predictive of therapeutic response to oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter, Descriptive statistics and simple scatter plots will form the basis of presentation of these data. Correlations between these laboratory values and other outcome measures will be carried out by standard parametric and nonparametric correlation procedures (Pearson's and Spearman's coefficients)., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Compare clinical efficacy of Arm A (MV-NIS therapy) and Arm B (standard cytotoxic chemotherapy), as measured by overall survival (OS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival at 12 months (OS12), progression-free survival at six months (PFS6), and objective response rate (ORR) between MV-NIS therapy and standard chemotherapy.

II. Assess safety and tolerability of MV-NIS, and compare with standard chemotherapy.

III. Compare quality of life as assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O) between MV-NIS and standard chemotherapy.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination and biodistribution of virally infected cells at various time points after infection with MV-NIS using single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT)/computed tomography (CT) imaging within the MV-NIS treatment arm.

II. Assess viremia, viral replication, and viral shedding/persistence following intraperitoneal administration within the NV-NIS treatment arm.

III. Measure humoral and cellular immune responses to MV-NIS within the NV-NIS treatment arm.

IV. Measure changes in anti-ovarian cancer (OC) immune responses in both treatment arms.

V. Perform transcriptomic analysis on tumor biopsy specimens to determine a gene expression profile predictive of therapeutic response to MV-NIS.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter intraperitoneally (IP) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1, or gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, or topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, or paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride, topotecan hydrochloride, or paclitaxel. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until disease progression and then every 6 months for 5 years.