Cadonilimab in Patients (Pts) with Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This phase II trial studies how well cadonilimab combined with Bevacizumab and docetaxel work in treating patients with non-squamous and stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Cadonilimab, a PD-1/CTLA-4 bispecific antibody, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bevacizumab can regulate tumor microenvironment. Docetaxel was used in standard of care chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer, work to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving cadonilimab, bevacizumab and docetaxel together may work better in treating patients with non-squamous non-small lung cancer compared to standard of care.
Stage IVB Lung Cancer|Non-Squamous
DRUG: cadonilimab，bevacizumab，docetaxel
6-month progression-free survival, Will be determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Will be reported and its 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method. PFS rates of two patient groups stratified by binary biomarker (PD-L1 and KRAS status), respectively will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and compared using the log-rank test, respectively. Cox proportional hazards models will be further used in the multivariable analyses to assess adjusted effect of PD-L1 and KRAS status on the patients' PFS after adjusting for other factors. Interaction terms between these factors will also be tested for statistical significance. The proportional hazards assumption will be evaluated graphically and analytically with regression diagnostics. Violations of the proportional hazards assumptions will be addressed by use of time-dependent covariates or extended Cox regression models., up to 6 months
This phase II trial studies how well cadonilimab combined with Bevacizumab and docetaxel work in treating patients with non-squamous and stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Cadonilimab, a PD-1/CTLA-4 bispecific antibody, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bevacizumab can regulate tumor microenvironment. Docetaxel was used in standard of care chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer, work to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving cadonilimab, bevacizumab and docetaxel together may work better in treating patients with non-squamous non-small lung cancer compared to standard of care.