Comparison of Neoadjuvant Cadonilimab Versus Chemotherapy Combined With PD-1 in the Treatment of Resectable Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With High PD-L1 Expression: A Single-Center, Randomized, Exploratory Clinical Study
The advent of immunotherapy has changed the treatment landscape for patients with non-small cell lung cancer. It has become the mainstay of perioperative treatment for patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer。 Cadonilimab is the world's first bispecific antibody drug targeting PD-1 and CTLA-4. Previous studies on AK104 have demonstrated preliminary efficacy in both treatment-naïve advanced NSCLC patients and immunotherapy-resistant patients, showing a favorable safety and tolerability profile. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of neoadjuvant bispecific antibody AK104 compared with neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with a PD-1 inhibitor in the treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with high PD-L1 expression.
Resectable Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Bispecific Antibody|Neoadjuvant Therapy
DRUG: AK104
PCR, a complete absence of viable tumor cells in the primary tumor site and surgically removed lymph nodes after neoadjuvant treatment, up to 60 months
MPR, ≤10% residual viable tumor cells in the lung and sampled lymph nodes, up to 60 months|ORR, a partial or complete response according to RECIST, version 1.1, up to 60 months|OS, the time from randomization to death from any cause, up to 60 months|EFS, the time from randomization to progression of disease, recurrence of disease, or death from any cause., up to 60 months|Number of Participants with Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs) occurring during treatment according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0, up to 60 months|R0 rate, Proportion of patients achieving R0 resection, up to 60 months|Conversion rate of surgery, Conversion rate from initially unresectable to resectable NSCLC following neoadjuvant therapy, up to 60 months
The advent of immunotherapy has changed the treatment landscape for patients with non-small cell lung cancer. It has become the mainstay of perioperative treatment for patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer。 Cadonilimab is the world's first bispecific antibody drug targeting PD-1 and CTLA-4. Previous studies on AK104 have demonstrated preliminary efficacy in both treatment-naïve advanced NSCLC patients and immunotherapy-resistant patients, showing a favorable safety and tolerability profile. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of neoadjuvant bispecific antibody AK104 compared with neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with a PD-1 inhibitor in the treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with high PD-L1 expression.