An Evaluation of a Non-invasive Brain Monitor
HS-1000 device, a proprietary new non-invasive brain monitor, is expected to safely and accurately monitor physiological signs of the brain with minimal discomfort to patients, providing information about normal or abnormal brain-related conditions and providing decision-making support for physicians. Investigators hypothesis that the HS-1000 is capable of detecting and monitoring various neuropathologies, using the acoustic raw data derived from the noninvasive procedure.
Brain Injuries|Subarachnoid Hemorrhage|Vasospasm, Intracranial|Hydrocephalus|Brain Neoplasms
DEVICE: HS-1000 recording
Number of recordings that correlate to neuropathology, Demonstrate the HS-1000 performance and accuracy in brain monitoring, up to 1 hour
Incidence of adverse events, 48 hours from the end of monitoring with the HS-1000|Rate of ear infections/irritations graded by none/mild/moderate and severe, 48 hours from the end of monitoring with the HS-1000
Non-invasive modality for brain monitoring can potentially serve as a major contribution to conventional monitoring techniques for patients with neuropathologies, to assure minimal discomfort to the bedbound patients, and provide information about critical physiological signs to the physicians. The lack of a precise diagnostic technique for numerous neuropathologies for patients in neurosurgical clinics can further hinder therapeutic effectiveness and, therefore, influence patient recovery and healing. Neuro-critical care involves monitoring standard vital signs and cerebral physiological signs, mainly focusing on intracranial pressure (ICP), temperature, cerebral blood flow velocity, arterial blood pressure, cerebral perfusion pressure, brain tissue oxygenation etc. The collaboration of state of the art brain monitoring vary between different intensive care units serves a significant drawback in some cases, as accuracy of diagnosis and monitoring is challenged and thereby there is an eminent need for interrelationship brain monitoring approach. That can also be leveraged by applying the monitoring noninvasively, as it particularly beneficial for clinical applications that routinely require the inevitable and dynamic transport of patients between hospital units (imaging, surgical room, etc.).

Subjects who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria for this study, with a signed informed consent form, will be enrolled into the study. Eligible patients will be divided to 2 groups:

1. Patients undergoing Invasive ICP monitoring
2. Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) patients with Fisher Grade of 3 or 4

The non-invasive measurements recording sessions will be according to the protocol scheme per each group:

1. Eligible patients undergoing Invasive ICP monitoring will be monitored by the HS-1000, in parallel to the invasive ICP monitor, for a single recording session.
2. Eligible SAH patients with Fisher Grade of 3 or 4 will be monitored by the HS-1000, in parallel to the invasive ICP monitor, for three recording sessions.

For all eligible patients, non-invasive measurements by the HS-1000 device will be conducted in parallel with the standard monitoring modalities, as used at the site without any change in the patient's management.