The Clinical Effect of Palliative Treatment on Patients With Terminal Cancer
This study proposed a multidisciplinary collaborative team combined with a palliative care model and proposed to establish a team composed of medical staff in various disciplines to make up for the defects of a conventional nursing team. This study applied the multidisciplinary collaboration team combined with a palliative care model to patients with terminal cancer to evaluate its clinical effect.
Multidisciplinary Collaborative|Palliative Care Model|Quality of Life
OTHER: Health education|OTHER: Comfort care|OTHER: Pain care|OTHER: Dietary care|OTHER: Psychological and social support care|OTHER: routine nursing intervention
Self-rating Anxiety Scale, This involved 20 items, of which the 5th, 9th, 13th, 17th and 19th items were reverse scoring, and the 1-5 items were positive scoring. The items were scored according to Likert4 grade. The sum of the scores of each item is the total score of the scale. The scores were converted to a standard score: standard score = total anxiety score×1.25. The higher the score, the more severe the anxiety state. A score \<50 showed no anxiety, 50-59 showed mild anxiety, 60-69 showed moderate anxiety, and \>70 showed severe anxiety, Within 8 hours after hospitalization|Self-rating Anxiety Scale, This involved 20 items, of which the 5th, 9th, 13th, 17th and 19th items were reverse scoring, and the 1-5 items were positive scoring. The items were scored according to Likert4 grade. The sum of the scores of each item is the total score of the scale. The scores were converted to a standard score: standard score = total anxiety score×1.25. The higher the score, the more severe the anxiety state. A score \<50 showed no anxiety, 50-59 showed mild anxiety, 60-69 showed moderate anxiety, and \>70 showed severe anxiety, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Self-rating Depression Scale, There are a total of 20 entries, of which 10 are scored by forward and 10 by reverse. The entries are scored by Likert4 level. The sum of the scores of each item is the total score of the scale. The scores were converted to a standard score: standard score = total anxiety score×1.25. The higher the score, the more serious the depression. A score ≤50 showed no depression, 50-59 showed mild depression, 60-69 showed moderate depression, and \>70 showed severe depression, Within 8 hours after hospitalization|Self-rating Depression Scale, There are a total of 20 entries, of which 10 are scored by forward and 10 by reverse. The entries are scored by Likert4 level. The sum of the scores of each item is the total score of the scale. The scores were converted to a standard score: standard score = total anxiety score×1.25. The higher the score, the more serious the depression. A score ≤50 showed no depression, 50-59 showed mild depression, 60-69 showed moderate depression, and \>70 showed severe depression, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Social Support Rating Scale, The scale was with a total of 10 items, including three dimensions of subjective support, objective support and utilisation of support. The total score of the scale is the sum of the scores of the three dimensions, and the higher the score, the greater the social support. Judgement criteria: A total score of ≤22 indicates a low level, 23-44 indicates a moderate level, and 45-66 indicates a high level, with a domestic norm score of 34.56±3.73, Within 8 hours after hospitalization|Social Support Rating Scale, The scale was with a total of 10 items, including three dimensions of subjective support, objective support and utilisation of support. The total score of the scale is the sum of the scores of the three dimensions, and the higher the score, the greater the social support. Judgement criteria: A total score of ≤22 indicates a low level, 23-44 indicates a moderate level, and 45-66 indicates a high level, with a domestic norm score of 34.56±3.73, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Quality of Life Scale, QLQ-C30 consists of one overall QOL scale and five functional scales. The functional scales include physical function, role function, emotional function, cognitive function and social function. Rating criteria: After the scores of each part of the scale are converted to standardised scores, and the score range is 0-100. The higher the score on the scale, the better the overall QOL and functional status, Within 8 hours after hospitalization|Quality of Life Scale, QLQ-C30 consists of one overall QOL scale and five functional scales. The functional scales include physical function, role function, emotional function, cognitive function and social function. Rating criteria: After the scores of each part of the scale are converted to standardised scores, and the score range is 0-100. The higher the score on the scale, the better the overall QOL and functional status, through study completion, an average of 1 year
This study proposed a multidisciplinary collaborative team combined with a palliative care model and proposed to establish a team composed of medical staff in various disciplines to make up for the defects of a conventional nursing team. This study applied the multidisciplinary collaboration team combined with a palliative care model to patients with terminal cancer to evaluate its clinical effect.