Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Progressive Malignant Glioma
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of sorafenib in treating patients with recurrent or progressive malignant glioma. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by stopping blood flow to the tumor and by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth.
Adult Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Adult Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of sorafenib tosylate in patients with recurrent or progressive malignant glioma, receiving (group A) or not receiving (group B) anticonvulsants known to be metabolized by the P450 hepatic enzyme complex, 28 days
Frequency of the toxicities associated with sorafenib tosylate treatment between patients with recurrent or progressive malignant glioma, receiving or not receiving anticonvulsants, The proportion of patients with serious or life threatening toxicities will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 6 years|Effect of taking enzyme inducing anticonvulsant drugs on the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of sorafenib tosylate, The geometric mean +/- standard deviation of the estimated values of the pharmacokinetic parameter for groups of patients evaluated at each dose level will be calculated. Parametric statistical tests (ie, single factor ANOVA, Student's t-test) of pharmacokinetic variables will be performed after logarithmic transformation of the data. All tests will be two-sided and a value of P \< 0.05 will be used as the criteria for significance., Days 1 and 15 of course 1 and day 15 of course 2|Magnitude of variability in the steady-state pharmacokinetics of the drug both within and between patients, The geometric mean +/- standard deviation of the estimated values of the pharmacokinetic parameter for groups of patients evaluated at each dose level will be calculated. Parametric statistical tests (ie, single factor ANOVA, Student's t-test) of pharmacokinetic variables will be performed after logarithmic transformation of the data. All tests will be two-sided and a value of P \< 0.05 will be used as the criteria for significance., Days 1 and 15 of course 1 and day 15 of course 2|Overall survival, Non-parametric estimates of survival will be calculated. An overall failure rate will be estimated along with the 95% confidence interval. The overall failure rate is expressed as hazard of failure per person-year of follow-up (the number of deaths divided by the total exposure time in the study cohort)., From the time of first day of treatment to death occurrence, assessed up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BAY 43-9006 when administered to adults with recurrent malignant glioma, receiving (Group A) or not receiving (Group B) anticonvulsants known to be metabolized by the P450 hepatic enzyme complex.

II. To assess and estimate the dose-related toxicities. III. To describe the pharmacokinetics of this route of administration, measuring BAY 43-9006, and to assess the pharmacokinetic difference between patients taking enzyme-inducing agents and those who are not.

IV. To estimate overall survival.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to the concurrent use of cytochrome P450-inducing anticonvulsants (yes vs no).

Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28 (once daily on day 1 of course 1 only). Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients per stratum receive escalating doses of sorafenib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 3 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Patients are followed every 2 months.