Podcasting Cervical Cancer Prevention for AAW
For African American women (AAW) in Houston, cervical cancer mortality is disproportionate to their racial and ethnic counterparts.Most notably, lack of human papillomavirus (HPV) screening, vaccination, and later diagnosis increase cervical cancer mortality. However, cervical cancer is largely preventable. While previous research has identified only a few social determinants that are specifically related to cervical cancer, there may be a host of additional social and cultural factors that contribute to a lack of preventative behavior. The overall objective of the proposed study is to gather preliminary data to determine whether the use of concept mapping methodology is useful in identifying unique sociocultural determinants of cervical cancer prevention behavior, and to pilot test the feasibility of a podcast video developed using the information garnered from the concept mapping procedure. It is hypothesized that the resulting podcast video will increase HPV knowledge and behavioral intentions. Proof of concept and feasibility are needed first, in determining the utility of both the methodology and media development procedures, as well as data on preliminary effect outcomes, before further investigation and program development.
Cervical Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cervical cancer podcast for African American women
Researcher-developed cervical cancer prevention measure that reflects salient socio-cultural perceptions of cervical cancer prevention (obtained through non-clinical qualitative inquiry), To observe whether the podcast video significantly changed perceptions of cervical cancer prevention.

Items will be set to 5-pt Likert-type scale: (1) - (5); higher scale values indicating more positive perceptions to cervical cancer prevention, To be measured immediately before film viewing and immediately after film viewing|Pap test intentions: Do you intend to obtain a Pap cytology screening? (single item), To observe whether the podcast video significantly changed intentions to obtain a Pap cytology test.

Item will be set to 5-pt Likert-type scale: (1) - (5); higher scale values indicating greater intentions for cervical cancer screening., To be measured immediately before film viewing and immediately after film viewing|HPV vaccination intentions: Do you intend to get vaccinated for HPV? (single item), For women who are within the HPV vaccination age range: to observe whether the podcast video significantly changed their intentions to obtain a HPV vaccination.

Items will be set to 5-pt Likert-type scale: (1) - (5); higher scale values indicating more positive intentions toward HPV vaccination., To be measured immediately before film viewing and immediately after film viewing
For African American women (AAW) in Houston, cervical cancer mortality is disproportionate to their racial and ethnic counterparts.Most notably, lack of human papillomavirus (HPV) screening, vaccination, and later diagnosis increase cervical cancer mortality. However, cervical cancer is largely preventable. While previous research has identified only a few social determinants that are specifically related to cervical cancer, there may be a host of additional social and cultural factors that contribute to a lack of preventative behavior. The overall objective of the proposed study is to gather preliminary data to determine whether the use of concept mapping methodology is useful in identifying unique sociocultural determinants of cervical cancer prevention behavior, and to pilot test the feasibility of a podcast video developed using the information garnered from the concept mapping procedure. It is hypothesized that the resulting podcast video will increase HPV knowledge and behavioral intentions. Proof of concept and feasibility are needed first, in determining the utility of both the methodology and media development procedures, as well as data on preliminary effect outcomes, before further investigation and program development.