International Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma (DIPG)/Diffuse Midline Glioma (DMG) Registry and Repository
Doctors and other medical scientists want learn about the biology of DIPG/DMG and to develop better ways to diagnose and treat patients with DIPG/DMG. To do this, they need more information about the characteristics of DIPG/DMG tumors. Therefore, they want to establish a central location for clinical information and tumor tissue collected from DIPG/DMG patients.

The purposes of this study are:

* To enroll patients diagnosed with DIPG/DMG in the International DIPG/DMG Registry and Repository.
* To provide a central location for clinical information, scans, and tissue samples from patients with DIPG/DMG enrolled in the registry.
* To collect tissue samples in order to study how DIPG/DMG works on the molecular level. Researchers may use the tissue samples to study molecules such as proteins and DNA. Proteins are needed for the body to function properly and DNA is the molecule that carries our genetic information. Other researchers will be able to use the stored samples in the future to learn more about DIPG/DMG. The information researchers get from the research studies will be kept in the registry along with the clinical information.
* To help investigators around the world to work together to make more consistent diagnosis and better design of future research studies. We hope this will lead to better treatments for DIPG/DMG in the future.
Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma|Diffuse Midline Glioma, H3 K27M-Mutant|Diffuse Midline Glioma
Identify the biological factors contributing to DIPG/DMG, To implement a central repository for clinical, radiological, pathological and demographic data and specimens from patients with DIPG., Through study completion, anticipated to be 25 years
Identify genetic and molecular signature of diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas and diffuse midline gliomas., correlate registry data to a bioinformatics repository of molecular data on DIPG/DMG, Through study completion, anticipated to be 25 years|Identify radiographic characteristics of DIPG/DMG, develop classification systems, uniform standards of diagnosis, assessment and response, Through study completion, anticipated to be 25 years
There are limited data regarding the biology of diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPG) and diffuse midline gliomas (DMG). This project provides the infrastructure for acquisition of biological specimens, imaging, and correlative clinical data to facilitate biology studies in this group of patients. The goal of the DIPG/DMG registry is to promote collaborations amongst investigators to allow timely data and/or specimen dissemination for future research studies and to develop classification systems, uniform standards of diagnosis, assessment and response, ultimately leading to the development of effective therapies for children with DIPG/DMG.

This registry will collect clinical, demographic, radiological and pathological data and specimens (if available) from patients with DIPG/DMG, both prospectively (in newly diagnosed or currently living patients), as well as retrospectively (in patients who are deceased). Cases are identified through:

1. Existing clinical and/or cancer registry databases
2. Referrals from clinicians, surgeons, or pathologists
3. Families initiating contact with Registry staff directly

The following data/materials will be collected:

Clinical: Demographic data, date of diagnosis, signs and symptoms at diagnosis, laboratory data, detailed treatment data (e.g. types and dates of surgeries (if any), chemotherapy, radiotherapy), best response to treatment, dates of progression, types of progression (local or metastatic), and follow-up data.

Imaging: All radiographic imaging obtained since diagnosis will be requested at the time of study entry.

Pathology Central Review: If glass slides (stained or unstained) or paraffin blocks of tumor tissue (from biopsy or autopsy) are available, they will be requested at the time of registry entry but are not mandatory for enrollment.

Bioinformatics repository: Collection of existing molecular and/or genomic data or analysis that has been performed as well as prospective analysis of tissue from the registry will be submitted to a central bioinformatics repository and may be linked to clinical data housed in the DIPG/DMG registry.

Tissue Collection and Storage for Future Research: If available, participants' frozen tissue may be submitted for banking and future research.

Data stored in the Registry may be used to provide statistical data for scientific presentations and for preparation of peer-reviewed manuscripts. No personal data can be traced to the study manuscripts or presentations. Data and specimens will be released for research proposals upon approval from the International DIPG/DMG Registry Committee.

The International DIPG/DMG Registry and Repository is not associated with any oncology group cooperative study or treatment trial.