Heterogeneity of Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma Analysis by Single Cell RNA Sequencing
The goal of this project is to characterise the heterogeneity of all cell populations (tumour cells, stromal and immune microenvironment) present in the tumor and their normal (and leucoplasic) counterparts by scRNAseq in OSCC patients.
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinomas
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen|PROCEDURE: Blood sampling
Characterization of the heterogeneity of all cell populations (tumour cells, stromal and immune microenvironment) present in the tumor and their normal (and leucoplasic) counterparts by scRNAseq in OSCC patients., Transcriptomic data from scRNAseq for all cell populations, 3 years
Description of the functional interactions among tumor, stromal, and immune subpopulations identified by scRNAseq, Describe the functional interactions between tumor, stromal, and immune subpopulations using ex vivo culture models and co-culture assays. Cellular responses will be assessed using transcriptomic analysis and phenotypic characterization., 3 years|Correlation between refined patient stratification (based on tumor, stromal and immune sub-population) and the impact on the response to ex-vivo treatments., Correlation between tumor, stromal and immune sub-populations likely to refine patient stratification and the impact on the response to ex-vivo treatments., 3 years|Identification of prognostic and predictive biomarkers for oral squamous cell carcinoma evolution, Correlation of gene expression profiles with disease progression to identify prognostic and predictive biomarkers in scRNAseq and bulk RNAseq datasets, 3 years
Epidermoid carcinomas of upper aerodigestive tract are the 8th most common cancers in the world. Worldwide, this represents more than 500.000 cases per year and 20.000 cases per year in France (statistics 2018-2020). Among these cancers, oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) are the most common location, leading to significant morbidity and mortality.

OSCC treatment is based on surgery and/or radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. Immune Check point Inhibitors (ICIs) targeting PD-1 have been approved for recurrent and metastasic OSCC. However, only 15-20% of these patients are treated thanks to this anti-PD-1. Thus, there is a real need to improve the efficacy of ICIs in the treatment of HNSCC. The scRNAseq is a method which allows to study the tumoral heterogeneity, the microenvironment and the dynamic and regulation mecanisms in cells cancer. This technology could improve patient stratification, identify pronostic biomarkers, constitute an important tool in the therapeutical take care and lead to understand tumoral evolution and develop new prevention strategies.

The aim of the study is to characterise the heterogeneity of all cell populations (tumour cells, stromal and immune microenvironment) present in the tumor and their normal (and leucoplasic) counterparts by scRNAseq in OSCC patients.