Anticancer Vigilance Of Cardiac Events (AVOCETTE) in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This study is a retrospective observational study that evaluates the rate of cardiovascular adverse events leading to hospitalization in metastatic colorectal cancer in the French county Calvados by drug exposure.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Antineoplastic Agents
Difference in rates of cardiovascular adverse events leading to hospitalization between chemotherapy treated patients and chemotherapy-free patients., Any cardiovascular adverse event (e.g. the non limitative list: ischaemic heart disease, heart failure, hypertension, ischaemic stroke, embolic or thrombotic events, arrhythmias, conductive disorders) that was the primary diagnosis of a hospital admission.

Any anticancer drug (chemotherapy) intake will be considered for the primary analysis.

We will use a competing risk statistical model., Between 2004 and 2017
Risk of cardiovascular adverse events (any) for each individual anticancer drug., Drug exposure will be defined as a binary variable for each drug. (intakes/no intakes). A competing risk model will be used., Between 2004 and 2017|Risk of cardiovascular adverse events (any) for each anticancer drugs combination/protocol, Drugs combination will be defined as a binary variable for each protocol. (intakes/no intakes)., Between 2004 and 2017|Risk of individual cardiovascular adverse events of chemotherapy treated patients versus chemotherapy-free patients, Several individual cardiovascular adverse events will be assessed in separate analyses: ischaemic heart disease, heart failure, hypertension, ischaemic stroke, embolic or thrombotic events, arrhythmias, conductive disorders). A competing risk model will be used, Between 2004 and 2017|Dose-effect relation ship between individual anticancer drugs and cardiovascular adverse events, Dose will be approached by the number of cycles of the anticancer drug and by the cumulative dose (in milligram) received., Between 2004 and 2017|Dose-effect relation ship between individual anticancer drugs combination/protocol and cardiovascular adverse events, Dose will be approached by the number of cycles of the anticancer drugs combination/protocol., Between 2004 and 2017
This study investigates the characteristics of cardiovascular adverse events leading to hospitalization in metastatic colorectal cancer. Descriptive analysis will include incidence, type of cardiovascular adverse events.

We will explore the incidence of cardiovascular adverse events with regard of the antineoplastic drug exposures. This will provide information about the individual drug safety profiles.