A Study of Tazemetostat With Rituximab and Abbreviated Bendamustine in the Frontline Treatment of High Tumor Burden Follicular Lymphoma
This study is planned as a single arm clinical trial of tazemetostat in combination with bendamustine and rituximab with both a phase I and phase II component. All patients will receive tazemetostat twice daily on days 1-28 in combination with bendamustine 90 mg/m2 IV on days 1 and 2 and rituximab 375 mg/m2 IV on day 1 of a 28-day cycle for up to three cycles. Following this, patients will receive tazemetostat twice daily on days 1-28 and rituximab 375 mg/m2 IV on day 1 of a 28-day cycle for up to three cycles.
Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Tazemetostat
Phase I: Evaluate safety and tolerability of tazemetostat with bendamustine and rituximab (BR), Toxicity will be classified and graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 5.0)., 6 months|Phase II: Complete metabolic response (CMR) with 3 cycles of BR + tazemetostat followed by 3 cycles of rituximab + tazemetostat, CMR will include complete metabolic response as defined by the Lugano classification., 2 years
Overall Response Rate (ORR) after 3 cycles of BR + tazemetostat, Estimate the ORR after 3 cycles of BR plus tazemetostat. ORR (defined as CMR + PMR) as determined by the Lugano classification., 2 years|Complete Metabolic Response (CMR) after 3 cycles BR + tazemetostat, Estimate the CMR rate after 3 cycles of BR plus tazemetostat. CMR rate will include complete metabolic response as defined by the Lugano classification., 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), Evaluate DOR. DOR defined as the interval from response initiation (when either CMR or PMR is first determined) to progression or death, whichever occurs first. Metabolic response is defined by the Lugano classification., 2 years
This study is planned as a single arm clinical trial of tazemetostat in combination with bendamustine and rituximab with both a phase I and phase II component. All patients will receive tazemetostat twice daily on days 1-28 in combination with bendamustine 90 mg/m2 IV on days 1 and 2 and rituximab 375 mg/m2 IV on day 1 of a 28-day cycle for up to three cycles. Following this, patients will receive tazemetostat twice daily on days 1-28 and rituximab 375 mg/m2 IV on day 1 of a 28-day cycle for up to three cycles.