Observational Study on the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
This is a descriptive, retrospective, observational study to generate Real-World Evidence (RWE). This study will evaluate the treatment patterns and outcomes with metastatic or unresectable hormone receptor-positive breast cancer in Brazil. No hypotheses will be tested.
Cancer
Number of patients by drug class and treatment line, The proportion of HR-positive/HER2-negative patients receiving each drug class in each line of treatment, through study completion, an average of 1 year"
Indicate demographic of these patients, Demographic profile: age, gender, ethnicity, family history of BC, through study completion, an average of 1 year"|Indicate pathological characteristics of these patients, Clinic-pathological profile: ECOG, staging, histological type, sites of metastasis, genetic alterations, early breast cancer treatments, comorbidities, menopausal status, description of HER2 testing, through study completion, an average of 1 year"
To describe the real-world Time to Next Treatment (rwTTNT) for each line of treatment, real-world Time to Next Treatment (rwTTNT) will be defined as the date between the initiation of a line of treatment to the date of initiation of subsequent line of therapy or loss of follow up or death due to any cause, through study completion, an average of 1 year"
This project aims to understand treatment patterns and outcomes in individuals with hormone receptor-positive \[HR-positive will be defined as Estrogen Receptor (ER) ≥ 1%\] and HER2-negative (HER2-Negative will be defined as IHC 0, 1+ and 2+/ISH-) unresectable or metastatic breast cancer (mBC) in Brazil.

Ten Brazilian centers will participate. This study will consist of a convenience cohort; will be included 200 patients. Adult patients who had received treatment in the participant Brazilian centers, with mBC ER-positive (i.e. ER ≥ 1%) and HER2-negative (i.e. HER2 IHC 0, 1 or 2+ with negative ISH), and who had received any CDK4/6i as first-line treatment with any outcome (death, progressive disease, or drug interruption due to any cause) since January 2018 will be enrolled. Data will be extracted from digital charts of Brazilian participating institutions. Patients who were treated with a CDK4/6i since January 2018 will be enrolled.