The "Hand-in-Hand Study": Improvement of Quality of Life in Palliative Cancer Patients Through Collaborative Advance Care Planning
This study evaluates the effect of a collaborative advance care planning intervention on the quality of life in palliative oncological patients. Research indicates, that talking about wishes for end of life care and death, may improve the quality of life, but can be difficult for involved parties.

The intervention especially developed for this study trys to reduce psychosocial barriers that make conversations about these topics difficult. The study will measure the effect of the intervention on patients and caregivers quality of life.

The study will give additional information about implementation of advance care planning interventions in different care settings in a complex health care systems.
Advanced Cancer|Neoplasms|End Stage Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Sham-Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Study-Intervention
The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy scale (FACT-G; Cella, Tulsky, Gray, et al., 1993), Quality of life (QOL). Self-rating measurement; four subscales: physical well-being (7-items, score range 0-28), social/ family well-being (7-items, score range 0-28), emotional well being (6-items, score range 0-24) and functional well being (7-items, score range 0-28), one total score (sum of the four subscale scores; score range of 0-108). Higher subscale and total scores indicate better QoL., 60 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.); every two month for the following 8 month or till death (if occuring within one year after randomisation)
12-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12; Ware, Kosinski, Keller, 1996), QOL of patients. Two subscales of health related quality of life (QOL): physical health and mental health (score range:0-100). Higher scores indicate better QoL., 60 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.); every two month for the following 8 month or till death (if occuring within one year after randomisation)|Functional assessment of chronic illness therapy - palliative care- 14 items (FACIT-Pal-14; Zeng et al. 2014), QoL of palliative care patients. A higher score indicate better QoL., 60 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.); every two month for the following 8 months or till death (if occuring one year after randomisation)|National Comprehensive Cancer Network Distress Thermometer (Mehnert et al. 2006), scale from 0 to 10 assessing overall psycho social distress, was specifically developed for oncological patients., 16 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.)|Peace, Equanimity, and Acceptance in the Cancer Experience (PEACE-Scale, Mack et al. 2008), The scale was developed to assess the acceptance of the disease and the inner peace of patients.

12 items, two subscales: inner acceptance of disease (score 0-20 high number indicating high acceptance), inner conflict with disease (score 0-28 high score indicating more conflict), 16 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.)|Barriers of communication (patients), This self developed questionnaire will try to assess the barriers of communication of patients and caregivers concerning topics like end of life care and death.

25 items, 6 point likert scale. High score indicating low barriers of communication (some reverse scored items). The scale will be validated in the study., 8 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.)|Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9; Kroenke et al. 2001), Assesses severe symptoms of depression based on criteria by the DSM IV. 9 items, sumscore (0-27), a high sumscore indicates a high level of depression, 16 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.)|Expectations about treatment of patients (self-developed, visual analogues scale), These three self-developed items assess descriptive 1. the expectations patients have towards their cancer therapy (e.g. prolonging of life, improvement of QoL) and 2. the importance of prolonging of life \& improvement of QoL (two visual analogues scales), 16 weeks; Baseline, 16 weeks (a. r.)|Existence of ACP directive, Patients will be asked, if they have completed and advance healthcare directive or took part in an ACP-process. Purely descriptive (Advance directive yes vs. no), 60 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.); 1 year (a.r.) or after death (if occuring one year a. r.)|Caregiver Quality of Life Index - Cancer Scale (CQOLC; Weitzner et al., 1999), Assessment of cancer caregivers QoL and has been validated in curative and palliative settings.

34 items, 5 point likert scale, high score indicating low QoL (some items reverse scoreed), 60 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.); 1 year (a.r.) or after death of patient (if occuring one year a. r.)|12-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12; Ware, Kosinski & Keller,1996), QOL of caregivers. Two subscales of health related quality of life (QOL): physical health and mental health (score range:0-100). Higher scores indicate better QoL., 60 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.), 16 weeks (a. r.); 1 year (a.r.) or after death of patient (if occuring one year a. r.)|Patient Health Questionnaire - (PHQ-9; Kroenke et al., 2002), Depression of caregivers. Assesses severe symptoms of depression based on criteria by the DSM IV.

9 items, sumscore (range 0-27), a high sumscore indicates a high level of depression, Baseline|Quality of Dying and Death Questionnaire for Informal Caregivers (QODD-D-Ang; Heckel et al. 2015), The QODD-questionnaire (Qualitiy of dying and death) assesses the quality of the deceasing phase from a caregivers perspective.QODD-D-Ang total score (sumscore range 0-100); higher scores indicate better Quality of dying and death., 4-8 weeks after death of patient (if occuring within one year after randomisation)|Barriers of communication (caregiver), This self developed questionnaire will try to assess the barriers of communication of patients and caregivers concerning topics like end of life care and death. The scale will be validated in the study. Higher scores indicate more barriers of communication., 8 weeks; Baseline, 8 weeks (after randomisation: a.r.),|Expectations about treatment of patients (self-developed, visual analogues scales), These three self-developed items assess descriptive 1. the expectations caregivers have towards their relatives cancer therapy (e.g. prolonging of life, improvement of QoL) and 2. the importance of prolonging of life \& improvement of QoL (two visual analogues scales), 16 weeks; Baseline, 16 weeks (a. r.)|Inventory of Complicated Grief (Lumbeck, Brandstätter, & Geissner, 2013; Prigerson et al., 1995), Complicated grief, 19 items, sumscore (0-76, cut-off \>25), 4-8 weeks after death of patient (if occuring within one year after randomisation)|Existence of ACP directive, Caregivers will be asked, if the patient has completed and advance healthcare directive or took part in an ACP-process. Purely descriptive (Advance directive yes vs. no), 4-8 weeks after death of patient (if occuring within one year after randomisation)
A high quality of end of life care and a "good death" as part of an improved patient centered care at the end of life have become important goals of palliative care. To achieve these goals, patient's preferences for end of life (EOL) care need to be known.

This study (randomized controlled trial) will evaluate effectiveness of a new type of advance care planning (ACP) intervention in different palliative care settings in Germany. The study addresses a new concept of ACP called collaborative advance care planning (cACP). This new concept is focusing on psychosocial barriers of patients and caregivers in addition to a standardized ACP process in order to reduce distress of patients and care-givers and enhance the chance of successful ACP-implementation. The main research questions are: a) Can cACP improve quality of life in palliative patients and caregivers?, b) Does cACP reduce distress in patients and caregivers and enhance consistency of end-of-life care? and c) Does cACP improve quality of end of life care and reduce utilization of health care resources? The investigators will try to answer theses research questions through a so called "randomized controlled trial" methodology. Admissible palliative cancer patients who are willing to participate in the trial will be randomly assigned to three groups. The first group will receive treatment as usual for palliative care patients. The second group will receive treatment as usual and an unspecific psychological intervention (sham-intervention). The third group will receive treatment as usual and the intervention designed for this trial. Both interventions will be equally long in duration and will be delivered by the same psychologists.

The primary outcome is the quality of life at 16 weeks measured by the internationally recognized "Functional Assessment of Cancer - General Version (FACT-G)" questionnaire. Secondary endpoints include measurements of the development of QoL over time, distress, depression, and the quantity of advance directives in the different groups.

Patients will be recruited in four different recruiting sites: a palliative care ward in an university hospital, an oncologists office, a rehabilitation clinic, and an outpatient palliative care network.

The study will recruit 90 patients in every group, 270 patients in total.