Clinical Study of Individualized Treatment of Relapsed or Drug-resistant Advanced Gynecological Tumors Guided by PTC Model
The clinical treatment of patients with resistant/relapsed/advanced gynecological malignancies is very difficult, and the difficulty lies in the selection of effective drugs. This study was a cohort study of recurrent/drug-resistant advanced ovarian high-grade serous carcinoma and advanced/recurrent endometrial adenocarcinoma treated in our hospital. A total of 20 cases were included in the proposed study group, including 12 cases of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma and 8 cases of endometrial adenocarcinoma. Twenty patients who did not use PTC model to guide treatment at the same period were selected as controls. To compare the consistency of in vitro drug sensitivity detection results of PTC microtumor with clinical therapeutic effect, and to explore the feasibility of using PTC microtumor model to guide the treatment of patients with drug-resistant/recurrent advanced ovarian epithelial cancer or endometrial cancer. The clinical therapeutic effects of the study group and the control group were compared, and the rates of CR, PR, SD, PFS, OS and TTP were evaluated by RECIST1.1 standard. PTC models based on different clinical samples (tissue and ascites) were compared to analyze the consistency of in vitro drug sensitivity detection results and the relationship with clinical efficacy.
Personalized Cancer Treatment
tumor remission status, According to RECIST v1.1 criteria, patients were evaluated for tumor remission status (complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (PR), etc.). SD) or progressive disease (PD)., 24 months
The clinical treatment of patients with resistant/relapsed/advanced gynecological malignancies is very difficult, and the difficulty lies in the selection of effective drugs. This study was a cohort study of recurrent/drug-resistant advanced ovarian high-grade serous carcinoma and advanced/recurrent endometrial adenocarcinoma treated in our hospital. A total of 20 cases were included in the proposed study group, including 12 cases of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma and 8 cases of endometrial adenocarcinoma. Twenty patients who did not use PTC model to guide treatment at the same period were selected as controls. To compare the consistency of in vitro drug sensitivity detection results of PTC microtumor with clinical therapeutic effect, and to explore the feasibility of using PTC microtumor model to guide the treatment of patients with drug-resistant/recurrent advanced ovarian epithelial cancer or endometrial cancer. The clinical therapeutic effects of the study group and the control group were compared, and the rates of CR, PR, SD, PFS, OS and TTP were evaluated by RECIST1.1 standard. PTC models based on different clinical samples (tissue and ascites) were compared to analyze the consistency of in vitro drug sensitivity detection results and the relationship with clinical efficacy.