An Open-label, Single Arm, Phase II Trial of Niraparib in Combination With Anti-PD1（Programmed Cell Death Protein 1） Antibody in Recurrent/ Advanced Stage Endometrial Cancer Patients
Endometrial carcinoma is the most common malignancy of the female reproductive tract. Most cases are diagnosed at an early stage due to the appearance of symptoms such as postmenopausal bleeding. However, endometrial carcinoma carries a poor prognosis when it recurs after previous definitive treatment or when diagnosed at an advanced stage.The 5-year survival rate for FIGO III is approximately 57-66% and for FIGO IV is approximately 10-20%.The combination of PARP（poly adenosine diphosphate-ribose polymerase）inhibitors and PD1/PD-L1 has the theoretical support of preclinical molecular biology. In recent years, a large number of basic studies and preclinical models have confirmed that this combination therapy has superimposed or even synergistic effects on multiple levels.This study intends to explore the efficacy and safety of anti-PD-1 antibody combined with niraparib in the treatment of recurrent or advanced endometrial cancer.
Recurrent/ Advanced Stage Endometrial Cancer Patients
DRUG: Niraparib in Combination With Anti-PD1 Antibody
Overall respond rate, The primary objective of this study is to determine the preliminary efficacy of administration of niraparib in combination with sintilimab in the treatment of recurrent/ advanced stage endometrial cancer, as measured by the objective response rate (ORR), which is a combination of CR (the target lesion completely disappeared over 4 weeks) and PR (Target lesions were reduced by more than 30% for more than 4 weeks)., at 6 months
DoR（duration of response）, From the start of Niraparib in Combination With sintilimab Antibody until progression or unacceptable toxicity., at 6 months|PFS, Progression free survival, 1 year|Overall survival rate, Overall survival is defined as the time from registration to death from any cause, and subjects who are thought to be alive at the time of final analysis will be censored at the last date of contact., at 6 months|Disease Control Rate, The total proportion of subjects who have an objective tumor response (CR + PR+SD) using the RECIST criteria., at 6 months|TTR, Time to objective response, at 6 months|Adverse reaction rate, As determined by CTCAE v5.0 in subjects with recurrent /advanced stage endometrial cancer receiving combination of niraparib and sintilimab, 30 days after completion of treatment
This study is an open, multi-center, prospective single-arm Phase II study to study the effectiveness of niraparib combined with sintilimab in the treatment of recurrent/advanced endometrial cancer that has failed or cannot be tolerated by chemotherapy Sex and safety. The study intends to enroll 37 patients who have undergone histopathologically confirmed recurrence/advanced endometrial cancer who have experienced first-line and above chemotherapy failure or intolerance and received niraparib combined with sintilimab for treatment. The Simon two-stage design is used to estimate the sample size. For the first type of error, the value of α (one-sided) is 0.05, the value of β is 0.2, the test power is 0.8, and the ORR of the second-line chemotherapeutic drug is 15%. It is assumed that the objective population of niraparib combined with sintilimab in the treatment of the target subject population The remission rate was 35%. Nine cases were enrolled in the first stage. When the number of effective cases was ≤1, the combination therapy was considered to be no better than the single drug, and the trial was terminated. Otherwise, continue with the enrollment of 25 cases in the second stage. Assuming a loss rate of 10%, 37 subjects are expected to be enrolled in the trial.