LuCarbo - a Study of 177Lu-PSMA-617 Plus Carboplatin in Metastatic Castrate-resistant Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see whether the combination of a chemotherapy drug, carboplatin, along with the radioligand treatment, 177Lu-PSMA-617, is safe in treating prostate cancer and whether the combination is effective in shrinking or preventing growth of prostate cancer.

The names of the study drugs used in this research study are:

* Carboplatin (A type of chemotherapy)
* 177Lu-PSMA-617 (A type of radioligand therapy)
Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: 177Lu-PSMA-617
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or the Recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of carboplatin administered in combination with 177Lu-PSMA-617, The RP2D will be the highest administered dose level with ≤1 dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) out of 6 treated patients., First 6 weeks of treatment
PSA response rate (PSA reduction by ≥50% from baseline)., PSA response rate is defined as the proportion of participants achieving ≥50% reduction in PSA from baseline during study treatment, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Overall Response Rate (ORR), The overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of participants achieving either PSA reduction by ≥50 or complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECISTv1.1 criteria., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Radiographic Progression-Free Survival (rPFS), rPFS is defined as the time from the start of the treatment to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Progression is defined per RECIST 1.1 for soft tissue and PCWG3 for bone lesions. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
This is a phase 1 dose-escalation and dose-expansion trial of carboplatin in combination with 177Lu-PSMA-617 in participants with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). The study will take place in two parts: Phase 1a to define the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and Phase 1b to further assess safety and preliminary clinical activity of the combination regimen.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved carboplatin for prostate cancer but it has been approved for other uses.

The U.S. FDA has approved 177Lu-PSMA-617 as a treatment option for prostate cancer.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment visits, tumor biopsies, x-rays, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans, and blood tests.

It is expected that about 35 people will take part in this research study.

Novartis is supporting this research study by providing 177Lu-PSMA-617, as well as research funding.