Everolimus Combined With Anti-estrogen Therapy in Hormone-Receptor-Positive HER-2 Negative Advanced Breast Cancer
Many patients with ER-positive or PR-positive breast cancer are treated with endocrine therapy. Although most ER/PR-positive tumors initially respond to hormonal therapy, patients often experience disease progression. Everolimus, in combination with exemestane, has shown activity in endocrine-resistant disease. This study will evaluate the efficacy of Everolimus+ anti-estrogen therapy in patients with ER-positive metastatic breast cancer who have progressed after receiving anti-estrogen therapy.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Tamoxifen|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Toremifine
Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from Day 1 of study drug administration to disease progression as defined by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) version 1.1 criteria, or death on study. Participants who are alive and free from disease progression will be censored at the date of last radiologic tumor assessment. Participants who receive non-protocol therapy (subsequent therapy) prior to incurring an event will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment prior to the start of subsequent therapy. Participants who do not have a post-baseline tumor assessment will be censored at the date of first treatment (Day 1)., up to 3 years
Number of Patients With Adverse Events (AEs) as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Assessments were made through analysis of the reported incidence of treatment-emergent AEs. All participants who received at least one dose of protocol treatment were followed for safety. Adverse events were collected from day of first dose to 30 days after last protocol treatment and graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03., Up to 20 months|Number of Patients With an Objective Response (CR or PR) Also Called the Overall Response Rate (ORR)., Defined as the number of patients with objective evidence of complete or partial response (CR or PR) using RECIST version 1.1. A CR is the complete disappearance of all target lesions. A PR is a decrease of 30% or more of the diameter(s) of all target lesions from the baseline sum of diameters., every 8 weeks until discontinuation, up to 20 months|Number of Participants With CR, PR, or 6 Months of SD Also Called Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), The proportion of patients with Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) or 6 months or more of Stable Disease (SD). A CR is the complete disappearance of all target lesions. A PR is a decrease of 30% or more of the diameter(s) of all target lesions from the baseline sum of diameters. SD is not meeting the criteria for PR or a 20% increase in target lesions called Progressive Disease (PD)., Up to 20 months|Median Time From First Occurrence of CR or PR to Disease Progression or Death Also Called Duration of Response (DOR), Only those patients who achieved Complete Response or Partial Response will be included in the summaries of DOR. DOR is defined as time from first date of response of CR or PR to disease progression or death as defined by RECIST v1.1 criteria. Participants who are alive and free from disease progression will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment. Patients who receive non-protocol therapy (subsequent therapy) prior to incurring an event will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment prior to the start of subsequent therapy. A CR is the complete disappearance of all target lesions. A PR is a decrease of 30% or more of the diameter(s) of all target lesions from the baseline sum of diameters., every 8 weeks until discontinuation, up to 20 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), Defined as the time from date of first study treatment to date of death due to any cause. Patients who are alive will be censored at the date of last known date alive., up to 3 years from first treatment
This is a multi-centered, open-labeled, Phase II study on metastastic breast cancer (MBC). The patient population includes locally recurrent or MBC patients with cytologically or histologically confirmed hormone receptor-positive breast cancer who have demonstrated disease progression on prior anti-estrogen therapy or therapies. Investigators propose to evaluate the efficacy of Everolimus in patients with ER-positive (estrogen receptor-positive) metastatic breast cancer who have progressed on anti-estrogen therapy. Forty-six (46) patients are planned for enrollment in the trial.