A Study of BPM31510 With Vitamin K1 in Subjects With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma (GB)
This is a single-arm, non-randomized, open-label Phase 2 therapeutic study that will assess the effects of adding BPM31510 onto a conventional treatment framework of RT and concurrent TMZ chemotherapy for subjects with newly diagnosed glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: BPM31510|OTHER: Vitamin K1|DRUG: Temozolomide (TMZ)|RADIATION: Radiation
Efficacy will be assessed by subject progression free survival, Progression free survival will be determined by measuring the proportion of subjects who have met RANO criteria for complete response, partial response , or stable disease at 6 mo following initiation of BPM31510., 6 months
Efficacy will be assessed by subject Overall survival, Overall survival as determined by measuring from start date of BPM31510 to the date of death or date of last follow-up (for subjects who have not died)., 5 years|Safety and tolerability of BPM31510 and Vitamin K1 will be assessed by incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and adverse events (AEs)., A DLT is defined as an event possibly related to BPM31510 and clearly not due to an underlying disease or extraneous causes. An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation patient administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment., 28 days post treatment
The study will start with a dose-confirmation phase to establish safety of BPM31510 in combination with RT and TMZ. This phase will follow a standard 3+3 dose design with the starting dose of BPM31510 at 110 mg/kg/week (wk), with 1 potential dose de-escalation to 66 mg/kg/wk in the event a DLT is experienced at the 110 mg/kg dose. Toxicity at this dose level will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 (CTCAE v5). Subjects will be monitored for DLTs associated with combination therapy for 30 days (d) (± 5 d) after the end of RT (DLT assessment period). Subjects will continue to be monitored for late radiation-related DLTs during follow up, every 8 wk (± 2 wk) during the first 12 months (mo), and then every 12 wk (± 2 wk) for a total of 5 years (y). Safety oversight will be provided by the independent Data and Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC). The DSMC will review and confirm all DLT data, make recommendations for dose modifications, if necessary, and continue to monitor safety throughout the study. The efficacy phase of the study will begin after the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) has been confirmed.