Prospective Observational Study of 1st and 2nd Line Vectibix® Use in RAS-wt mCRC Pts to Evaluate Pattern of Use and ORR
The study will shed additional light on the impact of Vectibix® under the current, standard clinical conditions of mCRC treatment in Greece. It will provide data on the duration and the outcomes of Vectibix® treatment in real-life setting.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
To describe the pattern of use of Vectibix® in combination with chemotherapy in 1st line or in 2nd line mCRC treatments as per approved Vectibix® indication., Treatment patterns of Vectibix® and concomitant chemotherapy for mCRC will be decribed according to the following information:

* Type of chemotherapy combined with Vectibix®
* Starting dose and dose administration schedule of Vectibix® and chemotherapy
* Cumulative dose, maximum dose, duration of exposure and total number of infusions received from the initiation of Vectibix® therapy and chemotherapy
* Dose alterations for Vectibix and chemotherapy (including changes in frequency, reductions and/or delays)., 42 months
To investigate the rate of objective response (ORR, defined as either a Complete Response or a Partial Response) and the rate of stable disease as best response in 1st line or in 2nd line chemotherapy regimens of mCRC including Vectibix®., Objective response rate (ORR) of the 1st line chemotherapy treatment including Vectibix®.

Objective response rate (ORR) of the 2nd line chemotherapy treatment including Vectibix®.

Stable disease rate (SD) of the 1st line chemotherapy treatment including Vectibix®.

Stable disease rate (SD) of the 2nd line chemotherapy treatment including Vectibix®., 42 months
Frequency of primary tumor resection, of metastatic lesion resection, of BRAF testing in the entire number of the study participants and frequency of BRAF mutation in the unselected Greek patient population with WT RAS mCRC included in the study., Frequency of primary tumor resection in the entire number of the study participants (patients with WT RAS mCRC included in the study).

Frequency of metastatic lesion resection in entire number of the study participants.

Frequency of BRAF testing in the entire number of the study participants. Frequency of BRAF mutation in the unselected Greek patient population with WT RAS mCRC included in the study., 42 months
This is a single-arm, multi-center, prospective, observational, descriptive, noninterventional study in patients with mCRC in Greece who receive Vectibix®in 1st or 2nd line according to approved indication. The aim of the study is to obtain a clear understanding of the current practices concerning real-life treatment of mCRC patients with Vectibix® in first-line in combination with chemotherapy or second-line in combination with chemotherapy in Greece. This setting will also provide the opportunity to observe in a non-selected patient population with RAS WT mCRC the real-life habits of mCRC treatment, and in particular the duration and the outcomes of Vectibix® treatment. The data generated by this study may be used for reimbursement purposes, as it becomes an increasingly common need in Greece to provide locally generated data for use of drugs in the real-life setting to regulatory agencies and/or payors. Furthermore, this study could address the existing data gap in the treatment of anti-EGFR therapy beyond progression in the real-life setting.

Primary Objective(s): To describe the pattern of use of Vectibix® in combination with chemotherapy in 1st line or in 2nd line mCRC treatments as per approved Vectibix® indication.

Secondary Objective(s): To investigate the rate of objective response (ORR, defined as either a Complete Response or a Partial Response) and the rate of stable disease as best response in 1st line or in 2nd line chemotherapy regimens of mCRC including Vectibix®.