A Study of RO5185426 in Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
This is an open-label, non-comparative, multicenter, expanded access study of RO5185426 in patients who have received prior systemic therapy for metastatic melanoma and who have no other satisfactory treatment options.
Malignant Melanoma
DRUG: RO5185426
Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event, Adverse Events With Severity, Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation, An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. AEs will be graded according to the 'National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events' (NCI CTCAE, v4.0). However Laboratory data will be summarized by grade using the NCI CTCAE, v4.0 toxicity grade., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants With Any Serious Adverse Event, Death and Cause of Death, Serious Adverse Event (SAEs) is defined as those events that were fatal or immediately life-threatening, and those events that resulted in hospitalization; prolonged an existing hospitalization; resulted in disability; or was a congenital anomaly. Number of participants who died and the cause of death are also recorded., Up to 1 year
Number of Participants With Best Overall Response (Unconfirmed), The best overall response (unconfirmed) is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence which was unconfirmed. Participants were assessed for best overall response by investigator as per 'Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors' (RECIST v1.1)., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants With Best Overall Response (Unconfirmed) by ECOG Performance, The best overall response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence which was unconfirmed in patients with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 2 or 3/0 or 1. Following are ECOG grades. 0: Fully active, perform all pre-disease activities without restriction. 1: Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory, carry out work of a light or sedentary nature. 2: Ambulatory, capable of selfcare, unable to carry out any work activities, up and about more than (\>) 50% of waking hours. 3: Capable of limited selfcare, confined to bed or chair \>50% of waking hours. 4: Completely disabled, not capable of any selfcare, totally confined to bed or chair. 5: Dead. This endpoint was tumor response category according to investigator assessment per RECIST v1.1 for efficacy assessment. The 'n' is number of participants with ECOG performance status in each criteria., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants With Best Overall Response (Confirmed), The best overall response (confirmed) is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence which was confirmed. Participants were assessed for best overall response by investigator as per RECIST v1.1., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants With Best Overall Response (Confirmed) by ECOG Performance, The best overall response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence which was confirmed in patients with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 2 or 3/0 or 1. Following are ECOG grades. 0: Fully active, perform all pre-disease activities without restriction. 1: Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory, carry out work of a light or sedentary nature. 2: Ambulatory, capable of selfcare, unable to carry out any work activities, up and about more than (\>) 50% of waking hours. 3: Capable of limited selfcare, confined to bed or chair \>50% of waking hours. 4: Completely disabled, not capable of any selfcare, totally confined to bed or chair. 5: Dead. Participants were assessed for best overall response by investigator as per RECIST v1.1. The 'n' is number of participants with ECOG performance status in each criteria., Up to 1 year|Mean Time to Complete Response/Partial Response, Mean time to Complete Response (CR)/Partial Response(PR) (confirmed or unconfirmed was assessed). Participants were assessed for best overall response by investigator as per RECIST v1.1., Up to 1 year
This is an open-label, non-comparative, multicenter, expanded access study of RO5185426 in patients who have received prior systemic therapy for metastatic melanoma and who have no other satisfactory treatment options.