Ph1b/2 Dose-Escalation Study of Entinostat With Pembrolizumab in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) With Expansion Cohorts in NSCLC, Melanoma, and Colorectal Cancer (CRC)
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of entinostat used in combination with pembrolizumab in participants with NSCLC. Additionally, the purpose of the study is to assess how effective entinostat and pembrolizumab are in combination in participants with NSCLC, Melanoma, and Mismatch-Repair Proficient CRC.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Melanoma|Mismatch Repair-Proficient Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: entinostat|DRUG: pembrolizumab
Phase 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR), as Assessed Using Immune Response RECIST (irRECIST), The ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: Complete disappearance of all lesions (whether measurable or not) and no new lesions. All measurable lymph nodes also must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR: Sum of the diameters (longest for non-nodal lesions, shortest for nodal lesions) of target and new measurable lesions decreases ≥30%. For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From date of randomization to date of progression (up to 765 days)
Phase 2: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), as Assessed Using irRECIST, The CBR was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) lasting for at least 6 months. CR: Complete disappearance of all lesions (whether measurable or not) and no new lesions. All measurable lymph nodes also must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: Sum of the diameters (longest for non-nodal lesions, shortest for nodal lesions) of target and new measurable lesions decreases ≥30%. SD: Sum of the diameters (longest for nonnodal lesions, shortest for nodal lesions) of target and new measurable lesions neither CR, PR, (compared to baseline) or progressive disease (PD) (compared to nadir)., 6 months|Phase 2: CBR, as Assessed Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), The CBR was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, PR, or SD lasting for at least 6 months. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalisation of tumour marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., 6 months|Phase 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS), as Assessed Using irRECIST, PFS was defined as the number of months from randomization to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: Sum of the diameters (longest for non-nodal lesions, shortest for nodal lesions) of target and new measurable lesions increases ≥20% (compared to nadir), confirmed by a repeat, consecutive observation at least 4 weeks from the date first documented. Number of participants without evidence of progression or death at Month 6 are reported., 6 months|Phase 2: PFS, as Assessed Using RECIST 1.1, PFS was defined as the number of months from randomization to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm; the appearance of one or more new lesions; and unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Number of participants without evidence of progression or death at Month 6 are reported., 6 months|Phase 2: PFS Duration, as Determined by the Local Investigator Using irRECIST, PFS was defined as the number of months from randomization to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: Sum of the diameters (longest for non-nodal lesions, shortest for nodal lesions) of target and new measurable lesions increases ≥20% (compared to nadir), confirmed by a repeat, consecutive observation at least 4 weeks from the date first documented. For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From date of randomization to PD or death due to any cause (up to 765 days)|Phase 2: PFS Duration, as Determined by the Local Investigator Using RECIST 1.1, PFS was defined as the number of months from randomization to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: Sum of the diameters (longest for non-nodal lesions, shortest for nodal lesions) of target and new measurable lesions increases ≥20% (compared to nadir), confirmed by a repeat, consecutive observation at least 4 weeks from the date first documented. For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From date of randomization to PD or death due to any cause (up to 765 days)|Phase 2: Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the number of months from randomization to the date of death (due to any cause). For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From date of randomization to the date of death (up to 765 days)|Phase 2: Duration of Response, as Assessed Using irRECIST, Duration of response was defined as number of months from start date of CR or PR (whichever occurred first) and subsequently confirmed, to the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was documented. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalisation of tumour marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR: At least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD: At least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm; appearance of one or more new lesions; and unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From start date of CR or PR to date of progression (up to 765 days)|Phase 2: Duration of Response, as Assessed Using RECIST 1.1, Duration of response was defined as number of months from start date of CR or PR (whichever occurred first) and subsequently confirmed, to the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was documented. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalisation of tumour marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR: At least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD: At least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm; appearance of one or more new lesions; and unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From start date of CR or PR to date of progression (up to 765 days)|Phase 2: Time to Response, as Assessed Using irRECIST, Time to response was defined as the number of months from the randomization date to the first date the participant achieved a PR or CR (whichever response occurred first and was subsequently confirmed). CR: Disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalisation of tumour marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From the date of randomization to date of PR or CR (up to 765 days)|Phase 2: Time to Response, as Assessed Using RECIST 1.1, Time to response was defined as the number of months from the randomization date to the first date the participant achieved a PR or CR (whichever response occurred first and was subsequently confirmed). CR: Disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalisation of tumour marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From the date of randomization to date of PR or CR (up to 765 days)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), AEs Resulting in the Permanent Discontinuation of Study Drug, and Death, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that develops or worsens in severity during the conduct of a clinical study and does not necessarily have a causal relationship to the study drug. SAEs included death, a life-threatening adverse event, inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, persistent or significant disability or incapacity, a congenital anomaly or birth defect, or an important medical event that jeopardized the participant and required medical intervention to prevent 1 of the outcomes listed in this definition. TEAEs were defined as AEs that started on or after the first administration of study drug and within 30 days of the last administration of any study treatment. A summary of serious and non-serious AEs regardless of causality is located in 'Reported Adverse Events module'. For purposes of analysis, 1 month was considered to be 30.4375 days., From first dose of study drug up to 765 days|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With at Least One Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A DLT was defined as the occurrence of any protocol-specified event in the first cycle of treatment (Day 1 through Day 21) of entinostat in combination with avelumab that were considered by the investigator to be at least possibly related to study drug., Day 1 through Day 21 (Cycle 1)|Phase 1b: Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), The RP2D was determined in discussion with the Sponsor, Medical Monitor, and Dose Determination Phase Investigators. Additionally, observations related to immune correlates, and any cumulative toxicity observed after multiple cycles might be included in the rationale supporting the RP2D. The RP2D could be equal to or less than the preliminary maximum tolerated dose (MTD). The MTD was defined as the highest dose level at which \<33% of 6 participants experienced DLT., Day 1 through Day 21 (Cycle 1)
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of entinostat used in combination with pembrolizumab in participants with NSCLC. Additionally, the purpose of the study is to assess how effective entinostat and pembrolizumab are in combination in participants with NSCLC, Melanoma, and Mismatch-Repair Proficient CRC.