Cabozantinib and Atezolizumab for the Treatment of Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer, The AtezoCab Trial
This phase II trial tests whether cabozantinib and atezolizumab work to shrink tumors in patients with castrate-resistant prostate cancer that had spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving cabozantinib and atezolizumab may kill more tumor cells in patients with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate
Disease control rate, Measured per Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3)-modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 with a 95% confidence interval., At 24 weeks
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression-free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to analyze PFS and will be presented with 95% confidence intervals. PSA progression is defined by PCWG3 criteria., From treatment initiation until documented clinical or radiographic progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|PSA levels, Will be monitored per treatment schedule to assess the proportion of patients with a 50% reduction in PSA levels (PSA50) compared to the baseline value at the time of study enrollment., Baseline up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to analyze PFS and will be presented with 95% confidence intervals. Measured with RESIST 1.1., From the start date of treatment and the date of first recurrence or death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years after the initiation of therapy|Overall survival, Will be evaluated for survival using Kaplan-Meier estimation., From trial initiation and death of any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), The severity of the AEs will be graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The statistical analysis of the safety data will be descriptive and tabular., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the disease control rate in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients with non-measurable disease as assessed by Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3)-modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination as measured by prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression-free survival (PFS).

II. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination as measured by PSA 50% response rate.

III. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination as measured by radiographic progression-free survival (PFS).

IV. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination as measured by overall survival (OS).

V. To evaluate the safety of cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib) in combination with atezolizumab in patients with mCRPC with non-measurable disease.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To analyze tissue and tumor-based biomarkers to evaluate the mechanisms of treatment activity and resistance.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months until disease progression or start of another therapy.