Laparoscopic vs Abdominal Radical Hysterectomy In Patients With Early Cervical Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether laparoscopic radical hysterectomy for early cervical cancer will has decreased postoperative pain intensity compared to abdominal radical hysterectomy with similar postoperative complications and survival rates.
Cervical Cancer|Postoperative Pain
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Radical Hysterectomy + pelvic lymphadenectomy|PROCEDURE: Abdominal radical hysterectomy
postoperative pain measured by a 10 point numeric rating scale, The primary outcome is postoperative pain as measured by a 10-point numeric rating scale (NRS) during the postoperative period. Pain was assessed every six hours by nursing staff during a patient's usual postoperative care. The nursing staff was not aware of the study objective., around one week
Intraoperative, perioperative and postoperative complication, 1 Intraoperative outcomes included the following: operative time (minutes), injuries to the ureter, bladder, bowel or vessels and anaesthesia complications requiring blood transfusion.

2. Early (\< 30 days) or late postoperative events and findings during the hospital stay or after included the following: hospital stay duration (days), complications. Surgical or clinical findings that could be attributable to the treatment in five years of follow up 74 Clinical or surgical findings that could be attributable to the treatment or the disease at five years of follow-up., 30 days or five years|Surgicopathological outcomes, outcomes included the following: histological type, surgical margins, lymph node status and lymph node number, all assessed by pathologists with expertise in gynaecologic oncology. In addition, parametrial and vaginal cuff width (centimetres) was assessed by the first surgeon in the operating room, before tissue processing., postoperatively|Overall survival and disease-free survival, Clinical status in the last visit recorded; Date and location of the first recurrence or metastasis. Time frame: five years from surgery, five years
Background: Radical hysterectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy is one of the FIGO (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics) recommended treatments for early cervical cancer. The objective of this study was to compare radical hysterectomy by laparoscopic approach and open radical hysterectomy in a single center randomized clinical trial. Nevertheless, there are no finished randomized controlled trials comparing laparoscopic radical hysterectomy and abdominal radical hysterectomy although there is an ongoing trial.

Methods: Were enrolled 30 IA2 with lymph vascular space invasion and IB cervical cancer patients. Postoperative pain intensity was defined as primary endpoint and pain intensity was measured by a 10-point numeric rating scale. Secondary outcomes were: intraoperative and other postoperative outcomes, histopathological outcomes and 5-year follow-up. Data analysis is being done at this moment