Autologous CAR-T Cells (WD-01) for Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is an investigator initiated trial to assess the efficacy and safety of a GCC-targeting CAR-T therapy (WD-01) in the metastatic colorectal cancer.
CRC (Colorectal Cancer)|Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: An armored GCC targeting WD-01 CAR-T to treat cancer patients Other Name:
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The highest dose of GCC-CAR-T cells that can be administered without causing unacceptable side effects, measured during the dose escalation phase., Within the first month post-infusion|Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLT), The incidence of treatment-related toxicities that prevent further dose escalation., Within the first month post-infusion|Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), The frequency and severity of adverse events that arise following the administration of WD-01 CAR-T cells., From the administration of WD-01 CAR-T cells through six months post-infusion
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The proportion of patients with a measurable reduction in tumor size (complete or partial response) following GCC-CAR-T therapy., Measured between 1 and 6 months after treatment|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The length of time during and after treatment that the patient lives without disease progression., From the start of treatment up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), The duration from the start of treatment to the time of death from any cause., From the start of treatment up to maximum follow-up period of five years|Duration of Response (DOR), The time from initial tumor response (CR or PR) to disease progression or relapse or any cause of death., From the administration of WD-01 CAR-T cells to a maximum follow-up period of five years
The study will use autologous T cells collected from enrolled patient, modified using a 2nd generation CAR bearing lentiviral vector, to treat metastatic colorectal cancer patients. The antigen-binding site of the CAR molecule recognizes GCC as the target.

The main questions it aims to answer are: • What is the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of GCC-CAR-T therapy in the autologous CAR-T cell treatments? • What are the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE)? • What is the treatment efficacy, as measured by objective response rate (ORR) and progression-free survival (PFS)? Investigators will assess whether the WD-01 CAR-T cells have good safety and efficacy in treating colorectal cancer. Participants will receive WD-01 GCC-CAR-T cells through a 3+3 dose escalation scheme. • Undergo chemotherapy pre-conditioning before CAR-T infusion. • Be monitored for adverse events, immune response, and disease progression.

The study will collect data on both short-term outcomes (within the first few months post-treatment) and long-term safety and efficacy.