Matrix Metalloproteinases and Human Papillomavirus in Dysplasias and Cancers of the Cervix
This study aims to compare the expression of matrix metalloproteinases and their tissue inhibitors between 4 groups of patients defined according to the severity of the cervical lesion.
Papillomavirus Infections|Dysplasia|Cervix Cancer
OTHER: Vaginal samples (biopsies + vaginal smear)
Immunohistochemical score of expressions of matrix metalloproteinases, The immunohistochemical score is the modified HScore, also called Quickscore. It is calculated by multiplying the percentage of cells that are marked (from 0 to 100) by intensity (from 0 to 3). The total score is between 0 and 300. This score will be defined on normal, tumoral and stromal cells according to the analyzed tissue (normal, dysplasias or cancer), At the screening|Immunohistochemical score of expressions of matrix metalloproteinases inhibitors, The immunohistochemical score is the modified HScore, also called Quickscore. It is calculated by multiplying the percentage of cells that are marked (from 0 to 100) by intensity (from 0 to 3). The total score is between 0 and 300. This score will be defined on normal, tumoral and stromal cells according to the analyzed tissue (normal, dysplasias or cancer), At the screening
Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among European women under 45 years old. It is secondary to cervical dysplasia induced by persistent human papillomavirus infection. The involvement of matrix metalloproteinases in carcinogenesis of the cervix is real, but their expressions vary according to the published series. An association between the expression of MMPs and that of the human papillomavirus deserves to be explored, as this can have a prognostic influence in the case of gradual expression demonstrated in the development of (pre) cancerous lesions of the cervix.

This study aims to compare the expression of matrix metalloproteinases and their tissue inhibitors between 4 groups of patients defined according to the severity of the cervical lesion.