A Study of QBECO Versus Placebo in the Treatment of Colorectal Cancer That Has Spread to the Liver
The goal of this type of clinical trial is t to answer the following question: Can the chance of colorectal cancer progressing be lowered by taking a medication, QBECO, before and after surgery? The goal of this study is to find out if this approach is better or worse than the standard of care for your type of cancer. The standard of care is defined as care most people get for metastatic colorectal cancer. There is currently no standard of care drug being given before or after surgery to prevent further spread of your cancer. Participants will be asked to self-inject the study medication before surgery for minimum of 11 days and after surgery for minimum of 41 days. Participants will be followed up every 3 months for 2 years, with a final visit at year 5.
Colorectal Cancer|Liver Metastases
DRUG: QBECO|DRUG: Placebo
The primary outcome will be the 2-year Progression-Free Survival (PFS) rate, PFS will be defined as the time from enrollment to the first event that is either locoregional recurrence (of the resected primary colorectal adenocarcinoma or the resected ± intraoperatively ablated metastatic disease), distant metastases, or death from any cause.

Section 5 further defines PFS and its measurement., 2 years
Clearance of ctDNA., A substantial body of research has demonstrated associations between ctDNA and cancer progression.Timing of measurement will be at baseline (which will occur within 14 days prior to the first dose of Investigational Product (IP) and at least 14 days after the last dose of chemotherapy, when applicable), preoperatively on the day of surgery, and postoperatively. A sample of fresh tumour tissue will be obtained from each resected hepatic and extrahepatic (when applicable) tumour site, resection of the primary colorectal carcinoma, along with a sample of normal adjacent tissue (one per surgical specimen) to tailor the ctDNA assay to the individual participant's tumour profile. If tumour tissue is not available from the resected specimen, tumour tissue from a prior resection or biopsy of the participant's adenocarcinoma may be requested. If disease progression is detected, ctDNA will also be measured at that time., 5 years|Side-effect profile of QBECO, This will include an evaluation of AEs and postoperative complications in the treatment and control groups. A postoperative complication will be defined as any deviation from the normal postoperative course. All clearly related signs, symptoms, and abnormal diagnostic procedures should be recorded in the source document and should be grouped under one diagnosis. The deviation must be possibly or probably related to the surgery and must occur postoperatively. The modified Clavien-Dindo system will be used to define and classify postoperative complications., through study completion, an average of 5 years|Quality of recovery, Measured by the QoR-40. The QoR-40 is a validated tool designed to measure the early postoperative health status of patients. The tool has been widely used as a patient-reported outcome measure of recovery after surgery and has been translated into multiple languages. Timing of measurement will be at baseline (which will occur within 14 days prior to the first IP dose and at least 14 days after the last dose of chemotherapy, when applicable), on postoperative day (POD) 3, and 6 weeks postoperatively. The survey may be administered in person or virtually by telephone or video call., Baseline; postoperative day 3, and 6 weeks postoperatively|Five-year overall survival, This will be measured from date of enrollment to the date of death., 5 years
PERIOP-06 is a multicenter, phase II, blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trial in adult patients planned to undergo resection of colorectal liver metastases (CRLM) for complete clearance of all visible disease. The investigational product for the study is QBECO. QBECO is a site specific immunomodulator (SSI) designed to promote innate immune responses in the gastrointestinal tract and related organs, including the liver. This trial is motivated by the promising preclinical and clinical data supporting the safety and efficacy of QBECO in attenuating postoperative immunosuppression and the resulting proliferation of cancer.

The primary objective of this randomized controlled trial is to determine if QBECO administered perioperatively can improve 2-year Progression-Free Survival in adult patients undergoing resection of CRLMs for complete clearance of metastatic disease. The main secondary objectives will be to:

1. Determine the effect of QBECO on the frequency and kinetics of clearance (and recurrence) of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in the postoperative period and further evaluate the use ctDNA as part of ongoing surveillance.
2. Determine the side-effect profile of perioperative QBECO.
3. Determine the effect of QBECO on 5-year overall survival

Approximately 115 participants will be randomized to receive a placebo or the investigational product, QBECO. QBECO or placebo will be administered according to the following regimen: 0.1mL subcutaneous injections every two days for 11-120 days preoperatively, and 41 days postoperatively. Participants will be followed for 5 years after surgery.