Phase I Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability and Pharmacokinetics of CUDC-427 When Given to Patients With Advanced and Refractory Solid Tumors or Lymphoma
This is a phase I, open-label, dose-escalation study of CUDC-427 in patients with advanced or refractory solid tumors or lymphoma. CUDC-427 is a drug that is designed to antagonize proteins that prevent or interfere with cell death. The study is designed to assess the safety, including the maximum tolerated dose, the pharmacokinetics, and the anti-cancer activity of CUDC-427.
Lymphoma
DRUG: CUDC-427
To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 (monotherapy) dose of oral CUDC-427 administered on a 14 days on/7 days off dosing schedule in subjects with advanced and refractory solid tumors or lymphoma, 21 days (1 cycle of study treatment)
To assess safety and tolerability, Number of participants with adverse events assessed using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, v4.0)., 21 days|To assess pharmacokinetics (PK), PK parameters to be determined will include apparent oral clearance (Cl/F), apparent volume of distribution (Vd/F), maximum concentration (Cmax), time of maximum concentration (Tmax), half-life (t1/2), area under the curve (AUC), and other relevant parameters., The first day of study drug dosing through the sixteenth day of study drug dosing|To evaluate exploratory biological markers of CUDC-427 activity, Exploratory biomarkers that may predict or correlate with CUDC-427 biological activity will be assessed in tumor samples, PBMCs and plasma, such as gene signature profile, cellular inhibitor of apoptosis (cIAP) levels, Ki-67 activity, caspase activity, cytokine levels, and other downstream events of IAP inhibition., The first day of study drug dosing through the fifteenth day of study drug dosing|To assess preliminary anti-cancer activity, The Investigator will evaluate each subject for response to therapy according to standard response criteria for each individual subject's tumor type (e.g., Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma and RECIST v1.1 for Solid Tumors)., 3-12 weeks
This is a Phase I, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of CUDC-427 as a single agent administered orally, in subjects with advanced and refractory solid tumors or lymphoma.

Sequential dose escalation cohorts of oral CUDC-427 are planned. Subject enrollment and dose escalation will proceed according to a standard 3+3 design. In the absence of intolerable toxicity, each subject will receive a minimum of 1 cycle (21 days) of study treatment, and may continue to receive additional cycles until disease progression has been documented or other treatment discontinuation criteria have been met.

No intrasubject dose escalation will be allowed. During the dose escalation phase, up to 3 additional subjects may be enrolled at previously cleared dose levels to better define the safety, tolerability and activity of the study treatment. Similarly, an MTD expansion cohort of up to 12 evaluable subjects may also be enrolled.

Safety and tolerability will be assessed by the incidence and severity of adverse events as assessed by NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.03). A Safety Review Committee comprised of the Medical Monitor, Principal Investigators, and Sponsor representatives, will be convened to review safety information and to decide upon dose escalation and further subject enrollment.

The antitumor activity of study treatment will be assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1), or the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma as appropriate for each subject's tumor type.

Exploratory biological markers of CUDC-427 activity will be assessed in tumor samples (where available), peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and plasma.