Cultivando la Salud: A Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening Promotion Program for Low-Income Puerto Rican Women
The overall goal of this education program is to increase breast and cervical cancer screening in low-income women in Puerto Rico through implementation of an evidence-based educational program that addresses both health professionals (promotoras or community health workers) and public audiences of low-income women living in Canóvanas, Puerto Rico who have either never been screened for breast and/or cervical cancer, or are under-screened according recommended guidelines. To evaluate promotoras' delivery of the CLS screening education program we used a randomized pre-post comparison group study design that will provide data to determine the effectiveness of the CLS intervention program compared with usual practice (no intervention).
Breast Cancer|Cervical Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cultivando La Salud
Number of participants aged 21 and older who completed a cervical cancer screening (Pap test), Screening behavior status at baseline and follow-up were assessed by asking women the month and year of their last Pap test., 4-6 months after the intervention|Number of participants aged 40 and older who completed a mammography test, Screening behavior status at baseline and follow-up were assessed by asking women the month and year of their last mammogram., 4-6 months after the intervention
The proposed promotora and community based breast and cervical screening education program includes the following specific aims:

Aim 1. To train community health workers (promotoras) from Taller Salud to implement the CLS breast and cervical cancer screening program. Taller Salud staff train and build capacity of promotoras to implement the CLS community-based education and navigation program.

Aim 2. To deliver the CLS intervention program to at least 600 women in Canóvanas municipality, Puerto Rico.

Aim 3. To evaluate the impact of the program on increasing mammography and cervical cancer screening among participating women in Canóvanas, Puerto Rico.

Aim 4. To adapt and update intervention materials