Addition of Thoracic Consolidation Radiotherapy to the Maintenance Immunotherapy for ES-SCLC (STONE-001)
This study is expected to enroll 182 patients with partial response or stable disease after first-line immunochemotherapy for extensive-stage small cell lung cancer and eligible for thoracic consolidation radiotherapy within 2 years. Patients were randomized 2:1 to immune single-agent maintenance therapy in combination with hyperfractionated high-dose radiotherapy and immune single-agent maintenance therapy after being assessed by the investigator as otherwise eligible for enrollment. Patients in both arms received maintenance therapy with the PD-L1 inhibitor, atezolizumab or dulvedolizumab, until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or loss of clinical benefit. Patients in the combined radiotherapy arm required hyperfractionated high-dose (54 Gy) radiotherapy twice daily for residual disease in the chest. Each patient will be followed for approximately 2 years.
Extensive-stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: High-dose Hyperfractionated Simultaneous Integrated Boost Radiotherapy|DRUG: atezolizumab or durvalumab
Overall survival (OS), From randomization to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 4 years
Progression-free survival (PFS), From randomization to any documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years|Landmark analyses of survival, 1-year and 2-year landmark analysis of OS and 6-month and 1-year landmark analysis of PFS|Best overall response (BOR), BOR is the percentage of participants who have a CR or a PR, as determined by investigators according to RECIST v1.1., Up to 4 years|Confirmed objective response rate (cORR), cORR is defined as either a confirmed CR or PR on two consecutive evaluations ≥ 4 weeks apart, as determined by investigators according to RECIST v1.1., Up to 4 years|Incidence and severity of adverse events, From randomization to 30 days after the end of study treatment
This study is expected to enroll 182 patients with partial response or stable disease after first-line immunochemotherapy for extensive-stage small cell lung cancer and eligible for thoracic consolidation radiotherapy within 2 years. Patients were randomized 2:1 to immune single-agent maintenance therapy in combination with hyperfractionated high-dose radiotherapy and immune single-agent maintenance therapy after being assessed by the investigator as otherwise eligible for enrollment. Patients in both arms received maintenance therapy with the PD-L1 inhibitor, atezolizumab or dulvedolizumab, until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or loss of clinical benefit. Patients in the combined radiotherapy arm required hyperfractionated high-dose (54 Gy) radiotherapy twice daily for residual disease in the chest. Each patient will be followed for approximately 2 years.