Prostate Biopsy, Transrectal vs. Transperineal: Efficacy and Complications
This study evaluates the difference between 2 prostate biopsy methods, transrectal (through the rectal wall) and transperineal (through the skin) needle biopsy.

Men who are in need of prostate biopsy due to clinical suspicions of prostate cancer will be randomly assigned (1:1) to either transrectal or transperineal approach.

This research study will scientifically determine if one biopsy method is better than the other in reducing complications and improving cancer detection.
Prostate Cancer|PSA|Infection
PROCEDURE: Systematic Transrectal biopsy (TR-Bx)|PROCEDURE: Targeted Transrectal biopsy (TR-Bx)|PROCEDURE: Systematic Transperineal biopsy (TP-Bx)|PROCEDURE: Targeted Transperineal biopsy (TP-Bx)
Rate of infectious complications, Whether or not patient had an infection after the biopsy, 30 days|Clinically significant cancer detection rate, The rate of grade group 2 prostate cancer detected in each study arm, 14 days
Rate of Bleeding complications, The type of bleeding and its severity (blood in urine or stool), 30 days|Tolerability under local anesthesia, Pain scores; Need for additional analgesia, 30 days|Patient reported urinary function measures using IPSS questionaire, International Prostate Symptoms Score (IPSS) to measure urinary function, 30 days|Cost of the procedures, Differences in the actual cost of the procedures (including supplies, time), 30 days|Patient reported sexual function measures using IIEF questionaire, International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) to measure sexual dysfunction, 30 days
There are two ways to take biopsy (tissue) samples from the prostate. The more commonly used method is trans-rectal needle biopsy of the prostate (TR-Bx) with a needle inserted through a probe in the rectum to reach the prostate.

TR-Bx is usually performed in the office, using local anesthesia, and often using a targeted biopsy approach using MRI/ultrasound fusion technique.

Trans-perineal biopsy (TP-Bx) with a needle inserted directly through the skin to reach the prostate.

Typically, TP-BX is performed in the outpatient surgical setting due significant pain associated with the procedure, requiring the use anesthesia and/or sedation.

TP-Bx. procedure is very uncommon in the USA and is often performed using ultrasound alone (less accurate), without the benefit of MRI guided targeted biopsy.

Now, with the availability of new devices, we are able to perform both TR-Bx and TP-Bx using MRI/ultrasound fusion guided targeted approach, in the office setting, using local anesthesia alone.

With the TR-Bx, there has been increasing risk of infection related complications, sepsis and hospital admissions.

The newer approach of biopsy TP-Bx may cause fewer infections and may have a higher accuracy of finding cancer.

Using validated questionnaires such as IIEF-6, IPSS and TRUS-BxQ, this randomized study of TR-BX and TP-Bx will address these questions:

* Differences in the risk of infectious complications
* Differences in the overall cancer detection rate and the high-grade cancer detection rate
* Differences in the hemorrhagic and urinary side effects
* Tolerability of both techniques with local anesthesia alone
* Difference in the results of of MRI/US fusion targeted biopsy
* Differences in the cost of the procedures