Evaluating the Effects of Psycho-oncological Education on Distress and Quality of Life in Solid Tumor Cancer Patients
This study evaluates that effects of psycho-oncological education on distress and quality of life in solid tumor cancer patients who have completed chemotherapy with curative intent. Half of the participants will received a psycho-oncological educational intervention while the other half will receive usual care.
Quality of Life
OTHER: Education
Distress Thermometer (self-reported distress levels by 11 point scale) Change is being assessed, Self reported distress levels at baseline and two weeks after the intervention. Scale is 11-points from 0(no distress) to 10 (extreme distress), at baseline & two weeks after intervention
World Health Organization Quality of Life BREF (WHOQOL-BREF) Change is being assessed., Self- report, 24 question scale representing 6 domains related to quality of life. Quality of life to be measured at baseline and two weeks post intervention., at baseline & two weeks after intervention
Solid tumor cancer patients who have completed chemotherapy with curative intent experience psychological distress. As a result these patients experience poorer quality of life (QOL), emotional vulnerability and unnecessary emotional suffering.

Purpose: To determine whether the implementation of a nurse driven psycho-oncological educational session will decrease psychological distress levels and improve QOL among solid tumor cancer patients who have received and completed chemotherapy with curative intent.

Methods: A randomized clinical trial (RCT) consisting of 28 eligible patients at Sibley Memorial Hospital will be used to compare the effect of psycho-oncological education to treatment as usual in reducing psychological distress and improving quality of life. The intervention group will receive one 60 minute session of psycho-oncological education. The comparison group will receive usual care only which includes a general information session offered prior to any treatment which addresses broad side-effects of treatment, an overview of the treatment process and identification of additional resources. Participants will be assessed for psychological distress and QOL levels at baseline and two weeks after the intervention.