Lapatinib in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Biliary Tract or Liver Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase II trial is studying how well lapatinib works in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic biliary tract or liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Lapatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adult Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Recurrent Gallbladder Cancer|Unresectable Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Unresectable Gallbladder Cancer
DRUG: lapatinib ditosylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT, MRI or X-Ray: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 5 years
Overall Survival, Estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to 5 years|Disease Control Rate., The mathematical sum of percentages of complete response, partial response and stable disease.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI and/or CT: Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for a Partial Response nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progression of Disease (POD); POD, 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions; Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The goal of this study is to determine the objective response rate of GW572016 in patients with biliary cancer and hepatocellular cancer (HCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the overall survival of patients entered onto study. II. Quantitative and qualitative toxicities of the patient population treated with GW572016.

III. Determine the progression free survival of patients. IV. To perform molecular and pharmacogenomic correlative studies that will identify specific patient subsets that benefit from GW572016 therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to tumor site (biliary tree cancer \[includes ampullary, bile duct, and gall bladder cancer\] vs hepatocellular cancer).

Patients receive oral lapatinib once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed for survival.