Pazopanib in Treating Patients With Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well pazopanib works in treating patients with metastatic urothelial cancer. Pazopanib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Distal Urethral Cancer|Proximal Urethral Cancer|Recurrent Bladder Cancer|Recurrent Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Recurrent Urethral Cancer|Stage IV Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder|Urethral Cancer Associated With Invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: pazopanib hydrochloride
Best Tumor Response (Complete [CR] or Partial Response [PR] by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]), Tumor response is defined as the total number of eligible patients whose disease has a complete or partial response to GW786034 according to the RECIST criteria. Per RECIST v1.0 criteria:

A Complete Response (CR) requires the disappearance of all target lesions.

A Partial Response (PR) requires \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions from baseline measurement.

All patients meeting the eligibility criteria who have signed a consent form and have begun treatment will be evaluable for response., Participants will be evaluated every 8 weeks during treatment and up to 1 year after completion of treatment.
Adverse Events Using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0, The maximum grade for each adverse event considered to be at least possibly related to treatment will be recorded. Frequency tables will be constructed., Every 4 weeks during treatment (maximum duration was 44 weeks)|Confirmed Tumor Response (CR and PR), Tumor response is defined as the total number of eligible patients whose disease has a complete or partial response to GW786034 according to the RECIST criteria. A confirmed response is defined as a CR or PR and is documented on 2 consecutive evaluations., Documented on 2 consecutive evaluations 8 weeks apart from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence, assessed up to 1 year|Duration of Response, The distribution of response durations will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the time an objective response is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the date progression is documented, assessed up to 1 year|Time to Disease Progression, The distribution of progression-free survival times will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Every 3 months from registration until progressive disease (PD), assessed up to 2 years after registration|Survival Time, The distribution of survival times will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from registration until death due to any cause, assessed every 6 months after PD for up to 2 years after registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the anti tumor activity and toxicity profile of pazopanib hydrochloride in patients with metastatic urothelial cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of pazopanib hydrochloride in these patients. II. Evaluate pre- and post-treatment changes in circulating endothelial cells, monocytes and platelets, and angiogenesis-related factors in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients receive oral pazopanib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood collection periodically for correlative studies and pharmacological studies. Samples are analyzed for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and soluble VEGF receptor II concentration via ELISA. Circulating endothelial cells are also measured.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 1 year.