A Study of c-Kit Mutation as MRD in Acute Myeloid Leukemia
C-Kit is involved in an essential pathway of disease occurrence and is closely related to the poor prognosis of patients. However, the clinical significance of c-Kit mutation as molecular MRD monitoring is still unclear. What are the differences and advantages of using c-Kit mutation as MRD in prognostic assessment compared with other MRDs (MFC or RUNX1::RUNX1T1) widely used today? Existing data suggest that patients with one positive and one negative MRD results obtained by two different techniques have a higher risk of recurrence than patients with two negative MRD results but a lower risk of recurrence than patients with two positive MRD results. Therefore, can combining multiple MRD markers, including c-Kit mutations, overcome the shortcomings of a single molecular marker as MRD monitoring? Therefore, this project intends to confirm the clinical significance of quantitative detection of c-Kit mutation as MRD in acute myeloid leukemia.
C-KIT Mutation
CIR, cumulative incidence of recurrence, Within 5 years after treatment
OS, Overall Survival Rate, Within 5 years after treatment|RFS, Relapse-free survival, Within 5 years after treatment
C-Kit is involved in an essential pathway of disease occurrence and is closely related to the poor prognosis of patients. However, the clinical significance of c-Kit mutation as molecular MRD monitoring is still unclear. What are the differences and advantages of using c-Kit mutation as MRD in prognostic assessment compared with other MRDs (MFC or RUNX1::RUNX1T1) widely used today? Existing data suggest that patients with one positive and one negative MRD results obtained by two different techniques have a higher risk of recurrence than patients with two negative MRD results but a lower risk of recurrence than patients with two positive MRD results. Therefore, can combining multiple MRD markers, including c-Kit mutations, overcome the shortcomings of a single molecular marker as MRD monitoring? Therefore, this project intends to confirm the clinical significance of quantitative detection of c-Kit mutation as MRD in acute myeloid leukemia.