Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin or Standard Follow-Up Care in Treating Patients Who Have Undergone Surgery for Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving combination chemotherapy after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery. It is not yet known whether giving capecitabine together with oxaliplatin is more effective than standard follow-up care in treating rectal cancer that was removed by surgery.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying capecitabine and oxaliplatin to see how well they work compared with standard follow-up care in treating patients who have undergone surgery for locally advanced rectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: oxaliplatin|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy|PROCEDURE: standard follow-up care
Disease-free survival at 3 years
Overall survival at 5 years|Toxicity
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy comprising capecitabine and oxaliplatin vs standard follow-up care, in terms of disease-free and overall survival, in patients with clear margins after complete resection of locally advanced rectal cancer.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, controlled, prospective, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to surgeon and nodal status (node positive vs node negative vs unknown). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients undergo standard follow up.
* Arm II: Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14 and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 5 years, and then annually thereafter.

Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 800 patients will be accrued for this study.