Peptide Vaccinations Plus GM-CT-01 in Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the intravenous and/or GM-CT-01 administration can correct Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL) anergy and induce a more efficient and long-lasting anti-tumoral immune response following peptide vaccination.
Metastatic Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Tumor specific peptides: MAGE-3.A1 and / or NA17.A2|BIOLOGICAL: Galectin-3 inhibitor: GM-CT-01 systemic injections|BIOLOGICAL: Galectin-3 inhibitor: GM-CT-01 Peri-tumoral administration
Number of participants with adverse events, Change from baseline in adverse events will be recorded at each patient's visit and up to 30 days after last administration of study drugs. Measurements will use the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects 4,0 scale, 30 days after last administration of Study drugs|Response rate in both arms, Efficacy of the combination of a peptide vaccine and GM-CT-01 injections measures performed by CT-scan or MRI, Change from baseline at week 7 and week 20
Response rate in group 2 versus group 1, To determine whether addition of peri-tumoral injections of GM-CT-01 increase tumor response therefore response rate observed in group 1 will be compared with group 2, Change from baseline at week 7 and week 20|Time to Progression, patients will be followed every three months at consultation and with radiological examination, they will be assessed up to 100 weeks, From date of inclusion until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, which ever came first, assessed up to 100 weeks|Overall Survival, patients will be followed every three months at consultation and with radiological examination, they will be assessed up to 100 weeks, From day of inclusion to date of death|Immunogenicity of the treatment, assessed at baseline and at week 20, Change from baseline at week 20
Translational research, anti-tumoral immunological events in tumor samples obtained before and at progression, baseline and at progression|Pharmacokinetics of GM-CT-01, serum concentration of GM-CT-01, Change from baseline at days 46 to 48
Human cancers express tumor antigens that can be targeted by cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL). These antigens consist of a small peptide, derived from endogenous proteins, that is presented at the cancer cell's surface by an HLA class I molecule. Such antigenic peptides, including MAGE-3.A1 and NA17.A2, have been tested in experimental therapeutic vaccines to elicit CTL responses in cancer patients, mainly with metastatic melanoma. Up to now, only rare tumor responses have been observed.

Tumor resistance to CTL killing is the most likely explanation for the poor effectiveness of cancer vaccines. This resistance is probably acquired by the tumor during its development and selected by its repetitive challenge with spontaneous anti-tumoral immune responses. Recently, we have identified a novel mechanism causing anergy of tumor-associated T lymphocytes, and established new approaches to correct this anergy in vitro. Galectin-3, secreted by tumor cells, appears to inhibit CTL function the co-localization of the T cell receptor and the cluster of differentiation 8 coreceptor. Importantly, this functional defect is restored when anergic T cells are incubated with galectin-3 inhibitors such as the disaccharides lactose and N-acetyllactosamine, and the polysaccharide GM-CT-01. GM-CT-01 is a vegetal galactomannan oligomer, currently under clinical investigation in several types of solid malignancies for its capacity to inhibit galectins and to synergize with chemotherapy drugs.

Our observations suggest that treatment of cancer patients with GM-CT-01 could correct TIL anergy and induce a more efficient and long-lasting anti-tumoral immune response following peptide vaccination.