Ficlatuzumab w/wo Cetuximab in Patients w/Cetuximab-Resistant, Recurrent or Metastatic Head/Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This randomized phase II trial studies how well ficlatuzumab with or without cetuximab works in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma that has come back or spread to other places in the body and resistant to cetuximab treatment. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ficlatuzumab and cetuximab, may block growth signals that lets a tumor cell survive and reproduce, and helps the immune system recognize and fight head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Head and Neck Basaloid Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Unknown Primary Origin|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Head and Neck Cancer|Oropharyngeal Cancer|HNSCC|Stage IV Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|DRUG: Ficlatuzumab
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Will be estimated for each arm using a Kaplan-Meier curve., From the date of randomization until the date of progression or death, assessed up to 2 years
Percentage of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities or Adverse Events, The percentage of participants with dose limiting toxicities in each dosing cohort will be reported, as will the percentage of participants with adverse events in accordance with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4 grading criteria. Will be tabulated and reported with 95% exact confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), Will be estimated for each arm using a Kaplan-Meier curve., From the date of randomization until the date of death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RESIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI w/ contrast: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), the regression of all Target lesions (the sum) by 30% with no progression of Non-targets or presence of new lesion; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. Will be tabulated and reported with 95% exact confidence intervals., Up to 2 years
Change in Quality of Life, Will be assessed by Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy Head and Neck Questionnaire., Pre-study (within 4 weeks of study registration) and Week 4, Cycle 2 of Intervention|Tumor Biomarker Analysis, Will evaluate the relationship between clinical outcomes (progression free survival, response rate) and candidate tumoral biomarkers: Tumor HGF and cMET expression. The relationship with clinical response will be assessed., Up to 2 years|Genomic Biomarker Analysis, To evaluate the relationship between clinical outcomes (Progression-Free Survival and Response Rate) and candidate genomic biomarkers: mutations in PIK3CA, PTEN, and HRAS, Up to 2 years|Peripheral Biomarker Analysis, Will evaluate the relationship between clinical outcomes (progression free survival, response rate) and candidate peripheral biomarkers: peripheral serum biomarkers including HGF, soluble HGF, and IL6; peripheral lymphocyte populations. The relationship with clinical response will be assessed., Up to 2 years|Immune Biomarker Analysis, Will evaluate the relationship between clinical outcomes (progression free survival, response rate) and candidate immune biomarkers: archived and baseline immune filtrate; tumor HPV status. The relationship with clinical response will be assessed., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of ficlatuzumab, with or without concurrent cetuximab, in patients with cetuximab-resistant, recurrent/metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) as measured by progression-free survival (PFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe toxicity. II. To evaluate response rate and overall survival in both treatment arms.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES I. To describe patient reported quality of life

II. To evaluate the relationship between clinical outcomes (Progression-Free Survival and Response Rate) and candidate tumoral, genomic, peripheral, and immune biomarkers, potentially including but not limited to:

* Tumor Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF) and tyrosine-protein kinase Met (cMet) expression
* mutations in PIK3CA, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), and HumanRAS proto-oncogene (HRAS);
* peripheral serum biomarkers including HGF, soluble HGF, and interleukin 6 (IL6);
* peripheral lymphocyte populations;
* archived and baseline immune infiltrate;
* tumor Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) status.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

Arm I: Patients receive ficlatuzumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Arm II: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 60 -120 minutes and ficlatuzumab IV over 30-60 minutes every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.