A Study of Sequential Anlotinib Followed by EP Regimen Plus Concurrent Radiotherapy for Unresectable Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Anlotibib (AL3818) is a kind of innovative medicines approved by State Food and Drug Administration（SFDA:2011L00661） which was researched by Jiangsu Chia-tai Tianqing Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Anlotinib is a kinase inhibitor of receptor tyrosine with multi-targets, especially for VEGFR2、VEGFR3、PDGFRβ and c-Kit. It has the obvious resistance to new angiogenesis. The trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sequential anlotinib followed by EP regimen plus concurrent radiotherapy for unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC).
Unresectable Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Anlotinib Hydrochloride
Progress-free survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 (v1.1), Approximately 12 months.
The recurrence rate in 12-month, The proportion of patients with disease progression within 12 months of the initiation of consolidation treatment with anlotinib., 12 months.|The recurrence rate in 24-month, The proportion of patients with disease progression within 24 months of the initiation of consolidation treatment with anlotinib., 12 months.|The disease control rate in 6-month, The proportion of CR, PR, and SD within 6 months of the initiation of consolidation treatment with anlotinib., 6 months.|The disease control rate in 12-month, The proportion of CR, PR, and SD within 12 months of the initiation of consolidation treatment with anlotinib., 12 months.
Anlotibib (AL3818) is a kind of innovative medicines approved by State Food and Drug Administration（SFDA:2011L00661） which was researched by Jiangsu Chia-tai Tianqing Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Anlotinib is a kinase inhibitor of receptor tyrosine with multi-targets, especially for VEGFR2、VEGFR3、PDGFRβ and c-Kit. It has the obvious resistance to new angiogenesis. The trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sequential anlotinib followed by EP regimen plus concurrent radiotherapy for unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC).