Autologous CD8+ and CD4+ Transgenic T Cells Expressing High Affinity KRASG12V Mutation-Specific T Cell Receptors (FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR) in Treating Patients With Metastatic Solid Tumor Cancers With KRAS G12V Mutations
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of autologous CD8+ and CD4+ transgenic T cells expressing high affinity KRASG12V mutation-specific T cell receptors (FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR) and to see how well they work in treating patients with solid tumor cancers that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). T cells are infection fighting blood cells that can kill tumor cells. The T cells given in this study will come from the patient and will have a new gene put in them that makes them able to recognize KRAS G12V, a protein on the surface of tumor cells. These KRAS G12V-specific T cells may help the body's immune system identify and kill KRAS G12V solid cancer tumor cells.
Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Bendamustine|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|DRUG: Fludarabine|PROCEDURE: Leukapheresis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: T-cell Receptor-engineered T-cells
Incidence of adverse events, Safety and tolerability should be evaluated after each infusion. Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (NCI CTCAE v5.0)., Within 1 year after 1st infusion of (autologous CD8+ and CD4+ transgenic T cells expressing high affinity KRASG12V mutation-specific T cell receptors (FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR)|Dose-limiting toxicity rates, Will be assessed by treatment-related grade 3 or higher toxicity and assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0. The treatment will be considered to have an acceptable safety profile if the observed toxicity rate is consistent with a true rate that does not exceed 35%., From the time of lymphodepletion chemotherapy to 28 days after FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR infusion|Maximum tolerated dose of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR, Will be assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0., From the time of lymphodepletion chemotherapy to 28 days after FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR infusion|Recommended phase 2 dose of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR, Will be assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0., Within 1 year after 1st infusion of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR
Reproducibly generating FHA11KRASG12V- TCR from autologous participant cells (Feasibility), Defined as the ability to reproducibly generate and infuse the T cells for eligible participants and a simple estimate of the proportion along with its 95% confidence interval will be used. Standard methods will be used to estimate each of the secondary endpoints., Within 1 year after eligibility determination|Overall response rate (ORR), Will be assessed by complete (CR) and partial responses (PR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria in treated individuals. Standard methods will be used to estimate each of the secondary endpoints., Within 1 year after 1st infusion of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR|Stable disease (SD), Will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria in treated individuals. Standard methods will be used to estimate each of the secondary endpoints., Within 1 year after 1st infusion of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), CBR will be defined as ORR + SD. Will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria in treated individuals. Standard methods will be used to estimate each of the secondary endpoints., Within 1 year after 1st infusion of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR|ORR, Will be assessed by immune RECIST 1.1 criteria in treated individuals. Standard methods will be used to estimate each of the secondary endpoints., Within 1 year after 1st infusion of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier, with time zero the time of study registration. Standard methods will be used to estimate each of the secondary endpoints., From study registration to disease progression or death of any cause), assessed up to 1 year after 1st infusion of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier, with time zero the time of study registration. Standard methods will be used to estimate each of the secondary endpoints., From study registration to death of any cause, assessed up to 1 year after 1st infusion of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR|Changes in tumor microenvironment, Will be assessed including immune cells phenotype and collagen or cancer associated fibroblasts in tumor biopsies. Standard methods will be used to estimate each of the secondary endpoints., Within 1 year after 1st infusion of FH-A11KRASG12V-TCR
OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of FHA11KRASG12V-TCR.

Patients undergo leukapheresis prior to treatment and receive lymphodepletion chemotherapy with either cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) and fludarabine IV on days -6, -5, and -4, or bendamustine IV on days -4 and -3 at the discretion of the treating clinician and/or principal investigator (PI). Patients then receive FHA11KRASG12V-TCR IV on day 0. Patients may receive an additional FHA11KRASG12V-TCR IV infusion as soon as 28 days or up to 1 year after the first infusion. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) during screening. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as well as blood sample collection and a tissue biopsy at baseline and throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up on day 56, 112, 168, 224, 280 and day 365, then long-term for up to 15 years.