A Decentralized Clinical Trial to Promote Evidence-Based Care for Underserved Patients With Neurofibromatosis 1
The goal of this fully decentralized, randomized controlled trial is to compare the efficacy of two educational interventions for individuals with Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1). The primary objective of the study is to determine which intervention leads to higher rates of evidenced-based health screenings for NF1 patients in primary care settings.

Adults with NF1 and parents/guardians of children with NF1 from across the U.S. who do not go to a specialized NF clinic and who have an upcoming annual wellness visits (e.g. an annual physical, a well-child visit, etc.) scheduled with a primary care provider (PCP) are eligible to enroll in the study. To see if you might be eligible, fill out a prescreening survey here: https://redcap.link/mynfguide
Neurofibromatosis 1
OTHER: Letters about NF1 Care (Content Type 1)|OTHER: Letters about NF1 Care (Content Type 2)
Receipt of Recommended NF1 Health Screenings, Number of AAP and ACMG recommended health screenings received by the person with NF1 at the annual wellness visit with their PCP, as assessed by patient/parent self-report, 2 weeks after PCP visit
Patient Activation Measure®, The Patient Activation Measure will be used to assess patient's and parent's self-efficacy managing their or their child's care. The patient form has 13 items and the parent form has 10 items. The measure has scores ranging from 0-100, where higher scores indicate higher patient/parent activation (e.g. self-efficacy in managing your own or your child's healthcare)., At baseline and 2 weeks after PCP visit|Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS®) Clinician and Group Survey Version 4.0 (Beta): Rating of the Visit, The CAHPS® Rating of the Visit will be used to assess patient/parent satisfaction with the visit. This rating is a single item scored from 0 to 10, where higher scores indicated a better visit., 2 weeks after PCP visit|Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS®) Clinician and Group Survey Version 4.0 (Beta): How Well Providers Communicate With Patients Subscale, The subscale will be used to assess How Well Providers Communicate With Patients. This scale will be scored from 0 to 100, where higher scores indicated better communication with patients., 2 weeks after PCP visit|Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS®) Clinician and Group Survey Version 4.0 (Beta): Providers' Use of Information to Coordinate Patient Care Subscale, The subscale will be used to assess Providers' Use of Information to Coordinate Patient Care. This scale will be scored from 0 to 100, where higher scores indicate better use of information to coordinate care., 2 weeks after PCP visit
Background: The majority of individuals with Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) in the United States lack access to specialized NF1 clinics and consequently don't receive care aligned with national recommendations. To address this gap in care, researchers are evaluating two interventions to determine which one helps people get recommended NF1-related health screenings at their annual wellness visit with a primary care provider.

Methods: Participants (adult patients or parents) who enroll in the study will complete baseline survey assessments online before their PCP visit and then be randomized to one of two groups. Both groups will be given letters, one for themselves and one for their clinician, that describe NF1 care recommendations. After attending their annual wellness visit, all participants will be asked to complete an online follow-up survey. A small subsample of participants will also be asked to do a virtual qualitative interview. No visits to Massachusetts General Hospital are required for this study.