The NUTRIENT Trial (NUTRitional Intervention Among myEloproliferative Neoplasms): Feasibility Phase
The purpose of this study is to determine whether MPN patient are able to adhere to a dietary intervention. Participants will be randomized to one of two healthy diets. Participants will receive in person dietician counseling and online curriculum. Adherence will be measured using online surveys and phone diet recalls. Changes in inflammatory markers in blood will also be measured at 5 time points during this 15 week study.
Myeloproliferative Disorder|Myeloproliferative Syndrome|Myelofibrosis|Polycythemia Vera|Essential Thrombocythemia
OTHER: USDA Diet|OTHER: Mediterranean Diet
14-point Mediterranean Diet Adherence Screener (MEDAS), 14 question survey assessing adherence to a Mediterranean diet. This is a 14 question survey, with possible 1 point per question. A perfect adherence to a Mediterranean Diet is 14 on this survey (min 0 max 14). Higher values represent closer adherence to a Mediterranean diet., 15 weeks
Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form Total Symptom Score (MPN-SAF TSS), MPN Symptom Assessment Form Total Symptom Score (MPN-SAF TSS) score, a validated measure for quantifying symptom burden in MPN. This is a 10 item survey, with each question answered on a scale of 0 to 10. The minimum score is 0, the maximum score is 100. Higher numbers mean a higher symptom burden., 15 weeks|Inflammatory cytokines, Measurement of inflammatory cytokines in the plasma. This includes EGF, Eotaxin, FGF-basic, G-CSF, GM-CSF, HGF, IFN-alpha, IFN-gamma, IL-1 beta, IL-1 alpha, IL-1RA, IL-2, IL-2R, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-12 (p40/p70) IL-13, IL-15, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-22, IP-10, MCP-1, MIG, MIP-1 alpha, MIP-1 beta, RANTES, TNF-alpha, VEGF., 15 weeks
This is a 15 week study, including 10 weeks of active diet intervention. Each participant will receive one dietician counseling session at the beginning of the diet intervention period, two brief follow up dietician phone calls, and 10 diet education handouts delivered via email each week. The main objective of this protocol is to test whether MPN patients can adhere to a diet intervention. The investigators will measure adherence in both arms with patient reported diet recall every two weeks via internet surveys. As exploratory endpoints the investigators will measure changes in inflammatory markers, symptom burden, physical activity level, sleep, and gut microbiome in participants over the course of the study. If successful, the investigators plan to use this intervention in a larger trial to assess whether a diet intervention can effectively change symptom burden and inflammation in MPN patients.