Iadademstat in Combination With Paclitaxel in Relapsed/Refractory SCLC and Extrapulmonary High Grade NET
This is a non-randomized single-arm, two cohorts, phase II study of iadademstat in combination with weekly paclitaxel in patients with relapse/refractory SCLC or extrapulmonary G3 Neuroendocrine Carcinomas. A total of 42 patients with SCLC (21 patients) and G3 NEC (21 patients) will be enrolled (including those enrolled in the safety lead-in portion).
Small-cell Lung Cancer|Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
DRUG: Iadademstat|DRUG: Paclitaxel
To evaluate the efficacy in terms of response rate of iadademstat combination with paclitaxel in relapsed/refractory SCLC and extrapulmonary high grade neuroendocrine cancers. Assessments will be performed after every 2 cycles of treatments., To determine Overall response rate (ORR) per RECIST1.1 ORR is defined as patients who meet criteria for Complete Response (CR) or Partial response (PR)., 2 years
To determine the Rate of grade III or higher toxicities, To evaluate the safety of iadademstat in combination with paclitaxel in relapsed/refractory SCLC and extrapulmonary high grade neuroendocrine cancers using CTCAE version 5.0, 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), defined as the time from initiation of study drug until documented radiographic progression, clinical progression, death, or the end of follow-up, whichever occurs first., To determine Progression Free Survival as per RECIST 1.1, 2 years
Patients with SCLC or extrapulmonary high grade neuroendocrine carcinomas with progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy will be enrolled on this multi-center, single-arm phase II study.

Patients must have histologically proven metastatic/unresectable SCLC or extrapulmonary G3 NEC (Ki-67 index \> 20% with poorly differentiated histology), or metastatic/unresectable prostate or bladder cancer with high-grade neuroendocrine or small cell component. Patients must have received at least 1, but no more than 3 prior lines of therapy, which must include a platinum based agent. Patients will be treated with iadademstat given at a dose of 150 microgram PO administered on a 5 day on-2 day off schedule every week and weekly paclitaxel at a dose of 80 mg/m2 IV). This fix dose of 150 microgram (liquid formulation) is in line with the 90 mg /m2/d BSA adjusted dose selected as RP2D in a 5d on, 2d off weekly schedule for iadademstat liquid formulation in combination with azacitidine per the ALICE AML Ph2 trial that showed to consistently achieve on average 90% target engagement. A safety lead-in phase with 12 patients will be conducted and these patients will be included in the final analysis.

total of 42 patients with SCLC (21 patients) and G3 NEC (21 patients) will be enrolled (including those enrolled in the safety lead-in portion).