Adapted Physical Activity in a Chemotherapy Ambulatory Care Unit: Feasibility and Impact on Fatigue, Anxiety and Depression in Cancer Patients
Physical activity has demonstrated efficacy in cancer prevention and improves quality of life and outcome in cancer survivors. Patients undergoing chemotherapy, especially those with advanced disease, may have symptoms leading to inactivity. Adapted physical activity (APA) among those patients could improve their tolerance to the treatment, and thereby their quality of life. APA could be beneficial to patients with curable disease as well as patients undergoing palliative chemotherapy. Some studies suggest that fighting against loss of muscle mass could lead to a survival benefit. However, APA is not established in daily practice and has not yet been evaluated in a chemotherapy ambulatory care unit.

Primary aim of the study is to assess feasibility of an APA program in a chemotherapy ambulatory care unit of digestive, lung, hematological and dermatological cancers Secondary aim is to measure the impact of an APA program on fatigue, anxiety, depression and handgrip strength in patients beginning chemotherapy or targeted therapy for a digestive, lung, hematological or dermatological cancer, of any stage.
Adapted Physical Activity and Cancer
OTHER: Program of adapted physical activity
Feasibility of APA program, Percentage of patients accepting APA program, Day 0
fatigue, Fatigue evaluating using the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory. The Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI) is a 20-item self-report instrument assessing the following items: general fatigue, physical fatigue, mental fatigue, reduced motivation and reduced activity. It has been validated to assess fatigue in cancer patients., Month 3|Anxiety, Anxiety evaluating using Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) measures anxiety and depression, in a two factors model, without confounding with somatic or psychiatric disorders, and has been validated in cancer patients., Month 3|Fatigue, Fatigue evaluating using the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory. The Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI) is a 20-item self-report instrument assessing the following items: general fatigue, physical fatigue, mental fatigue, reduced motivation and reduced activity., Month 6|Anxiety, Anxiety evaluating using Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) measures anxiety and depression, in a two factors model, without confounding with somatic or psychiatric disorders, and has been validated in cancer patients., Month 6|handgrip strength, handgrip strength evaluating using Hand grip test. Hand grip test allows the measurement of muscle strength of the upper limbs, which is a reflection of the overall strength of an individual. Thresholds for the loss of muscle strength are \<17kg in women and \<30 kg in men., Month 3|handgrip strength, handgrip strength evaluating using Hand grip test. Hand grip test allows the measurement of muscle strength of the upper limbs, which is a reflection of the overall strength of an individual. Thresholds for the loss of muscle strength are \<17kg in women and \<30 kg in men., Month 6
Assess feasibility of an APA program in a chemotherapy ambulatory care unit of digestive, lung, hematological, and dermatological cancers Measure the impact of an APA program on fatigue, anxiety, depression, handgrip strength