Study of CBP501 + Pemetrexed + Cisplatin on MPM (Phase I/II)
The phase I part of the study is a dose-finding study of escalating doses of CBP501 combined with full-dose cisplatin and pemetrexed in patients with histologically confirmed solid malignancy that is metastatic or unresectable and for which standard curative or palliative measures do not exist or are no longer effective or would otherwise be eligible for cisplatin and pemetrexed as first-line therapy. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be determined based on DLTs occurring during the first treatment cycle. Pharmacokinetics of the triplet combination will be assessed during the phase I part of the trial.

The phase II part will evaluate full-dose cisplatin and pemetrexed combined with CBP501 (at the MTD determined in the phase I part) in previously untreated, unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma patients. Patients will be randomized in a 2 : 1 ratio to pemetrexed, cisplatin and CBP501 (Arm A) or to pemetrexed and cisplatin (Arm B); randomization will be stratified according to histology and performance status.
Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma|Solid Tumors
DRUG: pemetrexed, cisplatin and CBP501|DRUG: pemetrexed and cisplatin|DRUG: pemetrexed, cisplatin and CBP501, dose finding
4M PFS Rate of Patients With Previously Untreated, Unresectable Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma (MPM) Treated With CBP501, Pemetrexed and Cisplatin, Planned: Forty-two patients were to be treated in Arm A. If ≥ 23 patients (\>54%) were free of progression and death at 4 months, then the study regimen would be considered for further evaluation in this indication., End of study
This is an open-label, multicenter, international, phase I-II study. The phase I part, a dose-finding study of escalating doses of CBP501 combined with fixed full-dose cisplatin and pemetrexed, has been completed and results are presented in this report. MTD was determined on DLT occurring during the first cycle. This phase I part was evaluated in a patient population with advanced solid tumors The phase II part will evaluate full-dose cisplatin and pemetrexed combined with CBP501 at the MTD determined in the phase I part. Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to pemetrexed, cisplatin and CBP501 (Arm A) or pemetrexed and cisplatin (Arm B). This phase II part will be evaluated in chemotherapy-naïve patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma

Randomization will be stratified by:

* Histology: epithelial vs other (sarcomatoid or biphasic)
* Performance status: 0-1 vs 2