Trial for Microarray Analysis of Colon Cancer Outcome-A (MACCO-A)
The purpose of this study is to determine if the investigators can predict the sensitivity or resistance of colon cancer to the two available first line chemotherapy agents.
Adenocarcinoma|Colon Cancer
DRUG: XELOX|DRUG: XELIRI|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Number of Participants Per Treatment Arm, Per Tumor Tissue Response Classifier, Investigators would develop tumor tissue classifiers to predict response to the XELOX arm or XELIRI arm; with gene expression profiles on 75 patients on each of 2 arms, construct 2 classifiers to distinguish responders (complete responses, partial responses, stable disease) from non-responders (progressive disease)., 30 Days After End of Treatment - Average of 6 Months
Number of Participants Per Treatment Arm, With Overall Survival (OS), Investigators planned to evaluate the overall survival of colorectal cancer (CRC) patients treated with XELOX + bevacizumab (Arm A) or XELIRI + bevacizumab (Arm B)., 30 Days After End of Treatment - Average of 6 Months|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Review of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) To assess the toxicity associated with Arms A and B. Response rates and toxicity rates for each arm were to be estimated and exact (using Casella's method) 95% confidence intervals for those proportions computed. With the anticipated 75 patients in each arm, these estimated proportions would have standard errors not exceeding 7%., 30 Days After End of Treatment - Average of 6 Months
Colorectal cancer is the third largest cause of cancer mortality in the United States. The treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer is undergoing rapid improvement. Currently, there are two major chemotherapy regimens, which can both be combined with anti-angiogenesis treatment. These regimens are 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) + irinotecan and 5-FU + oxaliplatin. Each therapy has roughly similar rates of response, but it is unclear which specific therapy would benefit which patients. The advent of genome wide expression analysis provides a tool to analyze these differences. In the microarray analysis of colon cancer outcome trial, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Moffitt Cancer Center, patients with newly diagnosed metastatic colon cancer are biopsied and samples are preserved in ribonucleic acid (RNA) later. Patients are then randomized to either one of two state of the art regimens: capecitabine + irinotecan + avastin (bevacizumab) or capecitabine + oxaliplatin + avastin. Response to chemotherapy, time to progression, and overall survival are end points of this trial. Once accrual of patients has been met, the investigators will compare genome wide expression patterns for each group.