Study to Evaluate Safety and Efficacy of DB-020 to Protect Hearing in Patients Receiving Cisplatin for Cancer Treatment
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether DB-020 administered via an injection in the middle ear prevents hearing loss in participants who will receive high doses of cisplatin as part of their treatment for cancer.
Ototoxicity
DRUG: DB-020|DRUG: Placebo
Number of patients with treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and/or abnormal changes from baseline in clinical laboratory abnormalities and/or vital signs and/or ECG assessments, To investigate the safety and tolerability of DB-020 when given intratympanically to patients receiving cisplatin chemotherapy treatment, From screening/baseline (Day -28 to Day -2) or day of first dose of DB-020 (Cycle 1 Day 1) for up to 6 cycles (21 or 28 day cycles) through End of Treatment Visit (28 days after last dose of study drug), up to 196 Days after first dose of study drug
Incidence of Ototoxicity measured by American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) criteria, Air conduction audiometry consists of a set of pure tones presented to the patient through small speakers in a headset, played at carrier frequencies ranging from 250 to 16,000 Hz. Pure tone thresholds are recorded for each frequency tested. Ototoxicity will be defined according to the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) criteria for significant ototoxic change. Significant ototoxic change must meet one of the following three criteria: (i) ≥20 dB decrease at any one test frequency, (ii) ≥10 dB decrease at any two adjacent frequencies, or (iii) loss of response at three consecutive frequencies where responses were previously obtained. The presence of ototoxicity will be calculated for each ear, Baseline (Day -5 to Day -1) for up to 6 cycles (21 or 28 day cycles) through End of Treatment Visit (28 days after last dose of study drug), up to 196 Days after first dose of study drug|Changes from Baseline in Pure Tone Threshold Values compared to End of Treatment [Changes in Hearing], Air conduction audiometry consists of a set of pure tones presented to the patient through small speakers in a headset, played at carrier frequencies ranging from 250 to 16,000 Hz. Pure tone thresholds are recorded for each frequency tested. Higher values indicate a greater degree of hearing impairment. Changes from baseline values will be calculated for each frequency and ear as the reported pure tone threshold value minus the baseline value. A negative change from baseline indicates hearing loss, Baseline (Day -5 to Day -1) for up to 6 cycles (21 or 28 day cycles) through End of Treatment Visit (28 days after last dose of study drug), up to 196 Days after first dose of study drug|Changes from Baseline in Tinnitus Functional Index (TFI) Total Score compared to End of Treatment [Changes in Hearing], The TFI is a 25-item self-assessment scale comprised of eight subscales (intrusiveness, sense of control, cognitive, sleep, auditory, relaxation, quality of life, and emotional) measuring the impact of tinnitus. Items are scored on a range of 0 to 10. The TFI Total Score is calculated as the mean of the 25 individual item scores multiplied by 10. The Total Score can range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate a greater degree of tinnitus-related impairment. Change from baseline values will be calculated as the reported TFI value minus the baseline value. A positive change from baseline indicates more tinnitus-related impairment, Baseline (Day -5 to Day -1) for up to 6 cycles (21 or 28 day cycles) through End of Treatment Visit (28 days after last dose of study drug), up to 196 Days after first dose of study drug|Changes from Baseline in Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) Values compared to End of Treatment [Changes in Hearing], Distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) is defined as sound generated within the cochlea by stimulating the ear with two simultaneous tones of different frequency. DPOAEs serve as an objective measure of hearing sensitivity. Tones will be played from low to high frequencies (1 to 4 kHz) at soft to moderate levels to assess responses at different regions of the inner ear. DP levels will be recorded for each frequency and ear. Higher DP levels indicate more sensitive hearing. Change from baseline values will be calculated as the reported DP level value minus the baseline value. A negative change from baseline indicates less sensitive hearing, Baseline (Day -5 to Day -1) and Cycle 1 Day 1 (21 or 28 day cycles) and End of Treatment Visit (28 days after last dose of study drug), up to 196 Days after first dose of study drug|Changes from Baseline in Words-in-Noise (WIN) Values compared to End of Treatment [Changes in Hearing], The WIN test is a series of trials to measure the ability to accurately recognize speech in noise. In each trial, a series of 5 words is read to the listener with the instruction to repeat each word. The number of correct responses is captured. Trials are presented at 7 signal-to-noise ratios, from 0 to 24 dB, in steps of 4 dB. WIN thresholds are then calculated for each ear using the Spearman-Kaerber method. Higher WIN thresholds indicate better word recognition. Change from baseline values will be calculated for each ear as the reported WIN threshold value minus the baseline value. A negative change from baseline indicates worse word recognition, Baseline (Day -5 to Day -1) and Cycle 1 Day 1 (21 or 28 day cycles) and End of Treatment Visit (28 days after last dose of study drug), up to 196 Days after first dose of study drug|Changes from Baseline in Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults (HHIA) Total Score compared to End of Treatment [Changes in Hearing], The Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults (HHIA) is a 25-item self-assessment scale comprised of two subscales (emotional and social/situational) measuring the impact of hearing loss. Items are scored on a range of 0 to 4. The HHIA Total Score is calculated as the sum of the 25 individual item scores. The HHIA Total Score can range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate a greater degree of hearing impairment. Change from baseline values will be calculated as the reported HHIA value minus the baseline value. A positive change from baseline indicates more hearing impairment, Baseline (Day -5 to Day -1) and Cycle 1 Day 1 (21 or 28 day cycles) and End of Treatment Visit (28 days after last dose of study drug), up to 196 Days after first dose of study drug|Plasma Concentrations of DB-020, Predose and 0.25 hours prior to cisplatin administration on Cycle 1 Day 1 (21 or 28 day cycles)|Maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax) of free (unbound) cisplatin, 0.25 hours predose, mid-point of IV infusion, end of infusion, 0.25, 0.5, 1 & 2 hours postdose on Day 1 of each cycle (21 or 28 day cycles)|Area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC 0-inf) of free (unbound) cisplatin, 0.25 hours predose, mid-point of IV infusion, end of infusion, 0.25, 0.5, 1 & 2 hours postdose on Day 1 of each cycle (21 or 28 day cycles)|Time to reach maximum observed plasma concentration (tmax) of free (unbound) cisplatin, 0.25 hours predose, mid-point of IV infusion, end of infusion, 0.25, 0.5, 1 & 2 hours postdose on Day 1 of each cycle (21 or 28 day cycles)|Half-life (t1/2) of plasma concentrations of free (unbound) cisplatin, 0.25 hours predose, mid-point of IV infusion, end of infusion, 0.25, 0.5, 1 & 2 hours postdose on Day 1 of each cycle (21 or 28 day cycles)
Cisplatin is a widely used and effective chemotherapy in the treatment of adult and pediatric solid tumors, including bladder, testicular, head and neck, and lung cancers. Serious side effects of cisplatin treatment include ototoxicity. To date, no approved therapy to prevent or treat ototoxicity exists for people receiving cisplatin treatment, which remains the most common dose-limiting side effect associated with cisplatin administration.

Participants who will be undergoing cancer treatment with high doses of cisplatin every 21 or 28 days will receive IT injection with one ear receiving DB-020 and one ear receiving placebo during each administration. The study will comprise 2 parts. In Part A, eligible participants will be randomized to one of two doses of DB-020. In Part B, participants will be treated with a single dose of DB-020, as selected from data collected in Part A. In both Parts A and B, the ear receiving DB-020 or placebo will be randomized. The choice of dose in Part B will depend on the data from Part A. If appropriate safety and efficacy is observed at either dose level, the Sponsor has the option of dosing at one of these concentrations either unilaterally (ie, with placebo administered in the contralateral ear) or bilaterally (ie, open-label DB-020 administered to both ears) in Part B.