Trial of Neoadjuvant Endostar, Docetaxel and Epirubicin for Patients With Breast Cancer
This study was designed to determine the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant docetaxel and epirubicin (DE) with or without human recombinant endostatin (endostar) for breast cancer patients. The hypothesis of this protocol is that a combined angiogenesis inhibiting therapy to chemotherapy could further benefit breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: docetaxel and epirubicin|DRUG: docetaxel and epirubicin plus endostatin
Clinical/pathological response, The clincial response will be evaluated according to RECIST criteria. The parameters of tumor metabolism and blood supply, as demonstrated by PET, MRA and CEUS, will be collected and analysed., 3 years
Number of participants with adverse events, The number of participants with adverse events will be recorded and analysed., 3 years|Quality of life, Quality of life is scored using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life of Questionnaire (QLQ30) at study entry and prior to surgery., 3 years|Number of adverse events reported during neoadjuvant therapy, The adverse events during neoadjuvant therapy will be graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) version 2.0., 3 years
This is a multicenter, prospective, randomized, controlled phase Ⅲ clinical trial. A total of 800 patients with core-biopsy confirmed breast cancer, stage ⅡA to ⅢC, and to be treated with neoadjuvant systemic therapy are eligible for entry into this study. Patients will be allocated randomly to two groups to receive either 3 cycles of neoadjuvant DE and endostar or 3 cycles of neoadjuvant DE. All cases receive mammography, contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning pre- and post-neoadjuvant therapy, and then undergo surgical resection. The primary endpoint is clinical/pathological response. The clinical response will be evaluated according to RECIST criteria. The parameters of tumor metabolism and blood supply, as demonstrated by PET, MRA and CEUS, will be collected and analysed. The secondary endpoint is (1) the number of participants with adverse events, (2) quality of life scores, and (3) the number of adverse events reported during neoadjuvant therapy. In addition, the role of mammography, CEUS, MRA and PET for response evaluation, as well as the angiogenic profile and biological information involved in tumor response will be investigated.