FOLFOX6 Totally Neoadjuvant Chemoradiation Therapy in Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer: A Real World Study
Preoperative 5FU based chemoradiotherapy is still the standard of treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer. About 15-20% of patients would achieve pathologic complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant CRT, and the survival outcome was much better than that of non-pCR. Total neoadjuvant treatment had been evaluated a lot in recent years, including induction chemotherapy or consolidation chemotherapy, or concurrent chemoradiotherapy. We aimed to evaluated the safety and efficacy of total neoadjuvant treatemnt in locally advanced rectal cancer.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: mFOLFOX6|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Pathological complete response rate, The pathologic outcome after neoadjuvant CRT showed no tumor residual., 2 years
Safety and compliance of treatment, The adverse events after total neoadjuvant treatment, 2 years|The ratio of tumor downstaging to stage 0 and stage I, Tumor downstaging from stage II or III to pathologic complete response (stage 0) and stage I, 2 years|Disease free survival, 3 years recurrence free survival of this group of patients, 3 years
Preoperative 5FU based chemoradiotherapy is still the standard of treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer. About 15-20% of patients would achieve pathologic complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant CRT, and the survival outcome was much better than that of non-pCR. However, distant metastasis would occur in about 30% of patients even after CRT. To improve the survival of rectal cancer patients, we hope to improve the pCR rate. In our previous FOWARC study, mFOLFOX6 with radiation had the pCR rate of 27.5%. It had been reported that adding FOLFOX after neoadjuvant chemo radiation in locally advanced rectal cancer would improve pCR rate. Nowadays, induction or consolidation chemotherapy or concurrent chemoradiotherapy had been used in clincal practice. Here, we are going to evaluate the safety and efficacy of total neoadjuvant therapy in real world.