RENEW: Feasibility of CMV RNA-Pulsed Dendritic Cells Vaccines for the Treatment of Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Patients.
In prior trials of CMV RNA-pulsed dendritic cell vaccines, there has been a narrow window between surgery and initiation of chemoradiation to enroll patients and perform leukapheresis (to obtain cells needed to generate investigational vaccine). Patients who had started chemoradiation were not eligible to participate.

In this study, the investigators propose to conduct a pilot study to evaluate the ability to generate pp65 full-length LAMP RNA-pulsed DCs in patients who have completed standard external beam radiation and concomitant temozolomide who are receiving adjuvant temozolomide chemotherapy at the time of enrollment.
Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous DCs derived from PBMC loaded with RNA encoding the human CMV matrix protein pp65-flLAMP plus GM-CSF
Ability to generate CMV pp65 RNA-pulsed DCs in patients receiving adjuvant temozolomide chemotherapy after radiotherapy., Proportion of patients who are able to generate at least 3 CMV pp65 RNA-pulsed DCs vaccines, Leukapheresis to investigational product release date or up to 6 weeks
This pilot study will enroll adult patients with newly diagnosed WHO Grade IV glioma (GBM) who have completed standard of care chemoradiation and are receiving adjuvant temozolomide chemotherapy. Patients will undergo leukapheresis and resume their adjuvant chemotherapy cycles following their treatment plan for 1 to 2 cycles while CMV pp65 RNA-pulsed DCs are generated.

After QA/QC release, study Vaccine #1 will be given at day 22-24 of the TMZ cycle. All patients will receive Td booster (5 Lf) with Vaccine #1 regardless of booster history. Vaccine #2 and #3 will occur at 2-week intervals.

The following TMZ cycle will start about 2 weeks after Vaccine #3. Patients may complete up to 6 to 12 adjuvant cycles every 5 weeks with pp65 full-length RNA-pulsed DCs administered at day 22-24 of each cycle until all available vaccines are exhausted with a maximum of 10 study vaccines or until disease progression (whichever comes first).