Clinical Trial to Evaluate Papilocare® Gel Efficacy Into Repairment of Cervical Lesions Caused by HPV
Clinical Trial phase III, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled and parallel-group clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of Papilocare gel in the repair of cervical lesions caused by HPV.

The study is divided into two parts. All patients included in the study will be randomized (1: 1) to one of the 2 study groups, Papilocare or placebo, using a randomization list and in double-blind conditions.
HPV Infection|Lesion Cervix
DEVICE: PAPILOCARE|DEVICE: PLACEBO
cervical mucosal repair, Percentage of patients with cervical lesions negativization confirmed be cytology and accordance colposcopy , at 6 months will be used to evaluate the main variables, degree of cervical mucosal repair in HPV-positive women with ASC-US or LSIL., 6 months
Reepithelialization degree of the cervical mucosa, Percentage of patients with negativity of cervical lesions by cytology and accordance colposcopy, at 3 months, at 3 months|Percentage of patients with Viral clearance, Percentage of patients with initial HPV clearance measured by PCR at 3 and 6 months., 3 and 6 months.|Vaginal health status measured by vaginal health index (VHI), Changes in the VHI (vaginal health index -Bachmann) at 3 and 6 months.

VHI was developed in order to objectively assess female urogenital health (Bachmann GMaturitas. 1995 Dec; 22 Suppl():S1-S5.). This test evaluates overall elasticity, fluid secretion type and consistency, vaginal pH, epithelial mucosa and moisture. Minimum score is 5 and maximum is 25. Lower scores corresponds to greater urogenital atrophy., 3 and 6 months.|Stress perceived by patients measured by PSS-14 (Perceived Stress Scale 14 items), Changes PSS-14 scale (Perceived Stress Scale 14 items) at 3 and 6 months.

The PSS-14 is comprised of 14 items, score ranges from 0-56, with higher scores indicating greater perceived stress, 3 and 6 months.|Safety and tolerability of Papilocare® gel: Record of the incidence, nature and severity of adverse events, Record of the incidence, nature and severity of adverse events: during the 6 months of treatment duration., 6 months|Satisfaction degree with Papilocare gel use: Likert type scale, Patients satisfaction degree with papilocare gel use as treatment will be evaluated by a likert type scale.

A Likert scale is a psychometric scale commonly involved in research that employs questionnaires. It is the most widely used approach to scaling responses in survey research.Likert scaling assumes distances between each choice (answer option) are equal. Higher scores corresponds to better satisfaction with papilocare gel use., 3 and 6 months.
Change of biopsy results (optional), Only in cases that a biopsy has been performed per routine, the change or maintenance of biopsy results will be evaluated., 3 and 6 months.
Phase III, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled and parallel-group clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of Papilocare gel in the repair of cervical lesions caused by HPV.

The study is divided into two parts. All patients included in the study will be randomized (1: 1) to one of the 2 study groups, Papilocare or placebo, using a randomization list and in double-blind conditions.

The study is divided into 2 parts, the first 100 randomized patients will receive treatment with an administration regimen in both arms: 1 cannula / day for 1 month + 1 cannula on alternate days for 5 months (except for menstruation days). The second part of the study, randomized patients from position 101 to 200, will receive treatment with an administration regimen in both arms: 1 cannula / day for 3 months + 1 cannula on alternate days for 3 months (except the days of menstruation).

Duration of treatment: 6 months Total study duration: 13 months in 5 visits: selection visit, V0 or randomization visit (30 days), V1(Month 3), V2 (Month 6), V3 (Month 12).