Single-center, Prospective Cohort Study of PD-1 Inhibitors on Clinical Outcomes of Carotid Plaques in Tumor Patients
This is a single-center, prospective cohort study on the comparison of clinical outcomes of carotid plaques in PD-1-treated tumor patients vs non-PD-1-treated tumor patients.
Carotid Artery Plaque|Pd-1 Inhibitors
DRUG: PD-1 inhibitor
Carotid plaque area, Carotid plaque area measured by ultrasound (cross-sectional area of longitudinal views of all plaques seen) to quantify the increase or decrease of atherosclerotic carotid plaques., 3 months|The mean intima-media thickness of the common carotid artery, It was measured over a segment of the common carotid artery that was 1 cm long, located approximately 0.5 cm below the carotid-artery bulb, and considered not to contain any plaque (i.e., not to have any perceivable protrusion of the artery wall into the lumen)., 3 months|The maximum intima-media thickness of the internal carotid artery, It was defined as the greatest intima-media thickness in either the right or left internal carotid artery extending from the bulb to 1 cm above the carotid sinus, ascertained from a total of four views on each side., 3 months
Atherosclerosis, a chronic inflammatory disorder, leads to cardio-cerebrovascular diseases, causing most of the global deaths. The chronic and non-resolved inflammatory responses of both innate and adaptive immune cells are involved in the all-stage pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. The impairment of inflammatory resolution promotes atherogenesis and causes instability of atherosclerotic plaques. Their subsequent rupture would induce severe cardio-cerebrovascular incidences (e.g., acute myocardial infarction and ischemic strokes). Recent progress in anti-inflammatory immunotherapies on human atherosclerosis opens the door to resolving this inflammatory disorder by targeting the immune system. However, the impacts of PD-1 immune checkpoint blockades on the progressions of human carotid plaques are not determined yet.

This is a prospective cohort study, which aims to evaluate the effectiveness of PD-1 immune checkpoint blockades on atherosclerotic carotid plaques in tumor patients in comparison to those with non-PD-1-treated tumor patients. The method for quantification and evaluation of atherosclerotic plaques are based on: (1) the mean intima-media thickness of the common carotid artery (Mean CCA thickness); (2) the maximum intima-media thickness of the internal carotid artery (maximum ICA thickness); (3) Carotid plaque areas: by calculation of the plaque area of atherosclerotic plaques on the long axis direction of artery on the ultrasound images. By comparing the above-mentioned parameters at the same location of the carotid artery in the patients when initiating the first dose of anti-PD-1 or non-PD-1 chemotherapy and 3 months after anti-PD-1 or non-PD-1 chemotherapy. It is designed to assess the effectiveness of PD-1 immune checkpoint blockades or non-PD-1 chemotherapy on the clinical prognosis of carotid plaques after a period of 3-month treatment.