Lung Cancer, Exercise and Force Development
This study evaluates the effectiveness of a supervised one-leg resistance training program in patients with inoperable lung cancer with the primary outcome being rate of force development.

Study design: Single center, two-armed, parallel-group, randomized controlled trial. The primary outcome being rate of force development after 12 weeks of progressive resistance training.
Lung Cancer
OTHER: Resistance training
Muscle strength/function: Rate of Force Development (RFD), The between group change in Rate of Force Development (Nm/s) of the knee extensors. Assessed in the CON-TREX MJ dynamometer., Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks
Functionality: 6 minutes walk test (6-MWT), Change in walking distance, Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks|Lean leg mass, The between group change in lean leg mass (kg) assessed by whole-body dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan, Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks|Functionality: Postural balance, Postural one-leg balance on a 5-cm high, 3-cm wide, and 50-cm long plastic bar. Between group change in number of times the participants steps off the bar or needs support to prevent falling in a period of 1 min., Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks|Functionality: Sit-to-stand (30s STS), Change in sit-to-stand in 30 seconds, Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks|Functionality: Sit-to-stand (5reps STS), Change in time for 5 STS repetitions, Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks|Muscle strength/function: 1 RM, The between group change in 1 repetition maximum in knee-extension and leg-press, Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks|Muscle strength/function: Power, The between group change in maximum isometric knee extension power (Nm). Assessed in the CON-TREX MJ dynamometer., Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks|Muscle strength/function: Isokinetic strength, The between group change in maximum isokinetic knee extension power (Nm) (60 degrees/s). Assessed in the CON-TREX MJ dynamometer., Baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks
Muscular dysfunction and sarcopenia are known phenomena in cancer patients, and patients experience reduced muscle function and muscle loss regardless of cancer type or stage. Studies indicate that there are a number of cancer-specific and non-cancer-specific factors that influence muscle dysfunction, such as age, poor nutrition, physical inactivity, cancer pathology and treatment preparations. The decreased muscle function can ultimately lead to cachexia, typically seen in stage III - IV lung cancer patients.

Previous studies have focused on 1-RM tests, muscle mass and functionality as outcomes. However, a central aspect of functionality in lung cancer patients may be the muscle's ability to develop force in a short time. The present study therefore has rate of force development as a primary outcome with muscle mass and functionality as supporting outcomes. In addition, the patients in this study will perform one-leg resistance exercise with the other leg as the control leg. This will eliminate the interpersonal bias normally seen in randomized controlled trials.