MRI/Ultrasound Fusion Guided Laser Ablation of Prostate Cancer
This serves as a registration trial. It aims to record short, intermediate, and long-term outcomes of patients treated with targeted laser ablation of biopsy confirmed prostate cancer. Outcomes will be categorized as: 1- Procedure Related, 2- Perioperative - Adverse Events that may occur within 90 days, 3-Oncologic: Recurrence of cancer in treatment area, de-novo tumors, conversion to radical surgery, radiation or cryoablation, emergence of metastasis, 4- Functional: Sexual and Urinary function following treatment
Neoplasms Prostate|Cancer of the Prostate
DEVICE: Image Fusion (MR/US) Software Registration Guided Laser Ablation of Prostate Cancer
Primary Oncological Control, Negative CANCER Rate in treated area after fusion biopsy, 1 Year
Perioperative Outcomes, Rate of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events following CTCAE v5 classification, 90 days|Urinary Function, Rate of AUA symptoms score less than 7 (Scale 0-35)., 5 years|Sexual Function, Rate of Sexual Inventory for men scores above 15 (Scale 1-25), 5 years|Radiological Cancer Control, Rate of Detection of discrete lesions following multi-parametric prostate MRI, 5 Years
Rate of Conversion to Whole gland treatment - Salvage Treatment, Conversion to radical surgery or radiation or cryoablation, 10 years|Rate of development of metastasis, Detection of metastatic disease, 10 years
CLINICAL REGISTRY OBSERVATION NATURE

This serves as a registration trial evaluating short, intermediate, and long-term outcomes of patients treated with targeted laser ablation of biopsy confirmed prostate cancer. The primary outcome measure is 1-year oncological control of the targeted ablated area. The following secondary aims are sought: PROCEDURE RELATED: tolerability, feasibility, pain during this office-based procedure. PERIOPERATIVE: Adverse Events (AEs) and Series AEs profile during the initial 90 days after the procedure. ONCOLOGIC - In addition to primary aim, determine risk and rate of emergence of de-novo tumors (so called Outfield Recurrence) at the 1 year fusion biopsy mark and overtime. Will also observe rate of progression locally and systemically. Conversion to whole gland treatment - surgery extraction, radiation or whole gland cryoablation is of particular interest as is the initiation of androgen suppression (castration). Moreover, the investigators will evaluate the impact of MRI in assessing tumor locations and of software registration guiding the location and extent of ablation of the laser ablation over fixed time intervals. Finally, incidence of metastatic disease - non castrate and castrate - as well as cancer specific and overall survival at 5, 10 and 15 years post procedure. FUNCTIONAL OUTCOMES - determine urinary function and sexual function including incidence of ejaculation, and climacturia at months 3, 6 and 12. These outcomes will then measured yearly for the extent of the study