Neoadjuvant Therapy With Iruplinalkib for Potentially Resectable ALK Positive NSCLC: A Single Arm, Exploratory Trial
Fusion of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is an important driving gene for NSCLC, with an incidence rate of 3-7%. In patients with advanced ALK mutation NSCLC, first-line use of ALK inhibitors significantly improves progression free survival. The perioperative research on ALK positive NSCLC was relatively late, and currently most studies mainly focus on early to mid stage ALK positive NSCLC patients. The results of two Phase III clinical trials showed that second-generation ALK targeted drugs, neoadjuvant and/or adjuvant therapy for ALK positive NSCLC, significantly prolonged DFS in patients, including increased pathological response rate, median response duration, and prolonged OS. For ALK positive advanced NSCLC patients who are resistant to second-generation ALK targeted drugs, there is currently limited exploration and there is an urgent need for new exploratory clinical studies.This trial aims to evaluate the effectiveness of Iruplinalkib neoadjuvant therapy for potentially resectable ALK positive non-small cell lung cancer.
Potentially Resectable ALK Positive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Iruplinalkib|PROCEDURE: surgery
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria., up to 30 months
Pathologic complete response (PCR) rate, PCR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved pathologic complete response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, no tumor cell can be found in tumor bed or lymph node) in all participants., Up to 30 months|Major pathologic response (MPR) rate, MPR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved major pathologic response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, tumors with no more than 10% viable tumor cells) in all participants., Up to 30 months|Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time (months) from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., up to 60 months|Event-free survival (EFS), Event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the length of time (months) from randomization to any of the following events: any progression of disease precluding surgery, progression or recurrence disease based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1 after surgery, or death due to any cause. Participants who don't undergo surgery for reason other than progression will be considered to have an event at progression or death. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., up to 60 months|Treatment-related adverse event (TRAE), TRAE is defined and classified according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0 in all participants., Up to 30 months|5-year overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time (months) from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., Up to 72 months|1-year event-free survival (EFS) rate, Event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the length of time (months) from randomization to any of the following events: any progression of disease precluding surgery, progression or recurrence disease based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1 after surgery, or death due to any cause. Participants who don't undergo surgery for reason other than progression will be considered to have an event at progression or death. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note:

the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 24 months|Health related quality of life (HRQol), The assessment is made according to the Quality of Life Scale for Lung Cancer Patients (EORTC-QLQ-C30 \& LC13, Version 3). EORTC's QLQ-C30 \& LC13 (V3.0) is a core scale for lung cancer patients, with a total of 43 items. Among them, Item 29 and 30 are divided into seven grades, which are assigned with 1 to 7 scores according to the answer options. The other items are divided into 4 grades: Not at All, A Little, Quite a Bit, and Very Much, assigned with 1 to 4 scores respectively. The higher score, the worse quality., Up to 36 months
Fusion of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is an important driving gene for NSCLC, with an incidence rate of 3-7%. In patients with advanced ALK mutation NSCLC, first-line use of ALK inhibitors significantly improves progression free survival. The perioperative research on ALK positive NSCLC was relatively late, and currently most studies mainly focus on early to mid stage ALK positive NSCLC patients. The results of two Phase III clinical trials showed that second-generation ALK targeted drugs, neoadjuvant and/or adjuvant therapy for ALK positive NSCLC, significantly prolonged DFS in patients, including increased pathological response rate, median response duration, and prolonged OS. For ALK positive advanced NSCLC patients who are resistant to second-generation ALK targeted drugs, there is currently limited exploration and there is an urgent need for new exploratory clinical studies.This trial aims to evaluate the effectiveness of Iruplinalkib neoadjuvant therapy for potentially resectable ALK positive non-small cell lung cancer.