Bevacizumab and Erlotinib in Lung Cancer With Brain Metastases, a Phase II Trial
This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter phase II study conducting in 3 medical centers in Asia. Patients will receive erlotinib in combination with bevacizumab or erlotinib alone. This study will enroll EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients who have asymptomatic brain metastases.

The primary objective is to compare the systemic progression-free survival (PFS) to bevacizumab plus erlotinib versus erlotinib alone in patients with EGFR mutant NSCLC who have asymptomatic brain metastases.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Brain Neoplasms
DRUG: Bevacizumab plus erlotinib|DRUG: Erlotinib
Progression-free survival, The PFS will be evaluated from date of randomization until the date of documented progression or the date of death from any cause, whichever came first., The PFS will be evaluated per RECIST 1.1 criteria every 6 weeks for the first 12 months and then every 12 weeks up to 36 months.
overall survival, The survival will be assessed from date of randomization until the date of death from any cause. The survival will be assessed every 3 weeks up to 36 months.|overall response rate, The response rate will be evaluated from date of randomization until the date of documented progression or the date of death from any cause, whichever came first., The response rate will be evaluated per RECIST 1.1 criteria every 6 weeks for the first 12 months and then every 12 weeks up to 36 months.|Time-to-central nervous system (CNS) progression, The Time-to- CNS progression will be evaluated from date of randomization until the date of documented CNS progression., Time-to-central nervous system(CNS) progression will be evaluated per RECIST 1.1 criteria every 6 weeks for the first 12 months and then every 12 weeks up to 36 months.|Time to extra-CNS progression, The Time-to-extra-CNS progression will be evaluated from date of randomization until the date of documented extra-CNS progression., Time to extra-CNS progression will be evaluated per RECIST 1.1 criteria every 6 weeks for the first 12 months and then every 12 weeks up to 36 months.|The PFS-2 in patients in patients with CNS progression only, The PFS-2 will be evaluated from date of randomization until the date of second documented progression or the date of death from any cause, whichever came first., The PFS-2 will be evaluated per RECIST 1.1 criteria every 6 weeks for the first 12 months and then every 12 weeks up to 36 months.|Time to neurological symptom progression, Time to neurological symptom will be assessed from date of randomization until the dated of documented progression of neurological symptom., Time to neurological symptom progression will be evaluated every 3 weeks up to 36 months.|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE version 4.03, Treatment-related adverse events will be evaluated from date of randomization until 30 days after discontinuation of the trial. It will be evaluated every 3 weeks up to 36 months.
This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter phase II study conducting in 3 medical centers in Asia. Patients will receive erlotinib in combination with bevacizumab or erlotinib alone. This study will enroll EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients who have asymptomatic brain metastases.

The primary objective is to compare the systemic progression-free survival (PFS) to bevacizumab plus erlotinib versus erlotinib alone in patients with EGFR mutant NSCLC who have asymptomatic brain metastases.

Patients will be randomized, at a 1:1 ratio, into bevacizumab plus erlotinib group or erlotinib alone group. Compute tomography (CT) or MRI scans will be performed every 6 weeks in the first 12 months since start of investigational drugs, and then performed every 12 weeks. Patients will be followed until documented progression at brain and/or extra-cranial lesions. Patients with intracranial progression only are allowed to continue investigational drugs until a second progression of either intracranial progression or extracranial progression, developed, and the time-to extracranial progression will be determined. In patients with EGFR mutant advanced NSCLC who had brain metastases, it was reported that PFS to erlotinib or gefitinib was 6.6 months(Park et al., 2012). In the current study, it is assumed that the median PFS, both intracranial and extracranial included, is 7 months for erlotinib group alone and is 12.3 months for bevacizumab plus erlotinib group (hazard ratio 0.57) (Seto et al., 2014). 109 patients will be required for analysis in this randomized phase II study. Patients will be stratified according to the EGFR L858R mutation and the EGFR exon 19 deletion mutation.