Glad Press 'n Seal® as a Temporary Moisture Barrier to Central Lines in Ambulatory Patients
The purpose of this study is to see if Glad Press 'n Seal works as a moisture barrier for central line that is left in place during ambulatory oncology clinical care.
Cancer-related Problem/Condition|Ambulatory Care
DEVICE: Glad Press 'n Seal
Patient Subject Questionnaire Post Shower Evaluation, Percentage of responses to evaluation questions (Percentage reported are "yes" responses) for the following questions. 40 surveys were returned from 11 patient subjects.

1. Did you need assistance to place the Glad Press 'n Seal to your IV area?
2. Was the area covered by the Glad Press 'n Seal dry after taking it off?
3. Was the dressing covering your IV undamaged after taking off the Glad Press 'n Seal?
4. Did you feel the IV Line was accidentally pulled at all with the use of the Glad Press 'n Seal?

Likert Scale response to the following question On a scale of 0 (would not use) to 10 (would continue to use) how satisfied were you in using Glad Press n Seal?, complete one evaluation after each shower when using product|Patient Satisfaction Mean on a 0-10 Likert Scale on the Use of Glad Press 'n Seal During Showering. 40 Subjects Reports., 0 Not at all satisfied 10 Very satisfied, Reported afer each subject showering survey completion
Clinic Nurse Observation of Subjects, Who Used Intervention Device, at the Next Clinic Visit, The secondary outcomes of the study are clinic nurse observed problems. Percentage of "yes" responses of nurse observations of site at clinic visit

1. Line dressing intact (Yes) is in place (reporting on 20 lines on 28 RN observations)
2. Absence (No) of local skin irritation,
3. Dislodgement of the IV line/needle (No) with the IV site upon subject return to the clinic and verification by the subject ., Inspection of central line site and dressing upon return to schduled clinic visit up to 30 days
Enrolled subjects will be instructed on the application of the Glad Press 'n Seal product to their IV dressing for use during a shower activity. Practice with application and removal of the product will be supervised by the PI or RA. Questions will be answered and a commercially purchased box of the investigational product will be given to the subject for home use.