Gemcitabine, Nab-paclitaxel and KPT-330 in Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This partially randomized phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of selinexor when given together with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, and to see how well they work in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as selinexor, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Acinar Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Duct Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: Selinexor|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Selinexor, Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, and Paclitaxel Albumin-stabilized Nanoparticle Formulation Combination (Phase Ib), MTD is defined as the lowest dose for which less than a third of patients experience a dose limiting toxicity graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03., 28 days|Proportion of Patients With a Toxic Event, Graded According to NCI CTCAE Version 4.03, The reported output is the proportion of patients that had a toxic event along with the associated 90% Wilson's confidence interval., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (Phase II), Estimated on an intention-to-treat basis (using all registered patients), and on a response-evaluable basis (using all patients who completed at least one 4-week treatment cycle) using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 7 months post treatment initiation
Effects the Study Drug Combination Has on Participants, Pharmacodynamics of selinexor in combination with gemcitabine hydrochloride and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, Day 1 of course 1 (before selinexor administration, 1, 2, 4 and 8 hours after selinexor administration) and days 2, 3 and 8|Proportion of Patients With a Response, Point and 90% Wilson's confidence intervals will be estimated to describe response rate. If the best observed clinical response was complete response or partial response, we consider that the patient responded., Up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival (Phase II), Estimated on an intention-to-treat basis (using all registered patients), and on a response-evaluable basis (using all patients who completed at least one 4-week treatment cycle) using the Kaplan-Meier method. Both progression and death are considered events for this analysis., Up to 2 years
Change in Gene Expression (Including Forkhead Box Protein O, I-kappaB, Cyclin-dependent Kinase Inhibitor 1B, Par4 and Phosphorylated Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3) (Phase II), Seven patients in each group will yield a two-sided 90% confidence interval with a distance from the mean change to the limits of 0.75 standard deviation units. A two-sided p-value of 0.10 will be used for all analyses., Baseline to up to 2 years
Primary Objectives:

1. Phase I: To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of gemcitabine, nabpaclitaxel and selinexor for untreated metastatic pancreatic cancer \[COMPLETED\]
2. Phase I: To determine the safety profile of gemcitabine, nab-paclitaxel and selinexor \[COMPLETED\]
3. Phase II: To test whether the combination of gemcitabine and selinexor improves the median overall survival of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer who have failed frontline non-gemcitabine containing regimens beyond 5.6 months (median overall survival of patient receiving gemcitabine only based on historical data.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To determine objective response rate to the combination of gemcitabine and selinexor using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.
2. To assess safety of selinexor in combination with gemcitabine in phase II portion of the study
3. To determine progression free survival (PFS) in patients treated with gemcitabine and selinexor
4. To determine the influence of selinexor and gemcitabine on the nuclear expression and localization of tumor suppressor gene proteins.