Difluoromethylornithine and High Dose Testosterone With Enzalutamide in Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
Asymptomatic patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) without pain due to prostate cancer will be treated on an open label study to evaluate effectiveness of sequential treatment with the combination of difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) and high dose testosterone in sequence with enzalutamide to improve primary and secondary outcomes.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: DFMO|DRUG: testosterone cypionate|DRUG: Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) analogue|DRUG: Enzalutamide
PSA response rate at Cycle 1 Day 64, Number of participants with \>50% PSA decline from baseline by Cycle 1 Day 64., Cycle 1 Day 64 (each cycle is 119 days)
Progression-free survival, Time to radiographic or clinical progression or death., 3 years after end of treatment|PSA response rate at any timepoint, Number of participants with \>50% PSA decline from baseline at any point on trial., up to 13 months|Safety as assessed by number of participants experiencing adverse events grade 3 or higher and serious adverse events., Number of participants who experience adverse events grade 3 or high and serious adverse events, as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0., 13 months|PSA progression-free survival (PSA-PFS), Time from the date of first dose to the time of PSA progression., up to 13 months|Measurable disease response rate, Number of participants with measurable disease with complete response or partial response per RECIST 1.1., 13 months|Pain Score, The modified Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) short form (SF) (v1.0 short forms 3a and 6b) pain scale is a validated self-reported instrument assessing average pain intensity and interference over the past 7-day period. Possible scores for each pain intensity questions range from 1 (no pain) to 5 (very severe) with higher scores reflecting higher pain intensity. Possible scores for each pain interference range from 1 (not at all) to 5 (very much) with higher scores reflecting higher pain interference., Up to 12 months|Pain Score Change, Number of participants with changes in pain scores between baseline and post-treatment. Positive change scores are indicative of improvement in pain., Baseline, Up to 12 months
Eligible patients are those with mCRPC who have progressive disease after treatment with Abiraterone (Abi) used as treatment for castration-sensitive or castration-resistant disease. Patients will continue on androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist (i.e. Zoladex, Trelstar, Eligard, or Lupron) or LHRH antagonist (Degarelix or Relugolix) if not surgically castrated throughout the duration of the study to inhibit endogenous testosterone production. One cycle of treatment will be 119 days and will involve:

1. 7 days of DFMO at a dose of 1000 mg PO BID (D1-D7), followed by
2. 56 days of combined testosterone and DFMO (testosterone cypionate 400 mg IM on D8 and D36 with continued DFMO 1000 mg PO BID) (D8-D63), followed by
3. 56 days of enzalutamide (enzalutamide 160 mg PO daily) (D64-D119)

Patients will receive repeat cycles of treatment until clinical or radiographic progression or toxicity requiring drug cessation.