Cisplatin, Nab-paclitaxel, Nivolumab With Radiotherapy After Resection of Non-Metastatic Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
In this phase II study, eligible patients will be treated with maximal tumor resection and then started treatment within 8 weeks. Chemotherapy, Nivolumab and radiotherapy (RT) will be started on day one. Chemotherapy will be administered weekly during radiotherapy. Radiotherapy will be performed from Monday to Friday for five weeks. Nivolumab will be administered for one year (13 infusions).

Patients will have the complete tumour assessment by computed tomography scan (CT-scan) and cystoscopy up to 5 years after radiotherapy.
Muscle-Invasive Bladder Carcinoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival is defined as the rate of survival free of recurrence in pelvic nodes or bladder, or appearance of distant metastasis with data censored at the first sign of disease or second primary tumor, or death., From the start of therapy up to 5 years.
Rate of patients who require salvage cystectomy., This is the number of patients over the total who had cystectomy after the end of study treatment., From the start of therapy up to 5 years.|Rate of locoregional Disease Free Survival., This is the number of patients over the total who had no bladder or pelvic progression of disease., From the start of therapy up to 5 years.|Median Disease Free Survival., This is defined as the time interval from the start of study treatment to the date of radiological or clinical progression or death due to any cause., From the start of therapy up to 5 years.|Overall survival, This is defined as the time interval from the start of study treatment to the date of death due to any cause., From the start of therapy up to 5 years.|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 during treatment with nivolumab plus cisplatin and nab-paclitaxel with concomitant RT., This outcome of safety will include adverse events occurred during the treatment with nivolumab plus cisplatin, nab-paclitaxel and radiotherapy. Adverse events will be classified according to CTCAE criteria version 5.0., From the start of therapy up to 30 days after the end of radiotherapy.|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 during treatment with nivolumab alone., This outcome of safety will include adverse events occurred during the treatment with nivolumab alone after the end of radiotherapy. Adverse events will be classified according to CTCAE criteria version 5.0., From 30 days after the last dose of radiotherapy up to 100 calendar days from the last dose of nivolumab.|Quality of life assessed by EQ-5D-5L test., Quality of life evaluated by this test comprises five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression., From the start of therapy up to 30 days after the last dose of treatment.|Quality of life assessed by NFBlSI-18 test., This test evaluate the bladder symptoms and quality of life related to these., From the start of therapy up to 30 days after the last dose of treatment.
Median Disease Free Survival by PD-L1 expression., Patients with or without PD-L1 expression evaluated by Combined Positive Score (CPS) will be compared in terms of median disease free survival. Patients with CPS ≥ 10 will considered positive, the others negative., From the start of therapy up to 5 years.|Median Disease Free Survival by PI3KCA mutations, Patients with or without PI3KCA mutation will be compared in terms of median disease free survival., From the start of therapy up to 5 years.
The screening phase is up to six weeks before the beginning of treatment. The treatment phase is from the day one of therapy until 30 days after the last patient last cycle. During the treatment phase each patient will be treated with concomitant chemo-radiotherapy for up to five weeks. The first day of radiotherapy is considered the first day of treatment in the study and cisplatin, nab-paclitaxel and nivolumab will be administered. Cisplatin and nab paclitaxel will be administered weekly during radiotherapy for a maximum of five infusions. Nivolumab will be administered at a flat dose of 480 mg every four weeks for 13 cycles. After the end of radio-chemotherapy patients will be followed every four weeks until the end of nivolumab treatment of up to 13 cycles.

Radiological assessment with whole body (abdominal/pelvic/chest) CT-scan or CT-scan of the thorax and abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This will be performed every 16 weeks (±2 weeks) after the post radio/chemotherapy evaluation for the first two years and every six months (±2 weeks) up to 5 years. After five years patients will be followed as per local clinical practice.

At the time of radiographic disease progression, patients exit from the study and will be managed as per local guidelines.