Standard Verbal Counseling With or Without a Pictorial Educational Tool for the Reduction of Psychological Morbidity in Patients With Stage 0-IIIA Breast Cancer Receiving Radiation Therapy, COPE Study
This clinical trial studies the effect of standard verbal counseling with or without a pictorial educational tool for the reduction of psychological morbidity in patients with stage 0-IIIA breast cancer receiving radiation therapy. Beginning radiation therapy for breast cancer can be stressful. Education about what to expect often reduces the stress, anxiety, and depression experienced by these patients. This study is being done to see how effective photos are in reducing stress, anxiety, and depression associated with radiation therapy for patients with breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Counseling|OTHER: Educational Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaire
Change in patient reported anxiety and depression, Will use items from the Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). Depression and anxiety will be analyzed as binary outcomes. Will compare questionnaire scores for anxiety and depression between the two groups. Scores will be reported as descriptive using CTCAE grading scale ranging from "mild" (1) to "life threatening" (4)., Baseline to 12 months
Cosmesis expectations versus self-reported experiences, Assessed through a custom survey., Up to 12 months
Accurate knowledge of radiation therapy side effects, Assessed through a custom survey. This will be assessed using a custom questionnaire that assesses the patient's perception of their own understanding of radiation-related side effects., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assessment of patient reported anxiety and depression, confidence with information, and side effect expectations of radiation therapy following counseling with or without photo guide at pre-treatment, 2 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Efficacy of intervention to impart reasonable expectations of the side effect burden of radiation therapy (RT).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Picture Guide book.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo verbal counseling and view a photo guide. Patients also complete questionnaires at 2 weeks, 6 and 12 months.

ARM II: Patients undergo verbal counseling. Patients also complete questionnaires at 2 weeks, 6 and 12 months.