Trastuzumab and Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic HER2/Neu-Expressing Cancer
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies such as trastuzumab can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth and by stopping blood flow to the tumor. Giving trastuzumab together with imatinib mesylate may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of imatinib mesylate when given together with trastuzumab in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic HER2/neu-expressing (producing) cancer.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab|DRUG: imatinib mesylate
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of imatinib mesylate given concurrently with trastuzumab (Herceptin®) as measured by CTC v 3.0 at course 1|Response as measured by RECIST criteria every 9 weeks
Circulating tumor cells in blood as measured by Immunicom Cell PrepTM at baseline, every 3 weeks until week 9, and then with each disease re-evaluation|Phosphorylation status of AKT, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and KIT as measured by western blot and/or immunohistochemistry at baseline and week 9
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of imatinib mesylate when administered with trastuzumab (Herceptin®) in patients with recurrent or metastatic HER2/neu-overexpressing cancer.
* Determine response in patients treated with this regimen.

Secondary

* Correlate the number of circulating tumor cells with radiographic imaging in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of imatinib mesylate.

Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin®) IV over 90 minutes on day 1 and oral imatinib mesylate once or twice daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of imatinib mesylate until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 9-18 patients will be accrued for this study.