PET/CT Evaluation of Primary and Metastatic Brain Tumors With a Novel Radioiodinated Phospholipid Ether Analogue I-NM404
The purpose of this study is to evaluate diagnostic imaging techniques using 124I-NM404 PET/CT in human brain tumors. This goal will be accomplished by quantifying tumor uptake and determining the optimal PET/CT protocol, comparing PET tumor uptake to MRI, and calculating tumor dosimetry. The long-term goals of this research are to improve the diagnosis and treatment of malignant brain tumors by using radioiodinated NM404
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Brain Metastases
DRUG: NM404|DRUG: NM404
Tumor to Background Ratios (TBR) Post-imaging for All Lesions With PET Uptake, TBR is calculated by using tumor/lesion SUVmax and dividing by contralateral normal brain background SUVmean value. Imaging performed at 24- and 48 hours post injection., 24- and 48 hours post injection|Tumor to Background Ratios (TBR) Post-imaging for Confirmed Malignant Tumors, TBR is calculated by using tumor/lesion SUVmax and dividing by contralateral normal brain background SUVmean value. Imaging performed at 24-, and 48 hours post injection., 24- and 48 hours post injection|Tumor to Blood Pool Ratios Post-imaging for All Lesions With PET Uptake, Tumor to blood pool ratio (tumor SUVmax to superior sinus SUVmean) was calculated at each time point. Tumor to blood pool is calculated by using tumor/lesion SUVmax and dividing by blood pool SUVmean from placing a region of interest in the posterior sagittal sinus near the confluence of sinuses. Imaging performed at 24- and 48 hours post injection., 24- and 48 hours post injection|Tumor to Blood Pool Ratios Post-imaging for Confirmed Malignant Tumors, Tumor to blood pool ratio (tumor SUVmax to superior sinus SUVmean) was calculated at each time point. Tumor to blood pool is calculated by using tumor/lesion SUVmax and dividing by blood pool SUVmean from placing a region of interest in the posterior sagittal sinus near the confluence of sinuses. Imaging performed at 24-, and 48 hours post injection., 24- and 48 hours post injection
The purpose of this study is to evaluate diagnostic imaging techniques using 124I-NM404 PET/CT in human brain tumors. This goal will be accomplished by quantifying tumor uptake and determining the optimal PET/CT protocol, comparing PET tumor uptake to MRI, and calculating tumor dosimetry. The long-term goals of this research are to improve the diagnosis and treatment of malignant brain tumors by using radioiodinated NM404