Vebreltinib for Neoadjuvant in MET-altered Stage IIIA-IIIB (N2) Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
According to the 2024 edition of the NCCN guidelines and the 2023 edition of the CSCO guidelines, perioperative treatment is recommended for patients with stage IIIA and IIIB (T3N2) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Targeted therapies for NSCLC, such as EGFR inhibitors and ALK inhibitors, have been explored in the neoadjuvant setting. For patients with MET alterations, some have undergone preoperative MET inhibitor treatment, achieving pathological downstaging followed by surgery, resulting in R0 resection. Therefore, this is a prospective, cohort, single-center phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Vebreltinib as a neoadjuvant treatment for patients with MET-altered stage IIIA-IIIB (N2) NSCLC.
Potentially Resectable MET-altered Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Vebreltinib
Objective response (ORR) rate, ORR is defined according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria., up to 30 months
Disease control rate (DCR), DCR Rate is defined as the proportion of patients who achieve stable disease (SD), partial response (PR), or complete response (CR) among all patients., up to 30 months|Major pathologic response (MPR) rate, MPR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved major pathologic response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, tumors with no more than 10% viable tumor cells) in all participants., Up to 30 months|Pathologic complete response (PCR) rate, PCR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved pathologic complete response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, no tumor cell can be found in tumor bed or lymph node) in all participants., Up to 30 months|Event-free survival (EFS), Event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the length of time (months) from randomization to any of the following events: any progression of disease precluding surgery, progression or recurrence disease based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1 after surgery, or death due to any cause. Participants who don't undergo surgery for reason other than progression will be considered to have an event at progression or death. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., up to 60 months|3-year overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time (months) from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., Up to 36 months|Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time (months) from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., up to 60 months|Treatment-related adverse event (TRAE), TRAE is defined and classified according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0 in all participants., Up to 30 months
The correlation between stratification factors such as disease stage, smoking history, and treatment efficacy, The correlation between stratification factors such as disease stage, smoking history, and treatment efficacy., Up to 30 months
According to the 2024 edition of the NCCN guidelines and the 2023 edition of the CSCO guidelines, perioperative treatment is recommended for patients with stage IIIA and IIIB (T3N2) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Targeted therapies for NSCLC, such as EGFR inhibitors and ALK inhibitors, have been explored in the neoadjuvant setting. For patients with MET alterations, some have undergone preoperative MET inhibitor treatment, achieving pathological downstaging followed by surgery, resulting in R0 resection. Therefore, this is a prospective, cohort, single-center phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Vebreltinib as a neoadjuvant treatment for patients with MET-altered stage IIIA-IIIB (N2) NSCLC.