L-BLP25 in Patients With Colorectal Carcinoma After Curative Resection of Hepatic Metastases
Comparative evaluation of recurrence-free survival (RFS) time and 3 year overall survival (OS) time between the treatment groups (L-BLP25 plus cyclophosphamide versus placebo and saline infusion).
Colon Carcinoma|Rectum Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: L-BLP25|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo
Comparative evaluation of recurrence-free survival (RFS) time and 3 year overall survival (OS) time between the treatment groups (L-BLP25 plus cyclophosphamide versus placebo and saline infusion)., The primary variable of this trial is recurrence free survival (RFS) time. RFS time will be measured from the date of randomization to the date of recurrence. For subjects not known to have experienced recurrence or death at the time of analysis, the time between the date of randomization and the date of last evaluation for recurrence will be calculated and used as a censored observation in the analysis., until December 2017
Safety / Tolerability, Assessment of safety will include:

* AEs, SAEs
* Vital signs (body temperature, respiratory rate, heart rate, and blood pressure) and physical examinations,
* Clinical laboratory assessments from hematology and biochemistry samples, until December 2017|Recurrence-free survival time in the subgroup of MUC1 positive cancers, Recurrence free survival (RFS) time of MUC1 positive cancers will be measured from the date of randomization to the date of relapse based on standard imaging. For subjects not known to have experienced recurrence or death at the time of analysis, the time between the date of randomization and the date of last evaluation for recurrence or death will be calculated and used as a censored observation in the analysis., until December 2017|Overall survival time in a subgroup of MUC1 positive cancers, Overall survival time of MUC1 positive cancers will be measured from the date of randomization to the date of death. For subjects not known to be deceased at the time of analysis, the time between the date of randomization and the date of last contact, or date lost to follow-up, will be calculated and used as a censored observation in the analysis., until December 2017
This trial is designed for patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma (CRC), who have undergone a complete resection of their primary tumor and recent resection of their liver metastases (R0 or R1) with curative intent. No generally accepted standard care is available following curative-intent resection of hepatic metastases in colorectal cancer patients. L-BLP25 is a cancer vaccine that targets MUC1, a well known tumor-associated antigen. Recently, it has been shown that MUC1 is associated with cellular transformation as demonstrated by tumorigenicity and can confer resistance to genotoxic agents. High levels of MUC1 cell surface expression, reported immunosuppressive activities of its released ectodomain, and anti-adhesive properties all contribute to the ability of the MUC1 antigen to protect and promote tumor cell growth and survival, and make MUC1 an attractive target for cancer immunotherapy.

Based on these results, L BLP25 may have potential as adjuvant therapy after curative resection of hepatic metastases in colorectal cancer patients.