The Effect of Information Support Program on Self-efficacy of Prostate Cancer Patients During Hormonal Therapy
The incidence rate of prostate cancer has been increasing rapidly in China in recent years. However, a large number of studies have shown that, patients with prostate cancer during hormonal therapy generally face the imbalance of high information demand and low information acquisition, which affects their mental health and quality of life, and even reduces their treatment adherence. Thus, the investigators designed a randomized control study in one cancer center in Shanghai. Prostate cancer patients during hormonal therapy were followed up in the urology clinic and ward, and then they were randomly divided into control group and experimental group according to the order of enrollment. The control group was given routine information communication, and the experimental group was given information support program intervention on this basis. The effects of the intervention was evaluated after 3 months. The investigators expected that the information support program would be helpful to improve patients' self-efficacy level, and to enhance their confidence in self-management and coping with difficulties, so as to improve patients' adherence of health behaviors and improve their health-related quality of life.
Information Support
OTHER: information support program
Information satisfaction, EORTC QLQ-INFO25, a questionnaire include 25 items was used to measure patients' information acquisition and information satisfaction on disease, medical tests, treatments, and other aspects., 3 months|Self-efficacy, SUPPH, the Chinese version include 28 items was used to measure patients' level of self-efficacy and confidence in coping., 3 months
Mastery of disease knowledge, A self-designed questionnaire covering a total of 18 items was used to measure patients' knowledge on prostate cancer, review, hormonal therapy, and healthy life style., 3 months|Adherence of healthy behaviors, A self-designed questionnaire covering a total of 10 items was used to measure patients' adherence of healthy behaviors on the aspects of bad habits, diet, physical exercise, medication, and reviews., 3 months|Health-related quality of life, AMS, a questionnaire include 17 items was used to measure patients' somatic symptom, psychological symptom, sexual symptom, and patients' health-related quality of life., 3 months|the serum PSA level, The serum PSA (prostate cancer specific antigen) level was recorded at baseline and 3 months after intervention., 3 months
The incidence rate of prostate cancer has been increasing rapidly in China in recent years. It has gradually become one of the most common malignant tumors of the urinary system in men. However, a large number of studies have shown that, patients with prostate cancer during hormonal therapy generally face the imbalance of high information demand and low information acquisition, which affects their mental health and quality of life, and even reduces their treatment adherence. Thus, the investigators designed a randomized control study in one cancer center in Shanghai. Prostate cancer patients during hormonal therapy were followed up in the urology clinic and ward of a cancer center in Shanghai from July to October 2019 ,then patients were randomly divided into control group and experimental group according to the order of enrollment. The control group was given routine information communication, and the experimental group was given information support program intervention on this basis. The effects of the intervention was evaluated after 3 months. The investigators expected that the information support program would be helpful to improve patients' self-efficacy level, and to enhance their confidence in self-management and coping with difficulties, so as to improve patients' adherence of health behaviors and improve their health-related quality of life.