ZOSTAVAX in Persons Imminently Receiving Chemotherapy for Solid Organ Tumors
This study evaluates if the shingles vaccine works in those persons that receive it before they receive chemotherapy for solid organ tumors. Half of the participants will receive the ZOSTAVAX shingle vaccine and half of the participants will not received anything.
Shingles
DRUG: ZOSTAVAX
Measuring the Efficacy of ZOSTAVAX in Chemotherapy Patients (Changes in ZOSTAVAX-specific IFN-gamma Spot Forming Units Will be Measured by ELISPOT), To examine the cellular immunologic efficacy as measured by IFN-gamma assays of ZOSTAVAX given to individuals with solid organ tumors at least 14 days prior to initiation of chemotherapy or surgery and then chemotherapy. Changes in ZOSTAVAX-specific IFN-gamma spot forming units will be measured by ELISPOT., 3 years|Measuring the Safety of ZOSTAVAX Given to Chemotherapy Patients (Vaccine Report Card (VRC) to Document Injection-site Adverse Experiences, Systemic Clinical Adverse Experiences (AEs), Concomitant Medications, and Oral Temperatures, To asses the safety of ZOSTAVAX given to subjects that will receive chemotherapy or surgery and then chemotherapy for solid organ tumor at least 14 days after vaccination. Safety and tolerability data will be collected for all subjects throughout the study. Each subject will be given a Vaccine Report Card (VRC) to document injection-site adverse experiences, systemic clinical adverse experiences (AEs), concomitant medications, and oral temperatures (only if feeling feverish) noted during the 14-day post-vaccination period. Participants will be asked to notify the study personnel immediately if any unexpected or serious adverse experience (SAE) occurs. At all study visits subjects will be asked about any unreported SAEs. All AEs and SAEs will be recorded on an AE/SAE case report form and relationship to study vaccine will be determined by the site investigator., 3 years
This study is a single blind randomized clinical trial measuring the immunologic efficacy of ZOSTAVAX vs. no vaccine in 60 adults with solid organ tumors before, during and after chemotherapy. The personnel performing the laboratory studies will be blinded to vaccine vs. no vaccine. In a pilot study of an FDA approved vaccine that is being used within the parameters of the package insert and ACIP recommendations, placebo vaccine is not required to access our key primary immunologic endpoint.