Biomedical Innovation for Facial Bone Reconstruction in Oncology: BIOFACE PASS a Medico-economic Study Describing the Standard Pathway of Patients Treated by Free Bone Flap
The purpose of this study is to describe the standard of care pathway of patients treated by free bone flap for facial mandibullar or maxillar reconstruction after surgery for head and neck cancers.
Head and Neck Cancers
OTHER: Questionnaires
Description of the standard of care pathway of patients treated by free bone flap for facial mandibullar or maxillar reconstruction after surgery for head and neck cancers, The primary outcome measure is a composite endpoint consisting of the description of care pathways based on care consumption (scheduled and unscheduled hospitalizations and consultations, medical procedures and medications).

The study of pathways will take into account data from the National Health Data System (i.e. healthcare consumption).

These data will then be aggregated and structured to form time sequences representing the care pathways (and classes of care pathways) of patients using the optimal matching method. These sequences will include several medical events such as consultations, treatments, hospitalizations for example. This will provide us with a simplified but detailed representation of care trajectories. The individual care sequences thus constructed will allow us to carry out sequence analyzes aimed at creating patient clusters., 12 months
Curative management of head and neck cancers frequently requires an interrupting mandibulectomy or maxillectomy. Surgery may involve resection of anatomical structures such as jaw or maxilla. The use of free vascularized fibula or scapula flap is the "gold standard" for mandibular and maxillary reconstruction but remains suboptimal as resulting in difficulty in speaking, swallowing, and disfigurement.

The BIOFACE project, funded by "Appel à Projet -Recherche Hospitalo-Universitaire en santé (RHU)" number 6 France 2023, aims to develop a new biomaterials based device to reconstruct these structure after surgery. In addition to the clinical benefits, this project aims to demonstrate the medico-economic benefits of the BIOFACE solution. Therefore, the Bioface PASS study has been designed to describe standard of care pathways of patients treated by free bone flap for facial reconstruction after surgery for head and neck cancer. Direct medical and non-medical costs, and daily allowance 12 months after the end of treatment, and quality of life will be recorded at the inclusion, 3 and 12 months.

From the hospital perspectives, production costs will be recorded using the micro-costing approach.