CAR-T Hepatic Artery Infusions or Pancreatic Venous Infusions for CEA-Expressing Liver Metastases or Pancreas Cancer
This is an open label, fixed dose, phase Ib trial of anti-CEA CAR-T cell infusions delivered via the hepatic artery or splenic vein using the Surefire Infusion System (SIS) for patients with CEA-expressing liver metastases or pancreas cancer.
Liver Metastases
BIOLOGICAL: anti-CEA CAR-T cells
Safety of CAR-T cell hepatic artery infusions delivered using the Surefire Infusion System (SIS) as Measured by Number of Participants with Adverse Events, To determine the safety and regimen limiting toxicity (RLT) of anti-CEA CAR-T hepatic artery infusions (HAI) via the Surefire Infusion System (SIS) for CEA-expressing liver metastases, 10 weeks
Radiographic treatment response by MRI, Changes in tumor size, 10 weeks|Radiographic treatment response by PET, Changes in tumor metabolic activity, 10 weeks|CAR-T detection in liver tumors, Quantification of CAR-T cells in liver tumor core biopsies, 10 weeks|CAR-T detection in normal liver tissue, Quantification of CAR-T cells in normal liver core biopsies, 10 weeks|CAR-T detection in extrahepatic sites, Quantification of CAR-T in blood samples, 10 weeks|Serum Cytokine Levels, Measurement of cytokines as indicators of immune response, 10 weeks|CEA level, Measurement of serum tumor marker (ng/ml), 10 weeks|Tumor biopsy, Assessment of tumor necrosis and fibrosis, 10 weeks|Safety of Direct Intrapancreatic CAR-T Retrograde Venous Infusions (RVI) Delivered Using the Surefire Infusion System (SIS), RVI via the Surefire Infusion System (SIS) for CEA+ Primary Pancreatic Tumors Following In-liver Disease Control, 10 weeks
Patients undergo leukapheresis from which peripheral blood mononuclear cells are purified. T cells are activated and then re-engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) specific for CEA. Cells are expanded in culture and returned to the patient by percutaneous hepatic artery infusion at specific cell doses. Prior to the first dose, each patient will undergo diagnostic angiography to verify suitable arterial anatomy. Three anti-CEA CAR-T doses per patient are planned at 1-week intervals. Low dose interleukin-2 will be given via an ambulatory infusion pump for 4 weeks. Normal liver and tumor biopsies will be obtained at the time of the initial diagnostic angiogram and during the final session following the 3rd CAR-T infusion.

Patients with CEA+ liver metastases who exhibit in-liver control following CAR-T therapy who also have CEA+ primary pancreatic tumors may be eligible to receive direct intrapancreatic CAR-T retrograde venous infusions. A maximum of 2 infusions will be delivered. No additional IL-2 will be given and there will be no additional biopsies.