Impact of Family History and Decision Support on High-risk Cancer Screening
Family health history can help identify patients at higher than average risk for disease. There is no standardized system for collecting and updating family health history, using this information to determine a patient's disease risk level, and providing screening recommendations to patients and providers. Patients will enter their family health history into MeTree, a family history software program. The program will produce screening recommendations tailored to the patient's family health history. The investigators will examine whether this process increases physician referrals for, and patient uptake of, guideline-recommended screening for colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Family health history platform (MeTree)
Number of Patients With Provider Referral for Risk-appropriate Colorectal Cancer Screening, Patients who receive guideline-recommended referral consistent with the risk stratum determined by the family health history platform., 12 months
Number of Participants Who Received Recommended Colorectal Cancer Screening, Among patients who received a referral, the percentage who received recommended colorectal cancer screening., 12 months|Number of Patients Who Received Referral for Genetic Consultation, Of patients who received a recommendation for genetic consultation based on the family history platform, the percentage who received a referral for genetic consultation., 12 months
Eligible patients are aged 40-65 years, enrolled in primary care, do not have a personal history of colorectal cancer, and have some knowledge of family health history. In Aim 1, a retrospective chart review will be conducted to determine the baseline rate of documenting family health history of colorectal cancer in the medical record for patients enrolled in the Aim 2 randomized trial. In Aim 2, consented patients will be randomized to provide patient-entered family health history and receive patient and provider decision support at enrollment or 12 months later (wait-list control). The primary outcome is risk-appropriate CRC screening/surveillance referral for patients 12 months post-enrollment. Secondary outcomes include patient uptake of recommendations and referral for genetic consultation 12 months post-enrollment. In Aim 3, qualitative interviews will be conducted with physicians and clinic leaders; data will be analyzed using conventional content analysis. In Aim 4, data will be obtained from the administrative databases and patient medical records to conduct a budget impact analysis.