5G-EMERALD: Amivantamab in Malignant Brain Tumours
The purpose of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of amivantamab and to determine the preliminary antitumour activity of amivantamab administered at the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D). In the Phase 1b of this study a biomarker defined arm will be opened, initially in the relapsed GMB setting, enrolling 12 patients. These patients will be treated with amivantamab monotherapy. Amivantamab will be administered intravenously (IV) weekly for the first 4 weeks, then every 2 weeks thereafter until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The first dose will be given as a split infusion, 350 mg IV over 4 hours on cycle 1 day 1 and 1400 mg IV over 6 hours on cycle 1 day 2. Subsequent infusions are given at a dose of 1750 mg IV over 2-5 hours in cycle 1 and between 2-3 hours from cycle 2 onwards if the first dose was well-tolerated with no significant toxicity.

Progression to Phase 2 is dependent on emergent data and funding.
Malignant Primary Gliomas|Glioblastoma Multiform (Grade IV Astrocytoma)|Diffuse Hemispheric Glioma, H3 G34-Mutant|Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM)
DRUG: Amivantamab
Phase 1b - To evaluate the safety and tolerability of investigational agent in patients with malignant brain tumours, To identify the incidence, nature and severity of adverse events and laboratory abnormalities, with severity determined according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, 18 months|Phase 1b - To determine the preliminary antitumour activity of the investigational agent administered at the RP2D in patients with molecularly defined malignant brain tumours, Antitumour activity will be defined on the basis of the following outcomes. If any of the following occur, patients will be considered to have clinically benefitted: For relapsed GBM: Achievement of overall response of CR or PR per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) within 6 months or Free of disease progression or death at 6 months For front line unmethylated GBM (MRD): • Progression-free survival (PFS), 18 months
Phase 1b - To identify molecular determinants of response and antitumour activity of the investigational agent in patients with molecularly selected brain tumours, Determination of biomarkers of response, including but not limited to changes in genomic, transcriptomic or immunological signatures from responders and non-responders using tumour sequencing analysis., 18 months
Exploratory objective - To determine mechanisms of resistance to the investigational agent in patients with malignant brain tumours, Correlate antitumour activity of the investigational agent with the detection of putative predictive biomarkers of response and resistance in archival tumours, patient derived cells lines and plasma samples banked as part of the Minderoo Precision Brain Tumour Programme., 18 months|Exploratory objective - To assess putative predictive biomarkers of the investigational agent in patients with malignant brain tumours, Correlate treatment response with co-segregating mutational landscapes and identify mechanism of precision drug resistance e.g., on target vs off target, on pathway., 18 months|Exploratory objective - To identify putative precision therapy combinations with the potential for additive benefit, Plan rational combination therapies based on these results., 18 months
The clinical trial will start in Phase 1b (proof of concept of hypothesis-driven biomarker-guided therapies).

This is a study within Minderoo 5G: A Next Generation AGile Genomically Guided Glioma Modular Platform for proof-of-concept molecular hypothesis testing in patients with high grade malignant brain tumours.

5G-EMERALD is a Bayesian multi-centre, multi-arm, open-label, adaptive, seamless Phase 1 trial of amivantamab for patients with high grade malignant brain tumours.

5G-EMERALD will recruit patients with glioblastoma (GBM) into one molecularly-defined biomarker arm of patients who have tumours that harbour:

• EGFR amplification (high copy number)

The above mentioned arm, within Phase 1, will have robust GO/ADAPT decision points, reviewed by the Safety Review Committee (SRC) to allow for both agility and clear direction for next steps. A 2-stage Bayesian adaptive design will be performed to assess preliminary efficacy.

In the Phase 1b of this study a biomarker defined arm will be opened, initially in the relapsed GBM setting, enrolling 12 patients onto each arm. These patients will be treated with amivantamab. Amivantamab will be administered intravenously (IV) weekly for the first 4 weeks, then every 2 weeks thereafter until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.