O(6)-Benzylguanine and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Glioblastoma Multiforme That Did Not Respond to Previous Temozolomide and Radiation Therapy
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as O(6)-benzylguanine and temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well giving O(6)-benzylguanine together with temozolomide works in treating patients with glioblastoma multiforme that did not respond to previous temozolomide and radiation therapy.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
DRUG: O6-benzylguanine|DRUG: temozolomide
Confirmed Best Objective Tumor Response Rate (Complete or Partial Response) in Patients With Methylguanine Methyltransferase (MGMT)-Positive Tumors as Assessed by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), The date of response will be the date the response is first radiographically documented following initiation of therapy (typically, the date of the actual imaging modality). Complete response is complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. No new lesions. No evidence of non-evaluable disease. Partial response is greater than or equal to a 50% decrease compared to baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions., 2-4 weeks
Objective Tumor Response Rate in Patients With Methylguanine Methyltransferase (MGMT)-Negative Tumors as Assessed by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), The date of response will be the date the response is first radiographically documented following initiation of therapy (typically, the date of the actual imaging modality). Complete response is complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. No new lesions. No evidence of non-evaluable disease. Partial response is greater than or equal to a 50% decrease compared to baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. Stable/No disease does not qualify for CR, PR, or progression. Progression is a 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions (or two largest lesions if too numerous) over the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques as baseline, OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer)., 2-4 weeks|Toxicity as Assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria in Adverse Events (CTCAE v 3), Here is the number of participants with adverse events. For a detailed list of adverse events, see the adverse event module. Adverse events were assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria in Adverse Events (CTCAE)v3., 18 months and 4 days|Best Overall Response, Defined as the best tumor response recorded from the start of treatment until disease progression or withdrawal from the study. Complete response is complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. No new lesions. No evidence of non-evaluable disease. Partial response is greater than or equal to a 50% decrease compared to baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. Stable/No disease does not qualify for CR, PR, or progression. Progression is a 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions (or two largest lesions if too numerous) over the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques as baseline, OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer, up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival, Defined as the interval between the day of first administration of treatment and the first documentation of progressive disease or date of death. Progression is a 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions (or two largest lesions if too numerous) over the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques as baseline, OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer, up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Defined as the interval between the day of first administration of treatment and the date of death., up to 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the antitumor activity of O6-benzylguanine and temozolomide in patients with temozolomide-resistant methylguanine methyltransferase-positive or -negative glioblastoma multiforme previously treated with radiotherapy.
* Determine, preliminarily, the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients receive O6-benzylguanine intravenous (IV) over 1 hour and oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 6 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study.