Maitland Mobilization and Scapular Stabilization Shoulder Dysfunction
Sixty patients from both genders suffering from shoulder disability post unilateral NDS (modified radical, selective) will participate in this study. Their ages will be ranged from 30 to 50 years. They will be selected randomly from Damanhur Oncology center, El-Behira, Egypt. They will be randomly distributed into three equal groups (each group 20 patients).
Head and Neck Cancer
OTHER: Maitland Mobilization|OTHER: Scapular Stabilization|OTHER: Traditional Physical Therapy
Digital Goniometer, Digital goniometer is a device which measures joint ranges, together with velocity and acceleration variables, with a high level of precision and at a relatively low-cost, practically similar to current analogical tools. The digital goniometer is a device specifically designed for the measurement of angles of movement of the human body with a resolution of 1°, representing an ideal substitute to traditional goniometers, which are usually based on a scale of 5° increments, 2 months
Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, The shoulder pain and disability index (SPADI) is a self-report questionnaire developed to measure the pain and disability associated with shoulder pathology. The SPADI consists of 13 items in two subscales: pain (5 items) and disability (8 items), the original version has each item scored on a visual analogue scale (VAS) and a second version has items scored on a numerical rating scale (NRS), 2 months
Design of the study:

In this study the patients were randomly assigned into three equal groups (twenty patients for each group).

Group (A) :

This group included twenty patients suffering from shoulder disability following NDS (modified radical, selective). They received Maitland mobilization Technique and scapular stabilization exercises in addition to the traditional physical therapy program which included (ROM exercises, stretching exercises and strengthening exercises for shoulder muscles) 3 sessions per week, for 2 months.

Group (B):

This group included twenty patients suffering from shoulder disability following NDS (modified radical, selective). They received Maitland mobilization Technique in addition to the traditional physical therapy program which included (ROM exercises, stretching exercises and strengthening exercises for shoulder muscles) 3 sessions per week, for 2 months.

Group (C) :

This group included twenty patients suffering from shoulder disability following NDS (modified radical, selective). They received scapular stabilization exercises in addition to the traditional physical therapy program which include (ROM exercises, stretching exercises and strengthening exercises for shoulder muscles) 3 sessions per week, for 2 months.