Effectiveness of Continous Adjuvant Lidocaine on General Anaesthesia on Tumor Craniotomy Surgery
This study aims to investigate the effect of adjuvant continuous lidocaine in General Anesthesia on Depth of Anesthesia (qCON), Pain Response (qNOX), and Blood Sugar Levels in Elective Primary Tumor Craniotomy Surgery
Surgery|Anesthesia; Functional|Haemodynamic Instability
DRUG: NaCl 0.9%|DRUG: Adjuvant lidocaine continous
Depth of Anaesthesia, Depth of Anaesthesia measured by qCON index on CONOX monitor. qCON ranges from 0 to 99. A qCON index of more than 60 indicates inadequate use of sedative agents, whereas a qCON of less than 40 indicates excessive sedation, Intraoperation|Pain Response, Pain Response measured by qNOX index on CONOX monitor. The qNOX index uses a scale from 0 to 99 where 99 indicates a high probability of response to noxious stimulation. A decreasing index value means a smaller probability of response to the stimulus, Intraoperation|Blood Sugar Levels, Blood Sugar Levels measured by blood test during surgery, Intraoperation
Blood Pressure, blood pressure (mm/Hg) shown on the monitor during surgery, induction, intubation, head pin installation, and skin incision, bone opening, dura mater opening, skin suturing. Blood Preasure includes systolic (mmHg), Diastolic (mmHg), and Mean Arterial Pressure (mmHg), Intraoperation|Heart Rate, Heart Rate (times/minutes) shown on the monitor during surgery, induction, intubation, head pin installation, and skin incision, bone opening, dura mater opening, skin suturing, Intraoperation|Body Temperature, Body Temperature (celsius) shown on the monitor during surgery, induction, intubation, head pin installation, and skin incision, bone opening, dura mater opening, skin suturing, Intraoperation
Craniotomy for resection of brain tumors is frequently performed in neurosurgical practice. Craniotomy surgery is currently starting to use the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocol, namely for intraoperative pain management. Intraoperative pain can be evaluated through intraoperative hemodynamic conditions or can also use qCON and qNOX parameters and blood sugar levels. Perioperative pain management in the form of continuous intravenous lidocaine shows a role in reducing intraoperative pain. However, the use of intravenous lidocaine in ERAS protocols is still debated. So this study aims to use general anesthesia with continuous IV lidocaine adjuvant general anesthesia to affect depth of anesthesia (qCONtm) and intraoperative pain response in the form of values (qNOXtm), and blood sugar levels during elective primary tumor craniotomy.

The method is a Double-Blinded Randomized Control Trial. 60 patients aged 18-65 years who were diagnosed with craniotomy supratentorial tumor were randomly allocated to either Adjuvant Continuous Lidocaine (intervention group) or Normal Saline 0.9% (control group). Both drugs are given in a 20 ml syringe. The primary outcome measure of the study was the intraoperative of qCON, qNOX, and Blood Sugar. While the secondary outcome was the intraoperative hemodynamic.

All patients will be induced by general anesthesia using fentanyl 3 μg/kg IV as coinduction and propofol 1 mg/kg until the patient falls asleep. After induction, patients who receive lidocaine will receive a continuous intravenous infusion of 2 mg/kg/hour of lidocaine while other patients are given 0.9% NaCl as control. All patients data of hemodynamics, qCon, QNox, and blood glucose recorded and will be analyze.