Bicalutamide Implants (Biolen) With Radiation Therapy in Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer
This study will be undertaken to evaluate the feasibility of replacing systemic Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) with targeted local delivery of an anti-androgen agent alone in patients in whom ADT + radiation therapy is indicated for the treatment of localized prostate cancer.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: bicalutamide|RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiation therapy
Feasibility of replacing systemic androgen tx with targeted local delivery, Ability to successfully implant the prostate with Biolen and a lack of implant toxicity that interferes with the capacity to complete intended radiation therapy., 27 months
Adverse Events, toxicity of localized delivery of bicalutamide, through 27 months|MRI changes, prostate and tumor volume changes, baseline versus 8 weeks post biolen implantation and 6 months post RT|Biochemical progression free survival, rate of biochemical progression free survival, 24 months post RT
This study is a prospective, single-center, single-arm feasibility study. Up to 20 participants will be recruited to assess the safety and patient tolerance of Biolen for the localized delivery of bicalutamide into the prostate when delivered with radiotherapy.

At baseline, patients will undergo multiparametric MRI of the prostate. Study participants will have placement of the drug eluting Biolen implants. At the 8 week timepoint, participants will undergo repeat multiparametric MRI.

Participants will receive standard of care radiation therapy on weeks 9-11 and will be followed through 2 years post radiation. A third and fourth multiparametric MRI will be performed at 6 and 24 months after completion of radiation. Clinical labs and correlative sample collection and patient quality of life questionnaires will be administered at follow-up visits. Following completion of follow-up or removal from protocol, patients may be offered enrollment on long-term follow up protocols.