Ribociclib (LEE011) in Preoperative Glioma and Meningioma Patients
In the proposed trial, patients will be administered ribociclib prior to surgical resection of their tumor. Patients will be enrolled in time-intervals sequentially (non-randomized). All patients will be orally-administered 5 doses of LEE011 (900 mg/d) with the final dose occurring at one of 3 intervals before brain tumor resection.
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Meningioma
DRUG: Ribociclib
Plasma Exposure, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours post-last 900 mg dosing|CSF Penetration, 2-4, 6-8, and 23-25 hours post-last 900 mg dosing|Brain Accumulation of Ribociclib, This is the Phase II portion, which assesses trough plasma concentrations of study drug on each clinical visit day, prior to administration of ribociclib on that day., Days 1, 22, 43, 64 (add 21 day intervals)...until disease returns or side effect preventing participation in study occurs
900 mg/d is the maximally tolerated dose (MTD), as determined in a recent Novartis-sponsored Phase I study for advanced solid tumor patients. The recommended dose expansion and Phase 2 is 600mg/d for 3 weeks on and 1 week off. Due to drug pharmacokinetics, the MTD (900mg) dose will be used for pre-surgical dosing in order to maximize the opportunity to identify relevant tumor pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) endpoints.

To assess the PK, and PD endpoints listed above, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain tumor tissue will be collected intraoperatively (for gliomas, enhancing and non-enhancing tumor tissue will be collected and analyzed separately). Additionally, blood samples will be obtained at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after the final ribociclib dose is administered.

Patients with tumors demonstrating positive PK and PD effects will continue treatment with ribociclib (21 days on, 7 days off) after surgery. This will constitute the Phase II component of the study. Patients will be treated until unacceptable toxicity is observed, or until disease progression as assessed by radiographic or clinical metrics. Preliminary rates of progression-free survival in patients with high-grade gliomas and high-grade meningiomas treated with ribociclib will be measured through radiographic and clinical response metrics, specifically Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria and investigator discretion. Overall survival in patients with high-grade gliomas and high-grade meningiomas treated with ribociclib will be assessed by medical record review and survival follow up.