Radioligand Therapy After PSMA PET Guided External Beam Radiotherapy for Treating Post-Prostatectomy Patients with Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects and best dose of radioligand therapy (lutetium Lu 177 PSMA-10.1 \[177Lu-rhPSMA-10.1\]) after prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography (PET)-guided external beam radiotherapy in treating post-prostatectomy patients with prostate cancer that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent). In this study, radioligand therapy is a radioactive drug called 177Lu-rhPSMA-10.1. It works by binding to PSMA-expressing prostate tumor cells and delivering the radioactive portion of the drug directly to the tumor cells while not harming normal cells. Radiation therapy such as external beam radiotherapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving radioligand therapy with PSMA PET-guided external beam radiotherapy may kill more tumor cells in post-prostatectomy patients with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer.
Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Flotufolastat F-18|DRUG: Lutetium Lu 177 PSMA-10.1|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography
Incidence of radiotherapy and radioligand therapy related adverse events, Will be summarized descriptively using frequencies and percentages of all captured toxicities by grade and relevance., Up to 6 weeks post last radioligand therapy dose
Tumor and organ at risk dosimetry, Descriptive statistics will be used to perform the post-hoc dosimetry for tumor as applicable and background organs after each cycle of radioligand therapy., At 1-3 days and 4-7 days post radioligand therapy|Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) differences, Descriptive statistics (number of subject, mean, median, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum) will be used to summarize baseline ctDNA and post-radiotherapy ctDNA. Wilcoxon Signed-Ranks Test or paired samples t-test will be used to perform comparisons., Up to 5 years|ctDNA differences, Descriptive statistics (number of subject, mean, median, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum) will be used to summarize post radiotherapy ctDNA and post-radioligand therapy ctDNA. Wilcoxon Signed-Ranks Test or paired samples t-test will be used to perform comparisons., Up to 5 years|ctDNA differences, Descriptive statistics (number of subject, mean, median, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum) will be used to summarize baseline ctDNA and post-radioligand therapy ctDNA. Wilcoxon Signed-Ranks Test or paired samples t-test will be used to perform comparisons., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Demonstrate the safety and feasibility of treating radiotherapy (RT) prostate cancer patients via addition of lutetium Lu 177 PSMA-10.1 (177Lu-rhPSMA-10.1) in a selected post-prostatectomy population.

II. Analyze dosimetry of radioligand therapy (RLT) after each cycle of 177Lu-rhPSMA-10.1.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the feasibility of and develop preliminary data in the correlation of circulating tumor circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) at baseline, after RT, and RLT.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 177Lu-rhPSMA-10.1.

Patients undergo external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) followed by 177Lu-rhPSMA-10.1 intravenously (IV) on study. Patients also receive flotufolastat F-18 (rhPSMA-7.3) IV with positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) at screening and undergo single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)-CT and collection of blood samples on study.

Patients follow up 6 weeks after the last 177Lu-rhPSMA-10.1 administration.