Auricular Acupressure : Improves Oxaliplatin-induced Peripheral Neuropathy
Oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (OIPN) is a common adverse effect that becomes worse as the drug dose accumulation impacts cancer patients' daily activities and quality of life.The result of this study will determine the immediate effects of the 8-week auricular acupuncture intervention on alleviating the participants' OIPN symptoms and enhancing their quality of life. This study will continue to evaluate the carry-over effects of auricular acupuncture after the chemotherapy course ends.
Oxaliplatin-induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Chemotherapy
OTHER: auricular acupressure
National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0[NCI-CTCAE v5.0], For the severity of peripheral neuropathy symptoms caused by Oxaliplatin chemotherapy., This assessment tool is used at baseline, change from baseline after 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, 10 weeks, and one month followed by completing the chemotherapy course.|Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy Assessment Tool(CIPNAT), This questionnaire is a self-assessment of the patient. It is divided into four parts: 1. The severity of symptoms; 2. The degree of trouble the symptom causes; 3. The frequency of symptoms; 4. The symptom's degree of interference in daily life., This assessment tool is used at baseline, change from baseline after 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, 10 weeks, and one month followed by completing the chemotherapy course.|Neuropathic Pain Symptom inventory (NPSI), This questionnaire mainly used to assess the symptoms and severity of neuropathic pain. This questionnaire consists of four parts: 1. spontaneous and persistent pain, 2. spontaneous paroxysmal pain, and 3. Induced pain and paresthesia, This assessment tool is used at baseline, change from baseline after 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, 10 weeks, and one month followed by completing the chemotherapy course.|Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), This study uses the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain. The patient will Self-assess the pain intensity based on their subjective feelings and current pain state., This assessment tool is used at baseline, change from baseline after 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, 10 weeks, and one month followed by completing the chemotherapy course.
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Quality of life Questionnaire-Core 30 version 3.0 (EORTC QLO-C30)., The purpose of this questionnaire is to evaluate the impact of the overall quality of life of cancer patients after suffering from cancer or receiving treatment., This assessment tool is used at baseline, change from baseline after 8 weeks, 10 weeks, and one month followed by completing the chemotherapy course.
Objectives:

Oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (OIPN) is a common adverse effect that becomes worse as the drug dose accumulation impacts cancer patients' daily activities and quality of life. This study aims to evaluate the immediate and carry-over effects of auricular acupressure on OIPN symptoms and quality of life for colorectal cancer patients.

Methods :

This randomized trial will recruit 76 participants with colorectal cancer and OIPN from the oncology outpatient department in Taiwan. The control group will receive usual care, whereas the experimental group will receive usual care in addition to auricular acupressure for 8 weeks. Outcomes will be assessed by using the chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy assessment tool, neuropathic pain symptom inventory, pain visual analogue scale, and the European Organization for research and treatment of cancer-quality of life questionnaire-core 30. These assessment tools are used before the intervention, biweekly during the intervention, 2 weeks after the intervention, and one month after the end of the chemotherapy course.

Hypothesis:

Ultimately, the result of this study will determine the immediate effects of the 8-week auricular acupuncture intervention on alleviating the participants' OIPN symptoms and enhancing their quality of life. This study will continue to evaluate the carry-over effects of auricular acupuncture after the chemotherapy course ends.