Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Recurrent High Grade Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
This is an open label, non-randomized phase 2 study to assess overall response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS) in patients with high grade neuroendocrine tumors treated with pembrolizumab 200mg Q 3 Weeks.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: Pembrolizumab Injection
Overall Response Rate, Overall response was measured using Immune Related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST). At baseline, lesions found on CT or MRI imaging are cataloged as "target" or "non-target" lesions, and the longest dimensions of target lesions (or shortest dimension of target lymph nodes) are summed. irRECIST defines Complete Response (irCR) as a complete disappearance of all lesions after baseline. Partial Response (irPR) is defined as a 30% or more decrease in the target lesion measurements. Overall response rate is defined the percentage of participants with a best response of irCR + irPR., planned for up to two years from baseline; actual time was up to 230 days (average of 70.5 days)
Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit was measured using irRECIST. At baseline, lesions found on CT or MRI imaging are cataloged as "target" or "non-target" lesions, and the longest dimensions of target lesions (or shortest dimension of target lymph nodes) are summed. irRECIST defines irCR as a complete disappearance of all lesions after baseline. irPR is defined as a 30% or more decrease in the target lesion measurements. Progressive Disease (irPD) is a defined as a 20% or more increase in target lesion measurements. Stable Disease (irSD) is neither a sufficient shrinkage to qualify as irPR or irCR nor an increase that would qualify as irPD. Clinical Benefit Rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a best response of irCR + irPR + irSD., planned for up to two years from baseline; actual time was up to 230 days (average of 70.5 days)|Median Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is the length of time during and after treatment that a participant lives and the disease does not get worse. PFS was measured as the time from first dose of pembrolizumab until disease progression by irRECIST criteria (\>= 20% increase in target lesion measurements), and is reported as the median number of days patients survived without disease progression as calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method., planned for up to four years from baseline; actual time was up to 230 days (average of 70.5 days)|Median Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is the length of time from the start of treatment that a participant lives. OS was measured as the time from first dose of pembrolizumab until the death of the participant or the end of follow-up (whichever was first), and is reported as the median number of days patients survived as calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method. This study was intended to follow participants up to four years after the initiation of study treatment, but the study and the follow-up period were terminated prematurely. The maximum follow up was 360 days., planned for up to four years from baseline; actual time was up to 230 days (average of 70.5 days)|Number of Patients With Adverse Events Reported, Adverse Events were reported using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4. Each adverse event reported is assigned a severity grade from 1 to 5, where 1 is mild, 2 is moderate, 3 is severe, 4 is life threatening, and 5 indicates the event resulted in death. The number of patients experiencing any Grade 1-2 event and the number of patients experiencing any Grade 3 event are reported. There were no Grade 4 or Grade 5 events reported on this study. AEs were reported during study treatment and up to 90 days after last dose of treatment., planned for up to two years of treatment plus 90 days; actual time was up to 338 days (average of 170 days)
This is an open label, non-randomized phase 2 study to assess overall response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS) in patients with high grade neuroendocrine tumors treated with pembrolizumab 200mg Q 3 Weeks.