Comparing Telephone Symptom Monitoring Interventions for Managing Symptoms and Psychological Distress During Oral Anti-Cancer Treatment
In this clinical trial, symptom monitoring (interactive voice response \[IVR\] is compared to automated telephone symptom management \[ATSM\] and telephone interpersonal counseling \[TIPC\]) for reducing symptom burden and psychological distress (depressive and anxiety symptoms) among people receiving oral anti-cancer treatment. Symptoms are the number one driver of treatment interruptions and unscheduled health services use. To reduce the risk of these events, symptom monitoring and management are necessary. However, these services are not implemented routinely, especially in the community oncology settings. Further, depressive and anxiety symptoms are a key barrier to enacting symptom self-management strategies. IVR is a form of symptom monitoring where patients, when called, enter their symptom ratings over the phone. Their symptom summary is sent to their provider, and patients may be advised to reach out to their oncology provider, based on their symptoms. The ATSM intervention combines IVR assessments with a Symptom Management and Survivorship educational handbook with self-management strategies. Patients receiving ATSM enter their symptom ratings over the phone and have their symptoms reported to their provider, but patients are also directed to the handbook for strategies to manage elevated symptoms. Patients receiving ATSM who report being anxious, discouraged, or sad will also receive TIPC, which targets psychological distress and its connection to social support and interpersonal communication. Information gathered from this study may help researchers learn more about the best ways to manage patient symptoms and improve patient outcomes.
Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Counseling|BEHAVIORAL: Health Education|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Medical Chart Review|OTHER: Monitoring|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Symptom severity/toxicity index, Toxicity index across 24 symptoms will be measured using Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. Linear mixed effects or generalized linear mixed effects models will be used., Up to 12 weeks from the start of therapy (trial interventions)
Unscheduled health services, Generalized linear mixed effects model with Poisson distributed errors, or zero-inflated Poisson or negative Binomial model based on the distribution of the counts of different health services uses., Up to 17 weeks from the start of therapy (trial interventions)
Practice personnel time to address weekly interactive voice response (IVR) symptom reports, Practice personnel time to address weekly IVR symptom reports will be prorated by the number of patients on trial during each month within each practice and compared between the intervention (automated telephone symptom management and telephone interpersonal counseling \[TIPC\]) and active control (IVR alone) arms using monthly repeated measures for 25 months of each practice's participation. If multiple professionals are involved, data will be collected from all of them and analyzed as nested within practice. A random effect for practice will be defined if more than one practice personnel is assigned to receive IVR reports per practice. Month will be entered as a class variable to model potentially non-linear patterns, and month by trial arm interaction will be evaluated., Up to 25 months|Automated symptom monitoring and TIPC delivery at the practice (Feasibility), Will be summarized via descriptive statistics. Perceptions of feasibility of the automated symptom monitoring will be analyzed using linear mixed effects models. Responses to the Feasibility-Planning for Change survey will be analyzed using the same approach., Up to 25 months|Practice personnel's actions on symptom reports, Will be analyzed using generalized linear mixed effects models for monthly repeated measures for each practice personnel and with random effects accounting for nesting of patients within practice personnel (practice) and the Binomial error distribution. Each type of action will be analyzed separately., Up to 25 months|Treatment fidelity, Treatment fidelity will be analyzed. Fidelity scores will be summarized for each TIPC interventionist. The number of elements personalized to the specific needs of the individual within the structured protocol (number of personalized elements/ total number of elements) will be examined (e.g., more discussion of socioeconomic needs with one participant versus another) and assessed by outcomes., Up to 25 months|Perceptions of intervention acceptability and appropriateness, Will be measured using standardized scales and analyzed using linear mixed effects models. The characteristics of practice personnel who completed the assessment (e.g., age, sex, work experience) will be used as time-varying covariates as applicable., Up to 25 months|Cost, Total costs (fixed and variable), including personnel time, fixed costs to develop software, and operating costs for the interventions will be calculated. Cost savings in each arm will be calculated using unadjusted and adjusted rates of hospitalizations and urgent care or emergency department visits based on cost data for the States where participating practices will be located., Up to 5 years|Patient financial burden, Will be explored via mixed general or generalized linear models relating Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity scores to the covariates of baseline financial toxicity score and trial arm., Up to 17 weeks from the start of therapy (trial interventions)|Concurrent treatment interaction, Will evaluate the interaction between trial arm and the indicator of the concurrent treatment. Each concurrent treatment will be analyzed separately, with the indicator variable having value 1 if treatment was concurrent with oral agent and 0 otherwise. The effect size corresponding to the interaction term will be estimated for each treatment type (immune checkpoint inhibitor, infusion chemotherapy or targeted therapy, radiation)., Up to 17 weeks from the start of therapy (trial interventions)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Test the effectiveness of Automated Telephone System Management (ATSM) + Telephone Interpersonal Counseling (TIPC) versus active control on patient-level outcome of the summary toxicity index of 24 Patient Reported Outcomes Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) symptoms that include depressive, anxiety, and other symptoms commonly experienced during oral anti-cancer treatment over weeks 1-12 (immediate effect) and 13-17 (sustained effect).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Test the effectiveness of ATSM+TIPC versus active control on patient-level outcome of unscheduled health services over weeks 1-12 and 13-17.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate implementation outcomes at the practice personnel level (physicians, nurses, nurse practitioners, advanced practice providers, physician assistants, medical assistants, pharmacists, social workers, and other behavioral health professionals):

Ia. Feasibility of implementation of the automated telephone symptom monitoring and TIPC at the community oncology practice.

Ib. Perceptions of acceptability of the automated telephone symptom monitoring and TIPC for the community oncology practice.

Ic. Perceptions of appropriateness of the automated telephone symptom monitoring and TIPC for the community oncology practice.

II. Estimate delivery cost of the ATSM+TIPC and active control and cost savings for the ATSM+TIPC versus active control as a result of reduced unscheduled health services use.

III. Estimate the effect of the ATSM+TIPC versus active control on patient-reported financial burden.

IV. Estimate the differences in the effect of the ATSM+TIPC versus active control on the primary and secondary outcomes according to concurrent administration of oral agent with immune checkpoint inhibitor, other targeted infusion therapy, infusion chemotherapy, or radiation therapy.

OUTLINE: Practices are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive IVR symptom monitoring calls once a week for 12 weeks, and a summary symptom report is sent to their provider. Call duration is approximately 15 minutes.

ARM II: Patients receive the Symptom Management and Survivorship handbook and receive IVR symptom monitoring calls for 12 weeks, with summary symptom reports sent to their provider. Call duration is approximately 20 minutes. Patients who report anxious, discouraged, or sad mood items on their monitoring calls for two consecutive weeks between weeks 1 and 4 also receive TIPC calls for up to 8 weeks. TIPC call duration is approximately 30 minutes.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up during weeks 13-17 and practice personnel are assessed at intake and 12 and 25 months later.