Phase I: Melphalan, Bendamustine and Carfilzomib for Autologous Transplant in Multiple Myeloma
This is a phase I clinical trial. Patients with a diagnosis of multiple myeloma undergoing autologous transplantation will receive a preparative regimen of melphalan, bendamustine, and carfilzomib. We hypothesize that the addition of carfilzomib to a conditioning regimen of melphalan and bendamustine in the setting of autologous transplantation for multiple myeloma is feasible and safe.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Cohort 1: Carfilzomib 15 mg/m2|DRUG: Cohort 2: Carfilzomib 20 mg/m2|DRUG: Cohort 2b: Carfilzomib 20 mg/m2|DRUG: Cohort 3b: Carfilzomib 27 mg/m2
Absence of Dose Limiting Toxicity, An absence of neutrophil engraftment by Day +22, absence of platelet engraftment by Day +35, and any grade 4 GI toxicity or any \>/= grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity as defined by the common toxicity criteria, which is deemed by the DSMB as probably related to the study protocol., Assessed daily (while inpatient) through clinical and laboratory examinations up to 90 days.
Neutrophil Engraftment, Engraftment of Neutrophils: ANC recovery is defined as an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of ≥ 0.5 x 109/L for three consecutive laboratory values obtained on different days. The day used as neutrophil engraftment is the date of the first of three laboratory values.

Graft Failure: Graft failure includes failure to achieve neutrophil engraftment by day 22., Assessed daily (while inpatient) through clinical and laboratory examinations up to 90 days.|Platelet Engraftment, Engraftment of Platelets: Platelet engraftment is defined as a platelet count ≥ 20 x 109/L for 3 consecutive measurements obtained on different days. The patient must not have received a platelet infusion for seven consecutive days prior to the first day being considered. The day used as platelet engraftment is the date of the first of three laboratory values., Assessed daily (while inpatient) through clinical and laboratory examinations up to 90 days.
Response Rate, Find the response rate of the combination of melphalan, bendamustine, and carfilzomib as a conditioning regimen in patients with multiple myeloma undergoing autologous transplantation., Disease assessment at day +100, +180, and +365 (+/- 7 days).
This is a phase I clinical trial. Patients with a diagnosis of multiple myeloma undergoing autologous transplantation will receive a preparative regimen of melphalan, bendamustine, and carfilzomib. We hypothesize that the addition of carfilzomib to a conditioning regimen of melphalan and bendamustine in the setting of autologous transplantation for multiple myeloma is feasible and safe.