NBTXR3, Chemotherapy, and Radiation Therapy for the Treatment of Esophageal Cancer
The purpose of this Phase I study is to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and safety profile of NBTXR3 activated by radiation therapy with concurrent chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma. NBTXR3 is a drug that when activated by radiation therapy, may cause targeted destruction of cancer cells. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Chemotherapy drugs, such as oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, capecitabine, docetaxel, paclitaxel, and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving NBTXR3 activated by radiation therapy with concurrent chemotherapy may help control the disease.
Cervical Esophagus Adenocarcinoma|Clinical Stage II Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Pathologic Stage II Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Thoracic Esophagus Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Fluorouracil|OTHER: Hafnium Oxide-containing Nanoparticles NBTXR3|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Will be coded and graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 criteria. Descriptive summary tables will be produced, providing the DLTs by initial planned dose level of NBTXR3, initial planned volume of NBTXR3 to be injected, the injected volume, the radiation therapy dose given and the details of the concurrent chemotherapy given., Up to end of treatment visit (day 85)|Maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), The Bayesian Optimal Interval design, with accelerated titration, will be used to identify RP2D., Up to end of treatment visit (day 85)
Incidence of NBTXR3/radiation therapy related late onset toxicities, Will be defined as any grade \>= 3 adverse event., From end of treatment visit (day 85) until end of study (1 year)|Feasibility of NBTXR3 injection in the esophageal tumor and involved regional lymph nodes, The feasibility features of NBTXR3 local administration by intratumoral injection will be presented relative to the initial planned volume level in every cohort., Up to 1 year|Objective response rate, Will be defined as the rate of complete or partial response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, in target and non-target lesions., Up to 1 year|Major pathological response rate, Will be assessed by the Modified Ryan Scheme for Tumor Regression Score., Up to 1 year|Local progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated per dose level., From NBTXR3 injection to locoregional (i.e., within the esophagus or regional nodes) disease recurrence, local progression confirmed radiographically (RECIST v1.1), or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Distant progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated per dose level, From NBTXR3 injection to the radiographic confirmation (RECIST version 1.1) of a new lesion outside the esophagus and regional nodes, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated per dose level., From NBTXR3 injection to local recurrence, local progression, distant progression, confirmed radiographically (RECIST version 1.1), or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated per dose level., From NBTXR3 injection to death from any cause or end of study, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year
Time-course dependent presence of hafnium in blood and urine following NBTXR3 intratumoral/intranodal injection, Up to 4 hrs post NBTXR3 injection|Disease control rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients without progression (local or distant) 6-months post NBTXR3 injection., At 6 months post NBTXR3|R-status, Will be assessed macroscopically by surgeon., Up to 1 year|Pathological response rate, Will be assessed by the Modified Ryan Scheme for Tumor Regression Score., Up to 1 year|Prognosis of patients with baseline and follow-up quantitative computed tomography image-based analysis, Up to 1 year|Changes in radiomic measurements, Will evaluate clinical and pathological outcomes of patients with changes in radiographic features., Baseline up to 1 year|Tumor microenvironment, Will analyze the tumor microenvironment through multiplexed immunohistochemistry (mIHC)., Up to time of surgery or up to 141 days after end of treatment visit (for patients not undergoing surgery)|Ribonucleic acid expression, Up to time of surgery or up to 141 days after end of treatment visit (for patients not undergoing surgery)|Cytokine profiling, Up to 1 year|Immune activation quantification, Will quantify immune activation by analyzing T and B cells, peripheral blood mononuclear cells using flow cytometry, and esophageal cancer biopsies using mIHC., Up to 1 year|Concordance of cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), Will evaluate the concordance of cell free DNA detected mutations to those detected in esophageal cancer tumor-derived DNA., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of hafnium oxide-containing nanoparticles NBTXR3 (NBTXR3) activated by radiotherapy with concurrent chemotherapy, per standard of care, for treatment naive patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of radiation with NBTXR3 in patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.

II. To evaluate the anti-tumor response of chemoradiation with NBTXR3 in patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.

III. To evaluate time-to-event outcomes after chemoradiation with NBTXR3 in patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the body kinetic profile of intratumorally/intranodally injected NBTXR3.

II. To evaluate time to event outcomes for patients with clinical staging of locally advanced, unresectable disease.

III. To evaluate surgical outcomes in patients who undergo surgery after study treatment.

IV. To evaluate radiomic measurements with outcomes. V. To assess immune-related biomarkers of response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of NBTXR3.

Patients receive NBTXR3 intratumorally (IT) or intranodally (IN) on day 1. Beginning day 15, patients undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) 5 days per week for 6 weeks for a total of 28 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on day 15, concurrent with IMRT, patients receive a chemotherapy regimen consisting of either fluorouracil and oxaliplatin with or without leucovorin, oxaliplatin and capecitabine, docetaxel and fluorouracil with or without leucovorin, docetaxel and paclitaxel, or carboplatin and paclitaxel per physician discretion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.