Multicenter Phase 2 Trial Evaluating Cisplatin-Gemcitabine With Concomitant Thoracic Radiotherapy for Treatment of Inoperable Stage III Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the response rate of patients with non small lung cancer to gemcitabine in combination with radiotherapy. The tolerability and safety of this combination will also be evaluated.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: cisplatin|RADIATION: radiation
Tumor Response at End of Treatment, Response recorded at the first follow-up visit using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Complete Response=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease=20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease=small changes that do not meet above criteria., baseline to first follow-up visit (up to 8 weeks after end of chemo-radiation)
Time to Progressive Disease, Time to progressive disease is the time from the date of enrollment to the first date of documented disease progression. Patients who have not had disease progression will be censored at the date of the last follow-up visit. Patients dying because of reasons other than tumor progression are not included., Preliminary: baseline to measured progressive disease (up to 3.5 years); Final: baseline to measured progressive disease (up to 5 years);|Overall Survival, Overall survival is the duration from enrollment to death. For patients who are alive, overall survival is censored at the last contact., Preliminary: baseline to date of death from any cause (up to 3.5 years); Final: baseline to date of death from any cause (up to 5 years)|Safety of Induction Chemotherapy, A grading (severity) scale is provided for each adverse event term. Toxicities were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) Version 2.0 grading scales. Grades range from 0 (none) to 5 (death). Number of participants with clinically significant Grade 3 and Grade 4 toxicities occurring during induction chemotherapy are reported. Grade 3 events are severe and Grade 4 events are life-threatening., every cycle (21 days) for 3 cycles (up to 10 weeks)|Safety of Chemo-radiotherapy, A grading (severity) scale is provided for each adverse event term. Toxicities were graded according to NCI-CTC Version 2.0 grading scales. For specific radiation events, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group/European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer late radiation toxicity scale was used. Grades range from 0 (none) to 5 (death). Number of participants with clinically significant acute Grade 3 and Grade 4 toxicities (worst severity) occurring during chemo-radiation and up to 49 days (8 weeks) after are reported. Grade 3 events are severe and Grade 4 events are life-threatening., Cycles 4 and 5 up to 8 weeks after the end of chemo-radiotherapy
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the response rate of patients with non small lung cancer to gemcitabine in combination with radiotherapy. The tolerability and safety of this combination will also be evaluated.