A Phase 1 Study of CTIM-76 in Patients With Recurring Ovarian Cancer and Other Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a Phase 1a/1b, open-label, dose escalation and expansion study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of CTIM-76 (study drug), a humanized T cell engaging bispecific antibody targeting CLDN6, in subjects with platinum-refractory/resistant ovarian cancer (PRROC) and other advanced CLDN6-positive solid tumors (i.e., testicular and endometrial).
Platinum-resistant Ovarian Cancer|Testicular Cancer|Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: CTIM-76
Incidence of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Phase 1a will evaluate increasing doses of CTIM-76 based on the assessment of DLTs, From date of first dose of CTIM-76 until 28 days following the first dose|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be based on the best overall response rate as assessed by Investigators according to RECIST v1.1, From date of first dose of CTIM-76 until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months
The phase 1a Dose Escalation portion of the trial will enroll subjects with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer (PRROC), testicular, or endometrial cancer into one of approximately 9 dose escalation cohorts to assess safety, tolerability and to determine the recommended dose for expansion (RDE). CTIM-76 is to be administered once weekly (Q1W) for each cycle. A cycle is defined as 28 days. Subjects will be dosed until documentation of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or subject/physician decision.

The phase 1b dose expansion phase will evaluate CTIM-76 in one indication (PRROC, endometrial or testicular) at up to 2 doses (n=15 response evaluable subjects at each dose level). This is to enable dose- and exposure-response analyses. Dosing will follow the same schedule as Phase 1a. A priming dose will be administered on Day 1, and the full cohort dose will be administered weekly thereafter. Expansion doses for Phase 1b will be determined by Sponsor in conjunction with Safety Review Committee (SRC) based upon all available safety, pharmacokinetic (PK), pharmacodynamic (PD), biomarker and preliminary efficacy data from Phase 1a.

The selection of the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) will be based on the totality of data from Phase 1b.