Dosing and Tolerability of Deoxycholic Acid vs. Polidocanol in the Treatment of Neurofibromatosis Type 1 Cutaneous Neurofibromas
This study will evaluate the tolerability and effectiveness of two treatments in Neurofibromatosis Type 1 Cutaneous Neurofibromas. These treatments are: Kybella and Asclera injection. Each patient will have a treatment and a control site.
Neurofibromatosis 1
DRUG: Kybella|DRUG: Asclera
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Device based treatment will be considered tolerable if \<40% of participants treated have a \>grade 2 adverse event (AE). A grade 2 AE is defined as an adverse event that requires treatment., 3 months after treatment
Treatment specific patient reported outcomes (PRO), NRS11, modality specific satisfaction assessment, Baseline, 1 day after treatment, 1 week after treatment, 1 month after treatment, 2 months after treatment, 3 months after treatment, 6 months after treatment, 12 months after treatment|Clinician reported outcomes (ClinRO), Clinician assessment of cNF via questionnaire. Physician rates degree of change of treated and control cNFs on a scale from -3 (no change) to 3 (very large improvement)., Baseline, 3 months after treatment, 6 months after treatment, 12 months after treatment|Modified SkinDex for cNF, Health-related quality of life measure. Asks how much participants have been bothered by cNFs over the past week from 0 (never bothered) to 5 (always bothered)., Baseline, 3 months after treatment, 6 months after treatment, 12 months after treatment
Rate of healing, Measured clinically via photography completed by a member of the study team at baseline, 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month post-treatment., Baseline, 3 months after treatment, 6 months after treatment, and 12 months after treatment|cNF appearance, Clinically completed 2D and 3D photography Cherry Imaging., Baseline, 3 months after treatment, 6 months after treatment, and 12 months after treatment|Biologic effect, Degree of tissue necrosis on skin lesion biopsy at 3 months as assessed by review of area of necrosis in histology slides., 3 months after treatment
This study will evaluate the tolerability and effectiveness of two treatments in Neurofibromatosis Type 1 Cutaneous Neurofibromas. These treatments are: Kybella and Asclera injection. Each patient will have a treatment and a control site.