Comparing the Effectiveness of the Immunotherapy Agents Rituximab or Mosunetuzumab in Patients With Nodular Lymphocyte-Predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial compares mosunetuzumab to the usual treatment (rituximab) for improving survival in patients with nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma (NLPHL). Rituximab and mosunetuzumab are monoclonal antibodies. They bind to a protein called CD20, which is found on B cells (a type of white blood cell) and some types of cancer cells. This may help the immune system kill cancer cells. Mosunetuzumab may be more effective at extending survival in patients with NLPHL than the usual approach with rituximab.
Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant B-Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|BIOLOGICAL: Mosunetuzumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab and Hyaluronidase Human
Progression-free survival (PFS) time, Will be assessed according to the Lugano/Lymphoma Response to Immunomodulatory Therapy Criteria classification. The overall PFS curve will be displayed by treatment arm using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method, and statistical comparisons will be performed by a log-rank test., Time from the date of randomization to the first objective documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Objective response, The count and incidence rate of the response categories will be summarized for the overall population and by each treatment arm with a 95% exact confidence intervals (CIs). Comparison between treatment arms will be performed by a chi-squared test., At week 12 and end of treatment|Duration of response, Will be displayed by treatment arm using the KM method, and statistical comparisons will be performed by a log-rank test., Time from the first date of partial or complete response until death or the assessment date of disease progression, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be displayed by randomized treatment arm using the KM method, and statistical comparisons will be performed by a log-rank test., Time from the date of randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
CD20 expression, CD20 expression will be evaluated and correlated with overall response rate, complete remission rate at end of treatment, and 2-year progression free survival., Assessed up to 2 years|Molecular effects of mosunetuzumab and rituximab on tumor cells and the immune response, Will assess the molecular effects of mosunetuzumab and rituximab on tumor cells and the immune response and identify biomarkers of response or resistance (objective response rate, complete remission rate at end of treatment, and 2-year PFS) with ribonucleic acid sequencing, whole exome sequencing, immunohistochemistry CD20, PD-1, PD-L1, and PD-L2., Assessed up to 2 years|Tumor microenvironment and peripheral immune status, Will be assessed by single-cell ribonucleic acid sequencing., Assessed up to 2 years|Dynamic molecular response of nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma (NLPHL) patients, Will evaluate the dynamic molecular response of NLPHL patients treated with rituximab or mosunetuzumab with circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid., During the first 7 weeks of treatment and at the end of treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed by tumor response, immune response, and overall survival of the crossover patients., Assessed up to 2 years|Fludeoxyglucose F-18 positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) measurements, Will assess the association of FDG-PET/CT measurements, including metabolic tumor volume and maximum standardized uptake value, in combination with other risk factors, with PFS and OS in patients with lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma treated with mosunetuzumab or rituximab., At baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of mosunetuzumab versus rituximab in NLPHL patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the safety and antitumor activity of NLPHL patients treated with mosunetuzumab versus rituximab.

II. To evaluate the molecular effects of mosunetuzumab and rituximab on tumor cells and the immune response and identify biomarkers of response or resistance with ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq), whole exome sequencing (WES), immunohistochemistry (IHC) CD20, PD-1, PD-L1, PD-L2.

III. To evaluate tumor microenvironment and peripheral immune status with single-cell ribonucleic acid sequencing (scRNA-seq).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate CD20 expression and correlate with response. II. To evaluate the dynamic molecular response of NLPHL patients treated with rituximab or mosunetuzumab with circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA).

III. To evaluate the safety and efficacy (including tumor response, immune response, and overall survival) of the crossover patients.

IV. To assess the association of baseline fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) measurements including metabolic tumor volume (MTV) and maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax), in combination with other risk factors, with PFS and overall survival (OS) in patients with lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma treated with mosunetuzumab or rituximab.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive mosunetuzumab subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycle 1 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who experience progressive disease (PD) will be permitted to crossover to arm II at week 12. Patients also receive FDG and undergo PET/CT at baseline and end of treatment. Patients who are positive at pre-treatment bone marrow biopsy also receive FDG and undergo PET/CT on study. Patients also undergo bone marrow biopsy and tissue biopsy at baseline, and blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo bone marrow biopsy and tissue biopsy at end of treatment.

ARM II: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 and rituximab and hyaluronidase human SC on days 8, 15, and 22 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 2 cycles 8 weeks apart in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive rituximab IV on days 8, 15, and 22 of each cycle if rituximab and hyaluronidase human is not available. Patients who experience PD will be permitted to crossover to arm I at week 12. Patients also receive FDG and undergo PET/CT at baseline and end of treatment. Patients who are positive at pre-treatment bone marrow biopsy also receive FDG and undergo PET/CT on study. Patients also undergo bone marrow biopsy and tissue biopsy at baseline, and blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo bone marrow biopsy and tissue biopsy at end of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years.