First in Human Study of Ziftomenib in Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This first-in-human (FIH) dose-escalation and dose-validation/expansion study will assess ziftomenib, a menin-MLL(KMT2A) inhibitor, in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) as part of Phase 1. In Phase 2, assessment of ziftomenib will continue in patients with NPM1-m AML.
Advanced Malignant Neoplasm|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Mixed Lineage Leukemia|Mixed Lineage Acute Leukemia|Acute Leukemia of Ambiguous Lineage|Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia
DRUG: Ziftomenib
Phase 1a: Maximal tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D), MTD is defined as the highest dose that is not expected to cause dose limiting toxicity (DLT) in more than 20% of patients., Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) will be evaluated during the first 28 days (1 cycle)|Phase 1b: Number of patients that experience Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)., Assessed by NCI-CTCAE v5.0, During treatment and up to approximately 28 days after treatment discontinuation, or until immediately before the initiation of another anticancer therapy, whichever occurs first.|Phase 1b: Minimal biologically effective dose, Minimal biologically effective dose in dosing cohorts which have demonstrated biological activity and have been determined to be safe as a part of Part 1a, Up to 12 months following end of treatment|Phase 2: Evidence of anti-leukemia activity, Anti-leukemia activity is assessed by the CR (CR+CRh) rate, 12 months following end of treatment
Phase 1a: Number of patients that experience Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)., Assessed by NCI-CTCAE v5.0, During treatment and up to approximately 28 days after treatment discontinuation, or until immediately before the initiation of another anticancer therapy, whichever occurs first.|Phase 1a: Tmax, Time to observed maximum plasma concentration of ziftomenib and/or its metabolites, Cycle 1 and Cycle 2. Each cycle is 28 days.|Phase 1a: AUC(0-last), Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to time of last measurable concentration of ziftomenib and/or its metabolites, Cycle 1 and Cycle 2. Each cycle is 28 days.|Phase 1a: Cmax, Maximum plasma concentration of ziftomenib and/or its metabolites, Cycle 1 and Cycle 2. Each cycle is 28 days.|Phases 1a, 1b, and 2: Composite definition of complete remission (CR) and complete remission with partial hematologic recovery (CRh), To assess the CR (CR+CRh) rate, Up to 12 months following discontinuation of treatment|Phases 1a, 1b, and 2: Complete response (CR) with and without minimal residual disease (MRD), To assess the CR rate with and without MRD, Up to 12 months following discontinuation of treatment|Phases 1a, 1b, and 2: Duration of remission (DOR), To assess the DOR, Up to 12 months following discontinuation of treatment|Phases 1a, 1b, and 2: Transfusion independence (TI), To assess transfusion independence, Up to 12 months following discontinuation of treatment|Phases 1a, 1b, and 2: Event-free survival (EFS), To assess event-free survival, Up to 12 months following discontinuation of treatment|Phases 1a, 1b, and 2: Overall survival, To assess overall survival, Up to 12 months following discontinuation of treatment
This first-in-human (FIH), open-label study will assess ziftomenib, a menin-MLL(KMT2A) inhibitor, in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The trial includes a Main Study and four sub-studies.

The Main Study is a Phase 1/2 dose-escalation and dose-validation/expansion study to assess ziftomenib in patients with R/R AML. The dose-escalation part of the study (Phase 1a) will determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D). The dose-validation/expansion part of the study (Phase 1b) will determine the safety, tolerability, and minimal biologically effective dose (MBED) of ziftomenib in biomarker-specific dosing cohorts from among doses that demonstrated early biological activity and are determined to be safe in the dose-escalation phase. The Phase 2 portion of the study will determine the safety, tolerability, and anti-leukemia activity of ziftomenib in patients with nucleophosmin 1-mutant (NPM1-m) AML.

In Sub-study 1, the effects of co-administration of ziftomenib on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of midazolam will be studied in patients with R/R AML with certain genetic mutations.

In Sub-study 2, the effects of co-administration of itraconazole on the PK of ziftomenib will be studied in patients with R/R AML with certain genetic mutations.

In Sub-study 3, the safety, tolerability, and MBED/RP2D of ziftomenib will be studied in patients with R/R KMT2A-rearranged (KMT2A-r) ALL (Phase 1a dose escalation). These parameters will be investigated further for the RP2D in a Phase 1b dose-validation/cohort expansion part of the sub-study.

In Sub-study 4, the clinical activity of ziftomenib will be studied in patients with R/R AML with certain genetic mutations.