A Clinical Trial Comparing the Combination of TC Plus Bevacizumab to TC Alone and to TAC for Women With Node-Positive or High-Risk Node-Negative, HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
The main purpose of this study is to learn if adding bevacizumab to standard treatment with chemotherapy (docetaxel, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide) for early stage HER2-negative breast cancer will prevent breast cancer from returning. A second purpose of this study is to learn if adding bevacizumab to treatment with chemotherapy will help women with HER2-negative breast cancer live longer. The researchers also want to learn about the side effects of the combination of drugs used in this study.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: doxorubicin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: pegfilgrastim
Invasive disease-free survival(IDFS)relative to the TAC chemotherapy regimen alone, Every 12 months until recurrence
Invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) relative to the TAC chemotherapy regimen, Every 12 months until recurrence|Disease-free survival (DFS-DCIS) relative to the TC alone regimen, Every 12 months until recurrence|Overall survival (OS) relative to the TC alone regimen, Every 12 months from randomization until death from any cause|OS relative to the TAC regimen, Every 12 months from randomization until death from any cause|Recurrence-free interval (RFI) relative to the TC alone regimen, Every 12 months, from randomization to local, regional, or distant recurrence|RFI relative to the TAC regimen, Every 12 months, from randomization to local, regional, or distant recurrence|Develop molecular predictive markers for the degree of benefit from TCB over TC or TAC, 6 years|Provide the efficacy data from Group 1 patients and Group 2 patients enrolled in B-46-I/07132 to US Oncology Research, Inc. (USOR) for a planned combined analysis with efficacy data from patients receiving the same regimens in the USOR 06-090 trial, 10 years|Toxicity associated with each of the regimens, Every 6 months|Determine the role of topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A) in prognosis and prediction of degree of benefit from TAC over TC, 6 years|Develop predictive markers for benefit from doxorubicin, 6 years
The B-46-I/07132 study, a multicenter, open-label, randomized Phase III, adjuvant therapy trial, will compare the value of adding bevacizumab to a non-anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimen relative to the same chemotherapy without bevacizumab and relative to an anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimen in women with resected node-positive or high-risk node-negative, HER2-negative breast cancer. This trial will determine whether the addition of bevacizumab to a regimen of docetaxel and cyclophosphamide (TCB) improves invasive disease-free survival relative to docetaxel and cyclophosphamide alone (TC). A secondary aim will be to determine whether the addition of bevacizumab to TC improves invasive disease-free survival compared to a regimen of docetaxel, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (TAC). Other secondary aims include whether TCB improves disease-free survival, overall survival, and recurrence-free interval relative to TC alone and to TAC. The toxicities of the three regimens will also be compared.

Patients in the B-46-I/07132 study will be randomized to one of three treatment regimens: Group 1 patients will receive 6 cycles of TAC administered every 21 days (docetaxel 75 mg/m2, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2, and cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2); Group 2 patients will receive 6 cycles of TC administered every 21 days (docetaxel 75 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2); and Group 3 patients will receive 6 cycles of TCB every 21 days with bevacizumab therapy continuing every 21 days after completion of chemotherapy until 1 year following the first dose (docetaxel 75 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2, and bevacizumab 15 mg/kg). Primary prophylaxis with pegfilgrastim or filgrastim is required for Group 1 patients (optional for patients in Groups 2 and 3). Patients will also receive adjuvant radiation therapy as clinically indicated and endocrine therapy for hormone receptor-positive tumors.

Tumor samples will be submitted for correlative science studies to evaluate predictors of study therapy benefit. Submission of a tumor sample is a study requirement for all patients.