dMR During First Line Treatment of Non Squamous Lung Cancer: Time Course and Prognostic and Predictive Impact.
To date, there are no methods to reliably select which patients with non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that benefit most from treatment with bevacizumab. Data have shown that high levels of plasma VEGF are prognostic and correlates with a worse disease outcome in some tumour types, including advanced NSCLC.

Recent data are suggestive of a predictive value of imaging techniques for early detection of antiangiogenic treatment efficacy in different cancers. To our knowledge there are no presented data available on correlation between changes in diffusion-weighted MR and response to bevacizumab treatment in lung cancer. The current study is designed as a pilot study to prospectively investigate changes in MR variables during treatment with bevacizumab and to detect signals of prognostic and/or predictive value of MR changes during treatment.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DEVICE: dMRT|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: paclitaxel and carboplatin
dMRT changes during treatment, Diffusion magnetic resonance tomography of lung lesions., Baseline, Day 8, Day 28, Day 92, At relapse.
Response to treatment, CT of lungs, clinical examinations, Baseline, Day 92, at 5, 7, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24 mo during follow up|3. Time to disease progression (defined as the time period from the start of first-line therapy to investigator assessed disease progression), CT, clinical examinations, Baseline, Day 92, at 5, 7, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24 mo during follow up|Duration of survival, Defined as the time period from the start of first-line therapy to death., At 5, 7, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24, 36 and 48 mo during follow up
A Non Interventional, open-label, single arm, single institution pilot study. Eligible patients will be monitored by diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance tomography (dMRT) during treatment with bevacizumab + chemotherapy for up to four cycles followed by bevacizumab maintenance therapy until disease progression.