CE-IOUS Impact on Surgical Strategy of Liver Tumours and Liver Metastases
Contrast-enhanced intraoperative ultrasound (CE-IOUS) plays an increasingly important role in the surgical therapy planning of primary liver lesions as well as liver metastases.

The present study was designed to evaluate the significance of CE-IOUS by specificity and sensitivity and particularly the impact it exerts on the surgical strategy.

A secondary aim was assessing the outcome relevance of surgeries influenced by CE-IOUS.
Liver Neoplasms|Liver/Hepatobiliary Cancer|Colorectal Cancer Metastatic|Metastases|Surgery|Ultrasound
PROCEDURE: CE-IOUS
Impact on surgical strategy during CE-IOUS, Frequency of surgeries changed due to findings of CE-IOUS together with histopathological correlation., 01.01.2017 - 31.12.2019|Outcome relevance of CE-IOUS, Comparison of recurrence-free interval, overall survival rate of the intervention cohort and control cohort as well as the groups themselves., 01.01.2017 - 30.06.2021
Sensitivity and Specificity of CE-IOUS compared to other imaging methods, Accuracy of CE-IOUS in comparison to CT and MRI measured right localisation as well as classification of tumour dignity., 01.01.2017 - 31.12.2019
CE-IOUS has been used during hepatobiliary surgery for almost 25 years. During this time, it has proven to be an excellent diagnostic tool for detecting and characterising previously unknown lesions.

It is still unclear to what extent the findings of this imaging modality impacts the strategy of such operations.

The currently planned study is intended to evaluate the impact of contrast-enhanced intraoperative ultrasound on the surgical procedure in hepatic surgery.

For this purpose, patient data of the time period between 2017 and 2019 was prospectively analysed.

Another aim of the study was to measure the outcome relevance of CE-IOUS. This assessment was carried out by comparing an intervention cohort with a control cohort. The control cohort consisted of patients that were operated due similar liver lesions as the intervention cohort however did not receive CE-IOUS during the operation. Aspects like the recurrence free time and overall survival rate of the two cohorts were compared together with the patients' characteristics of the groups themselves.