Pomalidomide, Cyclophosphamide and Prednisone (PCP) in Patients With Multiple Myeloma (MM) Relapsed and/or Refractory to Lenalidomide
This study will evaluate if the combination of Pomalidomide, Cyclophosphamide and Prednisone is safe and provides benefits in patients with multiple myeloma relapsed and/or refractory to lenalidomide.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Pomalidomide, Cyclophosphamide, Prednisone
PCP safety and efficacy, We aim to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Pomalidomide delivered in combination with Cyclophosphamide and Prednisone, defined as the dose that achieves a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in 25% of patients.

The efficacy will be assessed by evaluating the very good partial response (VGPR) rate following the proposed regimen., 3 years
Overall survival, 3 years|Progression-free survival, 3 years|Time-to-progression, 3 years|Time to next therapy, 3 years|Tumor response and survival in particular subgroups of patients, 3 years
This is a prospective multicenter phase I followed by a phase II trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of Pomalidomide with Cyclophosphamide and Prednisone in patients with multiple myeloma relapsed and/or refractory to lenalidomide.

Patients will be evaluated at scheduled visits in up to 3 study periods: pre-treatment, treatment and long-term follow-up (LTFU).

The pre-treatment period includes: screening visits, performed at study entry. After providing written informed consent to participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for study eligibility. The screening period includes the evaluation of inclusion criteria described above. Subjects who meet all the inclusion criteria will be enrolled.

The treatment period includes: administration of the salvage treatment PCP for 6 cycles and maintenance treatment. In order to assess the toxicity of treatment, patients will attend study centre visits at least every 2 weeks, unless clinically indicated. The response will be assessed after each cycle.

During the LTFU period, after development of confirmed PD, all patients are to be followed for survival every 1-3 months via telephone or office visit.