Humidified Forest Oils for Immune System Recovery in Stage I-III Breast or Prostate Cancer
This clinical trial studies the feasibility of simulating forest therapy using humidified wood or fragrant oils, in improving immune cells, like natural killer cells, number and activity, and their downstream proteins, perforin and granulysin in patients with stage I-III breast or prostate cancer who completed chemo- and/or radiation therapy. The knowledge gained from this study may help cancer patients who have compromised immune systems and who also cannot participate in outdoor activities like exercise or forest walks.
Breast Carcinoma|Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Aromatherapy with Essential Oils
Humidified phytoncides to simulate the forest greenspace immersion (SFIT), Feasibility analysis will include qualitative interview data blinded by participant, CRC/research assistant and principal investigator. Qualitative interview questions include ease of use/deployment of humidified forest oils by the CRC/research assistant and PI, the ability of the participants to tolerate SFIT. The responses will be coded, themed and summarized will be used to determine the feasibility of intervention deployment and creation of a standardized procedure for future research. To determine dose drop off between the start of SFIT and the end of SFIT of the humidified phytoncides a t-test with an alpha level of 0.05 will be used., Baseline/Day 1
Collecting and analyzing immune system measures while deploying the simulated forest immersion therapy with forest oils, Will measure natural killer (NK) cell number and activity, and perforin and granulysin. NK cell number (NK CD3-/CD56+/) and activity (NK CD3-/CD56+/CD69+) will be tested with Flow Cytology. Perforin and granulysin will be tested by ELISA. Will use a t-test to determine the differences between these 4 variables collected at baseline and a Day 3-4. An alpha level of 0.05 will be set. Alternate analysis, the change NK cell number and activity will be determined from the mean of the standard range., Baseline and at day 3 or 4 and on Day 7
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the feasibility of using humidified phytoncides to simulate the forest greenspace immersion (simulated forest immersion therapy \[SFIT\]) in cancer patients with solid tumor who have completed surgery, chemo- and radiation therapy as an alternate method of access to the natural forest greenspace.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the feasibility of collecting and analyzing immune system measures while deploying the simulated forest immersion therapy with forest oils (SFIT), as well as measuring natural killer (NK) cell number and activity, and perforin and granulysin.

OUTLINE:

Patients participate in SFIT, using humidified wood and fragrance oils, over 1 hour on day 1, day 3 or 4 and on day 7. Patients also undergo blood sample collection at baseline and on days 3 or 4 and 7 and participate in interviews at baseline and post-treatment.