Wrist Cooling for Hot Flashes Clinical Trial
This pilot randomized double blind controlled crossover study aims to determine the impact of two wrist cooling devices on symptom control of hot flashes in adult men and adult women experiencing hot flashes. The participants will record during the first two weeks of the study all of their hot flashes and severity of their hot flashes in a diary. The participants will be randomly assigned to wear one of the two wrist cooling devices that have an identical appearance at different times in the study. They will wear the first assigned device for weeks 3 and 4. They will record in their diary the severity of their hot flashes while using the device. For weeks 5 and 6 they will be ask to use a second device and record in their diary the severity of their hot flashes with the use of the device.

The devices will be attached to the wrist like a watch. When activated, one device will turn on a cooling fan with the cooling plate being active for up to 5 minutes, and the other device will turn on a cooling fan only for up to 5 minutes without the cooling plate being active.
Hot Flashes
DEVICE: Wrist cooling device with cooling plate|DEVICE: Wrist fan activating device without cooling plate|OTHER: Hot Flash Diary
Percent of hot flashes severity, Participants will document the severity of hot flashes (mild, moderate, severe) in the study 'hot flash diary'., 6 weeks
Number of times wrist cooling device activated, Activation of the device will be documented by the device and by participants on the 'hot flash diary'., 6 weeks
The randomized group will determine the order that a participant uses each device. Group 1 participants will use the wrist cooling device first for two weeks and then the fan activating device for two weeks. Group 2 participants will use the fan activating device first for two weeks followed by the wrist cooling device for two weeks.

This will be a 6 week study requiring the participants to see a study team member at the beginning of the study. The participants will receive three phone calls during the study to remind them of when to use each device. They will be instructed after the 6 weeks for them to have an in person return visit and give the diaries and the devices to the study personnel.

The investigators will recruit participants and conduct the study at the Boston University School of Medicine (BUSM), locally, and virtually.