Save the Ovaries - Surgical Management of Simple Ovarian Cysts in Children and Adolescents
The purpose of this study is to evaluate which operative technique should be used for managing simple ovarian cysts in girls and adolescents. The two techniques that are being compared are laparoscopic cyst enucleation and laparoscopic cyst deroofing. The investigators will assess the effect of both techniques on the ovarian reserve and the risk of cyst recurrence.
Ovarian Cyst Benign
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic ovarian cyst surgery
Postoperative change of AMH level, Change in AMH level postoperatively compared to preoperative AMH levels (measured in pmol/L)., 8 weeks
Postoperative recurrence rate, Postoperative recurrence is defined as an ipsilateral asymptomatic cyst ≥ 4cm or a cyst of any size that requires a medical or surgical intervention due to symptoms at follow-up 6-8 weeks postoperatively.

If the asymptomatic cyst is \< 4cm, a second follow-up will be performed at 10-14 weeks postoperatively. Recurrence is then defined as ipsilateral asymptomatic cyst ≥ 4cm or a cyst of any size that requires a medical or surgical intervention due to symptoms.

The outcome will be measured as "recurrence/no recurrence", 14 weeks
Intraoperative complications, The investigators will describe any intraoperative complications., 2 weeks|Operative times, The investigators will measure the operative times in minutes for both techniques., 2 weeks|Postoperative ipsilateral ovarian volume on ultrasound, The postoperative ipsilateral ovarian volume will be calculated by ultrasound (Ovarian Volume: V (in ml) = long axis in cm x transversal axis x ap diameter x 0.5) and compared to published standard ovarian volumes in ml according to age., 14 weeks|Postoperative adnexal ratio, The adnexal ratio will be calculated by division of the volume of the affected ovary (in ml) with the volume of the unaffected ovary (in ml). If the adnexal ratio is \<1 postoperatively, this can be a sign of postoperative volume loss., 14 weeks|Postoperative histology, The investigators will assess the histology of the cyst wall according to the following entities: functional cyst/ serous cystadenoma/ mucinous cystadenoma/ other entity., 8 weeks|Postoperative microscopic follicle count, The investigators will count the number of follicles that were removed on a representative sample of the surgical specimen, which will contain cyst wall +/- ovarian cortex., 14 weeks|Postoperative complications, Postoperative complications will be described by the Clavien-Madadi Classification., 14 weeks
The purpose of this study is to evaluate which operative technique should be used for managing simple ovarian cysts in girls and adolescents. The two techniques that are being compared are laparoscopic cyst enucleation and laparoscopic cyst deroofing. The investigators will assess the effect of both techniques on the ovarian reserve and the risk of cyst recurrence.