Cholecalciferol in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia Undergoing Intensive Induction Chemotherapy
This partially randomized phase II trial studies the side effects and best way to give and best dose of cholecalciferol in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) undergoing intensive induction chemotherapy. Cholecalciferol may help improve the outcome of patients with AML undergoing intensive chemotherapy
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: cholecalciferol|OTHER: pharmacological study|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: cholecalciferol|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Changes in 25(OH)-D3 levels after supplementation, The within-group pre- and post-supplementation levels will be summarized separately and the within-subject change will also be computed. To assess within-arm treatment effects the sign test will be used., From baseline to monthly for the first 3 months and then every 3 months|Pharmacokinetic parameters, Summarized using the mean (with corresponding 90% confidence intervals) and standard deviation., 30 minutes before administration, 30 minutes after administration, and 24 hours after administration on day 1; monthly for the first 3 months; and then every 3 months|Safety and toxicity parameters, Rates corresponding to toxicity endpoints will be estimated using simple relative frequencies. The corresponding 90% confidence intervals for the estimated probabilities will be computed using the method proposed in Clopper and Pearson. Comparison between groups will be done in an exploratory fashion using appropriate two-sample tests. A nominal significance level of 0.10 will be used in all testing., Daily for 21 days and monthly thereafter, up to 30 days after last dose of study drug
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To assess patients with regards to changes in 25(OH)-D3 changes after supplementation. II. To develop a pharmacokinetic model to describe the time course of the relationship of vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) supplementation that drives the levels of 25(OH)-D3 during the intensive induction chemotherapy. III. To determine the safety and toxicity of vitamin D3 supplementation in AML patients undergoing intensive induction chemotherapy. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To explore whether rapid (loading dose of vitamin D3) normalization of 25(OH)-D3 levels will have an effect on the progression free and overall survival. II. To explore whether a relationship exists between the pharmacokinetics of the 25-hydroxy-vitamin D3 and white blood cell count. OUTLINE: Patients with pretreatment 25(OH)-D3 levels 20-31.9 ng/mL (insufficient levels) are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. ARM I: Patients receive a loading dose of cholecalciferol orally (PO) on day 1. Patients then receive lower-dose cholecalciferol PO beginning on day 8. ARM II: Patients receive a loading dose of cholecalciferol PO on day 1. Patients then receive higher-dose cholecalciferol PO beginning on day 8. Patients with pretreatment 25(OH)-D3 levels \< 20 ng/mL (deficient levels) receive a loading dose of cholecalciferol PO on days 1 and 8. Patients then receive lower-dose cholecalciferol PO beginning on day 15. For all patients, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.