A Study of the Pan-immunotherapy in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Ovarian Cancer
Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecological cancer and the 5th leading cause of cancer death in women. Platinum chemotherapy has been widely adopted as a standard treatment for advanced ovarian cancer, the response rates in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian cancer is unacceptably low. PD-1 blockade has been developed to a new class of cancer immunotherapy that could restore an adequate immunosurveillance against the neoplasm and enhance T-cell-mediated anticancer immune responses. Manganese has been confirmed to activate antigen-presenting cells and function as mucosal immunoadjuvants in pre-clinical studies. This two-arm, phase I/II study is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of combined therapy of anti-PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy with or without Manganese priming.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Manganese Chloride|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Platinum chemotherapy|DRUG: Sintilimab
Object response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, 24 months|Number of Subjects with treatment-related adverse events (AEs), Incidence, nature, and severity of adverse events graded according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0. AEs were considered to be treatment-related if they had started or worsened within the interval from first study drug administration until the follow-up visit., 12 months
Disease control rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved a stable disease (SD), partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., 12 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS time was measured from study entry to the first documentation of disease progression or death. Disease progression was determined per the RECIST V1.1., 12 months|Overall survival (OS), OS time was measured from the study entry to the date of death., 24 months|Number of participants with laboratory test abnormalities, The laboratory tests of serum cytokines and chemokines will be performed on day 1 and 3 of each cycle, and the abnormality will be determined by the investigator., 12 months
Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecological cancer and the 5th leading cause of cancer death in women. Platinum chemotherapy has been widely adopted as a standard treatment for advanced ovarian cancer, the response rates in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian cancer is unacceptably low. PD-1 blockade has been developed to a new class of cancer immunotherapy that could restore an adequate immunosurveillance against the neoplasm and enhance T-cell-mediated anticancer immune responses. Manganese has been confirmed to activate antigen-presenting cells and function as mucosal immunoadjuvants in pre-clinical studies. This two-arm, phase I/II study is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of combined therapy of anti-PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy with or without Manganese priming.