Niraparib in Tumors Metastatic to the CNS
This research is being done to see how effective the drug niraparib is against cancer that has metastasized to the central nervous system (CNS).

* This research study involves the study drug niraparib.
Metastatic Cancer|Central Nervous System Cancer
DRUG: Niraparib
Intracranial Clinical benefit rate, Assessed by RANO criteria for brain metastases, 8 Weeks
Extracranial clinical benefit rate, Assessed by RECIST and duration of response, Up to 2 years|Intracranial disease progression, Assessed by cumulative incidence function (CIF), which estimates the marginal probability of each competing event via cause-specific hazards, Time to the first occurrence of intracranial disease progression, or death from any cause up to 2 years|Extracranial disease progression, Assessed by cumulative incidence function (CIF), which estimates the marginal probability of each competing event via cause-specific hazards, Time to the first occurrence of extracranial disease progression, or death from any cause up to 2 years|Overall Survival Rate, Summarized using Kaplan-Meier., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE Version 5.0, The number and proportion of adverse events, graded as defined by CTCAE version 5.0 will be will be summarized according to system organ class and/or preferred term, severity (based on CTCAE grade), type of adverse event, and relation to study treatment., Up to 2 years
This is a single arm open-label study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of niraparib in treating cancer that has metastasized to the central nervous system (CNS).

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved niraparib for cancer metastasized to the central nervous system (CNS) but it has been approved for other uses.

Niraparib is a type of drug called a "PARP inhibitor", which blocks DNA (the genetic material of cells) damage from being repaired or may prevent damage from occurring in the first place. In cancer treatment, inhibiting PARP may help kill cancer cells by not allowing the cancer cells to repair its DNA damage or prevent DNA damage associated with your diagnosis from occurring.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive the study drug for up to 2 years or until their disease worsens, they have unacceptable side effects, or they meet one of the criteria to be removed from the study. Participants will then be followed every 4 months for up to 2 years.

It is expected that about 20 people will take part in this research study.

GlaxoSmithKline, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing funding for the study, including the study drug.