Avastin +/- Erlotinib Consolidation Chemotherapy After Carboplatin, Paclitaxel, and Avastin (CTA) Induction Therapy for Advanced Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, Primary Peritoneal Cancer & Papillary Serous or Clear Cell Mullerian Tumors
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate how patients with newly diagnosed advanced ovarian, fallopian tube, primary peritoneal cancer and papillary serous or clear cell mullerian tumors respond to consolidation therapy with Avastin and erlotinib or Avastin alone over 1 year. These drugs have been used in the treatment of other types of cancers and information from those studies suggests that these agents may help to treat the cancers studied here.
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cancer|Papillary Serous Mullerian Tumor|Clear Cell Mullerian Tumor
DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: erlotinib|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: carboplatin
Consolidation Progression-Free Survival, Consolidation PFS based on the Kaplan-Meier method was defined as the time from the first day of consolidation therapy to documented disease progression (PD) or disease-specific death. Based on RECIST 1.1, radiographic PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum since beginning consolidation, the appearence of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Based on Rustin criteria, serlogic PD was a rise in CA125 since beginning of consolidation or previously normal CA125 that rises to \>/= 2xULN with either event documented on 2 occasions. Patients who were event-free were censored at the date of their last disease evaluation., Assessments occurred every cycle (serologic) and every 3 cycles (radiologic) on consolidation treatment. Pts were allowed on consolidation therapy for up to 1 year and upon treatment discontinuation were followed for another year.|Consolidation Treatment-related Toxicity Rate, Consolidation treatment-related toxicity rates based on CTCAEv3 were defined as rates of maximum grade 3 or higher toxicity events with attribution possible, probable or definite occurring during consolidation treatment and up to 30 days post-treatment., Assessed every cycle during consolidation treatment and up to 30 days post-treatment. Per protocol, consolidation treatment was a fixed duration of 1 year.
Consolidation Objective Response Rate, Consolidation objective response (OR) was based on RECIST 1.0 criteria with OR defined as achieving partial response (PR) or complete response (CR). Per RECIST 1.0 for target lesions, CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. For CR or PR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no fewer than 4 weeks after the response criteria are first met. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions. If CA125 disease then OR based on Rustin criteria is a 50% decrease in serum CA125 level from two initially elevated samples confirmed by a 4th sample., Assessments occurred every cycle (serologic) and every 3 cycles (radiologic) on consolidation treatment. Pts were allowed on consolidation therapy for up to 1 year.
Objectives:

Primary To examine the progression free survival (PFS) of Avastin and Erlotinib (AE) or Avastin (A) as consolidation therapy.

Secondary To examine the toxicity between the two consolidative regimens AE vs. A. To assess the response rate of CTA.

STATISTICAL DESIGN This study uses a randomized selection design. Both consolidation treatment arms are deemed experimental and are compared against a historical control \[McGuire WP et al. Cyclophosphamide and cisplatin compared with paclitaxel and cisplatin in patients with stage III and stage IV ovarian cancer. NEJM 1996: 334:1-6. PMID:7494563\]. With 30 patients in a given arm and 6 months of follow-up, there was 80% power to detect a 61.5% increase in median PFS from 13 months to 21 months assuming 1-sided 10% significance.