BMS-214662 in Treating Patients With Acute Leukemia, Myelodysplastic Syndrome, or Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of BMS-214662 in treating patients who have acute leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or chronic myeloid leukemia in blast phase
Adult Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (M3)|Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts in Transformation|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
DRUG: BMS-214662|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience DLT assessed using NCI CTC version 2.0, Non-parametric tests will be used to study the relationship between baseline and post-therapy values at different dose levels and times., 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose limiting toxicity of BMS-214662 in patients with acute leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or chronic myeloid leukemia in blast phase.

II. Determine any preliminary evidence of antileukemia activity of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

Patients receive BMS-214662 IV over 1 hour weekly for 4 weeks. Treatment continues every 4 weeks for a maximum of 12 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of BMS-214662 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicities.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 30 patients will be accrued for this study within 10 months.