TRAstuzumab and Pertuzumab for HER2+ Resectable Oesophageal Cancer
Despite treatment according to the CROSS-regimen, median overall survival is less than four years (2.3 QALYs). The burden of disease is within the highest category (0.71 to 1.0). Also, no targeted treatment options are currently available, hampering personalized treatment for this patient population. TRAP-2 aims to address these needs by investigating whether addition of trastuzumab and pertuzumab to standard of care improves survival of patients with resectable HER2 positive esophageal adenocarcinoma (HER2+ EAC). Patients with HER2+ EAC will be randomised to neoadjuvant chemoradiation according to the CROSS regimen or CROSS + TRAstuzumab and Pertuzumab. Primary outcome is overall survival.
Esophageal Cancer|Esophageal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
Overall survival, Overall survival will be calculated from the date of randomization to death., 5.5. years (maximum follow-up time)
Progression free survival, Progression free survival will be calculated from the date of randomization to death or progression., 5.5. years (maximum follow-up time)|Adverse events, Treatment toxicity according, 15 weeks (duration of neoadjuvant treatment)|Surgical complications, Surgical complications according to Clavien Dindo, 30 days after surgery|Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction, ≥ 10 percentage points decrease from baseline to an absolute value \< 50%, 5.5. years|General quality of life, Quality of life, 5.5. years
Despite treatment according to the CROSS-regimen, median overall survival is less than four years (2.3 QALYs). The burden of disease is within the highest category (0.71 to 1.0). Also, no targeted treatment options are currently available, hampering personalized treatment for this patient population. TRAP-2 aims to address these needs by investigating whether addition of trastuzumab and pertuzumab to standard of care improves survival of patients with resectable HER2 positive esophageal adenocarcinoma (HER2+ EAC). Patients with HER2+ EAC will be randomised to neoadjuvant chemoradiation according to the CROSS regimen or CROSS + TRAstuzumab and Pertuzumab. Primary outcome is overall survival.