3D-CT-guided Percutaneous Radiofrequency Thermocoagulation for Tumor-related Trigeminal Neuralgia
This study is designed to investigate the effectiveness and safety of 3D-CT-guided percutaneous radiofrequency thermocoagulation for the treatment of tumor-related trigeminal neuralgia.
Trigeminal Neuralgia, Secondary
Cumulative recurrence-free rate, The modified Barrow Neurological Institute (BNI) pain intensity score will be used to assess pain degree. Pain relief degree will be evaluated as BNI I= no pain without medication, BNI II= occasional pain, not require medication, BNI IIIa= no pain with medication, BNI IIIb= Controlled pain with medication, BNI IV= improved pain that inadequately controlled by medication, BNI IV= persistent pain that inadequately controlled by medication. A BNI grade that increased to IV-V from I-IIIb after operation was defined as recurrence., The enrollment of our study began on March 1st 2007 and ended on 31st October 2017. All following-up has been finished before February 28th 2018.
Patient satisfaction, Patient satisfaction is evaluated by a 5-point Likert scale, while 1 point represents very unsatisfactory and 5 points indicates very satisfactory, From pre-operation to 1 week after operation|Adverse events, Data regarding intra-and post=operative adverse events., The enrollment of our study began on March 1st 2007 and ended on 31st October 2017. All following-up has been finished before February 28th 2018.
Approximately 1-13% of trigeminal neuralgia cases are secondary to intracranial tumors, and this condition is referred to as tumor-related trigeminal neuralgia (TRTN). TRTN can result from a lesion affecting any location along the pathway of the trigeminal nerve, such as Meckel's Cave, the posterior fossa, and the cerebellopontine angle. The posterior fossa is the most common location of TRTN, whereas meningioma and epidermoid cysts are the most common pathologies. The goals of TRTN treatment include controlling tumors and relieving pain. Tumor resection is regarded as the most effective treatment, and complete tumor removal is often followed by complete pain remission. However, for patients who cannot undergo the risk of a craniotomy and those with end-stage of malignant tumors or slow-growing benign tumors, surgery may not be the best choice. Conservatively, medication is considered the first-line therapy for relieving pain. However, pharmacology cannot provide satisfactory relief for all patients, and some patients may experience intolerable side effects. For these patients, minimally invasive interventional techniques are preferred. Radiosurgery has been commonly performed for the treatment of TRTN with promising efficacy. However, this intervention is associated with delayed latency of response. Percutaneous radiofrequency thermocoagulation (PRFT) is a low-risk, minimally invasive technique with an acute success rate of 97.6-99%. PRFT remains the most common percutaneous treatment for TN. In addition, this popular procedure may also safely and effectively be repeated if pain recurs. The PRFT procedure involves positioning the radiofrequency (RF) needle at the Gasserian ganglion via the foremen ovale. Suboptimal piercing may lead to unpleasant complications, including cerebrospinal fluid leakage, cranial nerve (VI) palsy and intracranial hemorrhage. Recently, computed tomography (CT) has been demonstrated to be a useful method to identify the optimal position and predict the intraoperative difficulties of the intervention.