The Clinical,Radiologic,Pathologic and Molecular Marker Characteristics of Pancreatic Cysts Study
The aim is to propose and prospectively validate a diagnostic approach and model for prediction of mucinous versus non-mucinous, and malignant versus non-malignant pancreatic cysts using a combination of clinical, radiologic, and biomarker characteristics.
Pancreatic Cysts|Pancreatic Cancer
Prevalence and incidence of malignant pancreatic cysts, 1)to determine the prevalence and incidence of malignancy in pancreatic cysts according to cyst size and concerning features, 3-6 years
Biomarkers to predict type of pancreatic cyst, To collect tissue samples (cyst fluid and blood) for research on molecular markers in pancreatic cysts, 3-6 years|Biomarker panel in pancreatic juice as indicator to type of pancreatic cyst, To develop a panel of candidate biomarkers in pancreatic juice and serum as indicators of prevalent and incident malignancy in patients with surgically-proven neoplastic pancreatic cysts compared to non-neoplastic cysts (pseudocysts, lymphoepithelial cysts, congenital cysts), 3-6 years|Compare CT with EUS and MRI for diagnosing pancreatic cysts., to determine the sensitivity, specificity, and overall accuracy of pancreatic protocol CT, EUS, and/or MRCP in patients with pancreatic cysts, using surgical pathology as the reference standard, 3-6 year|Difference EUS/CT or MRCP in diagnosis of malignant pancreatic cysts, to calculate difference in diagnostic accuracy and clinical impact (change in preoperative diagnosis and treatment plan) of additional diagnostic tests (EUS and/or MRCP) over pancreatic protocol CT for the diagnosis of neoplastic/malignant pancreatic cysts., 3-6 years|Associated factors for with multivariate model for malignant pancreatic cyst, to determine the factors associated with prevalent and incident malignancy in pancreatic cyst using a multivariate model including clinical, radiologic, and molecular markers, 3-6 years|Model for prediction of malignant pancreatic cysts, to determine the best model for prediction of malignancy in pancreatic cysts using multiple logistic regression and discriminant function analysis, including clinical, radiologic, and molecular markers, 3-6 years
This combined cross-sectional and prospective single center clinical and translational study involves a collaborative multidisciplinary team composed of gastroenterologists, surgeons, radiologists, and basic scientists. Eligible patients with solitary or multiple pancreatic cysts referred for diagnostic evaluation and/or surgical treatment will undergo initial radiographic imaging with high-resolution CT, MRI/MRCP, and EUS/FNA as part of standard medical care at Johns Hopkins Hospital. This is a three-phase study.

In Phase I, eligible patients with pancreatic cysts will undergo initial radiographic imaging (high-resolution CT, MRI/MRCP, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) with fine needle aspiration (FNA)) as part of standard care at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Patients will be categorized according to the presence of symptoms referable to the cyst or imaging features concerning for malignancy based on the initial radiographic assessment. Symptomatic patients, or those with concerning features, will be referred for surgical resection. The pathologic features and final diagnosis of resected pancreatic cysts will be compared with preoperative clinical, radiologic, and cyst fluid test results.

Asymptomatic patients with low-risk features at baseline radiographic and endoscopic imaging will enter Phase II. Patients will be followed on a prospective periodic surveillance schedule according the consensus clinical guidelines with either CT or MRI to monitor for new or metachronous cystic neoplasms. Those who develop symptoms or concerning features will have a repeat EUS/FNA as well as imaging with the opposite axial imaging modality, and will be referred for surgery if a suspicious lesion is detected.

Patients who have surgery either during Phase I or Phase II, will enter post-surgical surveillance (Phase III). Patients will be followed using a prospective periodic surveillance schedule according the consensus clinical guidelines with either CT or MRI to monitor for new or metachronous cystic neoplasms. Those who undergo surgery after surveillance in Phase II will continue with the imaging modality they were originally evaluated with prior to surgery.. Patients who develop symptoms or high-risk features on imaging will have a repeat EUS/FNA as well as imaging with the opposite axial imaging modality and will be referred for surgery if a suspicious lesion is detected. Samples will be collected prospectively for biomarker analysis. Cyst fluid, pancreatic juice and blood will be collected during EUS and blood will be collected yearly during the outpatient clinic visit. Patients will be followed for three years.