Study of Docetaxel or Vinorelbine Plus Cisplatin in Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy for Esophageal Cancer (NEOCRTEC308)
The primary objective is to compare docetaxel plus cisplatin (DP) versus vinorelbine plus cisplatin (NP) in neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, in terms of the overall survival and toxicity in patients with Stage IIB or III squamous cell esophageal carcinoma.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Esophageal Cancer|Oesophageal Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Radiation|PROCEDURE: Surgery|DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Cisplatin
Overall survival, Overall survival will be calculated from the date of randomisation and an event registered on the date of death from any cause. Patients lost to follow up, or those with no death recorded on the day the database is frozen, will be censored on the date of last follow up., At end of trial- up to 3 years in follow up|Toxicities of neo-adjuvant chemoradiotherapy, All symptoms of toxicity will be evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version. 3.0., Within the first 56 days after the start of chemoradiotherapy
Disease free survival, At end of trial- up to 3 years in follow up|Clinical response rate, 4-6 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy|R0 resection rate, One week after the operation|Number of Participants who withdraw the treatment, Within the first 84 days after the start of chemoradiotherapy|Perioperative complication, Within the first 90 days after the start of surgery|Pathological complete response rate, One week after the operation|Health Related Quality of Life, Within the first 84 days after the start of chemoradiotherapy
Esophageal cancer (EC) is the eighth most common cancers in the world, with more than 456,000 new cases and 400,000 deaths occurred annually worldwide. Every year in China, no matter new cases or deaths account for more than half of the world. Besides, over 90% of Chinese patients have esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).

Preoperative chemoradiotherapy (CRT) followed by surgery can hopefully improve the survival of ESCC. The CROSS trial has demonstrated that preoperative chemoradiotherapy can significantly increase the overall survival of patients with EC compared with surgery alone. The therapeutic effects were also found in 84 ESCC cases enrolled in this trial. Previously, the investigators performed a phase III, randomized clinical trial (NCT01216527) to compare the overall survival of stage IIB-III ESCC patients treated with or without neoadjuvant CRT, in which vinorelbine plus cisplatin was used as chemotherapy regime. The enrollment was completed in 2014. The outcomes will hopefully prove the survival benefit of neoadjuvant CRT to ESCC.

However, the investigators also observed that some patients suffer from the toxic response of neoadjuvant therapy, such as myelosuppression (45.2%), pulmonary toxicity (42.9%), and esophagitis (59.5%). The toxicity caused by CRT will decrease the patient compliance; moreover increase the perioperative complications and deaths, which may totally offset the survival benefit. Therefore, it is important to improve chemoradiotherapy effect and reduce toxicity, so as to achieve better survival in ESCC patients.

Docetaxel draws increasing attentions with its high effective rate and low toxicity. Several Phase II clinical trials and retrospective studies suggested that docetaxel showed better survival benefits in both monotherapy and combined-therapy in EC patients. Therefore, the investigators intended to conduct a phase III, randomized clinical trial to further explore whether docetaxel plus cisplatin would be an effective therapy with lower toxicity.

The investigators are to carry out a phased III clinical trial to compare the effect and toxicity of docetaxel plus cisplatin with vinorelbine plus cisplatin in neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.