Using a PET Imaging Agent, 18F-Clofarabine (CFA), to Measure Deoxycytidine Kinase Activity in Metastatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether a new type of imaging study, called 18F-Clofarabine (CFA) PET/CT, can be used to image cancer pyrimidine metabolism in participants.

PET (positron emission tomography) imaging is a way of looking at cancers that can reveal cancer metabolism. Presently, however, there are no imaging agents in routine use to look at an aspect of cancer metabolism (pyrimidine metabolism) that dictates whether certain cancer drugs, e.g., gemcitabine, are likely to be taken into the cancer cells. This clinical trial will be testing whether 18F-Clofarabine (CFA) could be an imaging agent to measure this aspect of cancer metabolism.
Metastatic Cancer|Carcinoma|Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: 18F-Clofarabine
Evaluate CFA as a PET imaging agent, Establish the image-based biodistribution of CFA, a new tracer for imaging DCK enzyme activity. DCK converts the inactive prodrug clofarabine into its active form. Thus, the degree of DCK expression in normal and abnormal tissues may predict drug effects and effectiveness.

The uptake of the radiotracer (SUVs) will be measured quantitatively from PET images taken at 60 min post-injection of \[18F\]CFA., up to 60 minutes after CFA PET
Correlate CFA uptake with conventional imaging, Correlate CFA uptake with conventional anatomic imaging using RECIST criteria to establish change over time and differences from participants' baseline scans., up to 3 months after CFA PET|Correlate CFA uptake with PFS, Correlate changes in CFA uptake (SUV) with disease progression as determined by standard of care surveillance imaging., up to 12 months after CFA PET|Correlate CFA uptake with OS, Correlate changes in CFA uptake with participant outcomes as measured by all cause mortality/overall survival (OS)., up to 12 months after CFA PET|Adverse Events, Proportion of participants who develop any side effects/adverse events associated with radiotracer infusions., within 48 hrs of radiotracer administration
The participants will receive a CFA injection into a vein in their arm. The imaging drug is attracted to and taken into certain cells in the body, including cancer cells. 18F-Clofarabine (CFA) is experimental because it is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

The participants will be observed for side effects, and about 1 hour later, they will receive a PET/CT scan. Additionally, they will be contacted the next day to inquire again about any side effects. If the participant's routine care involves repeat imaging of cancer, then the CFA PET/CT scan will be repeated at that time, which could be up to 365 days after the first CFA PET/CT scan.