Study Assessing the Efficacy and Safety of Alpelisib Plus Fulvestrant in Men and Postmenopausal Women With Advanced Breast Cancer Which Progressed on or After Aromatase Inhibitor Treatment.
To determine whether treatment with alpelisib plus fulvestrant prolonged progression-free survival (PFS) compared to fulvestrant and placebo in men and postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive (HR+), human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2)-negative advanced breast cancer, who received prior treatment with an aromatase Inhibitor (AI) either as (neo)adjuvant or for advanced disease.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Alpelisib|DRUG: Placebo
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Investigator Assessment in the PIK3CA Mutant Cohort, PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed via a local radiology assessment according to RECIST 1.1. If a patient did not have an event, PFS was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment.

The PFS distribution was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Once approximately 243 PFS events in the PIK3CA mutant cohort had been observed, up to 33.3 months
Overall Survival (OS) in the PIK3CA Mutant Cohort, OS was defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. If a patient was not known to have died, survival was censored at the date of last known date patient alive.

The OS distribution was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Once approximately 178 deaths in the PIK3CA mutant cohort had been observed, up to 55.7 months|PFS Per Investigator Assessment in the PIK3CA Non-mutant Cohort, PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed via a local radiology assessment according to RECIST 1.1. If a patient did not have an event, PFS was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment.

The PFS distribution was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 56.4 months|OS in the PIK3CA Non-mutant Cohort, OS was defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. If a patient was not known to have died, survival was censored at the date of last known date patient alive.

The OS distribution was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Up to 56.4 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Per Investigator Assessment, ORR was defined as the percentage of patients with best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on local investigator's assessment according to RECIST 1.1.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to 56.4 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) Per Investigator Assessment, Clinical benefit rate was defined as the percentage of patients with a best overall response of CR or PR or stable disease (SD) or Non-CR/Non-PD lasting more than 24 weeks based on local investigator assessment according to RECIST 1.1.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Up to 56.4 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status (PS) Score From Baseline, ECOG PS categorized patients based on their ability to perform daily activities and self-care, with scores ranging from 0 to 5. A score of 0 indicated no restrictions in activity, while higher scores indicated increasing limitations. Time to definitive deterioration of ECOG PS by one score was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the event, defined as experiencing at least one score lower than the baseline. A deterioration was considered definitive if no improvements in the ECOG PS were observed at a subsequent time. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the distribution. Patients receiving any further therapy prior to definitive worsening were censored at their date of last assessment prior to start of therapy. Patients that had not worsened at the data cutoff point were censored at the date of last assessment., From baseline up to 56.4 months|Time to 10% Deterioration in the Global Health Status (GHS) /Quality of Life (QOL) Scale Score of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer's Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire that includes 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales, 1 GHS/QoL scale, and 6 single items. GHS/QoL scale score ranges between 0 and 100. A high score for GHS/QoL represents better functioning or QoL.The time to definitive 10% deterioration was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of event, which was defined as at least 10% relative to baseline worsening of the GHS/QoL score (without further improvement above the threshold) or death due to any cause. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the distribution. If a patient had not had an event, time to deterioration was censored at the date of the last adequate QoL evaluation., From baseline up to 55.7 months|Change From Baseline in the GHS/QOL Scale Score of the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire that includes 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales, 1 GHS/QoL scale, and 6 single items. GHS/QoL scale score ranges between 0 and 100. A high score for GHS/QoL represents better functioning or QoL.The change from baseline in the GHS/QoL score was assessed. A positive change from baseline indicated improvement.

For each cohort, this analysis only included assessments up to the time point where there were at least 10 patients on each of the 2 treatment groups., Baseline, every 8 weeks after randomization during the first 18 months and thereafter every 12 weeks, up to 120 weeks.|Trough Plasma Concentration of Alpelisib, Pre-dose plasma concentrations of alpelisib were assessed. Only participants randomized to the alpelisib + fulvestrant arm were included in this analysis., Day 8 and Day 15 of Cycle 1, then Day 1 of Cycles 2, 4, 6 and 8. Cycle = 28 days|Trough Plasma Concentration of Fulvestrant, Pre-dose plasma concentrations of fulvestrant were assessed., Day 15 of Cycle 1, then Day 1 of Cycles 2, 4, 6 and 8. Cycle = 28 days|PFS Per Investigator Criteria in Subjects With PIK3CA Mutation Status Measured in ctDNA at Baseline, PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed via a local radiology assessment according to RECIST 1.1. If a patient did not have an event, PFS was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment. The PFS distribution was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology.

Subjects were analyzed according to the PIK3CA mutation status (mutant or non-mutant) as identified using plasma ctDNA.

Progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From baseline up to 56.4 months
Updated PFS Per Investigator Assessment in the PIK3CA Mutant Cohort (Longer Follow-up), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed via a local radiology assessment according to RECIST 1.1. If a patient did not have an event, PFS was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment.

The PFS distribution was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. This analysis was conducted at the time of the final OS analysis (when approximately 178 deaths in the PIK3CA mutant cohort had been achieved) and includes a longer follow-up time.

Progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 55.7 months
This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, international multicenter Phase III study that evaluated the efficacy and safety of treatment with alpelisib plus fulvestrant versus placebo plus fulvestrant in men and postmenopausal women with HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer which had progressed on or after AI treatment.

Subjects were allocated to either the PIK3CA mutant or PIK3CA non-mutant cohort, based on central testing of hotspot-mutations in tumor tissue. Subjects with unknown results were not eligible. Within each cohort, subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either alpelisib 300 mg orally once daily (q.d.), in combination with fulvestrant 500 mg intramuscular (i.m.) on Days 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 and Day 1 of a 28-day cycle thereafter, or placebo daily in combination with fulvestrant 500 mg following the same treatment regimen.

Subjects were treated until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, death, or discontinuation from the study treatment for any other reason. All subjects who discontinued study treatment were followed for safety, until 30 days after last study treatment administration, except in the case of death, loss to follow-up, or withdrawal of consent.

Subjects who discontinued study treatment for reasons other than disease progression or withdrawal of consent, were followed until disease progression, death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, or subject/guardian decision (post-treatment efficacy follow-up).

Finally, all subjects were followed for survival after discontinuation of study treatment and tumor evaluations until the subject's death, loss to follow-up, or withdrawal of consent for survival follow-up (post-treatment survival follow-up)