Enfortumab Vedotin for the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Penis
This phase II trial tests how well enfortumab vedotin works for treating patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Enfortumab vedotin is a monoclonal antibody, enfortumab, linked to an anticancer drug called vedotin. It works by helping the immune system to slow or stop the growth of tumor cells. Enfortumab attaches to a protein called nectin-4 on tumor cells in a targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them.
Metastatic Penile Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Penile Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Penile Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Penile Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Enfortumab Vedotin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Best response rate, Defined as the proportion of patients who experience either a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. The best response rate of CR/PR will be reported descriptively and a 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 5 years
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of patients who experience either a confirmed partial response or confirmed complete response as defined by RECIST v1.1. ORR will be reported descriptively and a 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median PFS and 95% confidence interval will be reported., From study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median OS and 95% confidence interval will be reported., From study entry to death from any cause, up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event by patient will be summarized by frequencies and percentages using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 30 days after last dose of study medication|Duration of Response, Defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved an objective response as the date at which the patient's earliest best objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented., Up to 5 years|Best response by human papillomavirus (HPV) status, The p16 biomarker will be used to assess HPV status. The p16 immunohistochemistry (IHC) outcome will be classified as positive, negative, or not available. Best response rates of either a CR or PR will be determined for each subgroup and 95% confidence intervals will be reported., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the best response rate of enfortumab vedotin treatment for patients with metastatic penile squamous cell carcinoma (mPSCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine overall response rate (ORR). II. To determine safety and tolerance of enfortumab vedotin in men with mPSCC. III. To characterize duration of response to enfortumab vedotin in mPSCC. IV. To estimate median overall survival and progression-free survival in men with mPSCC treated with enfortumab vedotin.

V. To analyze response in subgroups by human papillomavirus (HPV) status (related/unrelated as assessed by p16 biomarker).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive enfortumab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1,8 and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months until progressive disease, followed by every 6 months for up to 5 years from registration.