Study Assessing the Feasibility, Safety and Efficacy of Genetically Engineered Glucocorticoid Receptor Knock Out Virus Specific CTL Lines for Viral Infections in Immunosuppressed Cancer Patients
This phase I trial tests the feasibility and safety of genetically modified cytotoxic T-lymphocytes in controlling infections caused by adenovirus (ADV), BK virus (BKV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), JC virus (JCV), or COVID-19 in immunocompromised patients with cancer. Viral infections are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, and therapeutic options for these infections are often complicated by associated toxicities. Genetically modified cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) are designed to kill a specific virus that can cause infections. Depending on which virus a patient is infected with (ADV, BKV, CMV, JCV, or COVID-19), the CTLs will be designed to specifically attack that virus. Giving genetically modified CTLs may help to control the infection.
Adenovirus Infection|BK Virus Infection|Cytomegaloviral Infection|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|JC Virus Infection|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Symptomatic COVID-19 Infection Laboratory-Confirmed
BIOLOGICAL: Virus-specific Cytotoxic T-lymphocytes
Feasibility of administering genetically engineered glucocorticoid receptor knock out virus specific cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) lines, as indicated by Overall Survival, through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the feasibility and safety of administering genetically engineered glucocorticoid receptor knock out virus specific cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) lines in immunosuppressed cancer patients with viral infections (BKV, JCV, CMV, adenovirus, COVID19).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain preliminary data about the efficacy of administering genetically engineered glucocorticoid receptor knock out virus specific CTL lines in immunosuppressed cancer patients with viral infections (BKV, JCV, CMV, adenovirus, COVID19).

II. To assess the persistence of the administered cells in the patients. III. To obtain data about relapse free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive virus-specific CTLs intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes. Patients with partial response, stable disease, or progressive disease may receive up to 8 additional infusions of virus-specific CTL at least 2 weeks between each infusion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up yearly for 15 years.