A Comparison of Efficacy and Safety During Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Between Dexmedetomidine-remifentanil and Propofol-remifentanil
Adequate, safe sedation is essential for Endoscopic submucosal dissection. Dexmedetomidine is a potent and selective a2-adrenoceptor agonist used for sedative and analgesic effects, but it is limited to use alone. The investigators designed this study to compare the effect and safety of two sedatives, dexmedetomidine and propofol in Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection (ESD), when sufficient analgesia-remifentanil is administered all throughout the procedure.
Early Gastric Cancer Patients Who Were Scheduled for Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection
DRUG: Dexmedetomidine - remifentanil group|DRUG: Propofol - remifentanil group
A comparison of safety during endoscopic submucosal dissection between dexmedetomidine-remifentanil and propofol-remifentanil, Safety : whether the complications as follows occur or not

1. systolic blood pressure under 90mmHg or 20% out of range of the baseline SBP
2. heart rate under 50bpm
3. oxygen saturation under 90%, respiratory rate under 7 per minute, right after the drugs had administered
A comparison of efficacy during endoscopic submucosal dissection between dexmedetomidine-remifentanil and propofol-remifentanil, Efficacy :

1. whether a bolus injection of 10 mg of propofol was administered or not
2. evaluating the depth of sedation using MOAA/S scale all through the procedure
3. whether the en bloc resection, complete resection were done or not under the sedation, right after the drugs had administered
A comparison of patient's satisfaction during endoscopic submucosal dissection between dexmedetomidine-remifentanil and propofol-remifentanil, Patients' satisfaction : investigate in four steps questionaire (very good, good, bearable and unbearable) when the patients' were discharged from PACU, within 24hrs after procedure|A comparison of gastric motility, easiness for procedure, operator's satisfaction during endoscopic submucosal dissection between dexmedetomidine-remifentanil and propofol-remifentanil, Subjects' motility grading during procedure, easiness of procedure, operator's satisfaction : investigate in four steps questionaires by the operator after the procedure, right after the drugs had administered
Adequate, safe sedation is essential for Endoscopic submucosal dissection. Dexmedetomidine is a potent and selective a2-adrenoceptor agonist used for sedative and analgesic effects, but it is limited to use alone. The investigators designed this study to compare the effect and safety of two sedatives, dexmedetomidine and propofol in Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection (ESD), when sufficient analgesia-remifentanil is administered all throughout the procedure.