A Study of Imvotamab Monotherapy and in Combination in Subjects With Relapsed/Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This is a Phase 1/2 study of imvotamab in adult subjects with relapsed or refractory B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. This study will consist of a dose-escalation stage, a combination stage, and a randomized dose-expansion stage where subjects will be enrolled into indication-specific expansion cohorts. imvotamab will be administered intravenously (IV).

Additional CD20-positive NHL histologies (e.g. MZL and MCL), may be allowed with Medical Monitor approval during the Dose-Escalation Phase of the study.
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma|DLBCL|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: imvotamab
Overall Frequency of Adverse Events, Percentage of Adverse Events, Baseline through approximately 30 days after last study treatment|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of measurable disease in subjects who have achieved either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), Baseline up to 5 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of measurable disease in subjects who have achieved either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), Baseline up to 5 years|Duration of Response (DOR), measured from time of initial response until documented tumor progression, Baseline up to 5 years
Imvotamab is an engineered bispecific IgM antibody for the treatment of patients with CD20-positive cancers. It contains ten high affinity binding domains for CD20, and one binding domain for CD3. Imvotamab is able to eliminate CD20-positive lymphoma cells by engaging T-cells and lymphoma cells, leading to T-cell dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Additionally, imvotamab is also able to eliminate lymphoma cells by recruiting complement to the surface of lymphoma cells, leading to complement dependent cytotoxicity.

In our preclinical studies, we observed activity against rituximab resistant cells carrying low levels of CD20. We have also observed much lower cytokine release with imvotamab relative to comparable IgG format bispecific T-cell engaging antibodies, which is expected to result in reduced risk of the serious adverse effects from cytokine release syndrome (CRS).

For the combination stage, imvotamab will be combined with loncastuximab tesirine, a CD19-targeting antibody drug conjugate.