A Study for Patients With Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Chemotherapy for patients with non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. Patients are given folic acid, vitamin B12 and steroids, both before and during treatment, to reduce the side effects associated with pemetrexed. The aim is whether it is possible to simplify the folic acid and steroid schedule without increasing toxicity.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: pemetrexed|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Folic acid|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Folic Acid|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin B12|DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: dexamethasone
Safety: Number of Participants With Drug-Related Grade 3 or 4 Toxicity, Results are presented for the number of participants with drug-related Grade 3 or 4 toxicity/adverse event (AE). Grades range from 0 (none) to 5 (death), with Grade 3 and 4 being defined as follows:

Grade 0 = No AE; Grade 1 = Mild AE; Grade 2 = Moderate AE; Grade 3 = Severe AE; Grade 4 = Life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5 = Death related to AE. A detailed list of Serious and non-serious adverse events is provided in the Reported Adverse Event section., From first dose of treatment to last dose of treatment plus 30 days
Proportion of Participants With Best Overall Tumor Response (Response Rate), Response defined per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria: Complete Response (CR)=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR)=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease=20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease=small changes that do not meet above criteria. Best Overall Tumor Response is complete response plus partial response., Baseline until disease progression, new therapy initiated, or death from any cause, up to 12 months after enrollment.|Overall Survival, Overall survival is the duration from randomization to death. For patients who are alive, overall survival is censored at the date of last contact., Randomization (≤4 weeks from baseline visit) to 12 months after randomization|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from date of first dose to the first observation of disease progression, or death due to any cause. For patients who are alive and have not progressed, PFS is censored at the date of last radiological assessment., Randomization (≤4 weeks from baseline visit) to 12 months after randomization
Chemotherapy for patients with non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. Patients are given folic acid, vitamin B12 and steroids, both before and during treatment, to reduce the side effects associated with pemetrexed. The aim is whether it is possible to simplify the folic acid and steroid schedule without increasing toxicity.