Treatment Of Dupuytren's Contracture With Collagenase Clostridium Histolyticum Injection (Xiapex)
This study will evaluate the impact of Xiapex treatment on the range of motion (ROM) of the affected fingers and the patient and physician reported treatment satisfaction and disease severity and their relation to ROM. Recovery to normal activities, recovery time (How long overall, time to use hand, time to return to work or daily activities, amount of work or daily activity time missed or reduced and affects on productivity and daily activities) will be assessed via patient diary. Use of concomitant analgesic medications will be recorded and total healthcare resource utilization (HCRU).
Dupuytren's Contracture
DRUG: Xiapex
Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Baseline for First Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of passive extension deficits (PED) in the MP, PIP and distal interphalangeal (DIP) joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. Baseline value for first injection was the TPED value taken closest and prior to the administration of first injection. Baseline value after first injection was also considered as baseline for follow-up on Day 90, 180 after last injection (follow-up baseline). 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Baseline for first injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Baseline for Second Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. Baseline value for second injection was the TPED value taken closest and prior to the administration of second injection. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Baseline for second injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Baseline for Third Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. Baseline value for third injection was the TPED value taken closest and prior to the administration of third injection. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Baseline for third injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Baseline for Fourth Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. Baseline value for fourth injection was the TPED value taken closest and prior to the administration of fourth injection. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Baseline for fourth injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 1 After First Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 1 after first injection for fingers that received 1 injection. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 1 after first injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 7 After First Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 7 after first injection for fingers that received 1 injection. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 7 after first injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 30 After First Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 30 after first injection for fingers that received 1 injection. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 30 after first injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 1 After Second Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 1 after second injection for fingers that received 2 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 1 after second injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 7 After Second Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 7 after second injection for fingers that received 2 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 7 after second injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 30 After Second Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 30 after second injection for fingers that received 2 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 30 after second injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 1 After Third Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 1 after third injection for fingers that received 3 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 1 after third injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 7 After Third Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 7 after third injection for fingers that received 3 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 7 after third injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 30 After Third Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 30 after third injection for fingers that received 3 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 30 after third injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 1 After Fourth Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 1 after fourth injection for fingers that received 4 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 1 after fourth injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 7 After Fourth Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 7 after fourth injection for fingers that received 4 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 7 after fourth injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 30 After Fourth Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 30 after fourth injection for fingers that received 4 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 30 after fourth injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 90 After Last Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 90 after the last injection, where last injection was a maximum up to fourth injection for a finger. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 90 after last injection|Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 180 After Last Injection, TPED was defined as the sum of PED in the MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. TPED was reported at Day 180 after the last injection, where last injection was a maximum up to fourth injection for a finger. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Day 180 after last injection
Passive Extension Deficit (PED) for Metacarpophalangeal (MP) and Proximal Interphalangeal (PIP) Joints, PED was measured in MP and PIP joints using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. For each injection, baseline value was the PED value taken closest and prior to administration of that particular injection. For follow-up on Day 90 and 180 after last injection, baseline value (follow-up baseline) was the PED value taken closest and prior to administration of first injection in that joint. PED was reported at Day 1, 7 and 30 after each injection for joints that received 1 through 3 injections and at Day 90 and 180 after the last injection, where last injection was a maximum up to third injection for a joint. 'Number of joints analyzed' signifies total number of MP and PIP joints analyzed for this outcome measure and 'n' signifies number of joints evaluable for this measure at given time points for the mentioned joint., Baseline for first, second, third injection; Day 1, 7, 30 after first, second, third injection; Follow-up: Day 90, 180 after last injection|Change From Baseline in Total Passive Extension Deficit (TPED) at Day 1, 7 and 30 After First, Second, Third and Fourth Injection, Day 90 and 180 After Last Injection, TPED was defined as sum of PED in MP, PIP and DIP joints. PED was measured using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP or DIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. For each injection, baseline value was TPED value taken closest and prior to administration of that particular injection. Baseline value after first injection was also considered as baseline for follow-up on Day 90, 180 after last injection (follow-up baseline). Change in TPED was reported at Day 1, 7 and 30 after each injection for fingers that received 1 through 4 injections and at Day 90, 180 after last injection, where last injection was a maximum up to fourth injection for a finger. Results are not reported for fifth injection as no finger received 5 injections. 'Number of fingers/joints analyzed' signifies total number of fingers/joints that were evaluable for this outcome measure., Baseline for first, second, third, fourth injection; Day 1, 7, 30 after first, second, third, fourth injection; Follow-up Day 90, 180 after last injection|Change From Baseline in Passive Extension Deficit (PED) for Metacarpophalangeal (MP) and Proximal Interphalangeal (PIP) Joints at Day 1, 7 and 30 After First, Second and Third Injection, Day 90 and 180 After Last Injection, PED was measured in MP and PIP joints using finger goniometry. Passive extension=angle of the joint (MP or PIP) when the finger was passively extended as far possible toward the normal extension. PED=angle of deficit from normal extension. For each injection, baseline value was the PED value taken closest and prior to administration of that particular injection. For follow-up on Day 90 and 180 after last injection, baseline value (follow-up baseline) was the PED value taken closest and prior to administration of first injection in that joint. Change in PED was reported at Day 1, 7 and 30 after each injection for joints that received 1 through 3 injections and at Day 90 and 180 after the last injection, where last injection was a maximum up to third injection for a joint. 'Number of joints analyzed' signifies total number of MP and PIP joints analyzed for this outcome measure and 'n' signifies number of joints evaluable for this measure at given time points for the mentioned joint., Baseline for first, second, third injection; Day 1, 7, 30 after first, second, third injection; Follow-up Day 90, 180 after last injection|Range of Motion (ROM) for Metacarpophalangeal (MP) and Proximal Interphalangeal (PIP) Joints, Finger goniometry was used to measure the angles of extension and flexion of MP and PIP joints. ROM was measured as the difference between the angle of flexion and the angle of extension of the joint. For each injection, baseline value was the ROM value taken closest and prior to administration of that particular injection. For follow-up on Day 90 and 180 after last injection, baseline value (follow-up baseline) was the ROM value taken closest and prior to administration of first injection in that joint. ROM was reported at Day 1, 7 and 30 after each injection for joints that received 1 through 3 injections and at Day 90 and 180 after the last injection, where last injection was a maximum up to third injection for a joint. 'Number of joints analyzed' signifies total number of MP and PIP joints analyzed for this outcome measure and 'n' signifies number of joints evaluable for this measure at given time points for the mentioned joint., Baseline for first, second, third injection; Day 1, 7, 30 after first, second, third injection; Follow-up Day 90, 180 after last injection|Participant Global Assessment of Treatment Satisfaction and Disease Severity, Participant global assessment questionnaire assessed severity of the contracture at baseline, post-injection and treatment satisfaction (TS), improvement from baseline in the treated contracture at post-injection only. Participants rated disease severity as normal (no contracture), mild, moderate or severe. Overall satisfaction was rated as very satisfied, satisfied, neither satisfied nor dissatisfied, dissatisfied or very dissatisfied. Participants rated their improvement in disease severity relative to baseline on a 11-point scale ranging from 0 percent (%) = no improvement to 100% = total recovery, with 10 % increment between each point. Results are reported for number of participants in each category for disease severity, TS and improvement., Baseline for cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; Cycle 1 Day 30 (C1D30), C2D30, C3D30, C4D30, C5D30; Follow-up (FU) Day 90, 180 after last injection|Physician Global Assessment of Treatment Satisfaction and Disease Severity, Physician global assessment questionnaire assessed severity of the contracture at baseline, post-injection and TS, improvement from baseline in the treated contracture at post-injection only. Physician's rated disease severity as normal (no contracture), mild, moderate or severe. Overall satisfaction was rated as very satisfied, satisfied, neither satisfied nor dissatisfied, dissatisfied or very dissatisfied. Physicians rated participant's improvement in disease severity relative to baseline as very much improved, much improved, minimally improved, no change, minimally worse, much worse or very much worse., Baseline for cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; cycle 1 Day 30 (C1D30), C2D30, C3D30, C4D30, C5D30; Follow-up (FU) Day 90, 180 after last injection|Number of Participants With Type of Concomitant Pain Medication Used, Number of participants who took different types of analgesic medications, including acetylsalicylic acid, other analgesics (any other analgesic besides those mentioned, as approved by the investigator), aporex, codis, dihydrocodeine, fentanyl, galenic/paracetamol/codeine/, hot coldrex, metamizole, morphine, oxycodone, panadeine CO (combination of paracetamol and codeine phosphate), paracetamol, paramol-118, pregabalin, solpadeine, tramadol, ultracet, to manage pain symptoms were reported. A single participant may be represented in more than 1 category., Screening up to Day 180 after last injection|Number of Days of Concomitant Pain Medication Usage, Amount of concomitant pain medication was assessed as the number of days participants used pain medication during the study., Screening up to Day 180 after last injection|Number of Days Assessed on Dupuytren's Treatment Assessment Daily Diary Questionnaire, Dupuytren's daily diary questionnaire assessed number of days during a cycle when 1) participant was absent or sick due to treatment, 2) the work hours were reduced, 3) the job duties were modified, 4) participant was unable to participate in hobbies and 5) participant wore a splint (for participants who were fitted for a splint)., C1D1 to C1D30, C2D1 to C2D30, C3D1 to C3D30, C4D1 to C4D30, C5D1 to C5D30|Time to Recovery, Time to recovery of normal activities was defined as median number of days between the initial injection date and the date on which participant recovered to normal activities, assessed after first, second and third injection for joints that received 1 through 3 injections. If a participant did not achieve recovery to normal activities, the participant's time to recovery was defined as the median number of days between the initial injection date and the date of the participant's the last daily diary recording within the cycle., Up to Day 30 after first, second and third injection|Hand Functionality: Unite Rhumatologique Des Affections de la Main (URAM) Scale Total Score, URAM:9-item questionnaire used to assess daily hand functionality.Participants rated their ability to perform following hand functionalities on 0 to 5 scale(0=without difficulty,5=impossible):1)washing themselves with flannel, keeping hand flat,2)washing face,3)holding bottle in one hand,4)shaking someone's hand,5)stroking/caressing someone,6)clapping,7)spreading out fingers, 8)leaning on hand,9)picking up small objects with thumb and index finger.URAM total score=sum of 9 items.Total score range=0 to 45,where higher score= higher difficulty in daily hand functionality.For each cycle, baseline value=pre-injection value reported at that cycle. For follow-up on Day 90,180 after last injection, baseline value (follow-up baseline)=pre-injection value reported at cycle 1. If response was provided to less than or equal to 4 items,URAM total score was considered missing. If response was provided to \>=5 items, then average score of answered questions was imputed response to missing questions., Baseline for cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; C1D30, C2D30, C3D30, C4D30, C5D30; Follow-up Day 90, 180 after last injection|Number of Participants With Response Assessed on Dupuytren's Healthcare Resource Utilization (HCRU) Questionnaire, Dupuytren's HCRU is a questionnaire used to assess healthcare usage in participants. Participants answered whether or not since their last visit they 1) had seen any doctor, 2) used any services (including physical or hand therapy, occupational therapy, home health care therapy), 3) were treated in emergency room, 4) had outpatient/day-case surgery, 5) were hospitalized, 6) had diagnostic/therapeutic procedures or tests performed, 7) were admitted in nursing home, 8) required aids/devices to assist in their daily functioning., Baseline for cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; C1D7, C1D30, C2D7, C2D30, C3D7, C3D30, C4D7, C4D30, C5D7, C5D30; Follow-up Day 90, 180 after last injection|Number of Events Including Visits, Surgeries, Tests or Devices as Assessed Using Dupuytren's Healthcare Resource Utilization (HCRU) Questionnaire, Dupuytren's HCRU is a questionnaire used to assess healthcare usage in participants. Participants answered how many times since their last visit they 1) had seen any doctor, 2) used any services (including physical or hand therapy, occupational therapy, home health care therapy), 3) were treated in emergency room, 4) had outpatient/day-case surgery, 5) were hospitalized, 6) had diagnostic/therapeutic procedures or tests performed., Baseline for cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; C1D7, C1D30, C2D7, C2D30, C3D7, C3D30, C4D7, C4D30, C5D7, C5D30; Follow-up Day 90, 180 after last injection|Number of Days as Assessed Using Dupuytren's Healthcare Resource Utilization (HCRU) Questionnaire, Dupuytren's HCRU is a questionnaire used to assess healthcare usage in participants. Participants answered how many days since their last visit they 1) were hospitalized, 2) were in nursing home, 3) required aids/devices to assist in their daily functioning., Baseline for cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; C1D7, C1D30, C2D7, C2D30, C3D7, C3D30, C4D7, C4D30, C5D7, C5D30; Follow-up Day 90, 180 after last injection
Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Change From Baseline in Vital Signs, Following parameters were analyzed for examination of vital signs: systolic and diastolic blood pressure, respiratory rate, radial pulse and body temperature., Screening up to Day 180 after last injection|Number of Participants With Laboratory Abnormalities, Following parameters were analyzed for laboratory examination: hematology (hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count, platelet count, white blood cell count, total neutrophils, eosinophils, monocytes, basophils, lymphocytes); blood chemistry (blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, glucose, calcium, sodium, potassium, chloride, total bicarbonate, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, uric acid albumin, total protein); urinalysis (decimal logarithm of reciprocal of hydrogen ion activity \[pH\], glucose, protein, blood, ketones, microscopy\[if urine tested positive for blood or protein\])., Screening up to Day 180 after last injection|Number of Participants With Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA), Human serum ADA samples were analyzed for the presence or absence of anti-clostridial type I collagenase (AUX-I) and anti-clostridial type II collagenase (AUX-II) antibodies by using the semi-quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)., Screening, Follow-up Day 180 after last injection
This study will evaluate the impact of Xiapex treatment on the range of motion (ROM) of the affected fingers and the patient and physician reported treatment satisfaction and disease severity and their relation to ROM. Recovery to normal activities, recovery time (How long overall, time to use hand, time to return to work or daily activities, amount of work or daily activity time missed or reduced and affects on productivity and daily activities) will be assessed via patient diary. Use of concomitant analgesic medications will be recorded and total healthcare resource utilization (HCRU).