REmote iSchemic condItioning in Lymphoma PatIents REceiving ANthraCyclinEs
Multinational, prospective, proof of concept phase II, double-blinded, sham-controlled, randomized clinical trial (RCT) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Remote Ischaemic PreConditioning (RIPC) in Lymphoma patients receiving anthracyclines.
Anthracycline-induced Cardiac Toxicity|Lymphoma
DEVICE: RIPC|DEVICE: Simulated RIPC (Sham)
Primary efficacy endpoint: (RIC vs Sham) Absolute change in LVEF, change in LVEF between baseline and any follow-up CMRs, whichever shows worse LVEF

UNITS: LVEF is expressed as % LVEF= (LV end-diastolic volume - LV end-systolic volume) / LV end-systolic volume), %, 9 weeks after the last chemotherapy cycle (anticipated to be between 150 and 200 days from enrollment)
Rate of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity events, Cardiotoxicity event is defined as one of the following:

* Drop in LVEF between study CMRs of ≥10 absolute points regardless the absolute value of follow- up ejection fraction (EF).
* Drop in LVEF between study CMRs of ≥5 to \<10 absolute points with a follow-up EF value \<50%

UNITS: absolute number of patients in each arm qualifying for cardiotoxicity event (i.e. each patient will be qualified at the end of the study as YES/NO)., 9 weeks after the last chemotherapy cycle (anticipated to be between 150 and 200 days from enrollment)|Rate of tumor regression., Response to chemotherapy

UNITS: absolute number of patients in each arm qualifying as responder or no responder (i.e. each patient will be qualified at the end of the study as YES/NO)., 9 weeks after the last chemotherapy cycle (anticipated to be between 150 and 200 days from enrollment)|Change in Quality of Life-Haematological Malignancy Patient-Reported Outcome Measure questionnaire, Haematological Malignancy Patient-Reported Outcome Measure (HM-PRO) questionnaire

UNITS: absolute points in the questionnaire. minimum value 0 maximum value 84

the higher the total score, the better (greater the effect on a patient's QoL), 9 weeks after the last chemotherapy cycle (anticipated to be between 150 and 200 days from enrollment)|Change in Quality of Life-Euro Quality of Life-5 dimensions questionnaire, Euro Quality of Life-5 dimensions (EuroQoL-5D) questionnaire:

UNITS: absolute points in the questionnaire. minimum value 0 maximum value 100

the higher the total score, the better (greater the effect on a patient's QoL), 9 weeks after the last chemotherapy cycle (anticipated to be between 150 and 200 days from enrollment)|Change in Quality of Life-Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire, Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ-12)

UNITS: absolute points in the questionnaire. minimum value 0 maximum value 65

the higher the total score, the better (greater the effect on a patient's QoL), 9 weeks after the last chemotherapy cycle (anticipated to be between 150 and 200 days from enrollment)|Rate of Heart Failure Hospitalization, Rate of Heart Failure Hospitalization

UNITS: Absolute number of patients in each arm experiencing a heart failure hospitalization, 6-42 months
Multinational, prospective, proof of concept phase II, double-blinded, sham-controlled, randomized clinical trial (RCT) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Remote Ischaemic PreConditioning (RIPC) in lymphoma patients receiving anthracyclines. Patients scheduled to undergo ≥5 chemotherapy cycles will be eligible. Patients fulfilling all inclusion and no exclusion criteria will be enrolled and undergo baseline Cardiac Magnetic Baseline (CMR), and high sensitivity troponin (hsTn) and NT-proBNP blood test. Patients with confirmed LVEF \>40% by CMR will be randomized 1:1 to RIPC vs simulated RIPC (Sham). After the third chemotherapy cycle, a second CMR+ hsTn/ NT-proBNP will be performed for the validation of the early marker of cardiotoxicity. A third hsTn/ NT-proBNP blood test will be performed in the last chemotherapy cycle. Nine weeks after finishing chemotherapy, a last CMR+ hsTn/ NT-proBNP will be performed. Patients will be followed-up for clinical events at 6, 12, 18, 30 and 42 months until the last patient undergoes the final CMR. When the last patient undergoes the third CMR, the follow-up will be closed. The median follow-up estimation for clinical endpoints is 24 months (range: 6 to 42 months).