Cabergoline in Nonfunctioning Pituitary Adenomas
Clinically nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma remains the only pituitary tumor subtype for which no effective medical therapy is available or recommended. We will evaluate the use of cabergoline in a clinical trial, in order to define the efficacy of this treatment in nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma.
Pituitary Adenoma|Nonfunctioning Pituitary Adenoma
DRUG: Cabergoline
tumor shrinkage, shrinkage of tumor rest, 24 months
Tumor rest stabilization, no evidence of tumor growth with experimental therapy, 24 months
Cardiovascular Safety, Absence of Cardiac Valvar Alterations with Cabergoline Use, 24 months
Nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas (NFPA) are common tumors of sellar region characterized by the absence of clinically hormonal pituitary secretion. These adenomas are typically not diagnosed until they become very large and cause compressive neurologic symptons (e.g. visual impairment or cranial nerve palsy). Most of them are able to synthesized gonadotropins but not secreted it.

Transsphenoidal surgical resection is the first-choice therapy in NFPA. However, complete removal is difficult and tumor rest is very common. In these cases, the pragmatic use of radiotherapy is effective to reduce residual tumor growth or recurrence, but it is related with severe side effects. Another possibility is the clinical observation, or wait-to-see approach, but it is associated with tumor progression: 40% in 5-10 years. The efficacy of some medical treatment are not defined yet.

Since the identification of dopaminergic and somatostatinergic receptors in NFPA, the pharmacological treatment of the NFPA has been considered as a possibility for treatment. To date, clinical use of dopamine agonist (DA) in NFPA patients has been evaluated in some studies. However, these studies present modest and inconclusive results and the DA role in the NPFA management remains undefined.

In this study, the investigators plan a clinical trial designed to investigate the efficacy of cabergoline in NFPA individuals with remaining tumor after primary neurosurgery. These results could help to define the efficacy of DA in NFPA management.