Oral Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Elderly Patients With Intermediate or High-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug and giving the drugs in different ways may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of oral combination chemotherapy and G-CSF in elderly patients with intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: lomustine|DRUG: procarbazine hydrochloride|RADIATION: radiation therapy
study the effectiveness of oral combination chemotherapy and G-CSF in elderly patients with intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas., Patients receive one cycle of oral chemotherapy, 6 weeks in duration. Patients with a CR or PR response after 1 cycle of therapy receive 2 additional cycles of chemotherapy.
OBJECTIVES:

* Assess the feasibility and toxicity of oral combination chemotherapy with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in elderly patients with intermediate and high grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
* Determine the objective response rate, response duration, and survival in this patient population.

OUTLINE: All patients receive one cycle of oral chemotherapy, 6 weeks in duration. Etoposide is given on days 1-3 and cyclophosphamide and procarbazine are given on days 22-31 of each cycle. Lomustine is given on day 1 of cycles 1 and 3 only. Filgrastim (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor; G-CSF) is given subcutaneously on days 5-21 and 33-42 of each cycle.

Patients who have disease progression after one cycle of therapy or at any time thereafter are taken off the study. Patients with a complete response after 1 cycle of therapy receive 2 additional cycles of chemotherapy and are observed off treatment. Patients with a partial response (PR) also receive 2 additional cycles of chemotherapy. Following the third cycle of chemotherapy, if residual disease is confined to 1 or 2 nodal sites, patients receive radiation therapy. All other patients with a PR are treated at investigator's discretion.

Patients are followed every 3 months until death.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 32 patients will be accrued for this study.