Study of Dalantercept and Axitinib in Patients With Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of Part 1 of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of dalantercept in combination with axitinib in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) to determine the recommended dose level of dalantercept in combination with axitinib for Part 2.

The purpose of Part 2 of this study is to determine whether treatment with dalantercept in combination with axitinib prolongs progression free survival (PFS) compared to axitinib alone in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Dalantercept and axitinib|DRUG: Placebo and axitinib
Part 1: Number of Participants With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability., Outcome measure is intended for Part 1 of the study in order to determine recommended dose level for Part 2., Assessed from time of first dose to approximately 30 days after last dose. Participants were allowed to remain on treatment until documented disease progression. The time frame for Part 1 of the study was up to 21.6 months|Part 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS)., PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression based on RECIST (version 1.1) or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study.

RECIST 1.1 defines disease progression as an increase of at least a 20% in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression), Progression free survival is defined as the time from the date of the randomization to the first documented disease progression (according to RECIST v1.1) or death due to any cause. The Time frame for Part 2 was up to 29.0 months
Part 1: Progression Free Survival (PFS)., PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression based on RECIST (version 1.1) or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study., The time frame for Part 1 of the study was up to 21.6 months|Part 1: Overall Survival (OS). [The Time Frame for Part 1 of the Study Was up to 21.6 Months], Percentage of Part 1 subjects alive at the end of Part 1 of the study. \[The time frame for Part 1 of the study was up to 21.6 months\], Up to 21.6 months|Part 1: Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the number and percentage of patients who have a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) to therapy. A CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. A PR is defined as a decrease of at least a 30% in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. As no subjects in Part 1 experienced a CR, the ORR in Part 1 is defined by the PR, Up to 21.6 months from randomization in Part 1 of the study|Part 1: Disease Control Rate (DCR), The number and percentage of patients whose disease shrinks or remains stable. DCR is the sum of the complete, partial and stable disease rates., From randomization up to 21.6 months in Part 1 of the study|Part 1: Duration of Response (DoR), Response duration is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for objective response until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded on study., From randomization up to 21.6 months in Part 1 of the study.|Part 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS) for the Subset of Participants With 2 or More Lines of Prior Systemic Chemotherapy, Progression Free Survival (PFS) for the subset of participants with 2 or more lines of prior systemic chemotherapy. PFS was based upon RECIST 1.1 assessment, as described in outcome measure 2., Progression free survival is defined as the time from the date of the randomization to the first documented disease progression (according to RECIST v1.1) or death due to any cause. The Time frame for Part 2 was up to 29.0 months|Part 2: Overall Survival., The number of months from the date of randomization to the date of death., Patients to be contacted every 3 months for up to 12 months (anticipated) for survival follow-up, as well as tumor assessment scans if progression of disease has not previously been documented. The time frame for Part 2 was up to 29.0 months|Part 2: Objective Response Rate., Objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the number and percentage of patients who have a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) to therapy. A CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. A PR is defined as a decrease of at least a 30% in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Assessed at 30 days after last dose of study drug; up to 29.0 months for Part 2 of the study|Part 2: Duration of Response, Response duration is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for objective response until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded on study., Assessed at 30 days after the last dose of study drug; up to 29.0 months for Part 2 of the study.|Part 2: Disease Control Rate., The number and percentage of patients whose disease shrinks or remains stable. DCR is the sum of the complete, partial and stable disease rates., Assessed at 30 days after last dose of study drug. The time frame for Part 2 was up to 29.0 months
Part 1: Exploratory PD - Serum BMP9, Exploratory analysis. Absolute change from baseline in serum Bone Morphogenetic Protein 9 (BMP9), From randomization up to 21.6 months in Part 1 of the study|Part 2: PD Biomarker Activities., Exploratory analysis. Absolute change from baseline in serum Bone Morphogenetic Protein 9 (BMP9), Assessed at 30 days after the last dose of dalantercept ± 10 days. The time frame for Part 2 was up to 29.0 months.
In Part 1 of the study, groups of subjects received escalating doses of dalantercept; 0.6, 0.9 and 1.2 mg/kg in sequential groups. All subjects received concurrent axitinib 5 mg PO BID. A total of 29 subjects were enrolled i Part 1 of the study.

In Part 2, dalantercept at 0.9 mg/kg once every 3 weeks plus axitinib 5 mg PO BID was compared to placebo plus axitinib 5 mg PO BID. A total of 131 subjects were enrolled in Part 2 for a total of 160 in the study