Testing the Combination of Anti-cancer Drugs Tiragolumab and Atezolizumab to Improve Outcomes for Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
This phase II trial compares the safety, side effects and effectiveness of atezolizumab with tiragolumab to atezolizumab alone in treating patients with glioblastoma that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent). Glioblastoma is the most common primary brain cancer in adults and despite aggressive treatment, it is nearly always fatal. Currently, there are limited effective treatment options in patients that have recurrence. Immunotherapy has been shown to be effective in other types of cancer and may be an appealing potential treatment option for recurrent glioblastoma. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab and tiragolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Study doctors also want to learn if a tumor infiltrating T lymphocyte (TIL) response is helpful to determine the benefit of the combination of study drugs compared to the usual approach. TILs are a type of immune cell that has moved from the blood into a tumor. TILs can recognize and kill tumor cells. Giving atezolizumab with tiragolumab may be safe, tolerable and/or effective compared to atezolizumab alone in treating patients with recurrent glioblastoma.
Recurrent Glioblastoma, IDH-Wildtype
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure|BIOLOGICAL: Tiragolumab
Progression free survival (PFS), Will be assessed and compared between adjuvant arms. PFS will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 36 months
Tumor infiltrating T lymphocyte density, Will be assessed and compared between arms. The number of T cells/nucleated cells will be quantified in each sample and the density will be estimated between each treatment group., Up to 36 months|Dose limiting toxicity, Will be defined as any grade ≥ 3 non-hematologic toxicity despite best supportive care or grade ≥ 4 hematologic toxicity per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0 attributed as possibly, probably, or definitely related to therapy., Up to 30 completion of adjuvant cycle 2|Incidence of adverse events, Will be tabulated using CTCAE v 5.0 grading criteria., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Objective response rate (ORR), Will be assessed based on modified Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology. ORR will be defined as the summation of complete response and partial response. The probability of ORR will be estimated with exact 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 36 months|PFS6, Will be estimated with exact 95% binomial confidence intervals., At 6 months|Overall survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method with log rank test, along with 95% confidence regions., Up to 36 months|Tumor mutational burden (TMB), Will be evaluated in each patient and correlation assessment will be performed between T-cell density, gene response set values and other secondary endpoints by Spearman's correlation coefficient., Up to 36 months|Expression of immune checkpoint receptors and ligands, Expression of immune checkpoint receptors and ligands will be evaluated. Expression levels will be evaluated in each patient and correlation assessment will be performed between T-cell density, gene response set values and other secondary endpoints by Spearman's correlation coefficient., Up to 36 months
Tumor response signatures including for T-cells, interferon and cell cycle, The statistical differences between groups A, B, C versus (vs) A vs B and C for each gene set will be compared using a non-parametric paired test, at a significance level (alpha) of 0.05 uncorrected for multiple testing., Up to 36 months|T cell receptor (TCR) clonality and diversity, The statistical differences between groups A, B, C vs D and A vs B and C fore each gene set will be compared using a non-parametric paired test, at a significance level of 0.05 uncorrected for multiple testing., Up to 36 months|Tumor infiltrating T-cell, T-regs, and myeloid cells, Specific immune cell populations and ratios in tumor tissue will be compared between the groups using a non-parametric test, at a significance level of 0.05 uncorrected for multiple testing., Up to 36 months|TCR overlap and clonal expression, TCR clones will be evaluated by ImmunoSEQA. Percentage of TCR overlap between tumor tissue and blood at the time of surgery will be calculated for each patient and compared between the groups by non-parametric tests at a significance level of 0.05. Total numbers of clonall expanded T-cells will also be assessed., Up to 36 months|Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) response signatures including for T-cells, interferon and cell cycle, After correction for batch effect gene set variation analysis scores for each gene set described will be calculated for each patient tumor sample. The statistical difference between groups A, B, C vs D and A vs B and C for each gene set will be compared using a non-parametric paired test, at a significance level (alpha) of 0.05 uncorrected for multiple testing., Up to 36 months|TCR clonality by PBMC, Unique T-cell clones, and changes in TCR clone frequencies will be followed through treatment and will be compared between the groups and changes within each patient over time from baseline to each blood draw with a non-parametric tests, (paired within patients; unpaired between groups) at a significance level (alpha) of 0.05., Up to 36 months|TCR clonality, A percentage of TCR overlap between tumor tissue and blood at the time of surgery will be calculated for each patient and compared between the groups by non-parametric tests at a significance level of 0.05. Additional assessments will include total numbers of clonally expanded T-cells (\> 3 cells sharing a TCR) within a patient., Up to 36 months|Trough concentrations in serum and concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid, Pharmacokinetics exposure values will be reported descriptively., Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the impact of combination atezolizumab plus tiragolumab on progression free survival.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the impact of atezolizumab, tiragolumab, or their combination on tumor infiltrating T lymphocyte (TIL) density in glioblastoma patients.

II. To evaluate the safety of study drug therapy in patients with glioblastoma in the (neo)adjuvant setting.

III. To estimate therapeutic benefit of atezolizumab and tiragolumab in the recurrent glioblastoma patient population.

IV. To evaluate the impact of baseline tumor mutation burden and expression on response.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the impact of combination treatment on the tumor immune microenvironment.

II. To evaluate the impact of combination treatment on the peripheral immune microenvironment.

III. To evaluate the peripheral and central pharmacokinetics of tiragolumab and atezolizumab.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 groups.

GROUP A: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes and tiragolumab IV over 20-75 minutes and 14-19 days later, undergo surgical resection. Following surgery, patients may receive tiragolumab IV and atezolizumab IV on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline, 24-72 hours after surgery, then every 9 weeks until progression and blood sample collection throughout the study.

GROUP B: Patients receive tiragolumab IV over 20-75 minutes and 14-19 days later, undergo surgical resection. Following surgery, patients may receive tiragolumab IV and atezolizumab IV on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo MRI at baseline, 24-72 hours after surgery, then every 9 weeks until progression and blood sample collection throughout the study.

GROUP C: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 60 minutes and 14-19 days later, undergo surgical resection. Following surgery patients may receive atezolizumab IV on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo MRI at baseline, 24-72 hours after surgery, then every 9 weeks until progression and blood sample collection throughout the study.

GROUP D: Patients undergo surgical resection on study. Following surgery patients may receive atezolizumab IV on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo MRI at baseline, 24-72 hours after surgery, then every 9 weeks until progression and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 3 months.