International Breast Cancer Biomarker,Standard of Care and Real World Outcomes Study
BREAKOUT -International Breast Cancer Biomarker, Standard of Care and Real World Outcomes Study BREAKOUT is a prospective cross-sectional cohort study of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative metastatic breast cancer patients who have started 1st line systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy. The study will estimate the prevalence of germline breast cancer susceptibility gene in an otherwise unselected population, describe the treatments administered and estimate the associated clinical outcomes of overall survival and progression-free survival amongst mutation carriers within the context of a low poly ADP ribose polymerase inhibitor treatment setting. Other exploratory analyses may be undertaken to describe somatic breast cancer susceptibility gene and other homologous recombination repair gene mutations.
Breast Cancer
GENETIC: Germline BRCA Test (blood)|GENETIC: FoundationOne Dx Genomic Profile (archival Tumour Specimen)|OTHER: Follow-up
BRCA Mutational status (BRCA1 mutated and/or BRCA2 mutated or BRCA wild type)., The prevalence of gBRCA gene mutations will be evaluated by calculating the proportion of patients that test positive for a gBRCA gene mutation (BRCA1 mutated and/or BRCA2 mutated)., At one time point at inclusion in the study up to 12 months after the beginning of the study.
Descriptive statistics for treatments administered by line of therapy from 1st line metastatic breast cancer., Treatment patterns will be described by line of therapy. Treatment combinations, number of cycles per line, schedules, durations, and reason for discontinuation will be summarized descriptively., 2.5 years (30 months) since the beginning of the study.|Progression free survival by line of therapy, Progression free survival (in months) for each line of treatment, defined as the time from the date of start of each line of treatment to the documented date of progression as determined by the investigator (radiologic or symptomatic), or death from any cause in the absence of progression., 2.5 years (30 months) since the beginning of the study.|Overall survival by line of therapy, Overall survival (OS) defined as the time from the start date of first line chemotherapy in the metastatic setting until the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 30 months. In addition, OS since diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer and OS since the start of each subsequent therapy will be estimated., 2.5 years (30 months) since the beginning of the study.
Background/Rationale: Within the setting of metastatic human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative (HER2-ve) breast cancer limited epidemiological data exist on the prevalence of pathogenic mutations of breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) and other homologous recombination repair (HRR) genes. There are also limited data on the treatments and clinical outcomes of patients with such germline and somatic genetic profiles, particularly within this setting. This epidemiologic study will estimate the prevalence of germline breast susceptibility gene (gBRCA) mutations among metastatic HER2-ve patients who have commenced 1st line systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy and, at that time, are considered to have exhausted hormone therapy options (if hormone receptor positive \[HR+ve\]), per investigator's opinion. Among those patients with a gBRCA gene mutation, treatment patterns and clinical outcomes will be described. This study may also explore the prevalence of somatic BRCA (sBRCA) mutations and other HRR gene mutations among metastatic HER2-ve patients who have commenced 1st line systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy. The treatment patterns and clinical outcomes may be described among those patients with a sBRCA gene mutation and those with other HRR gene mutations.