The Psychological and Social Impact of PCOS
The aim of the study is to assess the association between the quality of life of patients with PCOS and various factors (age, BMI, socio-professional category, delay in diagnostic of PCOS, infertility, hyperandrogenism, parity, history of anxiety and depression, cycles disorders). This study will be proposed to patients known to have PCOS, during a follow-up consultation or a visit to a day hospital in the Gynaecology Department and/or a consultation in the Reproductive Medicine Department. No-objection forms will be collected at the same time. A link will be sent by e-mail to the patient to access the online questionnaire on the WEPI software and complete it after the consultation. Responses to the questionnaire will be collected progressively and stored in a secure RedCAP file.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
OTHER: Questionnaire
Assessment to the The Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Quality of Life scale questionnaire score, according to predefined factors (age, BMI, socio-professional category, delay in diagnosis of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, infertility, hyperandrogenism, parity, history of anxiety and depression, cycle disorders). Mininum score: 35, maximum score: 245, A higher score means best result, Day of inclusion
Assessment of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) questionnaire score according to predefined factors, minimun: 0 maximum: 42. A higher score means worse result, Day of inclusion|Assessment of the functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT G7) score according to predefined factors, minimun: 0 maximum: 28 A higher score means worse result, Day of inclusion|Assessment of the Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX) score according to predefined factors, minimun: 0 maximum: 30. A higher score means better result, Day of inclusion
The aim of the study is to assess the association between the quality of life of patients with PCOS and various factors (age, BMI, socio-professional category, delay in diagnostic of PCOS, infertility, hyperandrogenism, parity, history of anxiety and depression, cycles disorders). This study will be proposed to patients known to have PCOS, during a follow-up consultation or a visit to a day hospital in the Gynaecology Department and/or a consultation in the Reproductive Medicine Department. No-objection forms will be collected at the same time. A link will be sent by e-mail to the patient to access the online questionnaire on the WEPI software and complete it after the consultation. Responses to the questionnaire will be collected progressively and stored in a secure RedCAP file.