Molecular Imaging of Brain Tumors Using Labeled Technetium-99m 1-Thio-D-Glucose.
The study should evaluate the biological distribution of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose in patients with primary brain tumors and recurrence of brain tumors.

The primary objective are:

1. To assess the distribution of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose in normal tissues and tumors at different time intervals.
2. To evaluate dosimetry of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose.
3. To study the safety and tolerability of the drug 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose after a single injection in a diagnostic dosage.

The secondary objective are:

1. To compare the obtained SPECT imaging results of brain tumors with the data of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or positron emission tomography (PET) and immunohistochemical (IHC) studies of postoperative material.
Brain|Neoplasms
DRUG: SPECT or SPECT-CT with 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose
Gamma camera-based whole-body 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose uptake value (percent), Whole-body 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose uptake coinciding with normal organs and tissues will be assessed using gamma camera and calculated as percentage (percent) of the injected dose of the radiopharmaceutical, 24 hours|SPECT-based 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose value in tumor lesions (counts), 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose uptake coinciding with tumor lesions will be assessed using single-photon emission computed tomography and measured in counts, 6 hours|SPECT-based 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose uptake value (counts), Focal uptake of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose in the regions without pathological findings will be assessed with SPECT and measured in counts, 6 hours|Tumor-to-background ratio (unitless value), The SPECT-based tumor-to-background ratio will be calculated as follows: the value of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose uptake coinciding with tumor lesions (counts) will be divided by the value of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose uptake coinciding with the regions without pathological findings (counts), 6 hours
Safety attributable to 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose injections, based on the rate of abnormal physical findings (percent), The safety attributable to 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose injections will be evaluated based on the assessments of physical examination, vital signs, and ECG (percent of cases with abnormal findings relative to baseline), 24 hours|Safety attributable to 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose injections, based on the rate of abnormal laboratory results (percent), The safety attributable to 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose injections will be evaluated based on the blood and urine laboratory tests (percent of cases with abnormal findings relative to baseline), 24 hours|Safety attributable to 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose injections, based on the rate of adverse events (percent), The safety attributable to 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose injections will be evaluated based on the rate of adverse events (percent), 24 hours|Safety attributable to 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose injections, based on the need for concomitant medication (percent), The safety attributable to 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose injections will be evaluated based on the rate of administration of concomitant medication (percent), 24 hours
The overall goal is to study the effectiveness of SPECT imaging of primary brain tumors and relapse of brain tumors using technetium-99m labeled glucose.

Phase I of the study:

Biodistribution of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose in patients with primary brain tumors and in patients with recurrence of a brain tumor.

The main objectives of the study:

1. To evaluate the distribution of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose in normal tissues and tumors in patients with brain tumors at different time intervals.
2. To evaluate dosimetry 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose based on the pharmacokinetic parameters of the drug after a single intravenous administration.
3. To study the safety of use and tolerability of the drug 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose after a single intravenous administration in a diagnostic dosage.

Additional research tasks:

1. To conduct a comparative analysis of the diagnostic information obtained in the visualization of brain tumors by SPECT using 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose with data obtained by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or positron emission tomography (PET) and immunohistochemical (IHC) research of postoperative material.
2. To study the diagnostic effectiveness of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose SPECT in imaging of brain tumors.
3. To evaluate the overall survival of patients with brain tumors depending on the results of 99mTc-1-thio-D-glucose SPECT.

Methodology:

Open-label, exploratory, single centre study. The subjects will receive a single injection of the labelled tracer.