Nivolumab in Treating Patients With Localized Kidney Cancer Undergoing Nephrectomy
This phase III trial compares nephrectomy (surgery to remove a kidney or part of a kidney) with nivolumab to the usual approach of nephrectomy followed by standard post-operative follow-up and monitoring, in treating patients with kidney cancer that is limited to a certain part of the body (localized). Nivolumab is a drug that may help stimulate the immune system to attack any cancer cells that may remain after surgery. The addition of nivolumab to the usual surgery could prevent the cancer from returning. It is not yet known whether nivolumab and nephrectomy is more effective than nephrectomy alone in treating patients with kidney cancer.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Sarcomatoid Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Unclassified Renal Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Nephrectomy|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|OTHER: Patient Observation|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Recurrence-free Survival (RFS) Rate at 5 Years, RFS is defined as time from randomization to disease recurrence or death from any cause. Patients who did not undergo nephrectomy or were not disease-free following nephrectomy were considered as having an event at day 1. Patients that are alive without an event were censored at the date of last disease evaluation. RFS rate at 5 years was the proportion of patients who are recurrence-free and alive at 5 years based on Kaplan-Meier estimates., Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years
Recurrence-free Survival (RFS) Rate at 3 Years Among Patients With Clear Cell Histology, RFS is defined as time from randomization to disease recurrence or death from any cause. Patients who did not undergo nephrectomy or were not disease-free following nephrectomy were considered as having an event at day 1. Patients that are alive without an event were censored at the date of last disease evaluation. RFS rate at 3 years was the proportion of patients who are recurrence-free and alive at 3 years based on Kaplan-Meier estimates., Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 1 year|Overall Survival Rate at 5 Years, Overall survival is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause. Overall survival rate at 5 years was the proportion of patients who are alive at 5 years based on Kaplan-Meier estimates., Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years
Association Between the Primary Tumor's Expression of PD-L1 With Outcome, Association between the primary tumor's expression of PD-L1 with outcome, Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually for 5 years|Association Between the Expression of PD-L1 on Tumor Tissue at Nephrectomy as Well as Recurrence and Outcome, Association between the expression of PD-L1 on tumor tissue at nephrectomy as well as recurrence and outcome, Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually for 5 years|To Archive Images for Potential Central Confirmation of Recurrence and for Future Correlative Work, To archive images for potential central confirmation of recurrence and for future correlative work, Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually for 5 years|To Collect Tumor and Biologic Specimens for Future Correlative Studies, To collect tumor and biologic specimens for future correlative studies, Assessed at baseline, nephrectomy, 9 months and recurrence|To Characterize the Pharmacokinetics of Nivolumab and Explore Exposure Response Relationships With Respect to Safety and Efficacy, To characterize the pharmacokinetics of nivolumab and explore exposure response relationships with respect to safety and efficacy, Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually for 5 years|To Characterize the Immunogenicity of Nivolumab, To characterize the immunogenicity of nivolumab, Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually for 5 years|To Evaluate Differences in Change From Baseline in Patient-reported Symptoms and Toxicities Among Patients Randomized to Treatment With Nivolumab Compared to Surgery Alone, To evaluate differences in change from baseline in patient-reported symptoms and toxicities among patients randomized to treatment with nivolumab compared to surgery alone, Assessed at baseline, pre-nephrectomy, 8 weeks post-nephrectomy, 20 weeks, 40 weeks, 54 weeks, recurrence and 2 years post randomization|To Explore Descriptively the Efficacy of Treatment With Nivolumab in Patients With Non-clear Cell (Including Unclassified) Histologies., To explore descriptively the efficacy of treatment with nivolumab in patients with non-clear cell (including unclassified) histologies., Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually for 5 years|To Characterize the Effects of Nivolumab on Bone Metabolism and Bone Density, To characterize the effects of nivolumab on bone metabolism and bone density, Assessed at 20 weeks, 40 weeks, then every 3 months for patients <2 years from randomization, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually for 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare recurrence-free survival (RFS) between patients with renal cell carcinoma randomly assigned to perioperative nivolumab in conjunction with radical or partial nephrectomy with patients randomized to surgery alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate for differences in recurrence-free survival associated with perioperative nivolumab compared to surgery alone among the subset of patients with clear cell histology.

II. To compare the overall survival between the two arms. III. To describe the safety and tolerability of perioperative nivolumab.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate the primary tumor's expression of PD-L1 with outcome. II. To correlate the expression of PD-L1 on tumor tissue at nephrectomy and recurrence with outcome.

III. To archive images for potential central confirmation of recurrence and for future correlative work with American College of Radiology Imaging Network (ACRIN), including markers predicting outcome or response.

IV. To prospectively collect tumor and biologic specimens (e.g., serum, peripheral blood mononuclear cells \[PBMCs\]) for future correlative studies.

V. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of nivolumab and explore exposure response relationships with respect to safety and efficacy.

VI. To characterize the immunogenicity of nivolumab.

QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate differences in change from baseline in patient-reported symptoms and toxicities among patients randomized to treatment with nivolumab compared to surgery alone.

OTHER EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore descriptively the efficacy of treatment with nivolumab in patients with non-clear cell (including unclassified) histologies.

II. To characterize the effects of nivolumab on bone metabolism and bone density.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 2 cycles. Patients then undergo partial or radical nephrectomy 7-28 days later. Patient then receive nivolumab over 30 IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 cycles, and then every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients enrolled after Amendment 4 receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients then undergo partial or radical nephrectomy 7-28 days later. Patients then receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients undergo partial or radical nephrectomy within 8 weeks after registration followed by observation.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and every 12 months for 5 years.