Open-Label Phase 2 Efficacy Trial of Cancer Macrobeads in Patients With Treatment-Resistant Pancreatic/Colorectal Cancer
This is a clinical research study of an investigational (FDA BB-IND 10091) treatment for patients with pancreatic cancer (all stages) and advanced colorectal cancer that no longer responds to standard therapies.

The treatment is being evaluated for its effect on tumor growth. It consists of the placement (implantation) of small beads that contain mouse renal adenocarcinoma cells (RENCA macrobeads). The cells in the macrobeads produce substances that have been shown to slow or stop the growth of tumors in experimental animals and veterinary patients. It has been tested in 31 human subjects with different types of cancers in a Phase I safety trial. Phase II studies in patients with colorectal, pancreatic or prostate cancers are in progress.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Non-resectable|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Metastatic|Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
BIOLOGICAL: RENCA macrobeads
Overall Survival - Based on Most Recent Scan, The primary efficacy outcome is post-implantation all-cause mortality, where time to death is defined as the time from the most recent scan prior to first implantation (time of origin, To) to death from any cause., From date of the most recent scan (disease progression) prior to the first macrobead implantation; assessed up to 32 months.
Overall Survival - Based on 1st Implant, The secondary efficacy objective was to evaluate overall survival calculated using the time from first RENCA macrobead implantation to death from any cause., From date of the first RENCA macrobead implant; assessed up to 32 months.|Overall Survival - Based on Stage IV Disease Diagnosis, The secondary efficacy objective was to evaluate overall survival calculated using the time from Stage IV disease diagnosis to death from any cause., From date of Stage IV disease diagnosis up to 126 months; up to 32 months from first RENCA macrobead implant.
Necrosis Comparison of Tumors Using PET-CT Scan, Tumors were assessed by positron emission tomography (PET)-CT scan at baseline and day 90 following the first RENCA macrobead implantation. The use of \[13\]F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake for the detection of lesions \>1 cm in diameter allowed evaluation of metabolic activity. Decreases in FDG uptake were indicative of metabolic suppression of the tumor. The use of PET-CT scanning indicated anatomical localization, approximate size/volume of primary tumor and metastatic lesion(s), and assessment of metabolic activity of the tumor (as an indicator of metabolic health and necrosis).

Disease state is reported as a function of Tumor measurement divided by SUVmax. Changes were assessed between day 90 post RENCA macrobead implant and baseline values. Patients with no change = stable; patients with decreased values = decreased/necrosis, and patients with increased values = increased., Baseline vs. Day 90 post-Implant 1|Tumor Marker Response of mCRC Participants, Tumor markers included serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and cancer antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9), and were assessed on all participants with mCRC at baseline and at subsequent evaluation points to further assess tumor response to RENCA macrobead implantation. A tumor marker response was defined as a greater than or equal to 20% decrease in one or both of CEA or CA 19-9., Change from baseline up to and including day 30 post-Implant 1|Tumor Marker Response of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, Tumor markers included serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and cancer antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9), and were assessed on all participants with pancreatic cancer at baseline and at subsequent evaluation points to further assess tumor response to RENCA macrobead implantation. A tumor marker response was defined as a greater than or equal to 20% decrease in one or both of CEA or CA 19-9., Change from baseline up to and including day 30 post-Implant 1.|C-reactive Protein Levels in mCRC Participants, C-reactive protein (CRP) is one of three inflammatory markers assessed during this study. CRP levels were assessed as a marker of systemic inflammatory processes., Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1 and Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2 (when applicable).|C-Reactive Protein Levels in Pancreatic Cancer Participants, C-reactive protein (CRP) is one of three inflammatory markers assessed during this study. CRP levels were assessed as a marker of systemic inflammatory processes., Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1 and Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2 (when applicable).|Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate in mCRC Participants, Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) is one of three inflammatory markers assessed during this study. ESR was assessed as a marker of systemic inflammatory processes., Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1 and Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2 (when applicable).|Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate in Pancreatic Cancer Participants, Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) is one of three inflammatory markers assessed during this study. ESR was assessed as a marker of systemic inflammatory processes., Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1 and Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2 (when applicable).|Cancer Antigen 125 Levels in mCRC Participants, Cancer Antigen 125 (CA 125) is one of three inflammatory markers assessed during this study. CA 125 was used to monitor more localized intra-abdominal/peritoneal inflammatory processes related to the placement of the RENCA macrobeads or, in some cases, the intraperitoneal spread of tumor., Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1 and Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2 (when applicable).|Cancer Antigen 125 Levels in Pancreatic Cancer Participants, Cancer Antigen 125 (CA 125) is one of three inflammatory markers assessed during this study. CA 125 was used to monitor more localized intra-abdominal/peritoneal inflammatory processes related to the placement of the RENCA macrobeads or, in some cases, the intraperitoneal spread of tumor., Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1 and Day 0, 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2 (when applicable).|Performance Status (ECOG Score) of mCRC Participants, The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance scale is a 5-point scale, where 0 denotes perfect health and 5 is death. It is used by clinicians to assess disease progression and how the disease is affecting the daily living abilities of the patient. The ECOG Performance Status scores are defined as follows:

0: Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease activities without restriction.

1. Restricted in physical strenuous activity, but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature (e.g. light house work, office work).
2. Ambulatory and capable of all self-care, but unable to carry out any work activities, up and about more than 50% of waking hours.
3. Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair 50% or more of waking hours.
4. Completely disabled, cannot carry on any self-care, totally confined to bed or chair.
5. Death, Baseline; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Performance Status (ECOG Score) of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance scale is a 5-point scale, where 0 denotes perfect health and 5 is death. It is used by clinicians to assess disease progression and how the disease is affecting the daily living abilities of the patient. The ECOG Performance Status scores are defined as follows:

0: Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease activities without restriction.

1. Restricted in physical strenuous activity, but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature (e.g. light house work, office work).
2. Ambulatory and capable of all self-care, but unable to carry out any work activities, up and about more than 50% of waking hours.
3. Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair 50% or more of waking hours.
4. Completely disabled, cannot carry on any self-care, totally confined to bed or chair.
5. Death, Baseline; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Activities of Daily Living (KPS Score) of mCRC Participants, Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) is a self-rated scale that measures the participant's ability to perform daily functions, ranging from 0 ("dead") to 100 ("normal, no complaints, no evidence of disease). Karnofsky scores are defined as follows:

100: Normal; no complaints; no evidence of disease 90: Able to carry on normal activity with effort, minor sign or symptoms of disease 80: Normal activity with effort; some sign or symptoms of disease 70: Cares for self; unable to carry on normal activity or do active work 60: Requires occasional assistance, but is able to care for most personal needs 50: Requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care 40: Disabled; requires special care and assistance 30: Severely disabled; hospitalization is indicated, although death is not imminent 20: Very sick; hospitalization/active support treatment is necessary 10: Moribund; fatal processes progressively worsening 0: Dead, Baseline; Day 14, 30, 60 Post-Implant 1; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Activities of Daily Living (KPS Score) for Pancreatic Cancer Participants, Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) is a self-rated scale that measures the participant's ability to perform daily functions, ranging from 0 ("dead") to 100 ("normal, no complaints, no evidence of disease). Karnofsky scores are defined as follows:

100: Normal; no complaints; no evidence of disease 90: Able to carry on normal activity with effort, minor sign or symptoms of disease 80: Normal activity with effort; some sign or symptoms of disease 70: Cares for self; unable to carry on normal activity or do active work 60: Requires occasional assistance, but is able to care for most personal needs 50: Requires considerable assistance and frequent medical care 40: Disabled; requires special care and assistance 30: Severely disabled; hospitalization is indicated, although death is not imminent 20: Very sick; hospitalization/active support treatment is necessary 10: Moribund; fatal processes progressively worsening 0: Dead, Baseline; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Global Health Status of mCRC Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

The Global Health Status is assessed from 2 of the 30 questions (Question 29 and 30), whose response score ranges on a 7 point scale. The score for physical function is calculated based on the average score from these 2 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, excellent). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Global Health Status of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

The Global Health Status is assessed from 2 of the 30 questions (Question 29 and 30), whose response score ranges on a 7 point scale. The score for physical function is calculated based on the average score from these 2 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, excellent). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Physical Function of mCRC Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including physical function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Physical Function is assessed from 5 of the 30 questions (Questions 1-5), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for physical function is calculated based on the average score from these 5 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Physical Function of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including physical function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Physical Function is assessed from 5 of the 30 questions (Questions 1-5), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for physical function is calculated based on the average score from these 5 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Role Function of mCRC Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including role function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Role Function is assessed from 2 of the 30 questions (Questions 6 and 7), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for role function is calculated based on the average score from these 2 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Role Function of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including role function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Role Function is assessed from 2 of the 30 questions (Questions 6 and 7), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for role function is calculated based on the average score from these 2 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Emotional Function of mCRC Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including emotional function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Emotional Function is assessed from 4 of the 30 questions (Questions 21-24), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for role function is calculated based on the average score from these 4 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Emotional Function of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including emotional function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Emotional Function is assessed from 4 of the 30 questions (Questions 21-24), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for role function is calculated based on the average score from these 4 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Cognitive Function of mCRC Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including cognitive function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Cognitive Function is assessed from 2 of the 30 questions (Question 20 and 25), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for role function is calculated based on the average score from these 2 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Cognitive Function of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including cognitive function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Cognitive Function is assessed from 2 of the 30 questions (Question 20 and 25), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for role function is calculated based on the average score from these 2 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Social Function of mCRC Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including social function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Social Function is assessed from 2 of the 30 questions (Question 26 and 27), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for role function is calculated based on the average score from these 2 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Social Function of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0) consists of 30 questions which pertain to: five functional scales (including social function), three symptom scales, a global health status score, and six single items.

Social Function is assessed from 2 of the 30 questions (Question 26 and 27), whose response score ranges on a 4 point scale. The score for role function is calculated based on the average score from these 2 questions. A linear transformation is used to standardize these responses. Using this linear transformation, the minimum value is 0 (worst outcome, poor functionality) and the maximum value is 100 (best outcome, better functionality). Therefore, increasing values indicate better outcome and decreasing values indicate worse outcome., Baseline; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Pain Assessment of mCRC Participants, Participants were asked to rate their pain on a discrete scale (from 0 = "no pain" to 10 "worst pain imaginable, unbearable"). The worst pain at each time point was used in the analysis., Baseline; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2|Pain Assessment of Pancreatic Cancer Participants, Participants were asked to rate their pain on a discrete scale (from 0 = "no pain" to 10 "worst pain imaginable, unbearable"). The worst pain at each time point was used in the analysis., Baseline; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 1; Day 14, 30, 60 post-Implant 2
This is an open-label Phase 2 clinical trial. The study will have a duration of 12 months and involve a potential total of four macrobead implants for each enrolled patient, with the implants being no less than three months apart.

The RENCA macrobeads are implanted intraperitoneally, using laparoscopic surgical procedures. The macrobeads remain permanently within the peritoneal cavity, even if patients withdraw from the study and/or begin new therapy (e.g. chemotherapy). After the formal phase of the trial is completed, subjects will be followed for life.

The intent of this Phase 2 trial is to assess efficacy, safety, and tolerability of RENCA macrobeads. Screening occurs within 28 days prior to first implantation. Enrolled patients are treated with a dose of 8 RENCA macrobeads per kilogram of body weight and observed for a minimum of 3 months prior to the next implantation. A maximum of 4 implantation procedures is possible. Day 0 is the day of implantation.

Prior to the start of the study, the Investigators ensured that the protocol and any attendant documentation were approved, in writing, by the Institutional Review Board. The study was conducted in compliance with the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use Good Clinical Practice Guidelines (E6 \[R1\]) for conducting, recording, and reporting studies, as well as for archiving essential documents.

The Investigators, the Medical Monitor of the sponsor, and the Data Safety Monitoring Board were responsible for monitoring safety parameters collected in the study. They, collectively, provided oversight and monitoring of the safety of the participants in the study.