FLASH-Breast: Evaluating the Efficacy of Fezolinetant in Reducing Vasomotor Symptoms in Women With Breast Cancer on Endocrine Therapy
This is a phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled trial designed to evaluate the efficacy of fezolinetant (45 mg a day) vs. placebo in reducing moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (VMS) in breast cancer survivors on endocrine therapy (tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors). The trial will proceed in a single stage and the total of 92 patients will be randomized in 1:1 fashion to fezolinetant or placebo arm respectively.
Breast Cancer Early Stage Breast Cancer (Stage 1-3)
DRUG: Fezolinetant|DRUG: Placebo
Frequency of moderate/severe VMS at 12 weeks of treatment with fezolinetant vs. placebo, To evaluate the mean change reduction in frequency of moderate/severe VMS at 12 weeks of treatment with fezolinetant vs. placebo in breast cancer survivors on endocrine therapy (tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitors)., Baseline to 12 weeks
Efficacy of fezolinetant vs. placebo in reducing the mean daily frequency of moderate/severe VMS, To evaluate the efficacy of fezolinetant vs. placebo in reducing the mean daily frequency of moderate/severe VMS, At week 4, after treatment initiation|Regression of mean daily frequency of moderate/severe VMS average, To evaluate treatment activity among breast cancer survivors treated with fezolinetant vs placebo over the entire course of the study duration - measure by regression of mean daily frequency of moderate/severe VMS average every week of treatment (weeks 0-12), Study duration: weeks 0-12|Change in global quality of life using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast, Endocrine Therapy Symptoms (FACT-B ES), To evaluate the difference in global quality of life in breast cancer survivors treated with fezolinetant vs placebo using FACT-B ES. The total score range is 0 to 164, with higher scores indicating better quality of life, Baseline to week 12|Differences in sleep quality using PROMIS Sleep Disturbance-Short Form 8b (PROMIS SD SF 8b), To evaluate the differences in sleep quality in breast cancer survivors' treatment with fezolinetant vs placebo using patient-reported outcomes measurement information System Sleep Disturbance - Short Form 8b (PROMIS SD SF 8b. Total score is calculated by summing the items (range: 8-40), with a higher score meaning more disturbed sleep., Baseline, week 4 and week 12
This is a phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled trial designed to evaluate the efficacy of fezolinetant (45 mg a day) vs. placebo in reducing moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (VMS) in breast cancer survivors on endocrine therapy (tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors). The trial will proceed in a single stage and the total of 92 patients will be randomized in 1:1 fashion to fezolinetant or placebo arm respectively. After the 7-14-day screening period when all the baseline, pre-treatment measures will be collected, investigators will record daily data on frequency and severity of VMS and calculate weekly averages of both metrics. After the 12 weeks treatment period, formal efficacy analysis will be conducted and the treatment with fezolinetant will be deemed efficacious if the final weekly average of daily frequency of VMS will be significantly reduced compared to the 'week12 - baseline' difference of the placebo arm. Upon conclusion of the formal 12-week treatment assignment, once VMS final assessment has been recorded, investigators will unblind the study participants to their treatment assignment. Participants will be then allowed to cross-over shall they choose to do so. Due to the vast availability of safety and efficacy data in general population, investigators did not include interim efficacy/futility or safety analysis.

Investigators hypothesis is that neurokinin blockade by fezolinetant will significantly reduce vasomotor symptoms in breast cancer survivors on endocrine therapy (tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitor) measured by mean change in frequency of moderate to severe VMS based on patient reported data from baseline to 12-weeks.