A Prospective Patient Reported Outcomes and Wearables Study in Myeloproliferative Neoplasms
The investigators will assess the use of a smart phone app to monitor patient reported outcomes and record biometric data in patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms.
Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
Patient reported outcomes - Myeloproliferative Neoplasm-10 Total Symptom Score, The primary outcome of this study will be to characterise a baseline of healthcare data, patient reporting of symptom burden (as per MPN 10 symptom assessment form, raneg 0-100, higher scores indicative of greater symptom burden) to understand its relevance for disease-specific clinical outcomes., 5 years
Healthcare adherence, To determine the association between patients' adherence to medication, number of hospital attendances and admissions, and data from the wearables., 5 years|Biometric data analysis - activity index, Wearable device tracking activity index (calories), 5 years|Biometric data analysis - sleep score, Wearable device tracking sleep score (0-100), 5 years|Biometric data analysis - heart rate, Wearable device tracking heart rate, 5 years
To determine whether the development of a dedicated myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) smartphone application is of benefit to MPN patients and shows utility for medical professionals to explore efficient disease management through retrieval of 'real-world' patient data.

1. To Track Symptoms and Provide Easy Access to Information: The core focus of the project is to enhance the quality of life for people with MPNs. The app will serve as a comprehensive toolkit to help people with MPNs proactively monitor and track their symptoms, leading to improved self-care. The App will also provide direct access to reliable, up-to-date information about MPNs, empowering users to better understand their condition and make well-informed decisions regarding their health.
2. To Contribute to Research: The app will actively contribute to MPN research by generating valuable patient-generated real-world data to inform clinical trials, treatment development, and disease understanding. Currently, most of the clinical information and data in this patient population comes from clinical trials and major academic centres. As such, there is a significant gap in recording practice and outcomes in other areas, which likely makes up a large proportion of the total patient population. The app would provide a means of monitoring patient experience, comorbidities, treatments, and outcomes, as well as highlighting unmet needs in this under-represented patient group.

A 5-year sub-study using wearables is also planned to explore symptom management and collect biometric data to assess how this correlates with symptom burden, disease specific outcomes, treatment response and quality of life. The app's data collection capabilities have the potential to revolutionize the research landscape for MPNs. By collecting large volume data from this patient group, researchers will be able to assess trends in treatment response, biomarker identification and allow optimisation of therapeutic pathways and improve design of clinical trials. This could lead to the development of new treatments being made more widely available to patients and potentially improve the lives of this patient population.