Riluzole and Whole-Brain Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Brain Metastases
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs, such as riluzole, may make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Giving riluzole together with whole-brain radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of riluzole when given together with whole-brain radiation therapy in treating patients with brain metastases.
Metastatic Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: riluzole|RADIATION: whole-brain radiation therapy
Maximum tolerated dose of riluzole, 2.5 years
Long-term toxicity of riluzole, .25 years|Neurocognitive function before and after treatment, 2.5 years|MRI response of brain metastasis after treatment, 2.5 years|Survival, 2.5 years|Response of brain metastasis to treatment as a function of the expression of glutamate receptors, 2.5 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the maximum tolerated dose of riluzole that can be administered concurrently with standard whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) in patients with multiple brain metastases.

Secondary

* To determine the long-term toxicity of riluzole when administered with WBRT.
* To assess neurocognitive function before and after treatment with riluzole and WBRT.
* To determine the MRI response of brain metastasis after treatment with riluzole and WBRT.
* To compare survival of patients treated with riluzole and WBRT to published historical data for patients with brain metastases.
* To evaluate the response of brain metastasis to riluzole and WBRT as a function of the expression of glutamate receptors on the primary tumor specimen.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of riluzole.

Patients receive oral riluzole twice daily beginning on day 0. Beginning within 2 days after the initiation of riluzole, patients undergo whole-brain radiotherapy for 15 fractions.

Patients undergo neurocognitive and quality-of-life assessments at baseline, at 5 weeks, and at 3 months.

Tumor tissue samples are collected for laboratory biomarker studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.