A Phase I/IIa Study of UV1 Vaccine in Patients With Prostate Cancer
In this study, up to 21 patients with metastatic prostate cancer will receive UV1 (a therapeutic synthetic peptide vaccine) at different dose levels. The safety and tolerability of UV1 as well as immunological response will be assessed. The purpose of this study is to select a biological dose of peptides for further clinical trials.

Main treatment period is completed and reported. Follow-up ongoing.
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: UV1 synthetic peptide vaccine and GM-CSF
Assessment of safety and tolerability of UV1, Frequency and severity of adverse events and serious adverse events. Biochemistry and hematology results, vital signs and ECOG performance status will be assessed., up to 9 months|Immunological response, Number of T-cell responses including time to T-cell responses (up to 6 months), level of response and duration of response., Up to 9 months
Selection of biological dose of peptides for further clinical trials, Safety profile and immunological responses of each dose level., up to 9 months
Assessment of anti tumor activity; (sPSA measurements and multiparametric radiological assessments)., Tumor response, progression free survival (PFS), and changes in antineoplastic treatment, Up to 6 months|Potential correlation between human cytomegalovirus status and immune response., Determination of human cytomegalovirus (CMV) status, Up to 9 months|Further characterization of the immune reaction triggered by the treatment., T-cell infiltration of the prostatic gland after 6 months and compared to the initial multiparametric MRI., Up to 6 months|Identification of prognostic surrogate markers., Genetic analyses (DNA), gene expression profiling (RNA), proteomics, metabolomics from samples (blood, urine, tissue) collected at Baseline and repeated after 6 months (blood, urine).

Circulating tumor cells will be measured at baseline and month 6., Up to 6 months
The study is an open labeled dose-escalating phase I/IIa study of UV1 peptide vaccination in patients with androgen-sensitive metastatic prostate cancer. Patients will be prospectively enrolled in this study if diagnosis of adenocarcinoma only has been histologically confirmed and they are eligible for (or have already started up to 6 months prior to inclusion) standard GnRH-agonist first line androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) combined with anti-androgen to achieve complete androgen blockade (CAB). UV1 vaccinations will be applied simultaneously with CAB.

When indicated, patients may receive concomitant radiotherapy.

The following 2-step design will be used:

1. Conventional dose escalation with at least 3 patients per dose level (3 selected dose levels).
2. Expansion of each dose level to a total of 7 patients for assessment of immune response levels

13 UV1 vaccinations will be given during the first 6 months (week 26) of treatment, unless clinical deterioration or unacceptable toxicity is encountered. GM-CSF (Leukine ®) will be administered locally 10-15 minutes before each UV1 vaccination.

Hormone naïve patients will receive standard complete androgen blockade by GnRH-agonist (3 months depot formulation sc.) and bicalutamide 50 mg orally per day (CAB). Patients already on GnRH-agonist therapy will continue with their initial treatment with addition of bicalutamide 50 mg orally per day.