Carfilzomib in Treatment Patients Under 65 Years With High Risk Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
Patients included in the study will receive induction treatment during 6 months, followed by receive high-dose therapy followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.

Approximately 3 months after peripheral blood stem cell transplantation patients will receive consolidation treatment during 2 months.

Subsequently patients will start maintenance treatment during 24 months. Therefore, the total duration of the treatment will be approximately 36 months.
Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: carfilzomib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Melphalan
Efficacy- Number of Immunophenotypic complete remission rate (Flow-CR) at day +100 after induction and HDT-ASCT, Number of Immunophenotypic complete remission rate (Flow-CR) at day +100 after induction and HDT-ASCT, 4 months
Efficacy - Number of Response rates after the different parts of the treatment, induction, HDT-ASCT, consolidation and maintenance, Number of Response rates after the different parts of the treatment, induction, HDT-ASCT, consolidation and maintenance, up to 24 weeks|Efficacy- Months to progression free survival, Months to progression free survival, 60 months|Efficacy -Months to overall survival, Months to overall survival, 60 months|Relapse or progression patterns in the group of patients requiring a rescue therapy after june 2020., Relapse or progression patterns after first line treatment with KRd-\>PBPCT-\>KRd-\>Rd, in the group of patients requiring a rescue therapy after june 2020., Up to 84 months (from june 2020)|Response rate of rescue therapy in the group of patients requiring a rescue therapy after june 2020., Response rate achieved with daratumumab, pomalidomide and dexamethasone (DPd) as rescue therapy, by evaluating all response categories, including immunophenotypic response, sCR, CR, VGPR, PR and SD., Up to 84 months (from june 2020)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS) from the date of relapse / progression of disease, PFS and OS from the date of relapse / progression of disease, in the group of patients requiring a rescue therapy., Up to 84 months (from june 2020)|Biological studies in the group of patients requiring a rescue therapy., Phenotypic and molecular assessment of the tumor clone that appears in the moment of relapse or disease progression (DP), and comparison against the tumor clone characterized at the moment of inclusion in the first part of the trial., Up to 84 months (from june 2020)|Study of patient immune profile in the group of patients requiring a rescue therapy., Assessment of patient immune profile at the moment of inclusion in this modification, and assessment of evolution under DPd treatment., Up to 84 months (from june 2020)|Study of patient immune profile depending on type of relapse, in the group of patients requiring a rescue therapy., Assessment of immune profile at the moment of inclusion in patients in biochemical relapse vs. those in symptomatic relapse., Up to 84 months (from june 2020)
This clinical trial is a multicenter Phase II study designed to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of an intensive therapeutic approach in 90 patients with asymptomatic high risk multiple myeloma (SMM).

1. - Patients will receive an induction treatment consisting of 6 cycles of carfilzomib, lenalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone (KRd): patients will receive carfilzomib 20-36 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15 and 16; with oral lenalidomide 25 mg daily on days 1-21, subsequently there will be a rest period of a week (from day 22 to day 27). Moreover, oral dexamethasone 40mg daily will be administered weekly (days 1, 8, 15 and 22).
2. - Following the induction treatment, patients will receive high-dose (200 mg/m2) melphalan-based treatment administered via the intravenous route followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (HDT-ASCT).
3. - The consolidation treatment will consist of 2 cycles of KRd, with the same doses and scheduled of the induction treatment.
4. - Maintenance treatment: all patients, without progression to symptomatic multiple myeloma or toxicity requiring discontinuation of the trial, will receive maintenance treatment during 24 cycles.

This maintenance treatment comprises the administration of lenalidomide 10mg on days 1-21, followed by a rest period of 1 week, with the weekly administration of dexamethasone 20mg.

Treatment will be administrated until the end of the maintenance, although patients will continue in the trial.

If biological progression is observed following the discontinuation of the treatment, lenalidomide and dexamethasone will be reinstituted in order to control the disease again. Lenalidomide 10 mg will be administrated on days 1-21 combined with dexamethasone 20mg on days 1, 8, 15 and 22. All patients will be monitored for asymptomatic disease progression and to collect data regarding on overall survival (OS).