A Study of Avastin (Bevacizumab) in Combination With XELOX or FOLFOX-4 in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer.
This 2 arm study will compare the pharmacokinetics and safety of Avastin at steady state under 2 different dosing regimens, in combination with XELOX (oxaliplatin + Xeloda) or FOLFOX-4 (oxaliplatin, leucovorin and 5-fluorouracil). Patients randomized to the XELOX arm will receive Avastin (7.5mg/kg iv) on Day 1 of each 3 week cycle; patients randomized to the FOLFOX-4 arm will receive Avastin (5mg/kg iv) on Day 1 of each 2 week cycle. The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months, and the target sample size is \<100 individuals.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: bevacizumab [Avastin]|DRUG: XELOX|DRUG: bevacizumab [Avastin]|DRUG: FOLFOX-4
Weekly Steady-state Exposure of Bevacizumab, Area under the serum concentration-time curve per week, at steady state (AUCss per week). Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks
Time Zero to Last Measurable Plasma Concentration of Bevacizumab, Area under the serum concentration-time curve from time zero to the time of the last measurable plasma concentration (AUC 0-last). Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks|Steady-state Exposure of Bevacizumab From Time Zero to Tau, Area under the serum concentration-time curve from time zero to tau, at steady state (AUCss 0-tau), where tau was the length of the cycle, i.e., tau = 3 weeks for XELOX+BV and tau = 2 weeks for FOLFOX-4+BEV. Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks|Maximum Serum Concentration of Bevacizumab at Steady State, Maximum serum concentration at steady state (Css,max). Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks|Minimum Serum Concentration of Bevacizumab at Steady State, Minimum serum concentration at steady state (Css, min). Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks|Serum Clearance of Bevacizumab, Serum clearance (CL). Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks|Time of Maximum Serum Concentration of Bevacizumab, Time of maximum serum concentration (tmax). Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks|Volume of Distribution of Bevacizumab at Steady State, Volume of distribution at steady state (Vss). Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks|Terminal Half-life of Bevacizumab, Terminal half-life (t1/2) (apparent elimination half-life). Estimation of the parameter was performed using non-compartmental methods., Up to 48 weeks
This 2 arm study will compare the pharmacokinetics and safety of Avastin at steady state under 2 different dosing regimens, in combination with XELOX (oxaliplatin + Xeloda) or FOLFOX-4 (oxaliplatin, leucovorin and 5-fluorouracil). Patients randomized to the XELOX arm will receive Avastin (7.5mg/kg iv) on Day 1 of each 3 week cycle; patients randomized to the FOLFOX-4 arm will receive Avastin (5mg/kg iv) on Day 1 of each 2 week cycle. The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months, and the target sample size is \<100 individuals.