Evaluation of an Active Surveillance Protocol for Prostate Cancer in the Brazilian Population
In this study, the investigators aim to form a Brazilian national prospective active surveillance cohort of patients with low-risk prostate cancer in the public health system. The investigators aim to demonstrate data on the pathological reclassification rate, treatment-free survival, among others. This cohort aim to evaluate and validate the active surveillance strategy in Brazil.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Active surveillance
Biopsy pathological reclassification rate, Gleason score above 6 (min: 6 - max: 10) in prostate biopsy, 12-month analysis
Treatment-Free Survival rate, 12-month and 24-month analysis|Overall survival rate, 12-month and 24-month analysis|Cancer-Specific Mortality Rate, 12-month and 24-month analysis|Metastasis-free survival rate, 12-month and 24-month analysis|Quality of life evaluation, EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, 12-month and 24-month analysis|EPIC evaluation, Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite for Clinical Practice (EPIC-CP) questionnaire (min: 0 - max: 60). Higher scores are worse., 12-month and 24-month analysis|Anxiety evaluation, General Anxiety Disorder-7 questionnaire (min: 0 - max: 21) Higher scores are worse, 12-month and 24-month analysis|Biochemical recurrence rate after radical therapy, PSA greater than or equal to 0.2 ng/ml after radical prostatectomy or PSA nadir plus 2 ng/ml after radiotherapy;, 12-month and 24-month analysis
Monitoring of active surveillance harm, Occurrence of any complications in prostate biopsies, 12-month and 24-month analysis|Evaluation of pathological outcomes in patients undergoing radical prostatectomy, Presence or absence of any of the following criteria: Gleason score above 6 (min: 6 - max: 10), positive surgical margins, extracapsular extension, seminal vesicle invasion or positive lymph node metastases, 12-month and 24-month analysis
Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in men in Brazil. It is estimated that about 80% of patients diagnosed with prostate cancer have localized disease, and many of these cases have low-risk cancer.

Active surveillance(AS) is a treatment strategy mainly for low risk prostate cancer to avoid radical treatment through periodic assessments (PSA, digital rectal exam and Prostatic Biopsies). During this follow-up, the patient will be treated only when necessary and with curative intent. Several series of institutional cohorts with long-term follow-up have demonstrated that the AS strategy in selected patients is a safe alternative to immediate treatment, with comparable survival.

The active surveillance strategy has never been evaluated in the Brazilian population. The main outcomes from AS derive from international cohorts. The Brazilian population is extremely diverse, so validation in this cohort is relevant. The current study aim to form a national multicentric prospective cohort of patients with low-risk prostate cancer following an AS protocol in the the public health system to evaluate and validate this strategy in Brazil.