Clinical Trial Assessing the Efficacy of Capsaicin Patch (Qutenza®) in Cancer Patients With Neuropathic Pain
In the oncology area, neuropathic pains are relatively frequent and can be induced by surgery, radiotherapy, or chemotherapy. In usual practice, some units are using qutenza in order to reduce neuropathic pain even though using of this patch for a population of cancer patients has never been demonstrated so far in a prospective study. The present prospective study proposes to evaluate the qutenza efficacy in peripheric neuropathic pain in cancer patients.
Neuropathic Pain
DRUG: Qutenza
Percentage of responders to capsaicin, Percentage of responders to capsaicin at one month after the first patch application will be calculated with a relief scale completed by patients., One month
Maximum value of relief, Maximum value of relief will be calculated for patients with relief scale completed by patients at three months after the patch application., Three months|Correlation coefficient between the relief score and time before first relief, Correlation coefficient between maximal value of relief and time between the beginning of painful signs and first patch application., Three months|Neuropathic pain intensity reported on visual analog scale, Minimal, average, and maximal values of neuropathic pain reported on visual analog scale will be evaluated., One year|Number of toxicities reported, Capsaicin patch induced toxicities will be reported, and quoted according to CTCAE version 4.4., One year|Number of days of response, Number of days of response reported by patients where patch are efficient will be reported, One year|Number of days of response to qutenza, Number of days between the patch set and the apparition of the first effect on patients will be reported., One year|Size of painful zones, Size of painful zones will be reported., One year|Number of prescribed antalgics, Number of prescribed antalgics will be reported for each patient., One year|Percentage of patients with a reported chemotherapy, Percentage of patients with an obligation to report their chemotherapy because of the pain will be calculated., One year|Percentage of patients who have received at least 75% of the chemotherapy prescribed, Percentage of patients who have received at least 75% of the chemotherapy prescribed will be reported., One year
Drugs for neuropathic pains are generally represented by antidepressants, anti-epileptics, opioids, lidocaine patch. However, these drugs can frequently be insufficient, and/or can lead to side effects. Qutenza (8% capsaicin patch) presents an interesting alternative.

Qutenza efficacy has been shown in five principal studies conducted on 1988 adults affected by moderate or severe neuropathic pains. All patients presented Postherpetic neuralgia, or HIV associated therapy, or painful diabetic peripheric neuropathies. These studies led to qutenza approbation in Europe and in States in 2009.

In oncology, neuropathic pains are relatively frequent and can be induced by the three big actors of the anti-cancerous therapeutic arsenal (surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy). In usual practice, some units are usually using qutenza, but the use of this patch for this kind of patients has not been shown in a prospective study. Advantages of this treatment are numerous, and results presented in other therapeutic area are encouraging its use in oncology.

The present prospective study proposes to evaluate the qutenza efficacy in peripheric neuropathic pain in cancer patients.