Testing the Sequential Combination of the Anti-cancer Drugs Olaparib Followed by Adavosertib (AZD1775) in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors With Selected Mutations and PARP Resistance, STAR Study
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of adavosertib when given together with olaparib in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body (advanced) with selected mutations. Adavosertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. PARPs are proteins that help repair DNA mutations. PARP inhibitors, such as olaparib, can keep PARP from working, so tumor cells can't repair themselves, and they may stop growing. Giving olaparib and adavosertib one after the other may shrink or stabilize advanced solid tumors as successfully as using them together, with fewer side effects.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Adavosertib|DRUG: Olaparib
Dose Limiting Toxicity, The number of patients who had dose limiting toxicity (DLT). DLT was defined as grade ≥3 non-hematological toxicity, grade 3 fatigue of greater than 1 week duration, failure to receive at least 70% of dosing due to trial drug-related toxicities, or experiencing a drug-related toxicity that meets criteria for a DLT, grade 4 thrombocytopenia or grade 3 thrombocytopenia associated with bleeding, grade 4 neutropenia ≥5 days or febrile neutropenia, Any degree of anemia, leukopenia in the absence of grade 4 neutropenia ≥4 days., Within the first cycle (28 days) of treatment|Incidence and Causality of Treatment-Related Adverse Events, The data represents the number of patients with reported treatment-related adverse events that were deemed at least possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment, and were graded based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 5(CTCAE 5.0). Only the highest grade assigned for each treatment-related adverse event is reported., Approximately 2 years and 7 months. For each enrolled patient, adverse event data was captured from the period in which a patient signed the informed consent and up to 90 days after the administration of the last dose of study drug.
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD will be identified in the dose escalation phase. Once identified, the MTD will be used by the dose expansion cohorts through study completion, which will take place for approximately 2 years after MTD is identified.|Objective Response Rate, Objective response (OR) was defined as percent of patients that achieve complete response (CR, measured as the disappearance of all target lesions), or partial response (PR, measured as ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions), and it was assessed as best response per RECIST 1.1 from start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence., Tumor reassessment every 8 weeks from start of treatment until radiological documentation of disease progression/recurrence through study completion, for a period of approximately 3 years.|Clinical Benefit, Clinical benefit, assessed as best response per RECIST 1.1 and defined as percent of patients that achieve complete response (disappearance of all target lesions), partial response (≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions) or stable disease (neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters) lasting for more than 6 months., Tumor reassessment every 8 weeks from start of treatment until radiological documentation of disease progression/recurrence through study completion, for a period of approximately 3 years.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival was defined as the time between the start of treatment and (i) the time of progression (defined using RECIST v1.1. as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and an absolute increase of at least 5mm, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions) or death, whichever occurred first; or (ii) the time to the last imaging scan, From treatment start to progression or death, whichever occurred first or to the last imaging scan.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as from the time of treatment start to the time of death or last follow-up., Tumor reassessment every 8 weeks from start of treatment until radiological documentation of disease progression/recurrence through study completion, for a period of approximately 3 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of olaparib in sequential treatment with adavosertib (AZD1775).

II. To establish the maximum tolerated dose/recommended phase 2 dose (MTD/RP2D) of this sequential schedule in patients with advanced solid tumors in a post-poly adenosine diphosphate (ADP) ribose polymerase inhibitor (PARPi) population.

III. To assess the safety and toxicity profile of the sequential treatment of olaparib and AZD1775 in a post-PARPi population.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess putative predictive biomarkers of response and resistance to the sequential treatment of olaparib and AZD1775 in a post-PARPi population.

II. To evaluate a novel experimental trial design involving sequential dosing of olaparib and AZD1775 in a post-PARPi population.

III. To observe and record anti-tumor activity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of adavosertib.

Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5 and 15-19 of each cycle and adavosertib PO once daily (QD) on days 8-12 and 22-26 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3-6 months for up to 2 years.