Survey of Cabozantinib Used To Treat People With Renal Cell Carcinoma
This study is a survey in Japan of Cabozantinib tablets used to treat people with a type of kidney cancer called renal cell carcinoma. The study sponsor will not be involved in how the participants are treated but will provide instructions on how the clinics will record what happens during the study.

The main aim of the study is to check for side effects from Cabozantinib. During the study, participants with renal cell carcinoma will take Cabozantinib tablets according to their clinic's standard practice. The study doctors will check for side effects from Cabozantinib for 26 weeks.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Cabozantinib
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward or undesirable medical occurrence in a participant linked in time with the use of a pharmaceutical/ medicinal product. They are not limited to the events with clear causal relationship with treatment with concerned drug. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any event that results in: death; life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalization or results in prolongation of existing hospitalization; persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect or a medically important event., Up to 26 weeks|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, Severity grade is defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0., Up to 26 weeks|Percentage of Adverse Events Leading to Dose Changes of Cabozantinib, An adverse event (AE) is any untoward or undesirable medical occurrence in a participant linked in time with the use of a pharmaceutical/ medicinal product. They are not limited to the events with clear causal relationship with treatment with concerned drug. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not related to the medicinal product., Up to 26 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Drug Reactions and Serious Adverse Drug Reactions, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any event that results in: death; life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalisation or results in prolongation of existing hospitalisation; persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect or a medically important event. Adverse drug reaction refers to AE related to administered drug., Up to 26 weeks|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Drug Reactions, Severity grade is defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0., Up to 26 weeks|Percentage of Adverse Drug Reactions Leading to Dose Changes of Cabozantinib, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any event that results in: death; life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalisation or results in prolongation of existing hospitalisation; persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect or a medically important event. Adverse drug reaction refers to AE related to administered drug., Up to 26 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Drug Reaction and Serious Adverse Drug Reactions of Hepatic Failure and Hepatic Dysfunction, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any event that results in: death; life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalisation or results in prolongation of existing hospitalisation; persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect or a medically important event. Adverse drug reaction refers to AE related to administered drug., Up to 26 weeks|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Drug Reactions of Hepatic Failure and Hepatic Dysfunction, Severity grade is defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0., Up to 26 weeks|Percentage of Adverse Drug Reactions of Hepatic Failure and Hepatic Dysfunction Leading to Dose Changes of Cabozantinib, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any event that results in: death; life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalisation or results in prolongation of existing hospitalisation; persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect or a medically important event. Adverse drug reaction refers to AE related to administered drug., Up to 26 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Drug Reaction and Serious Adverse Drug Reactions of Pancreatitis, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any event that results in: death; life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalisation or results in prolongation of existing hospitalisation; persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect or a medically important event. Adverse drug reaction refers to AE related to administered drug., Up to 26 weeks|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Drug Reactions of Pancreatitis, Severity grade is defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0., Up to 26 weeks|Percentage of Adverse Drug Reactions of Pancreatitis Leading to Dose Changes of Cabozantinib, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any event that results in: death; life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalisation or results in prolongation of existing hospitalisation; persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect or a medically important event. Adverse drug reaction refers to AE related to administered drug., Up to 26 weeks
Percentage of Participants Who Achieve or Maintain Any Best Response, Best response was assessed with reference to the excerpts from Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1). Best response was defined as the level of best response in assessment with complete response (CR), partial response (PR) during the observational period., Up to 26 weeks
The drug being tested in this study is called cabozantinib tablets. This tablet is being tested to treat people who have radically unresectable or metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

This study is an observational (non-interventional) study and will look at occurrence of adverse drug reactions (or adverse events) of cabozantinib tablets in the routine clinical setting. The planned number of observed patients will be approximately 300.

This multi-center observational trial will be conducted in Japan.