Study of the Effects of Cyclodynon on Reducing the Cumulative Risk of Breast Cancer Development in a Female Aged 40-52
Increased mammographic density of mammary gland tissues and hyperprolactinaemia are regarded as one of the risk factors for the development of breast cancer in women aged 40 to 52 years, which necessitates closer monitoring of the mammary gland and can be considered as modifiable. The herbal drug Cyclodynone® has a dopaminergic effect on the hypothalamus, which causes its inhibitory effect on the secretion of prolactin. At present, a significant positive clinical and scientific experience has been accumulated in the use of the Cyclodynone® for the treatment of benign breast dysplasias against a background of mild hyperprolactinaemia in women of reproductive age. Demonstration of the positive effect of this drug on the reduction of hyperprolactinemia, mammographic density of MF, evaluation on the scale BI-RADS would justify its application for the modification of this risk factor in women aged 40 to 52 years.
Mammographic Breast Density
DRUG: Cyclodynon|BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyl modification
Mammographic density, Decrease in the mammographic density determined by a mammographic breast examination at Visit 5 compared to baseline (Visit 1)., 6 month
BI-RADS indicator, Dynamics of BI-RADS indicator determined by a mammographic breast examination., 6 month
Hypothesis: Increased mammographic density of mammary gland tissues and hyperprolactinaemia are regarded as one of the risk factors for the development of breast cancer in women aged 40 to 52 years, which necessitates closer monitoring of the mammary gland. However, this risk factor can be considered as modifiable. The drug Cyclodynone® (contains 4 mg of special extract of dried fruits of Chaste Berry (Vitex agnus-castus)) has a dopaminergic effect on the hypothalamus, which causes its inhibitory effect on the secretion of prolactin. At present, a significant positive clinical and scientific experience has been accumulated in the use of the Cyclodynone® for the treatment of benign breast dysplasias against a background of mild hyperprolactinaemia in women of reproductive age. However, the experience of using Cyclodynone® in women older than 40-52 years with increased density or dyshormonal pathology of breast cancer is limited. Demonstration of the positive effect of this drug on the reduction of hyperprolactinemia, mammographic density of MF, evaluation on the scale BI-RADS would justify its application for the modification of this risk factor in women aged 40 to 52 years.