Vorinostat and Idarubicin in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This randomized phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat when given together with idarubicin in treating patients with relapsed or refractory leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vorinostat and idarubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Vorinostat may also stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving vorinostat together with idarubicin may kill more cancer cells.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Multilineage Dysplasia Following Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (M3)|Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm, Unclassifiable|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: vorinostat|DRUG: idarubicin|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of vorinostat determined by dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) as measured by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.3.0, 21 days
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicities of vorinostat (SAHA) in combination with standard-dose idarubicin in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes, acute promyelocytic leukemia, or chronic myelogenous leukemia in blastic phase.

II. Describe the clinical activity of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the in vivo molecular effects of this regimen, including the effects on DNA topoisomerase IIα mRNA expression and on the induction of γH2AX, histone H3 and H4 acetylation, as well as changes in the gene expression profile.

IV. Determine the pharmacokinetic characteristics of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE:

This is a randomized, dose-escalation study of vorinostat (SAHA). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oral SAHA three times daily on days 1-14 and idarubicin IV over 15 minutes once daily on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.\*

ARM II: Patients receive oral SAHA three times daily and idarubicin IV over 15 minutes once daily on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.\*

Note: \*Patients completing 6 courses of therapy or who reach the maximum cumulative dose of idarubicin or an equivalent anthracycline and achieve clinical benefit may continue treatment with SAHA alone 3 times daily on days 1-14 of each course, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 10 patients are treated at the MTD.

Patients undergo blood collection and bone marrow biopsies periodically during the study for pharmacologic, biomarker, and genetic studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then periodically thereafter.