Allo-HSCT vs ASCT in Adult T-LBL
Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) is the important consolidation for adult T-LBL. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (Allo-HSCT) is also the important consolidation for adult T-LBL. So ASCT vs allo-HSCT: which is better consolidation for adult T-LBL?
T Lymphoblastic Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: ASCT|PROCEDURE: Allo-HSCT
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression/relapse, or death due to any cause., Probability of PFS at months 1, 2, 6, 12, 18 & 24 will be estimated from the Kaplan-Meier curves for each arm.
Relapse, Relapse, defined as the time from date of randomization to date of disease progression/relapse., Cumulative incidence of disease progression/relapse at months 1, 2, 6, 12, 18 & 24 will be estimated, considering non-relapse mortality as competing events.|Non-relapse mortality (NRM), NRM, defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death not preceded by disease progression/relapse., Cumulative incidence of NRM at months 1, 2, 6, 12, 18 & 24 will be estimated, considering disease progression/relapse as competing events.|Overall survival (OS), OS, defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Probability of overall survival at months 1, 2, 6, 12, 18 & 24 will be estimated from the Kaplan-Meier curves for each arm.
1. Characteristics of adult T-lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) T-lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) is a highly aggressive lymphoma which shares biological and morphological features with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), and T-LBL is conventionally distinguished from T-ALL by less than 25% bone marrow (BM) infiltrating blasts cells. T-LBL only represents 3-4% of adult's non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) which is a rare histologic subtype of NHL in adults. For this reason, few studies had focused on the disease-specific cohort of adult T-LBL patients and most of the studies included both T-LBL and T-ALL.
2. Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) is the important consolidation for adult T-LBL The treatment paradigm of T-LBL is evolving. In the 1980s, when patients were treated with lymphoma-like regimens, the outcome of T-LBL was dismal and the 5-year progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) was only 22% and 32%, respectively. ALL-like regimens significantly increase the complete response (CR) rate to more than 90% in T-LBL patients; however, disease relapse negatively impacts the long-term survival. For example, the 3-year OS rates of T-LBL could be as high as 66.9% to 70% while the 5-year OS rates decrease to below 50% in adults.

   ASCT is an important consolidation for adult T-LBL, which could also improve the survival of T-LBL compared with those only receiving chemotherapy. However, for patients with some risk factors (such as central nervous system \[CNS\] involvement or bone marrow \[BM\] involvement), the survival was very poor. In addition, ASCT is associated with a significantly higher risk of disease progression or recurrence.
3. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (Allo-HSCT) is also the important consolidation for adult T-LBL Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is one of the most important curative treatments for T-LBL mainly because of the graft-versus-lymphoma effect, particularly for those with high-risk characteristics of relapse. Recently, in a multicenter study of China enrolled 130 Ann-Arbor stage III or IV T-LBL patients (\> 16 years) treated with allo-HSCT, the 2-year probabilities of disease progression, PFS, OS and NRM after allo-HSCT were 21.0%, 69.8%, 79.5%, and 9.2%, respectively. Patients with CNS involvement had a higher cumulative incidence of disease progression compared with those without CNS involvement (57.1% vs. 18.9%, P = 0.014). Patients receiving allo-HSCT in non-remission (NR) had a poorer PFS compared with those receiving allo-HSCT in complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) (49.2% vs. 72.7%, P = 0.041). Particularly, for patients with BM involvement and achieving CR before allo-HSCT, measurable residual disease (MRD) positivity before allo-HSCT was associated with a poorer PFS compared with MRD negativity (62.7% vs. 86.8 %, HR 1.94, P = 0.036). Thus, this real-world data suggested that allo-HSCT appeared to be an effective therapy for adults T-LBL patients with Ann-Arbor stage III or IV disease.
4. ASCT vs allo-HSCT: which is better consolidation for adult T-LBL Thus far, whether allo-HSCT could be superior to ASCT as consolidation in T-LBL was unknown, which should be identified by randomized controlled trials.