Bevacizumab, Autologous Tumor/DC Vaccine, IL-2 and IFNα-2b in Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) Patients
Immune therapies, such as a IL-2, for metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) are designed to mobilize immune effector cells that recognize and destroy cancer. The investigators have recently observed a 50% objective response rate (16% CR) in mRCC patients treated with autologous tumor lysate -dendritic cell (DC)-vaccine, IL-2 and interferon alfa (IFN). New agents inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathways have demonstrated significant benefit in mRCC patients as well, but rarely induce CRs. High blood VEGF is associated with poor response to IL-2 and can cause tumor specific immune dysregulation. To test whether complementary mechanisms of immune activation and disruption of regulatory pathways enhance outcome the investigators plan to treat 24 mRCC patients in a phase II trial using bevacizumab, DC vaccine, IL-2, and IFN. Observations from this project will be used in the development of novel cancer therapies which, if successful, will decrease the burden of cancer on the public.

The investigators propose to determine 1) the objective clinical response rate to treatment and progression free survival, 2) the clinical and autoimmune related toxicity profile of therapy, and 3) the treatment related tumor-specific immune response and the relationship of tumor-specific immune response and objective clinical response.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: DC vaccine|DRUG: Bevacizumab|BIOLOGICAL: IL-2|BIOLOGICAL: IFN
Progression Free Survival, median progression free survival, 5 years
To Characterize the Number of Participants With Clinical and Autoimune Related Toxicity of Treatment, To characterize the clinical and autoimmune related toxicity profile of the combined treatment regimen using CTCAE 3. Toxicity reported are those expected from high dose IL-2 and were not considered adverse events., 5 years
Measure of Percent of CD4 and CD8 Lymphocyte Subsets, percent of CD4 and CD8 positive lymphocyte subsets, Baseline, day 28, day 70|Clinical Response, clinical response by RECIST 1.1, Day 70
All eligible patients will receive a total of five treatment weeks, each consisting of approximately 5 days. Prior to therapy, patients will undergo apheresis for DC preparation. DC-Tumor vaccines will be frozen in 90% pooled human AB serum/ 10% DMSO to be used for treatment Patients will be dosed with bevacizumab (10mg/kg, Genentech) intravenously every two weeks beginning four weeks prior to the first vaccine. Each treatment week includes ultrasound guided intranodal DC-vaccine injection (1 X 107 cells/1mL), followed by 5 days of continuous intravenous infusion of IL-2 (18 MiU/m2, Novartis), and three subcutaneous injections of IFNa-2b (6 MiU, Schering -Plough Corp.) (every other day). The first two treatment weeks, the induction phase, will be separated by a 9 day rest. Three additional treatment weeks, the maintenance phase, will be separated by 23 rest days.