Comparison Of Effectiveness of Transrectal Ultrasonography-Guided Saturation Biopsy And 10-12 Core Biopsy In Repeated Prostate Biopsies
OBJECTIVE To assessment the results of repeated saturation and 10-12 core biopsy protocols in patients with a negative initial biopsy but continued suspicion for prostate cancer MATERIALS AND METHOD Data of the patients who underwent prostate biopsy between June 2007 and June 2012 were retrospectively assessed. Patients with an abnormal digital examination findings and/or abnormal serum prostate specific antigen levels were biopsied. The indication for a repeated biopsy was determined as the continued suspicion for a malignancy after the initial benign biopsy result and/or a pathology result consistent with a high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia or atypical small acinar proliferation. Patients who underwent saturation and core 10-12 biopsies at repeated biopsies were compared. Statistical analyses were performed with Shapiro-Wilk test and Mann- Whitney U test. A p value less than 0.05 was accepted as statistically significant.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Transrectal prostate biopsy with ultrasonography.|PROCEDURE: Periprostatic block|PROCEDURE: Sedoanalgesia
Detection rate of prostate cancer., Prostate cancer detection rate after saturation and repeated 10-12 core prostate biopsy., At least two months
OBJECTIVE To assessment the results of repeated saturation and 10-12 core biopsy protocols in patients with a negative initial biopsy but continued suspicion for prostate cancer MATERIALS AND METHOD Data of the patients who underwent prostate biopsy between June 2007 and June 2012 were retrospectively assessed. Patients with an abnormal digital examination findings and/or abnormal serum prostate specific antigen levels were biopsied. The indication for a repeated biopsy was determined as the continued suspicion for a malignancy after the initial benign biopsy result and/or a pathology result consistent with a high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia or atypical small acinar proliferation. Patients who underwent saturation and core 10-12 biopsies at repeated biopsies were compared. Statistical analyses were performed with Shapiro-Wilk test and Mann- Whitney U test. A p value less than 0.05 was accepted as statistically significant.