Safety and Efficacy of SDX-101 (R-Etodolac) in Combination With Chlorambucil, and That of Chlorambucil Alone, in Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)
This is a Phase 2, multi-center, open label, randomized clinical study to evaluate the safety and efficiency of SDX-101 in combination with chlorambucil (CLB) and chlorambucil alone in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL) patients. The study treatment period will be approximately 24-26 weeks with a follow-up period of approximately 8 weeks. Following the end of treatment, patients with a confirmed complete response, partial response or stable disease will be followed for up to 2 years to assess time to disease progression. Approximately 80 patients with documented diagnosis of B-cell CLL by standard clinical and immunophenotyping criteria will be enrolled into the SDX-101-03 study. This study is being conducted in the following European countries: France, Germany, Poland, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Chlorambucil|DRUG: R-etodolac + chlorambucil
Bone Marrow Biopsy or Aspiration, Overall response rate assessment according to National Cancer Institute-Working Group (NCI-WG) criteria using cytogenetic and biomarker evaluations., Baseline + 6 months
Cytogenetic and biomarker evaluations + adverse events, Cytogenetic and biomarker evaluations performed on day 14 (for regimen B) and day 1 (for regimen A) to assess Safety and Tolerability. Study visits to assess safety occur every 2 weeks for 3 months, then every month thereafter. Safety assessments include: medical history, physical examinations, vital sign measurements, adverse event assessment, routine hematology and serum chemistry tests, urinalysis, and ECGs., 6 months
This is a Phase 2, multi-center, open label, randomized clinical study to evaluate the safety and efficiency of SDX-101 in combination with chlorambucil (CLB) and chlorambucil alone in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL) patients. The study treatment period will be approximately 24-26 weeks with a follow-up period of approximately 8 weeks. Following the end of treatment, patients with a confirmed complete response, partial response or stable disease will be followed for up to 2 years to assess time to disease progression. Approximately 80 patients with documented diagnosis of B-cell CLL by standard clinical and immunophenotyping criteria will be enrolled into the SDX-101-03 study. This study is being conducted in the following European countries: France, Germany, Poland, Sweden and the United Kingdom.