RALOX or CAPOX + Bevacizumab in the First-line Treatment of Advanced CRC(ROCB Study)
Raltitrexed is an inhibitor of thymidylate synthase.As a folate antimetabolite drug, raltitrexed has been used in treatment of colorectal cancer(CRC) since 1998, and also used in malignant mesothelioma.Several phase III studies performed in patients with advanced CRC showed that it is as effective as 5-fluorouracil(5-FU) /leucovorin(LV) with regard to response rates and survival. The combination of raltitrexed with oxaliplatin shows response rates of 41%-54% and median survivals of 14.6-14.8 months, which are comparable to those achieved with 5-FU/LV combination with oxaliplatin. This study discussed the efficacy and safety of raltitrexed-oxaliplatin(RALOX) combined with bevacizumab or capecitabine-oxaliplatin(CAPOX) combined with bevacizumab in first-line treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer who could not undergo radical surgery. The main endpoint will be progression free survival (PFS). The secondary endpoints will be overall survival, objective response rate and disease control rate (OS,ORR and DCR).It is expected that raltitrexed may be one of options for the treatment of advanced CRC in the first-line setting.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Raltitrexed|DRUG: Capecitabine
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Time, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) \[according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v). 1.1\] or death due to any cause, whichever will be first. PD is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). Participants who died without a reported prior progression will be considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who do not progress or be lost to follow-up will be censored at the day of their last radiographic tumor assessment., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 6 months after admission, up to 2 years.
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time in months from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of the cut-off date, OS will be censored at the last known date alive., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 6 months after admission,up to 2 years.|Percentage of Participants Achieving an Objective Response (Objective Response Rate), The objective response rate is equal to the proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of partial response or complete response (PR + CR). Response is defined using RECIST, v. 1.1 criteria. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions; PR is defined as having at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameter., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 3 months after admission.|Percentage of Participants Achieving a Stable Disease (SD) or a confirmed CR or PR (Disease Control Rate), Participants achieved disease control if they have a best overall response of CR, PR or SD. According to RECIST v1.1, CR is the disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions, with the short axes of any target lymph node reduced to \<10 mm, the disappearance of all non-target lesions, and the normalization of tumor marker levels (if tumor markers were initially above the ULN); PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions (including the short axes of any target lymph node), taking as reference the baseline sum diameter. SD is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify as PR nor sufficient increase to qualify as PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameter since treatment started., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 3 months after admission.
According to the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the patients will be randomly divided into two groups: the experimental group (group A) will be administered with raltitrexed 3mg/m2 intravenously combined with oxaliplatin and bevacizumab, repeated every 21 days. The control group (group B) will be administered with orally capecitabine (1000mg/m2, d 1-14) combined with oxaliplatin and bevacizumab, repeated every 21 days. After 8 cycles of treatments, if evaluated as complete response(CR),partial response(PR) or stable disease(SD), CRC patients will go into maintenance therapy wtih raltitrexed combined with bevacizumab in group A or capecitabine combined with bevacizumab in group B respectively, ended in disease progression(PD) , symptoms deterioration, unacceptable toxicity, death or withdrawal of consent (whichever occurs first). The radiological efficacy will be evaluated every 6 weeks (2 treatment cycles) and non-PD (PD criteria referring to RECIST 1.1 criteria) patients will continue to be treated until the cancer progression or the patient's intolerable toxicity or death. Toxic side effects and quality of life will be assessed at the same time.

Follow up participants and analyse primary endpoint (PFS) and secondary endpoints (OS,ORR and DCR).The causes of confirmed missing data in the trial should be recorded in detail to determine the mechanism of missing data and choose the suitable missing data handling methods.