Wisconsin Ginseng for Decreasing Cancer Related Fatigue
This phase III trial compares the effect of Wisconsin ginseng (panax quinquefolius) to placebo in patients with cancer that suffer from significant fatigue. Fatigue is among the most challenging symptoms to manage in patients with cancer, both on or off active treatment. This symptom complex meaningfully contributes to psychosocial distress, healthcare costs, and it also interferes with the delivery of anticancer therapies. American ginseng (Western ginseng) appears to be a promising appearing agent for treating cancer related fatigue. Western ginseng may reduce cancer-related fatigue.
Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: American Ginseng|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in fatigue, Will be measured by the Linear Analog Scale for Fatigue, a single-item questionnaire rating fatigue over the pats week on a scale of 0-10 where 0=no fatigue at all and 10=fatigue as bad as it can be., Baseline to 8 weeks
Change in fatigue, Will be measured by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy- Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue) Scale, which consists of 13 questions answered on a scale of 0-4 where 0=not at all and 4=very much., Baseline, 4 and 8 weeks|Percentage of patients who perceive moderate to very much better fatigue, Will be measured by the Global Impression of Change, which consists of 3 questions answered on a scale of -3 (very much worse) to 3 (very much better), one question as to whether the participants thought they were receiving the intervention (ginseng) or placebo, and one question related to satisfaction with the effect of the treatment on their fatigue (yes/no)., At 8 weeks|Incidence of adverse events, Will be measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and/or the Ginseng Symptom Experience Diary and compared between arms., Up to 8 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of ginseng as assessed by a single item measure of fatigue at 8 weeks.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate changes in fatigue via the single item measure of fatigue from baseline to week 4, the Global Impression of Change at week 4 and 8, and the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue Scale (FACIT-Fatigue) at week 4 and 8.

II. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicity as reported by the patient on the Ginseng Symptom Experience Diary where patients rate (on a 0 to 10 scale) their toxicities experienced while on study.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive Western ginseng orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-56.

GROUP II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-56.