RESET-MG: A Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of CABA-201 in Participants With Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
RESET-MG: A Phase 1/2 Open-Label Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of CABA-201 in Participants with Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
Generalized Myasthenia Gravis (gMG)
BIOLOGICAL: CABA-201
To evaluate incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal result of an investigation), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. The term AE is used to include both serious and non-serious AEs., Up to 28 days after CABA-201 infusion
To evaluate the incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal result of an investigation), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. The term AE is used to include both serious and non-serious AEs., Up to 156 weeks|To characterize the pharmacodynamics (PD), Levels of B cells in the blood, Up to 156 weeks|To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK), Levels of CABA-201-positive T cells in the blood, Up to 156 weeks|To evaluate disease-related biomarkers, Levels of MG-specific autoantibodies in the serum, Up to 156 weeks|To evaluate efficacy by change in Myasthenia Gravis - Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) score over time., The MG-ADL scale is a validated instrument administered by a qualified assessor with 8 areas of activities of daily living as reported by patients: talking, chewing, swallowing, breathing, ability to brush teeth or comb hair, ability to rise from a chair, double vision, and eyelid droop. In each area, the score ranges from 0 (normal) to 3 (most severe). The total score is the sum of all subscores., Up to 156 weeks|To evaluate efficacy by change in Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) score over time., The QMG score is a 13-item scale conducted by a qualified assessor to evaluate disease severity in patients with MG. The total score ranges from a minimum of 0 (no myasthenic findings) to 39 (maximum myasthenic deficits)., Up to 156 weeks|To evaluate efficacy by change in Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC) score over time., The MGC scale is a physician-reported instrument for the assessment of MG patients' symptoms and impairments. It includes 10 domains, and the total score ranges from 0 (normal) to 50 (most severe)., Up to 156 weeks
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a rare autoimmune disorder characterized by autoantibody responses that cause defective transmission of signals at the neuromuscular junction, resulting in a distinctive pattern of weakness. Patients with generalized MG (gMG) typically experience symptoms associated with ocular disease in addition to weakness of many other voluntary muscle groups, including extremity, bulbar, and respiratory muscles. MG is considered a classic example of a B-cell mediated autoimmune disease. Currently, there are no curative treatments for MG. This study is being conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of an investigational cell therapy, CABA-201, that can be given to patients with gMG. A single dose of CABA-201 in combination with cyclophosphamide (CY) and fludarabine (FLU) will be evaluated.