Pegliposomal Doxorubicin and 5-fluorouracil as Second Line Therapy for Metastatic Gastric Cancer
For second-line chemotherapy for metastatic gastric cancer, single-agent irinotecan is the standard treatment. Anthracyclines are active but lack well designed investigations. The combination of epirubicin, fluorouracil and cisplatin (or oxaliplatin) are widely used in Europe. However, traditional anthracyclines are more cardiotoxic; and (Pegliposomal Doxorubicin) PLD, as a new liposome dosage form of doxorubicin, has better cardiac safety. Therefore, we designed this phase II trial with PLD and 5-Fu to compare irinotecan monotherapy in the second-line treatment.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: DOXOrubicin Liposome Injection|DRUG: 5fluorouracil
Disease control rate (DCR), Percentage of subjects with tumor shrinkage reaching complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and disease stabilization (SD)., 24 weeks
Objective response rate (ORR), Percentage of subjects with tumor shrinkage reaching complete response (CR) and partial remission (PR)., 24 weeks|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of progressive disease or date of death, whichever occurs first. For target lesions (TL), PD was defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest SLD recorded since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more lesions. For non-target lesions (NTL), PD was defined as an unequivocal progression of existing NTLs. Participants were censored at the last date of tumor measurement, the last date in the study drug log, or the date of last follow-up., 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Participants were censored at the last date of tumor measurement, the last date in the study drug log or the date of last follow-up., 2 years|Treatment associated toxicities, According to WHO CTC 3.0, 2 years|EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Stomach Cancer Specific (QLQ STO22) Questionnaire Scores, The QLQ-STO22 is a gastric cancer quality of life questionnaire. There are 22 questions concerning disease, treatment related symptoms, side effects, dysphagia, nutritional aspects, and questions about the emotional problems of gastric cancer (dysphagia, pain, reflux, eating restrictions, anxiety, dry mouth, body image, and hair loss). The questions are grouped into five scales and 4 single items which are related to the symptoms of the disease. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'; 1 question was a yes or no answer). A linear transformation was used to standardize all scores and single-items to a scale of 0 to 100; higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., 2 years
Patients with metastatic gastric cancer failed to first-line therapy will be radomized to arm A with PLD and 5-Fu and arm B with irinotecan single agent therapy. Both regimens will be treated every 2 weeks until disease progression or untolerable toxicity. Efficacy will be assessed every 3 cycles and safety will be evaluated every cycle.