Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma (Liver Cancer)
This phase II trial is studying how well bortezomib works in treating patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (liver cancer) that cannot be removed with surgery. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth.
Adult Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer
DRUG: bortezomib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Proportion of confirmed tumor responses, defined to be either a CR or PR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 6 weeks apart, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 36 weeks (12 courses)
Survival time, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Time to disease progression, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 3 years|Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved an objective response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the date progression is documented, Up to 3 years|Time to treatment failure, Time from the date of registration to the date at which the patient is removed from treatment due to progression, toxicity, or refusal, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Proportion of confirmed tumor responses.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the confirmed and objective response rate. II. To assess patient outcome as estimated by duration of response, time to disease progression, and survival.

III. To evaluate the adverse event rates associated with PS-341 in this population.

IV. To explore the relationships between laboratory correlates (eg. IHC) and patient outcome (eg p53 and disease progression).

V. To evaluate alterations in laboratory correlates from pre-treatment measurements (ie, pre and post treatment). The following immunohistochemistry (IHC) assays will be performed: IHC of p53, IHC of p21, IHC of p27, IHC of NFkB, IHC of Ki67.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months until disease progression and then every 6 months for up to 3 years from study entry.