RFC and MTHFR SNPs & hENT1- dCK Expression as Prognostic Factors in ALL & hENT1- dCK Expression as Prognostic Factors in AML
Results of actual treatment in ALL are not optimal. New prognostic factors, which may determine clinical \& molecular response are required. Hyper-CVAD is an internationally accepted schema for such patients. The objective of this pilot study is to evaluate polymorphisms regarding RFC (reduced folate carrier) and MTHFR enzyme, which may affect the function of these proteins, and therefore the intracellular bioavailability of methotrexate. Also, the expression levels of hENT1 and dCK will be evaluated, since such genes codify for citarabine intracellular transport and activation, respectively. Clinical characteristics will be tabulated and analyzed for responders \& non-responders patients. Uni- \& multivariate analysis will be done to evaluate factors influencing on response and survival.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.|Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia
To evaluate clinical response, To evaluate clinical response after ending Hyper-CVAD schema for ALL patients. To evaluate clinical response \& DFS in relation with hENT1 \& dCK expression levels in AML patients., December 2012|Clinical responses in relation with SNP's or gene expression, clinical response.
Results of actual treatment in ALL are not optimal. New prognostic factors, which may determine clinical \& molecular response are required. Hyper-CVAD is an internationally accepted schema for such patients. The objective of this pilot study is to evaluate polymorphisms regarding RFC (reduced folate carrier) and MTHFR enzyme, which may affect the function of these proteins, and therefore the intracellular bioavailability of methotrexate. Also, the expression levels of hENT1 and dCK will be evaluated, since such genes codify for citarabine intracellular transport and activation, respectively. Clinical characteristics will be tabulated and analyzed for responders \& non-responders patients. Uni- \& multivariate analysis will be done to evaluate factors influencing on response and survival.