Carfilzomib in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma in First Relapse or Refractory to First-Line Therapy
This phase II trial studies how well carfilzomib works in treating patients with multiple myeloma in first relapse or refractory to first-line therapy. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: carfilzomib|DRUG: dexamethasone|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Overall Response Rate (ORR) After 8 Courses of Treatment, : Evaluate the overall response rate of patients receiving therapy. Patients are considered as having a response if their overall response is Partial Response or better. The percentage of patients achieving this and the exact 95% confidence interval will be calculated. Responses will be defined using the International Myeloma Working Group-Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC)., At 32 weeks
Overall Response Rate (ORR) After 4 Courses of Treatment, Evaluate the overall response rate of patients receiving therapy. Patients are considered as having a response if their overall response is Partial Response or better. The percentage of patients achieving this and the exact 95% confidence interval will be calculated. Responses will be defined using the International Myeloma Working Group-Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC)., At 16 weeks|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Analysis will be performed using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Time from date on treatment to date of progression for patients who progressed or date of death for patients who died without progressing. The observations of patients remaining alive and progression free were censored at date of last disease evaluation., Time from first dose to first observed disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Time to Progression (TTP), Analysis will be performed using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Time from date on treatment to date of progression. The observations of patients who died or remained alive and progression free were censored at date of death or last disease evaluation, respectively., Time from first dose to disease progression, assessed up to 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), Analysis will be performed using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Time from date of first confirmed response of partial response or better to date of progression or death. Only patients who had a response of partial response or better will be included in this analysis., Time from first evidence of PR or better to disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Treatment Related Adverse Events Grade 3 or Higher, Number of unique patients who had a treatment related (possible, probable or definite) adverse events that were graded 3 or greater., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment, up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the overall response rate of carfilzomib after 8 cycles of treatment in patients with first-relapsed myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the overall response rate to single agent carfilzomib after 4 cycles of treatment.

II. To assess progression-free survival (PFS). III. To assess time to progression (TTP). IV. To assess duration of response (DOR). V. To assess toxicities.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the effect of carfilzomib alone or in combination with dexamethasone on the following biologic end points and their correlation with response: measurements of bone remodeling (sodium fluoride F 18 positron emission tomography \[PET\], serum markers of bone remodeling and the bone marrow osteoblastic and osteoclastic differentiation and function) with the measurement of disease response and proteasome activity in the bone marrow microenvironment.

II. To describe recapture of response after progression in the maintenance phase.

OUTLINE:

TREATMENT PHASE (COURSES 1-8): Patients receive carfilzomib intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving less than partial response (PR) also receive dexamethasone orally (PO) or IV weekly in courses 4-8.

MAINTENANCE PHASE (COURSES 9-14): Patients receive carfilzomib IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, 15, and 16. Patients who received dexamethasone in the Treatment Phase continue to receive dexamethasone PO or IV weekly. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months.