Prospective Randomized Study Comparing Laparoscopic Versus Open Partial Nephrectomy
Partial nephrectomy is considered the standard treatment for renal tumors smaller than 7 cm. With the evolution of image diagnostic tools and dissemination of its use, smaller tumors are being commonly diagnosed and treated. The partial open nephrectomy is still considered the gold standard technique for nephron sparing surgery, especially when the surgeon is not experienced with the minimally invasive surgery. In the last 15 years, uncountable minimally invasive techniques were developed, including the laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. The objective of this study is compare the partial laparoscopic nephrectomy to open partial nephrectomy in terms of perioperative, oncologic and functional outcomes. A balanced randomized prospective trial will be conducted. One group of patients will be submitted to to open partial nephrectomy while the other group of patients will be submitted to laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. A randomized prospective trial comparing the two techniques is necessary to determine the differences in outcomes between them and if the laparoscopic partial nephrectomy can be performed without harms to the patients.
Kidney Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Partial nephrectomy
Surgical Complications, 6 months
Renal Function, 2 years|Oncological outcomes, 5 years
Partial nephrectomy is considered the standard treatment for renal tumors smaller than 7 cm. With the evolution of image diagnostic tools and dissemination of its use, smaller tumors are being commonly diagnosed and treated. The partial open nephrectomy is still considered the gold standard technique for nephron sparing surgery, especially when the surgeon is not experienced with the minimally invasive surgery. In the last 15 years, uncountable minimally invasive techniques were developed, including the laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. The objective of this study is compare the partial laparoscopic nephrectomy to open partial nephrectomy in terms of perioperative, oncologic and functional outcomes. A balanced randomized prospective trial will be conducted. One group of patients will be submitted to to open partial nephrectomy while the other group of patients will be submitted to laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. A randomized prospective trial comparing the two techniques is necessary to determine the differences in outcomes between them and if the laparoscopic partial nephrectomy can be performed without harms to the patients.