Everolimus and Bendamustine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Hematologic Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of everolimus when given together with bendamustine hydrochloride in treating patients with cancer of the blood (hematologic cancer) that has returned after a period of improvement (relapsed) or did not get better with a particular treatment (refractory). Everolimus may prevent cancer cells from growing by blocking a protein that is needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as bendamustine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving everolimus together with bendamustine hydrochloride may be a better treatment for hematologic cancer.
Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: everolimus|DRUG: bendamustine hydrochloride
MTD of everolimus, defined as the dose that produces dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in =< 1/6 patients, determined by incidence of DLT graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, The toxicities observed at each dose level will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity (by NCI CTCAE version 4.0) and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures, time of onset (i.e. course number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by course., 28 days
Incidence and severity of adverse events as defined by the NCI CTCAE version 4.03, Up to 30 days post-treatment|Response rates (complete response, partial response, stable disease), Response rate among patients with measurable disease will be summarized by exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 30 days post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of everolimus when administered in combination with bendamustine (bendamustine hydrochloride) in defined hematologic malignancies.

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of administering everolimus in combination with bendamustine chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of everolimus when administered in combination with bendamustine in adult patients with relapsed/refractory hematological malignancies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of everolimus.

Patients receive bendamustine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 2 and everolimus orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.