Using a Lay Health Worker Program to Increase Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening in Low-Income Hispanic Women
The primary purpose of this study is adapt the Cultivando la Salud (CLS) intervention for a new community and priority population and to train community health workers (promotoras) from the Prosalud promotora program to implement the adapted CLS breast and cervical cancer screening program. The adaptation and delivery of the CLS intervention program focuses on meeting the needs and supporting of CHWs and Hispanic/Latina women in the Greater Houston Area. Finally, this study aims to evaluate the process and effect of the adapted CLS program (renamed Salud en Mis Manos (SEMM) on increasing mammography and cervical cancer screening.
Breast Cancer|Cervical Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: CLS Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: No CLS intervention
The primary outcome for breast cancer screening outcome based on mammography screening behavior measured among participants using self-report., Outcomes based on self-report on follow-up survey, end of evaluation period (6 month follow-up survey, through completion of hard to follow-up period on average 10 months).|The primary outcome for cervical cancer screening outcome based on Pap screening behavior measured among participants using self-report., Outcomes based on self-report on follow-up survey, end of evaluation period (6 month follow-up survey, through completion of hard to follow-up period on average 10 months).
CHWs identify women in the community in need of breast and/or cervical cancer screening. Based on their screening needs, they invite women to participate in the CLS behavioral intervention. Women are randomized to intervention and usual care comparison (delayed intervention) groups. After women are consented to participate in the study, the study team administers the baseline survey. After the baseline survey is administered, the CLS-adapted intervention (renamed Salud en Mis Manos), is delivered to participants randomized to the intervention group. After the follow-up survey is administered to the participants, women in the comparison group are offered the CLS (SEMM) intervention.