Tuvusertib Combined With Niraparib or Lartesertib in Participants With Epithelial Ovarian Cancer (DDRiver EOC 302)
The purpose of this study is to measure the effect and safety of treatment with tuvusertib combined with either niraparib or lartesertib in participants with epithelial ovarian cancer. The participants will previously have progressed while treated with a poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor. The primary objective of the study is to assess the effect of the treatment in terms of overall response, i.e. whether the tumor disappears, shrinks, remains unchanged, or gets worse.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Tuvusertib (M1774)|DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Lartesertib (M4076)
Confirmed Objective Response (OR) According to RECIST v1.1 as Assessed by Investigator, Time from randomization to final assessment or until progressive disease, death, discontinuation criteria, approximately up to 3.5 years.|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), Serious TEAEs and Related TEAEs, Time from randomization to final assessment at end of safety follow-up visit, approximately up to 3.5 years.
Duration of Response (DoR) According to RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by the Investigator, Time from randomization to final assessment or until progressive disease, death, discontinuation criteria, approximately up to 3.5 years.|Progression Free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by the Investigator, Time from randomization to final assessment or until progressive disease, death, discontinuation criteria, approximately up to 3.5 years.
The purpose of this study is to measure the effect and safety of treatment with tuvusertib combined with either niraparib or lartesertib in participants with epithelial ovarian cancer. The participants will previously have progressed while treated with a poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor. The primary objective of the study is to assess the effect of the treatment in terms of overall response, i.e. whether the tumor disappears, shrinks, remains unchanged, or gets worse.