Dose dE-eScalaTion IN prostATe radIOtherapy usiNg an MR-Linac in 2 Fractions
DESTINATION 2 is a multi-centre randomised trial treating intermediate risk localised prostate cancer with 2 fraction Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT). All radiotherapy will be delivered in two fractions (sessions) on an MR Linac using daily adaptation. Men will either receive uniform dose radiotherapy or de-escalated dose radiotherapy. The primary endpoint is acute GU CTCAE v5 grade 2+ toxicity. It will also look at late toxicity, patient-reported outcome measures and PSA control.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Prostate radical radiotherapy
Acute GU toxicity, To describe the absolute risk and relative risk reduction of acute genitourinary (GU) toxicity (CTCAE v5) when delivering de-escalated two fraction prostate SBRT compared to uniform dose two fraction prostate stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) for intermediate risk prostate cancer., 12 weeks
Acute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0) toxicity, To describe the absolute and relative risk of toxicity, Baseline, last fraction, week 2, 4 and 12|Late Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0) toxicity, To describe the absolute and relative risk of toxicity, Month 6, 12, 24|Feasibility of radiation delivery, Feasibility- estimate percentage of fractions interrupted due to patient discomfort, At time of treatment|Dosimetry, Dosimetry- estimate the accumulated dose differences between the de-escalated and uniform dose delivery, At time of treatment|Patient reported outcome measures, To assess baseline, acute and late International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS). IPSS ranges from 0 to 35. Lower scores are better: A lower score indicates fewer or less severe urinary symptoms, while a higher score suggests more severe symptoms., Baseline, last fraction of treatment, week 2, 4 and 12, 6 months, 1 and 2 years post treatment.|Patient reported outcome measures, Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite Short Form (EPIC-26). EPIC-26 scores are transformed to a 0-100 scale for each domain.The questionnaire usually covers urinary incontinence, urinary irritative/obstructive symptoms, bowel, sexual, and hormonal functions. Higher scores represent better health-related quality of life., Baseline, 4 and 12 weeks, 6 months, 1 and 2 years post treatment.|Patient reported outcome measures, International Index of Erectile Function-5 (IIEF-5). The IIEF-5 score ranges from 5 to 25. Higher scores are better: A higher score indicates better erectile function, while a lower score suggests more severe erectile dysfunction., Baseline, 6 months, 1 and 2 years post treatment.|PSA kinetics, To assess biochemical relapse-free survival at 2 years, Baseline (pre ADT), week 12, month 6, and 1 and 2 years post treatment
54 patients meeting inclusion criteria will be randomised between two arms. Arm 1 (Uniform dose) will receive 27 Gy in 2 fractions to the whole prostate + seminal vesicles (SV), the CTV, with 0 mm CTV-PTV margin. Arm 2 (De-escalated dose) will use two dose levels: The benign prostate (on MRI) will receive 20 Gy in 2 fractions with a 0mm PTV margin. The intraprostatic tumour mass(es) as seen on MRI will receive 27 Gy in 2 fractions. A 4mm GTV-PTV margin will be added to the MR visible tumour to form PTV 27Gy. The primary endpoint is emergent acute GU CTCAE v5 Grade 2+ toxicity, recorded within 3 months of completing radiotherapy. Secondary endpoints are CT CAE v5 acute GI toxicity, late toxicity, patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) (EPIC-26, IPSS, and IIEF-5) at 4 and 12 weeks, 6 months, 1 and 2 years post treatment, PSA control and kinetics