IIT CTI Bendamustine, Rituximab, Pixantrone in Relapsed/Refractory B Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This is a phase I trial of the combination of bendamustine, rituximab and pixantrone in patients with relapsed/refractory B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. A standard 3+3 design will be used to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination. A static dose of bendamustine and rituximab will be used and the dose of pixantrone will be escalated in each cohort. Pixantrone will be dosed on a 21 day cycle at 55mg/m2, 85mg/m2, and 115mg/m2 in sequential cohorts dependent on acceptable toxicity profile at each dose level. MTD will be determined based on DLTs that occur during the first 2 cycles of the drug combination.

Phase II did not proceed as planned due to withdrawal of pixantrone from the US.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Bendamustine + Rituximab + Pixantrone|DRUG: Pegfilgrastim
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) assessments were performed weekly during cycles 1 and 2. A DLT was defined as any grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity that lasted longer than 48 hours, despite proper supportive care, any grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity, or any grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity lasting longer than 7 days. Alopecia and febrile neutropenia were not considered DLTs. Any NCI CTC (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria) v4.03 grade 5 (death) toxicity was considered a DLT. Dose Limiting Toxicities were used as the assessment criteria to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD). MTD is presented., 4 years
Overall Response, Partial response and complete response evaluated using a modified version of the revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma by Cheson et al

Complete Response (CR) • Complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms if present prior to therapy.

Complete Response Unconfirmed (CRu) meets the CR criteria, but with one or more of the following:

* A residual node \> 1.5 cm in greatest transverse diameter that has regressed \>75% in the sum of the product of the diameters (SPD). Individual nodes that were previously confluent must have regressed \>75% in their SPD compared with the size of the original mass.
* Indeterminate bone marrow (increased number or size of aggregates without cytologic or architectural atypia by immunohistochemistry or flow cytometry).

Partial Response (PR)

• A decrease of ≥ 50% in the SPD of up to six of the largest dominant nodes or nodal masses., up to 220 days|Progression Free Survival, From day 1 of treatment to disease progression, death or 5 years, whichever comes first|Toxicity, Dose limiting toxicities plus % of patients with a clinically significant change in left ventricular ejection fraction., 30 days post last dose of study drug|Overall Survival, from day 1 of treatment to death
This is a phase I trial utilizing a traditional 3+3 design to evaluate maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and optimal dose schedule of pixantrone in combination with bendamustine (120mg/m2 on day 1 of each 21 day cycle) and rituximab (375mg/m2 on day 1 of each 21 day cycle). No patients will be entered on an escalated dosage level until at least 3 patients have been treated at the previous level and assessed for a dose limiting toxicity. Dose levels will be escalated in cohorts of 3 patients as long as no drug-related DLT occurs in the first 2 cycles. If one patient is observed to suffer a DLT, this cohort will be expanded to include at least 6 patients total. If less than 2 patients in the expanded cohort of 6 patients experience a DLT, dose escalation will resume. If 2 of 6 patients enrolled at the same dose level experience a DLT, the MTD has been exceeded, and the dose escalation will cease. The next lower dose will be considered the MTD. If any patient withdraws from the study prior to completing 2 cycles for reasons other than a DLT then that patient will be replaced in order to determine the MTD.

If dose limiting toxicity is observed at the initial dose level in 2 patients, the MTD has been exceeded and the starting dose level will be reduced to 25mg/m2. If 1 patient experiences a DLT in the -1 dose range, the cohort will be expanded to at least 6 patients. If a second patient experiences a DLT at the -1 dose level, the trial will be closed.

For part 1, those who have a confirmed diagnosis of relapsed/refractory B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of any subtype will be considered eligible for enrollment. Each cycle will be 21 days. Subjects will be assessed for DLTs during the first 2 cycles of study drug. They will be assessed for response after cycle 2. Patients not experiencing a DLT during the first 2 cycles and who have stable disease or better may continue to receive up to 6 cycles of treatment with the triplet combination. If any patient withdraws from the study prior to completing 2 cycles for reasons other than a DLT then that patient will be replaced in order to determine the MTD.

Phase II did not proceed as planned due to withdrawal of pixantrone from the US.