A Study Osimertinib in Patients With Stage 4 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer With Uncommon EGFR Mutations
This is a research study to find out if a drug called, osimertinib, is safe and effective in treating advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) by targeting the treatment of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation exon 18 G719X, exon 20 S7681, or exon 21 L861Q. Patients on the study will not have had previous tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) treatment.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: osimertinib
Objective Response Rate as Assessed by the Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1), The number of participants who have a partial response or complete response to the study drug. Complete response (CR) = Disappearance of all target lesions and reduction in the short axis measurement of all pathologic lymph nodes to ≤10 mm; partial response (PR) = ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of the target lesions compared with baseline., Up to 4 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1), Progression will be defined as time from starting study therapy to disease progression or death (whichever occurs first)., Up to 4 years|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) as Measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.03, Adverse events (regardless of attribution) observed in all enrolled participants, except for those withdrawn prior to study treatment or fail to receive study treatment for various reasons. Counts and percentages of participants who experienced any AEs are calculated., Up to 4 years|Overall Survival as Noted by Follow-up Via Composite of Telephone or Medical Record Review., Overall survival as defined as time from starting study therapy until death from any causes., Up to 4 years
This is a research study to find out if a drug called, osimertinib, is safe and effective in treating advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) by targeting the treatment of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation exon 18 G719X, exon 20 S7681, or exon 21 L861Q. Patients on the study will not have had previous tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) treatment.

Patients who have one of the following EGRF mutations: exon 18 G719X, exon 20 S7681, or exon 21 L861Q) may be eligible to participate in this study. If enrolled into the study, the study team will give the patient a supply of the study drug, osimbertinib (80 mg) to take at home. The patient will be asked to take the study drug by mouth on days 1-28 of each study cycle. As part of this study, the patient will have blood samples other tests, exams and procedures done for study purposes and their standard of care. Patient participation in the study will last for up to 2 years after completion of the last dose of the study drug or until your condition worsens or intolerable adverse events as deemed by the study doctor.

There are possible patient risks to this study that include but are not limited to diarrhea, changes to the lining of the mouth (e.g. ulcers), rash, dry skin, itching, and nail infections.