A Study of Herceptin (Trastuzumab) in Combination With Xeloda (Capecitabine) in Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent HER2-positive Breast Cancer After First-Line or (Neo)Adjuvant Therapy.
This single arm. open-label study will assess the efficacy and safety of Herceptin (trastuzumab) in combination with Xeloda (capecitabine) in patients with metastatic or recurrent HER2-positive breast cancer, refractory to or relapsing after chemotherapy with Herceptin and taxanes. Patients will receive Xeloda 900mg/m2 twice daily orally on days 1-14 of each 3-week cycle and Herceptin 8mg/kg intravenously (iv) on day 1 of the first cycle followed by 6mg/kg iv every 3 weeks. The anticipated time on study treatment is until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: capecitabine [Xeloda]|DRUG: trastuzumab [Herceptin]
Percentage of Participants With Overall Response, The tumor response was measured according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria (Version 1.1)., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 4 and 8 and every 3 weeks until unacceptable toxicity or Death
Time to Disease Progression, Tumor response was evaluated according to RECIST criteria (version 1.1). Progressive Disease was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Time to progression is the time from the date of first dose of drug administration to the date when first disease progression is recorded., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 4 and 8 and every 3 weeks until unacceptable toxicity or Death|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is the time from the date of randomization to the date of death irrespective of the cause of death., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 4 and 8 and every 3 weeks until unacceptable toxicity or Death|Progression-Free Survival, Tumor response was evaluated according to RECIST criteria (version 1.1). Progressive Disease was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Participants without progression were censored at the date of last tumor assessment when non progression was documented., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 4 and 8 and every 3 weeks until unacceptable toxicity or Death
This single arm. open-label study will assess the efficacy and safety of Herceptin (trastuzumab) in combination with Xeloda (capecitabine) in patients with metastatic or recurrent HER2-positive breast cancer, refractory to or relapsing after chemotherapy with Herceptin and taxanes. Patients will receive Xeloda 900mg/m2 twice daily orally on days 1-14 of each 3-week cycle and Herceptin 8mg/kg intravenously (iv) on day 1 of the first cycle followed by 6mg/kg iv every 3 weeks. The anticipated time on study treatment is until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.