CIVO Intratumoural Microdosing of Anti-Cancer Therapies in Australia
This is a multi-center, open-label Phase 0 Master Protocol in Australia designed to study the localized pharmacodynamics (PD) of anti-cancer therapies within the tumour microenvironment (TME) when administered intratumourally in microdose quantities via the CIVO device in patients with surface accessible solid tumours for which there is a scheduled surgical intervention. CIVO stands for Comparative In Vivo Oncology. Multiple substudies will include specified investigational agents and combinations to be evaluated.
Solid Tumour
BIOLOGICAL: MVC-101|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: MVC-101 + Nivolumab
Quantification of Cell Death and Immune Cell Biomarkers by IHC and In-Situ Hybridization, Quantification of biomarker-positive and biomarker-negative cells will be performed within the tumour microenvironment around each of the injection sites in each resected patient sample by IHC and ISH. An aggregate analysis of this quantification may be done across patient samples in each substudy to evaluate trends in tumour response. The biomarkers evaluated may include, but are not limited to biomarkers for cell death (e.g. cleaved caspase 3), T-cells (e.g. CD3, CD8/Granzyme B, CD4), natural killer (NK)/myeloid cells (e.g. CD56/Granzyme B, CD86, CD68, CD163), and proinflammatory cytokines (e.g., interferon gamma, tumour necrosis factor alpha, interferon gamma-induced protein 10)., 4 hours-7 days after microdose injection
Number of Patients with Adverse Events, Relationship of AE to study drug(s) or CIVO device will be determined using an AE Relatedness Grading System., Up to 28 days after microdose injection
CIVO is a research tool composed of a hand-held single-use sterile injector coupled with fluorescent tracking microspheres called CIVO GLO that mark the sites of drug microdose injection, enabling rapid assessment of multiple oncology drugs or drug combinations simultaneously within a patient's tumour. Tumour responses to cancer treatments are highly context-specific and often involve complex interactions between the anti-cancer therapy, genetically diverse tumour cells, and a heterogeneous TME. This complexity is rarely modeled accurately in preclinical translational models of cancer. By utilizing intratumoural microdose injections with CIVO in advance of scheduled surgical intervention, this study will evaluate anti-cancer therapies directly in patients each with their own unique tumour genomic profile, intact TME, and immune system functional status. Because the platform delivers microdose amounts of each test agent or combination directly into the patient's tumour tissue, hypotheses can be tested earlier in the drug development process.

The CIVO device penetrates solid tumours and simultaneously delivers subtherapeutic microdoses of up to eight anti-cancer agents or combinations of anti-cancer agents co-injected with CIVO GLO into discrete regions of the tumour as drug columns. At the time of the planned surgical intervention (at least four hours to up to seven days after the CIVO microdose injection), the injected tumour tissue is then excised and tumour responses are assessed via histological staining of tumour cross-sections sampled perpendicular to each injection column. Co-injection with CIVO GLO enables identification of each injection site during resection as well as in tissues stained for analysis. This Phase 0 Master Protocol is aimed at distinguishing promising candidates earlier in the drug development process while also avoiding systemic toxicities associated with typical clinical exposures to these therapies.