A Study to Determine the Safety and Effectiveness of RAD001 (Everolimus) in Patients With Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
This was an exploratory study to determine whether escalating doses of RAD001 (everolimus) were safe and effective in patients with Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
DRUG: Everolimus
Change From Baseline in Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-D (VEGF-D) Concentrations, Blood samples (1 mL) for determination of VEGF-D were collected from a forearm vein (direct venipuncture or from an indwelling cannula) and 2 aliquots of serum were collected. VEGF-D levels were determined from only 1 of the 2 serum aliquots, with the second acting as a back-up. A serum VEGF-D \>800 pg/mL level supports a diagnosis of Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM), Baseline, 26 weeks|Mean Trough (C0,ss) and Peak (C2,ss) Drug Concentration at Steady State, Venous blood samples (2 mL) for pharmacokinetic evaluation were collected pre dose and 2 hours post dose at preselected visits., pre-dose and at 2 hour post dose at week 26
Change From Baseline in Forced Vital Capacity (FVC), All spirometry evaluation followed recommendations of the Standardization of Lung Function Testing. All spirometry maneuvers were performed in sitting position whilst wearing nose clips. At least three acceptable maneuvers were performed for each time point, and results met within-test and between-test criteria for acceptability. The highest value was obtained of FVC from any of the three maneuvers that met acceptability criteria. Change from baseline in FVC was compared between everolimus and historical placebo data from multicenter trial of sirolimus in LAM. (MILES NCT00414648) due to absence of placebo group in this current study on a rare lung disease. These two studies had different study designs, so the change from baseline to 6 months (26 weeks) in MILES study was estimated from the publicly reported rate of change per month to provide a meaningful comparison. This historical control be can be viewed on the Novartis Clinical Trial Results website., Baseline, 26 weeks|Change From Baseline in Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 Second (FEV1), All spirometry evaluation followed the recommendations of the Standardization of Lung Function Testing. All spirometry maneuvers were performed in the sitting position whilst wearing nose clips. At least three acceptable maneuvers were performed for each time point, and the results met within-test and between-test criteria for acceptability. The highest value was obtained of FEV1 from any of the three maneuvers that met acceptability criteria.

Change from baseline in FEV1 was compared between everolimus and historical placebo data from the MILES study (NCT00414648) due to the absence of a placebo group in this current study on a rare lung disease. These two studies had different study designs, so the change from baseline to 6 months (26 weeks) in MILES study was estimated from the publicly reported rate of change per month in order to provide a meaningful comparison. This historical control can be viewed on the Novartis Clinical Trial Results website., Baseline, 26 weeks|Change From Baseline in Extended Pulmonary Function Testing, Extended pulmonary function testing such as Total Lung Capacity (TLC), Thoracic Gas Volume (TGV), Residual Volume (RV) were measured using a body plethysmograph, Baseline, 26 weeks|Change From Baseline in Carbon Monoxide Diffusing Capacity (DLCO), Carbon Monoxide Diffusing Capacity (DLCO) one of the extended pulmonary function testing which was also measured using a body plethysmograph., Baseline, 26 weeks|Change From Baseline in 6-minute Walk Test Score to Measure Exercise Capacity, A standardized 6-minute walk test (6MWT) was performed in accordance with the guidelines of the American Thoracic Society 2002. The test was done about the same time of day to avoid diurnal variation in an environment that had an adequate temperature to avoid additional burden to the patient due to heat or cold air. The distance walked in six minutes (6MWD) was recorded., Baseline, 26 weeks|Change From Baseline in Oxygen Saturation, Oxygen saturation means the amount of oxygen in blood stream. Oxygen saturation was measured by using a Pulse Oximeter., Baseline, 26 weeks
In addition to the data collected in this study, historical data from 43 patients treated with placebo from the multicenter trial of sirolimus in LAM (MILES) study (NCT00414648) were down weighted to an effective sample size of 18 for comparison of FEV1 and FVC endpoints. Reference to the publication of the MILES study has been provided under "Result Publication".