Durvalumab and Eribulin in Her2-negative Metastatic Breast Cancer and Recurrent Ovarian Cancer
This study will evaluate the recommended Phase 2 combination dose (RP2D) of eribulin with durvalumab.
HER2-Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Eribulin
The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) rate, A DLT is defined as a ≥ Grade 3 or 4 study drug-related adverse event (using NCI CTCAE Version 4.03) that occurs during the DLT evaluation period. Toxicity that is clearly and directly related to the primary disease or to another etiology is excluded from this definition., 42 days
Number of Adverse events, Adverse events associated with eribulin when administered in combination with durvalumab will be described according to the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) by system organ classes., 6 months|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) is measured as the proportion of patients who have achieved complete response, partial response (CR, PR) according to Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (irRECIST) criteria. irCR, complete disappearance of all measurable and non-measurable lesions. Lymph nodes must decrease to \< 10 mm in short axis. Confirmation of response is not mandatory. irPR, decrease of ≥ 30% in TMTB relative to baseline, non-target lesions are irNN, and no unequivocal progression of new non-measurable lesions., 6 months|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) is measured from the start of first treatment until the criteria for progression are met or death, whichever occurs earlier. Patients without documented progression/death will be censored at the last disease assessment date., 16 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is measured from the start of first treatment until death due to any cause. Patients without documented death at the time of analysis will be censored at the date last known to be alive., 6 months|ECOG performance status, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status. Grade 0: Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction Grade 1: Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work Grade 2: Ambulatory and capable of all selfcare but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours Grade 3: Capable of only limited selfcare, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours Grade 4: Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any selfcare. Totally confined to bed or chair Grade 5: Dead, 6 months
STUDY SUMMARY

Study Duration: Accrual will take place over the course of 16 months. Patients will be treated until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression (expected on average for 6 months) and then followed for one year thereafter.

Objectives: Phase I: To determine the the recommended phase II dose of eribulin in combination with Durvalumab

This study will evaluate the recommended Phase 2 combination dose (RP2D) of eribulin with durvalumab. If two or more out of 6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) at dose level I or II, the dose level below that level will be considered the RP2D. If all 3 patients enter dose level-I and experience DLT, the study will be terminated. If the highest level has been reached and \< 33% of patients have experienced DLT, that will be considered the RP2D.