Digital PET Scan for the Prediction of Outcomes in Patients With Locally Advanced Oropharyngeal Cancer
This trial studies how well digital PET scan works in predicting outcomes in patients with oropharyngeal cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced). The development of digital detectors for PET is a technological improvement in medical imaging that could potentially impact many areas of clinical oncology, including staging, radiation planning accuracy, and the assessment of treatment response. Digital technology may improve PET imaging performance by providing better timing, energy and spatial resolution, higher count rate capabilities and linearity, increased contrast, and reduced noise. Utilizing digital PET scan, may work better in predicting outcomes and treatment response in patients with oropharyngeal cancer compared to conventional PET.
Clinical Stage II HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Pathologic Stage II HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8
RADIATION: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Quantitative assessments of digital positron emission tomography (dPET) characteristics generated at early time points during treatment, For each of the promising dPET parameters identified in the primary analysis we will examine potential cut-points to be used to best predict 6-month response/non-response using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) methods. Here we will examine specificity, sensitivity, positive predictive value and negative predictive values for each promising parameter to allow for preliminary data to be generated to anticipate which parameters may warrant future study., Up to 2 years
Tumor burden, Will compare digital versus conventional PET. Comparison of PET parameters from the dPET or the conventional (c)PET will be visualized using scatterplots; agreement between the two methods will be summarized., Up to 2 years|Response rate for each patient local control, Will be defined as no evidence of disease at 6 months on physical and endoscopic exam for patient with a compete response on 3 month PET. Will be performed using Kaplan-Meier methods., At 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be performed using Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 2 years|Standard uptake volume (SUV) from digital/conventional PET, Will assess SUV and will compare mean values for each interim dPET. The changes of dPET/cPET SUV over the study period will be visualized using longitudinal plot, summarized at each time point, and modeled using linear mixed model for repeated measures., At 3 months|Metabolic tumor volume (MTV) from digital/conventional PET, Will assess MTV and will compare mean values for each interim dPET. The changes of dPET/cPET MTV over the study period will be visualized using longitudinal plot, summarized at each time point, and modeled using linear mixed model for repeated measures., At 3 months|Total lesion glycolysis (TLG) from digital/conventional PET, Will calculate TLG based on MTV and SUV and will compare mean values for each interim dPET. The changes of dPET/cPET TLG over the study period will be visualized using longitudinal plot, summarized at each time point, and modeled using linear mixed model for repeated measures., At 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the utility of early (i.e. during treatment) digital positron emission tomography (dPET) as a diagnostic tool to predict local control 6 months after definitive chemoradiation for patients with locally advanced oropharyngeal carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the association between dynamic dPET parameters taken at early time points (i.e. during treatment) and CR on PET after definitive chemoradiation.

II. To study the association between dynamic dPET parameters taken at early time points (i.e. during) treatment and 2 year local control after definitive chemoradiation.

III. To assess the ability of dynamic dPET compared to conventional PET or conventional-equivalent dPET reconstruction to identify tumor volumes with greater sensitivity at the time of before (dPET1), during (dPET2, dPET3) and after (dPET4, dPET5) chemoradiation.

IV. To generate preliminary data for future methodology or clinical trials.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive fludeoxyglucose F-18 via injection and undergo dPET over 20 minutes after standard of care computed tomography (CT) imaging (week -2), after receiving 20-26 Gy and 40-46 Gy of radiation (weeks 3 and 5), and 3 months after completion of treatment. Patients with concern for residual disease may receive an additional dPET 6 months after treatment.