The Effect of Mindfulness Meditation
Cancer is a disease that causes the most deaths worldwide and is challenging for patients and caregivers both physically and psychosocially. Physicians and nurses working in oncology clinics perform a demanding profession providing compassionate care and treatment to patients struggling with life-threatening diseases. The emotional cost of caring for patients diagnosed with cancer can lead to compassion fatigue, burnout, and decreased psychological well-being among healthcare professionals. For this reason, this research is planned as a randomized controlled study to examine the effect of Mindfulness meditation practice on compassion fatigue, burnout, and psychological well-being in physicians and nurses working in oncology units.
Burnout|Compassion Fatigue|Psychological Well-Being
BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Meditation
compassion fatigue, At the end of the mindfulness meditation practice in oncology physicians and nurses the Compassion Fatigue Brief Scale will be used to measure the changes in compassion fatigue. As the scores obtained from the compassion fatigue brief scale increase, the perceived level of compassion fatigue in individuals increases. The lowest score from the scale is 13 and the highest score is 130., up to 8 weeks|burnout, At the end of the mindfulness meditation practice in oncology physicians and nurses the Maslach Burnout Scale will be used to measure the changes in the level of burnout. Increasing Maslach Burnout Scale "Depersonalization" and "Emotional exhaustion" subscale scores indicate that burnout increases, while increasing the "personal success" subscale score indicates that burnout decreases., up to 8 weeks|psychological well-being, At the end of the mindfulness meditation practice in oncology physicians and nurses and the Psychological Well-Being Scale will be used to evaluate the changes in the level of psychological well-being. A high score on the psychological well-being scale indicates that the person is at a positive level psychologically. The highest score from the scale is 56, while the minimum score is 8., up to 8 weeks
compassion fatigue, Four weeks after the end of the mindfulness meditation practice in oncology physicians and nurses the Compassion Fatigue Brief Scale will be used to measure the changes in compassion fatigue. As the scores obtained from the compassion fatigue brief scale increase, the perceived level of compassion fatigue in individuals increases. The lowest score from the scale is 13 and the highest score is 130., up to 12 weeks|burnout, Four weeks after the end of the mindfulness meditation practice in oncology physicians and nurses the Maslach Burnout Scale will be used to measure the changes in the level of burnout. Increasing Maslach Burnout Scale "Depersonalization" and "Emotional exhaustion" subscale scores indicate that burnout increases, while increasing the "personal success" subscale score indicates that burnout decreases., up to 12 weeks|psychological well-being, Four weeks after the end of the mindfulness meditation practice in oncology physicians and nurses and the Psychological Well-Being Scale will be used to evaluate the changes in the level of psychological well-being. A high score on the psychological well-being scale indicates that the person is at a positive level psychologically. The highest score from the scale is 56, while the minimum score is 8., up to 12 weeks
Cancer is a disease that causes the most deaths worldwide and is challenging for patients and caregivers both physically and psychosocially. Physicians and nurses working in oncology clinics perform a demanding profession providing compassionate care and treatment to patients struggling with life-threatening diseases. The emotional cost of caring for patients diagnosed with cancer can lead to compassion fatigue, burnout, and decreased psychological well-being among healthcare professionals. For this reason, this research is planned as a randomized controlled study to examine the effect of Mindfulness meditation practice on compassion fatigue, burnout, and psychological well-being in physicians and nurses working in oncology units.