The Preventive Effect of Chemotherapy-induced Hand-foot Syndrome
this study will use traditional Chinese medicine bath with no obvious side effects combined with case tracking management mode to form nursing measures to prevent hand foot syndrome. A randomized controlled trial design will be used to collect cases of hand foot syndrome (HFS) that did not appear after chemotherapy in the ward of the Department of chemotherapy, Peking University Third Hospital, and carry out nursing intervention.
Cancer
OTHER: Chinese traditional medicine nursing combined with case tracking management|OTHER: Health Education
Incidence of HFS, Number of HFS patients / total number of patients included in each group, At the end of 42 days of chemotherapy for the patient
EORTC-QOL-C30, QoL was measured by using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire （EORTC-QOL-C30）, At the end of 42 days of chemotherapy for the patient
Chemotherapy drugs have achieved certain satisfactory clinical efficacy in the treatment of cancer, but they can also cause common side effects including digestive tract reactions, skin rashes, hand-foot syndrome, and bone marrow suppression. Among them, hand-foot syndrome (HFS) is a common chemotherapy complication with an incidence rate of up to 50%-60%6. About 17%-24% of patients may develop grade 3 HFS. The main clinical manifestation of HFS is characterized by red plaques and sensory abnormalities on the palms and soles of the hands and feet. The initial symptoms are hyperemia and erythema on the palms and soles, tingling sensation, sensory abnormalities/sensory insensitivity, numbness at the ends of the fingers/toes, followed by tension, pain, dryness, skin desquamation and peeling (small or large flakes of skin lifted) on the hands and feet. In severe cases, blisters, exudation, and even ulcers may occur, accompanied by severe pain. Patients may be unable to walk or hold objects due to pain, and even lose their ability to take care of themselves. Currently, HFS is mainly treated by interrupting chemotherapy, symptomatic analgesia, anti-inflammation, and preventing infection. The occurrence of HFS brings great inconvenience to patients' daily lives, not only affecting their ability to live independently (including general labor and work), but also adding additional economic expenses. More importantly, due to the impact of drug reduction or withdrawal, cancer treatment cannot be carried out smoothly, which has a negative impact on patients' quality of life. Therefore, paying attention to the prevention of hand-foot syndrome is of great clinical significance.

At present, domestic and foreign scholars have adopted oral administration of vitamin, mecobalamin and other neuroprotective drugs to prevent HFS， but the incidence of HFS remains high. The analysis of the reasons found that due to the lack of effective management, patients have poor compliance, and patients are worried about the side effects of drugs, which further reduces their compliance. Many domestic studies have found that external treatment of traditional Chinese medicine (including bathing and application) is safe, effective and easy to implement. Moreover, more and more studies have found that traditional Chinese medicine can effectively treat hand-foot syndrome Case tracking management mode is a branch of tracking methodology, which refers to tracking the diagnosis, treatment and nursing process experienced by patients in the whole medical system, evaluating the nursing service of the hospital from the perspective of "patients", so that the evaluator can "see" the whole nursing process from the perspective of patients. In recent years, studies have found that the case tracking management model can quickly find and improve the quality of clinical nursing problems, and has a significant role in promoting high-quality nursing and nursing safety. Therefore, this study will use traditional Chinese medicine bath with no obvious side effects combined with case tracking management mode to form nursing measures to prevent hand foot syndrome. A randomized controlled trial design will be used to collect cases of hand foot syndrome (HFS) that did not appear after chemotherapy in the ward of the Department of chemotherapy, Peking University Third Hospital, and carry out nursing intervention.