Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab (MK-7684A) or Atezolizumab in Combination With Chemotherapy in First Line Treatment of Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (MK-7684A-008/KEYVIBE-008)
This study will evaluate the combination of a fixed dose pembrolizumab/vibostolimab co-formulation (MK-7684A) with etoposide/platinum chemotherapy followed by MK-7684A compared to the combination of atezolizumab with etoposide/platinum chemotherapy followed by atezolizumab in the first-line treatment of Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (ES-SCLC). The primary hypothesis is, with respect to overall survival, MK-7684A in combination with the background therapy of etoposide/platinum followed by MK-7684A, is superior to atezolizumab in combination with the background therapy of etoposide/platinum followed by atezolizumab.
Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab Co-Formulation|DRUG: Saline placebo|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cisplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the final analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up. OS was calculated using the nonparametric Kaplan-Meier method for censored data., Up to approximately 25 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Per protocol, RECIST 1.1 was modified to allow up to 10 target lesions total (up to 5 per organ). PFS was calculated using the nonparametric Kaplan-Meier method; participants who did not experience a PFS event were censored at the last disease assessment, or the last assessment before new anticancer treatment if new treatment was initiated. PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR) per RECIST 1.1 is presented., Up to approximately 25 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a confirmed Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of target lesion diameters without progression in other lesions) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR). Per protocol, RECIST 1.1 was modified to allow up to 10 target lesions total (up to 5 per organ). The ORR was calculated using the Miettinen \& Nurminen method stratified by baseline ECOG performance status (0 or 1), baseline LDH (≤ or \> upper limit of normal \[ULN\]), and baseline presence of liver metastasis (Yes or No), or brain metastasis (Yes or No)., Up to approximately 25 months|Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrated a confirmed Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all lesions) or Partial Response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of target lesion diameters without progression in other lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first documented CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Per protocol, RECIST 1.1 was modified to allow up to 10 target lesions total (up to 5 per organ). DOR was calculated using the nonparametric Kaplan-Meier method for censored data., Up to approximately 25 months|Percentage of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 60 months|Percentage of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 60 months|Change From Baseline in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life (QoL) of individuals with cancer. Participant responses to Items 29 and 30 ("How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall QoL during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). A higher score indicates a better overall outcome., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|Change From Baseline in Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related QoL questionnaire. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of function., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|Change From Baseline in Dyspnea Score (Item 8) on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related QoL questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Were you short of breath?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of dyspnea., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|Change From Baseline in Cough Score (Item 31) on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Lung Cancer 13 (EORTC QLQ-LC13), The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific health-related QoL questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Have you coughed?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates more frequent coughing., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|Change From Baseline in Chest Pain Score (Item 40) on the EORTC QLQ-LC13, EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific health-related QoL questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Have you had pain in your chest?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of chest pain., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the QoL of individuals with cancer. Participant responses to Items 29 and 30 ("How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall QoL during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). A higher score indicates a better overall outcome. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|TTD in Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related QoL questionnaire. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of function. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|TTD in Dyspnea Score (Item 8) on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related QoL questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Were you short of breath?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of dyspnea. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|TTD in Cough Score (Item 31) on the EORTC QLQ-LC13, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific health-related QoL questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Have you coughed?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates more frequent coughing. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months|TTD in Chest Pain Score (Item 40) on the EORTC QLQ-LC13, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific health-related QoL questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Have you had pain in your chest?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of chest pain. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Baseline and up to approximately 60 months
With Amendment 4, the experimental Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab arm (MK-7684A) was discontinued and all ongoing participants were offered an option to move to the comparator Atezolizumab monotherapy arm for the remainder of the study. There will be no further analyses of efficacy, and no European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) and Lung Cancer 13 module (EORTC QLQ-LC13) outcome measures will be reported.

Effective as of Amendment 5, participants with access to approved standard of care (SOC) should be considered for discontinuation from the study. Those benefiting from atezolizumab, but unable to access it as SOC outside the study, may continue on study and receive treatment with atezolizumab until discontinuation criteria are met.