Sulindac and Tamoxifen in Treating Patients With Desmoid Tumor
This phase II trial is studying how well giving sulindac together with tamoxifen works in treating patients with desmoid tumor. Sulindac may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for cancer cell growth. Hormone therapy using tamoxifen may fight cancer by blocking the use of estrogen. Combining sulindac with tamoxifen may kill more cancer cells.
Desmoid Tumor
DRUG: tamoxifen citrate|DRUG: sulindac|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Percentage of Patients Failure Free at 2 Years Following Study Entry, Kaplan Meier estimate of failure free survival at 2 years, where failure free survival is defined as the time to relapse, progression, second malignancy, and death whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years|Percentage of Patients Experiencing a Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Event During Therapy., The percentage of patients experiencing a grade 3 or higher adverse event as assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Terminology for Adverse Events v3.0, Up to 12 months
Percentage of Patients With Tumor Response From Imaging, Percentage of patients with a tumor response where tumor response is assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Baseline up to 5 years|Mean Change in Response Measured by MRI, The mean change in response measured by MRI. Response is assessed by the lesion size which is derived from the sum of the longest of the three orthogonal diameters (from MRI) of each target lesion., From baseline to up to 5 years|Percentage of Patients Failure Free at 2 Years by Pathological Response, The failure free survival is compared by the log-rank test between patient subgroups defined by pathological response of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and estrogen/progesterone receptor expression, From enrollment to up to 2 years|Percentage of Patients Experiencing Short-term Endocrine Toxicity, The percentage of patients experiencing short-term endocrine toxicity between treatment groups is compared using the chi-square test, At study entry
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the safety and efficacy of sulindac and tamoxifen in patients with recurrent desmoid tumor (DT) and primary DT that is not readily amenable to surgery or radiation therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the tumor response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

II. Correlate changes in Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) signal features of the tumor with clinical outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

III. Correlate pathological studies of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and estrogen/progesterone receptor expression in the tumor with clinical outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Collect information about clinical factors that make a tumor unresectable at diagnosis and resectable during the four courses of study treatment.

V. Determine whether short-term endocrine toxicity is associated with treatment with this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral sulindac and oral tamoxifen twice daily for up to 12 months (four 3-month courses) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a complete response (CR) receive 1 additional month of treatment beyond documentation of CR.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 5 years.