89Zr-TLX250 for PET/CT Imaging of ccRCC - ZIRCON-CP Study
89Zr-TLX250 is under clinical development as a diagnostic agent targeting clear cell renal cell carcinoma, and this Phase 3 bridging study in mainland Chinese patients is intended to support the successful ZIRCON data (ZIRCON Clinicaltrial.gov ID: NCT03849118)
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: 89Zr-TLX250 PET/CT
To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of qualitative assessment of PET/CT imaging with 89Zr-TLX250 to non-invasively detect ccRCC in patients with indeterminate renal masses, using histology as standard of truth, Evaluating this outcome involved using a PET/CT machine on all patients to determine the uptake of the Zr89 radiotracer within the renal lesion, which was then compared to the histological determination of the lesion type following resection, From Visit 4 till end of study. Diagnostic PET/CT scan on Day 5±2 days post 89Zr-TLX250 administration. Histological confirmation of the material from nephrectomy conducted within 90 days post 89Zr-TLX250 administration served as standard of truth
To determine the 89Zr-TLX250's test performance, Determine the Standardized Uptake Value (SUV) in detecting ccRCC from non-ccRCC in the kidney in the Chinese patient population., Day of Imaging (Day 5±2 post- IP administration).|To determine the 89Zr-TLX250's test performance, Determine the predictive values (%) of 89Zr-TLX250 PET/CT in detecting ccRCC from non-ccRCC in the kidney in the Chinese patient population., Day of Imaging (Day 5±2 post- IP administration), Post-Imaging study visit (Day 42±7 post- IP administration), Day of surgery (within 28 days post-IP administration) or Day of surgery (28 to 90 days post-IP administration).|To determine the 89Zr-TLX250's test performance, Evaluate the diagnostic accuracy (%) of 89Zr-TLX250 PET/CT in distinguishing ccRCC from non-ccRCC in the kidney in the Chinese patient population., Day of Imaging (Day 5±2 post- IP administration), Post-Imaging study visit (Day 42±7 post- IP administration), Day of surgery (within 28 days post-IP administration) or Day of surgery (28 to 90 days post-IP administration).|To assess the safety and tolerability of 89Zr-TLX250, Number of AEs, incidence of anti-drug antibody detection following use of the study drug in Chinese patients with IRM, Day of IP administration (Day 0), Day of Imaging (Day 5±2 post- IP administration), Post-Imaging study visit (Day 42±7 post- IP administration), Day of surgery (within 28 days post-IP administration) or Day of surgery (28-90 days post-IP administration)|To evaluate the impact of 89Zr-TLX250 PET/CT on clinical decision-making as a diagnostic tool, Proportion of participants with changes in management plans based on PET/CT scan findings versus conventional imaging following the use of 89Zr-TLX250, Day of Imaging (Day 5±2 post- IP administration), Post-Imaging study visit (Day 42±7 post- IP administration), Day of surgery (within 28 days post-IP administration) or Day of surgery (28 to 90 days post-IP administration).
This will be a confirmatory, prospective, open-label, single-arm, multi-centre study in a Chinese patient population. The study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, sensitivity and specificity of 89Zr-TLX250 Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) imaging to non-invasively detect Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (ccRCC). The multi-centre study will be conducted in mainland China in adult patients with Indeterminate Renal Masses (IRM), who are scheduled for partial or total nephrectomy as part of their standard of care.

Approximately 82 evaluable adult patients will be recruited from approximately 8 renal cancer care specialist centres with access to state-of-the-art PET/CT imaging in mainland China. The number of enrolled participants may be increased to ensure sufficient confidence in measuring sensitivity and specificity of 89Zr-TLX250 PET/CT imaging.

The study involves a single administration of 37 MBq (±10%) of 89Zr-TLX250, containing a mass dose of 10 mg of girentuximab, in mainland Chinese participants (ZIRCON-CP). This is consistent with the confirmatory, prospective, multinational clinical trial ZIRCON (ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT03849118). This study consists of seven visits. Imaging will then be conducted 5±2 days post administration. The partial/total nephrectomy will then be performed at institutional discretion any time following the PET/CT imaging visit, but no later than 90 days post administration of 89Zr-TLX250. Histological tumour samples will be prepared and used for histological diagnosis of the renal mass (ccRCC or non-ccRCC) read by a central laboratory.

On Day 5±2 post study drug administration, an abdominal PET/CT imaging will be obtained. In patients, in which unexpected evidence for disseminated disease is observed, PET/CT imaging may be extended to complete whole body imaging(vertex of skull to toe) at the discretion of the investigator.

Image data analyses will be performed by a central imaging vendor.

For participants who were nephrectomised within 28 days post administration, the final study visit will be conducted on Day 42 (±7 days). For participants with nephrectomy between 28 and 90 days post administration, the final study visit will be performed 35 days (±7 days) after surgery.

Image data analyses will be performed by a central image core lab. Qualitative visual analysis (presence or absence of localised 89Zr-TLX250 uptake inside or in vicinity of renal lesion, as seen on contrast-enhanced CT or Magnetic Resonance Imaging \[MRI\]), will be used to assess test performance or 89Zr-TLX-250 PET/CT imaging to non-invasively detect ccRCC, using histological results from the central histological reference laboratory as standard of truth.

The duration of this study is expected to be about 12 months, with a follow-up of 4 months. The study duration for a single participant will be approximately between 4 - 6 months.

No interim analysis is planned for this study.