Laparoscopic Pancreaticoduodenectomy
Laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy was first performed by Garner and Pomp in 1994. This is a technically difficult, time consuming and high rate of complication procedure. The reason is that duodenum and head of pancreas locate deeply in retroperitoneum and are surrounded by important structures such as inferior vena cava, abdominal aorta, superior mesenteric artery, superior mesenteric vein (SMV), portal vein (PV) and hepatic arteries. Injuring these structures during the surgery can lead to life-threatening complications. Moreover, doing anastomoses through laparoscopy, especially pancreatic anastomosis, is more difficult and takes more time than through open approach. The outcome of PD has improved over the last two decades due to advances in surgical techniques, anesthesia and perioperative care. Although studies from high volume centers demonstrate reduce in the operative mortality to less than 3%, the postoperative morbidity rate is still ranging from 30% to 60%. Laparoscopic surgery is being used increasingly as a less invasive alternative to traditional interventions for pancreatic resection. Laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy (LPD) is a difficult procedure that has become increasingly popular. Nevertheless, comparative data on outcomes remain limited. In this prospective study, investigators evaluate the safety and feasibility of surgical and oncological outcomes of minimally invasive PD.
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Fistula|Periampullary Cancer
PROCEDURE: laparoscopic Pancreaticoduodenectomy
State of resection margins after pathological assessment, State of specimen margins ( free or infiltrated by Tumor), It takes 7 days after surgery for the pathological assessment to be completed|Lymph node yield after surgery, Number of lymph nodes harvested, It takes 7 days after surgery for the pathological assessment to be completed|Ratio of positive lymph nodes to total number of lymph nodes harvested, Ratio of positive lymph nodes to total number of lymph nodes harvested, It takes 7 days after surgery for the pathological assessment to be completed
The rate of pancreatic fistula after pancreaticoduodenectomy, On or after the third postoperative day, the drain outflow of any detectable volume was treated as a pancreatic fistula with an amylase content larger than three times the upper normal serum amylase value, 4 weeks postoperative|Operative time in minutes, Time spent in surgery, From time of skin incision till time of skin closure|Intra-operative blood loss, the amount of intra-operative blood loss (ml) at the end of surgery (d0): recorded by the anesthetist using a vacuum system., day 0 (at the end of surgery)|Postoperative length of stay, the time from being admitted to hospital to discharge, up to 90 days|Amount of intraoperative blood transfusion, Amount of intraoperative packed red blood cell units transfused intraoperative, From start of surgery of every participant till skin closure|Length of postoperative surgical intensive care unit stay, Length of postoperative surgical intensive care unit stay In days, From the date of admission to surgical intensive care unit after surgery to the date of discharge to ward or death whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 months .
Open pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) was the standard treatment for a wide array of periampullary and pancreatic diseases including malignant and benign conditions. The outcome of PD has improved over the last two decades due to advances in surgical techniques, anesthesia and perioperative care . Although studies from high volume centers demonstrate reduce in the operative mortality to less than 3%, the postoperative morbidity rate is still ranging from 30% to 60%. Laparoscopic surgery is being used increasingly as a less invasive alternative to traditional interventions for pancreatic resection. Laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy (LPD) is a difficult procedure that has become increasingly popular. Nevertheless, comparative data on outcomes remain limited despite several improvements in surgical devices and techniques that have allowed surgeons to approach the pancreas laparoscopically, laparoscopic PD remains challenging. LPD represents one of the most advanced abdominal operations owing to the necessity of a complex dissection and reconstruction. Recent reports note that complete laparoscopic PD including laparoscopic resection and reconstruction is both technically feasible and safe. In this prospective study, investigators evaluate the safety and feasibility of surgical and oncological outcomes of minimally invasive PD.