An Open-Label Phase 1 Study of Ceralasertib in Japanese Patients With Advanced Solid Malignancies
This is a Phase 1, open-label study designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and anti-tumor activity of ceralasertib in Japanese patients with advanced solid malignancies. Cycle 0 duration is 4 days and each cycle from Cycle 1 has a duration of 28 days.
Advanced Solid Malignancies
DRUG: Ceralasertib
The number of subjects with dose-limiting toxicity, as defined in the protocol., Dose-limiting toxicity as described in the protocol that is not related to disease progression, intercurrent illness or concomitant medications and that, despite optional therapeutic intervention, meets protocol-defined criteria., From the first dose of study treatment Up to and including the end of cycle 1(each cycle is 28 days).|Safety and tolerability in terms of adverse events, Number of subjects with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability including changes in vital signs, electrocardiograms (ECGs), safety and laboratory parameters, From the first dose of study treatment until 28 days after the last dose.
Overall response rate, Antitumor activity by evaluation of tumor response assessments using RECIST 1.1, At screening and Every 8 weeks ±1 week relative to the start of therapy (Cycle 1 Day 1, each cycle is 28days) until objective disease progression as defined by RECIST version 1.1|Duration of Response, Antitumor activity by evaluation of tumor response assessments using RECIST 1.1, At screening and Every 8 weeks ±1 week relative to the start of therapy (Cycle 1 Day 1, each cycle is 28 days) until objective disease progression as defined by RECIST version 1.1|Percentage Change in Tumour Size, Antitumor activity by evaluation of tumor response assessments using RECIST 1.1, At screening and Every 8 weeks ±1 week relative to the start of therapy (Cycle 1 Day 1, each cycle is 28 days) until objective disease progression as defined by RECIST version 1.1|Progression Free Survival, Antitumor activity by evaluation of tumor response assessments using RECIST 1.1, From start of treatment until the date of objective disease progression or death. (approximately 6 months).|Plasma ceralasertib concentration(Cmax), Observed PK parameters of ceralasertib, Cycle 0 Day1 to Day4, Cycle1 Day1 and Cycle 1 Day 7 or Day 8. At the end of Cycle1(each cycle is 28 days)|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve(AUC), Observed PK parameters of ceralasertib., Cycle 0 Day1 to Day4, Cycle1 Day1 and Cycle1 Day7 or Day8. At the end of Cycle1(each cycle is 28 days)
\<Objectives\>

Primary Objective:

To investigate the safety and tolerability of ceralasertib in Japanese patients with advanced solid malignancies

Secondary Objective:

To assess the anti-tumor activity and efficacy of ceralasertib. To characterize the first- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of ceralasertib.

Exploratory Objective:

To conduct exploratory research into factors that may be predictive of response or may influence the progression of cancer and/or response (efficacy, tolerability, or safety) to ceralasertib.

\<Overall design\> This is a Phase 1, open-label study designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and anti-tumor activity of ceralasertib in Japanese patients with advanced solid malignancies. Cycle 0 duration is 4 days and each cycle from Cycle 1 has a duration of 28 days.

Ceralasertib 240 mg monotherapy in cohort 1 will be orally administered as a single dose at Cycle 0 (Cycle 0 duration is 4 days) Day 1 and twice daily from Day 1 to Day 7 of each 28-day cycle (from Cycle 1). Ceralasertib monotherapy of 160 mg will be orally administered as a single dose at Cycle 0 (Cycle 0 duration is 4 days) Day 1 and twice daily from Day 1 to Day 14 of each 28-day cycle (from Cycle 1), respectively, in cohort 2. Each patient will undergo an DLT evaluation period (Cycle 0 and 1) to have the DLT of ceralasertib determined. Patients will continue with the treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal from the study.

A minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 evaluable patients will be enrolled in each cohort ("rolling 6 design"). If no DLT is observed in 3-6 evaluable patients or only 1 DLT is observed in 6 evaluable patients in the current cohort, then transition to the following cohort may occur. If 2 or more patients experience a DLT in each cohort of up to 6 evaluable patients, irrespective of the number of patients enrolled, the dose will be considered not tolerated and recruitment to the current cohort and transition to the following cohort will cease. At the completion of the current cohort, a decision will be made to begin the following cohort based on the SRC review. If no DLT is observed in a 3-6 evaluable patients or only 1 DLT is observed in 6 evaluable patients in a dose setting, the dose is considered tolerated.

Other doses/schedules/combination or cohort expansion may be implemented based on emerging data and the SRC review.