Glycolic Acid Plus Salicylic Acid in Treatment of Plane Wart
To determine clinical efficacy of glycolic acid 15%plus salicylic acid 2% gel in treatment of Plane wart .
Plane Wart
OTHER: Glycolic Acid Plus Salicylic Acid in Treatment of Plane Wart
treatment of plane wart, Evaluation of the efficacy of topical glycolic acid plus salicylic acid in treatment of plane wart.

Response to treatment will be evaluated by the decrease in number or size of plane wart., 8weeks
Warts are typically small, rough, hard growths that are similar in color to the rest of the skin. They typically asymptomatic , except when on the bottom of the feet, where they may be painful While they usually occur on the hands and feet, they can also affect other locations One or many warts may appear They are not cancerous .

Warts are caused by infection with human papillomavirus(HPV). Factors that increase the risk include use of public showers, working with meat, eczema and a weak immune system. The virus is believed to enter the body through skin that has been damaged slightly.

Warts are classified to common wart, plane wart, plantar wart, genital wart. Plane warts are circumscribed papules with hyperkeratotic surfaces that can occur singly or in groups. In these types of warts, the human papilloma virus (HPV) has been shown to infect the keratinocyte. Although no viral subtype is absolute, typically the infection is with HPV types 3, 10, 28, and 41 These warts are small in size (1-5mm), flat, or slightly elevated lesions. Plane viral warts typically present as skin-colored or light brownish,papules on the face, beard area, or on the back of the hands, and primarily affect children.

Plane warts can greatly affect a patient's quality of life, and their persistence or recurrence cause frustration.

Their evolution is variable, and although two thirds of cases regress spontaneously in the course of two years due to immunological mechanism

The following therapies have been used in the treatment of Plane wart with varying success: salicylic acid, cryotherapy, retinoic acid, photodynamic therapy (topical 5-aminolevulinic acid photodynamic therapy), pulsed dye laser (PDL), and Candida antigen.

New medication is a combination of glycolic acid 15% plus salicylic acid 2% gel.

Glycolic acid has been used in the treatment of Plane wart . It has been suggested that alpha-hydroxy acids can produce an authentic exfoliation and dehiscence of the coenocytes from recently formed layers of the stratum corneum. Alpha-hydroxy acids also reduce the number of desmosomes and tonofilaments.in this study all patients will be instructed to avoid sun exposure during the treatment and to use broad spectrum sunscreen The treatment was started once daily over the entire face and maintained for two months. A fine layer of face gel was applied on the whole surface where the warts were present, avoiding the eyelids and lips. In children 7 to 10 years of age, face gel was applied by their parents. Clinical controls were performed at Weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8.