Clinical Evaluation of a Custom-made and Disposable Endoscope System for Biliary Tract
A disposable endoscopy system (NCKU-scope-01) was developed for the evaluation of bile duct stone or neoplasm. This system consists of a camera, light sources, a working channel, and a water injection channel. The endoscope could be inserted into the common bile duct via the working channel of a commercial duodenoscope. This study aims to test the feasibility and safety of this system. The efficacy of stone and neoplasm diagnosis will also be analyzed.
Biliary Tract|Neoplasms|Stone - Biliary
DEVICE: NCKU-scope-01 (a custom-made biliary endoscope system)
A complete common bile duct accessing rate, To test the device's feasibility, 1 day|Image quality evaluation: the light brightness and the imaging sharpness in Likert scale, To test the device's feasibility. About Likert scale, it range from 1 to 5 (1 is worse and 5 is better)., 1 day
Number of complications (ablation, bleeding, perforation in percentage) or system malfunction, To test the device's safety, 1 day|In biliary stone arm: The biggest residual stone size (in cm)., The ability for residual stones diagnosis after initial ERCP stone extraction, compared with standard x-ray imaging), 1 day|In biliary stricture arm: Number of the lesions with or without presenting of the specific features for DDx of the benign or malignant stricture, The ability for differential diagnosis of benign or malignant stricture. The specific features include increased vascularity, irregular mucosa/nodularity, luminal narrowing, tumor vessel, mucosal lesion., 1 day
A disposable endoscopy system (NCKU-scope-01) was developed for the evaluation of bile duct stone or neoplasm. This system consists of a camera, light sources, a working channel, and a water injection channel. The endoscope could be inserted into the common bile duct via the working channel of a commercial duodenoscope. This study aims to test the feasibility and safety of this system. The efficacy of stone and neoplasm diagnosis will also be analyzed.