A Study of Anagrelide Controlled Release (GALE-401) in Patients With High Platelet Counts Due to Bone Marrow Disorders
Anagrelide is a drug that has been shown to slow down how fast platelets are made in the bone marrow, and has been approved by the FDA for treating high platelets counts in patients with bone marrow disorders.

Anagrelide Controlled Release ("CR") is a new preparation of anagrelide that is made to dissolve more slowly than currently marketed versions of this drug. Because of this, the anagrelide is taken up into the blood more slowly. Researchers think that this slower release of the drug could help to lower side effects that might be caused by high blood levels when the drug dissolves as quickly as it does with the currently marketed product.

The main purposes of this study are to see how well Anagrelide CR can control platelet counts in patients with high platelet levels, to see what kind of side effects it causes, and to measure blood levels of the drug.
Thrombocytosis|Myeloproliferative Neoplasms
DRUG: Anagrelide CR
Platelet Response, The primary efficacy endpoint will be the proportion of subjects who achieve a platelet response (complete or partial response), with response defined according to the following criteria:

* Complete response (CR): platelet count of ≤400 x 10e9/L maintained for at least 4 weeks
* Partial response (PR): a platelet count of ≤600 x 10e9/L or a ≥50% reduction from baseline and maintenance of the reduction for at least 4 weeks
* Nonresponse: failure to meet CR or PR criteria, Up to 24 weeks
Number of subjects with adverse events, Frequency and severity of adverse events as determined by NCI CTCAE (v 4.03)., Throughout study treatment (expected average of 12 months)|Plasma concentrations of anagrelide, Monitor anagrelide levels during dose titration and assess pharmacokinetic profile at starting and final dose levels., Up to 13 weeks
This is an open-label, single-arm, multicenter, Phase 2 study of anagrelide CR in subjects with an MPN-related thrombocytosis. Eligible subjects will include those who have not been previously treated for thrombocytosis or have not received platelet-lowering therapy for at least 2 weeks prior to study treatment. Each subject will receive anagrelide CR at a starting dose of 0.5 mg b.i.d. (1.0 mg/day), and is anticipated to continue study treatment for at least 24 weeks. Subjects who have achieved clinical benefit in the opinion of the Investigator and who are tolerating the study drug may continue study treatment until they develop unacceptable toxicity or other discontinuation criteria have been met.

The primary efficacy endpoint will be the proportion of subjects who achieve a platelet response (CR or PR). The safety and tolerability of study treatment will be assessed by the frequency and severity of adverse events as determined by NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 4.03. The PK profile of anagrelide CR will be assessed at the initial (0.5mg b.i.d.) and final titrated dose levels.