Nemtabrutinib With Rituximab for the Treatment of Patients With Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial tests how well nemtabrutinib works with rituximab for the treatment of patients with mantle cell lymphoma. Nemtabrutinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It blocks a protein called BTK, which is present on B-cell (a type of white blood cells) cancers such as mantel cell lymphoma at abnormal levels. This may help keep cancer cells from growing and spreading. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody. It binds to a protein called CD20, which is found on B cells (a type of white blood cell) and some types of cancer cells. This may help the immune system kill cancer cells. Giving nemtabrutinib with rituximab may kill more cancer cells in patients with mantle cell lymphoma.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Nemtabrutinib|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography and Computed Tomography Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Complete response rate, Defined as the proportion of response-evaluable participants that achieve a best response of complete response (CR) at any time on the study prior to any disease progression or start of other anti-lymphoma therapy. Will be estimated among response-evaluable participants along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 5.5 years
Overall response rate, Defined as the proportion of response-evaluable participants that achieve a best response of either CR or partial response (PR) any time on the study prior to any disease progression or start of other anti-lymphoma therapy. Will be estimated among response-evaluable participants along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 5.5 years|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation., From start of protocol treatment to disease relapse/progression, start of other anti-lymphoma therapy, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier, up to 5.5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation., From start of protocol treatment to death due to any cause, up to 5.5 years|Duration of response, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation., From the first achievement of PR or CR to time of progressive disease, start of non-protocol anti-lymphoma therapy, or death, whichever earlier, up to 5.5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicities/adverse events will be recorded and severity assessment will be the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 scale. Toxicities will be summarized by time of onset, type, severity, and attribution., Up to 5.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECITVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy (complete response rate) of nemtabrutinib and rituximab (Nem-R) in patients with treatment-naïve mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).

SECONDARY OBJECITVES:

I. To evaluate objective response rate (ORR), median progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and duration of response (DOR).

II. To evaluate safety and tolerability of Nem-R in patients with treatment-naïve MCL.

EXPLORATORY OBJECITVES:

I. To conduct preliminary assessment of the predictive value of minimal residual disease (MRD) in MCL treated with a novel regimen.

II. To explore immune cell populations in patients treated with Nem-R. III. To explore mechanisms of resistance to Nem-R therapy in MCL. IV. To estimate the second PFS after salvage therapy for patients who progress after Nem-R therapy.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive nemtabrutinib orally (PO) once per day (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle and rituximab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of cycle 1 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive nemtabrutinib PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle and rituximab IV on day 1 of event numbered cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may optionally continue to receive nemtabrutinib PO QD in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy during screening and may undergo throughout the trial and positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) scan and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months for the first 2 years and every 6 months for the third year for patients in remission at the end of treatment or every 6 months for patients who end response follow up.