Erlotinib as Neoadjuvant Treatment in Patients With Stage ⅢA N2 NSCLC With Activating EGFR Mutation.
This is a single arm, one center, phaseⅡ study evaluating efficacy and safety of erlotinib as neoadjuvent treatment in patients with EBUS confirmed stage ⅢA N2 NSCLC with activating EGFR mutation in exon 19 or 21.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: erlotinib
radical resection rate, To evaluate radical resection rate of Tarceva as neoadjuvant treatment in patient with EBUS confirmed stage ⅢA N2 NSCLC with EGFR mutation in exon 19 or 21., operation after effective neoadjuvant treatment of tarceva for 56 days
Pathological Complete Remission, To evaluate Pathological Complete Remission (pCR) rate of Tarceva as neoadjuvant treatment in patient with EBUS confirmed stage ⅢA N2 NSCLC with EGFR mutation in exon 19 or 21., operation after effective neoadjuvant treatment of tarceva for 56 days|Objective Response Rate, To evaluate Objective Response Rate (ORR) of Tarceva as neoadjuvant treatment in patient with EBUS confirmed stage ⅢA N2 NSCLC with EGFR mutation in exon 19 or 21., Objective Response Rate measured by RECIST criteria in ITT population treated by erlotinib|disease free survival, To evaluate disease free survival(DFS) of Tarceva as neoadjuvant treatment in patient with EBUS confirmed stage ⅢA N2 NSCLC with EGFR mutation in exon 19 or 21., From surgery to disease relapse or death|overall survival, To evaluate overall survival(OS) of Tarceva as neoadjuvant treatment in patient with EBUS confirmed stage ⅢA N2 NSCLC with EGFR mutation in exon 19 or 21., From study treatment to death due to any cause|quality of life, To evaluate quality of life(QOL) of Tarceva as neoadjuvant treatment in patient with EBUS confirmed stage ⅢA N2 NSCLC with EGFR mutation in exon 19 or 21., During study treatment period|safety profile, To evaluate the safety profile using NCI CTC AE(version 4.0), For all the patient accepted study treatment|explorative biomarkers, To evalutate the relationship between biomarker and Tarceva neoadjuvent treatment efficacy (TBD)., During study conduction period
Screening phase:

Patients clinically diagnosed as stage ⅢA N2 lung caner by CT technique will be pathologically proven as NSCLC with N2 by EBUS. The pathology specimen will be detected EGFR mutation by DNA sequencing. The patients with EGFR mutation in exon 19 or 21 will be enrolled in this study.

Neoadjuvant treatment phase:

Patient will receive erlotinib 150mg/day. Treatment will be scheduled to continue for a total of 8 weeks or disease progression or unacceptable toxicities.

Surgery treatment phase:

Tumor response will be evaluated with CT scan after 8 weeks of induction treatment. The patients with responsive disease considered to be technique resectable will undergo resection.

Post-surgery phase:

It is the discretion of the investigator whether the patient is a candidate for post-operative treatment which is considered to be in the best interest of the patients. It is recommended that patients with positive margins or residual tumor after surgery should receive radiation therapy. Patients after surgery will receive long-term follow-up including chest CT scan every 3 months for up to 2 years.