Combination of Tislelizumab and Chemoradiotherapy in Esophageal Cancer (EC-CRT-002)
Definitive chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is the standard treatment option for unresectable locally advanced esophageal cancer (EC). However, as high as more than 40% of EC patients experienced locoregional recurrence after concurrent CRT. Immunotherapy targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoints has demonstrated promising activity in advanced EC. Recently, the combination of immunotherapy with CRT has emerged as a promising strategy to improve clinical outcomes in EC. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the efficacy of tislelizumab (an anti-PD-1 antibody) plus induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy would achieve a ≥71% 1-year progression-free survival rate, surpassing the historical 56% rate (NCT02403531) in patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel, Cisplatin|DRUG: tislelizumab|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Progression-free survival, Two-year follow-up from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or last follow-up, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or the date of first documented disease progression whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months.
Overall survival, Two-year follow-up from the enrollment to the date of death from any cause or date of lost follow-up, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months.|Duration of response, From the date of first CR/PR to the date of first PD., From date of first CR/PR to the date of first PD according to RECIST criteria, assessed up to 24 months|Clinical complete response, RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria was used to determine the tumor response. Tumor response was evaluated 3 months after the completion of treatment based on CT or PET-CT scans, and endoscopy with biopsies., Three months after the treatment (plus or minus 7 days)|Treatment-related adverse events, Incidence of treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, From date of randomization until the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 12 months.
PD-L1 expression, To investigate the impact of PD-L1 expression on clinical response and survival., From date of randomization until the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 24 months.|ctDNA at baseline, during, and after treatment, To investigate the impact of dynamic change of ctDNA on clinical response and survival., From date of randomization until the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 24 months.|CD8 expression at baseline, To investigate the impact of CD8 expression on clinical response and survival., From date of randomization until the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 24 months.|Tumor mutational burden at baseline, To investigate the impact of tumor mutational burden by whole-exome sequencing on clinical response and survival., From date of randomization until the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 24 months.
A total of 114 patients with unresectable, locally advanced ESCC will be randomized to receive either tislelizumab plus induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent CRT and then 12 additional cycles of tislelizumab (Arm A) or tislelizumab plus the same induction and concurrent regimen without the maintenance of tislelizumab (Arm B).

Patients will receive 2 cycles of 3-weekly schedule of induction chemotherapy, consisting of paclitaxel 135-175 mg/m2, cisplatin 75 mg/m2, and tislelizumab 200mg on day 1 prior to CRT. Then all patients will receive standard fractionation radiation therapy scheme: 50.4 Gy in 28 fractions, concurrently with paclitaxel 45mg/m2 and cisplatin 25 mg/m2 once weekly for 5 weeks and 2 cycles of tislelizumab. Patients in Arm A will receive 12 additional cycles of tislelizumab after the completion of CRT.