Acupuncture for Hot Flashes in Patients With Hormone Receptor-positive Breast Cancer.
This study intends to further evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture by comparing the intervention effects of different acupuncture treatment regimens on hot flashes in breast cancer ; and to explore the central effect regulation mechanism of acupuncture intervention on hot flashes based on functional magnetic resonance imaging technology.
Hot Flashes|Breast Cancer|Acupuncture
OTHER: Acupuncture treatment|OTHER: Sham Acupuncture treatment
Change in cancer therapy functional assessment, Cancer therapy functional assessment scores will be assessed with Cancer Therapy Functional Assessment-Breast cancer, version 4.The minimum value is 0 , and the maximum value is 185. The higher scores mean a worse outcome., Baseline, 8,24 weeks later|Change in acupuncture efficacy expectation assessment, Acupuncture efficacy expectation assessment scores will be assessed with acupuncture efficacy expectation assessment. The minimum value is 0 , and the maximum value is 20. The higher scores mean a better outcome., Baseline, 8,24 weeks later|Change of functional connectivity of whole brain, Functional connectivity will be measured with magnetic resonance imaging based on blood oxygen level dependence., Baseline, 8,24 weeks later|Change of metabolism of glucose in the brain, Accumulation of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose(18F-FDG) will be analyzed by time-related Positron emission tomography., Baseline, 8,24 weeks later|Change of hot flash severity, Hot flash severity will be assessed with hot flash scores each week. There are four levels of severity： Mild: Duration: Less than five minutes. Symptoms: warmth, discomfort, flushing. Moderate: Duration: Up to fifteen minutes. Symptoms: warmth in head, neck, ears, or body; tense, tight muscles; clammy skin; change in heart rate or rhythm; light sweating; dry mouth.

Severe: Duration: Up to twenty minutes. Symptoms: Fever, sometimes like a crucible or burning sensation; change in heart rate or rhythm; feeling faint; headache; heavy sweating.

Very severe: Duration: Up to forty-five minutes. Symptoms: boiling heat; constant sweating; trouble breathing; feeling faint, dizzy; leg cramps or feeling cramps; change in heart rate; stomach upset.

The greater severity mean a worse outcome., Baseline, 8,24 weeks later
Change in sleep, Sleep scores will be assessed with Pittsburgh sleep quality index.The minimum value is 9, and the maximum value is 36. The higher scores mean a worse outcome., Baseline, 8,24 weeks later
This topic combines the theory of "unblocking the governor and warming the yang" with the important findings of modern research, that is, the important mechanism of the spine in the pathogenesis of breast cancer, and innovatively proposes the technique of unblocking the governor and treating the spine. Prospective clinical intervention research in rehabilitation, objectively evaluate the clinical efficacy, advantages and disadvantages of this technology, so as to effectively break through the current application dilemma of acupuncture and bone-setting manipulation in tumor diseases.