Study of QRH-882260 Heptapeptide Application in the Colon
A Phase 1B study of the efficacy of a topically-administered 7-amino acid peptide labeled with a near-infrared fluorophore Cy5 for detecting neoplastic areas of the colon is proposed. The study will test the efficacy of administering this agent (QRH-882260 Heptapeptide) to human subjects undergoing clinically-indicated colonoscopy for endoscopic resection of known colonic adenomas or for surveillance biopsies of known dysplasia in the setting of irritable bowel disease (IBD). Up to 120 evaluable subjects will be enrolled.

Subjects will be recruited around scheduled standard of care procedures. The endoscopists performing the procedures are all endoscopists credentialed at the University of Michigan to do these procedures. Urine for dipstick pregnancy testing (if applicable) will be collected before the procedure, along with medical information. Vital signs are routinely monitored throughout the clinical procedure and are available in the electronic medical record. The endoscopy will proceed per the University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) standard of care. The endoscopist performing the clinical procedure will evaluate the potential risk (if any) for the subject to continue with the procedure or study. Five mL of the reconstituted QRH-882260 Heptapeptide (\~100 μM) will be sprayed onto the site of interest through a catheter in the endoscope. Five minutes after QRH-882260 Heptapeptide application, the unbound peptide will be washed off using the endogator irrigator and the residual liquid will be suctioned. Pictures with white-light and fluorescence will be taken with the scanning fiber based molecular imaging endoscopic probe inserted via the instrument channel of the standard endoscope before the QRH-882260 Heptapeptide application, immediately after application and then again after the QRH-882260 Heptapeptide will be washed off. The area of interest identified will be resected/biopsied per discretion of the endoscopist per clinical care. All specimens taken are for clinical care only (not research use) and will be sent for routine histology per UMHS standard of care.
Colon Cancer Prevention
DRUG: QRH-882260 Heptapeptide|DEVICE: Scanning Fiber Endoscope
Incidence of QRH-882260 Heptapeptide administration-related adverse events, Continued monitoring of safety in subjects as measured by the number of Adverse Event (AE) assessments, severity (grade), and relationship to the study drug (any that could be related)., 1 year
Efficacy of QRH-882260 Heptapeptide administration for detection of polypoid and non-polypoid colonic neoplasia, The test product efficacy will be assessed by evaluating the fluorescence intensified measured from suspicious regions of colonic mucosa where the fluorescently-labeled peptide (QRH-882260) is administered. Measurement of peptide binding will be evaluated by the fluorescence intensity measured from the suspicious (target) region and normal tissues (background) to produce a target-to-background ratio., 1 year
Efficacy of QRH-882260 Heptapeptide administration for detection of dysplasia in the setting of IBD, The test product efficacy will be assessed by evaluating the fluorescence intensified measured from suspicious regions of colonic mucosa where the fluorescently-labeled peptide (QRH-882260) is administered. Measurement of peptide binding will be evaluated by the fluorescence intensity measured from the suspicious (target) region and normal tissues (background) to produce a target-to-background ratio., 1 year
A Phase 1B study of the efficacy of a topically-administered 7-amino acid peptide labeled with a near-infrared fluorophore Cy5 for detecting neoplastic areas of the colon is proposed. The study will test the efficacy of administering this agent (QRH-882260 Heptapeptide) to human subjects undergoing clinically-indicated colonoscopy for endoscopic resection of known colonic adenomas or for surveillance biopsies of known dysplasia in the setting of irritable bowel disease (IBD). Up to 120 evaluable subjects will be enrolled.

Subjects will be recruited around scheduled standard of care procedures. The endoscopists performing the procedures are all endoscopists credentialed at the University of Michigan to do these procedures. Urine for dipstick pregnancy testing (if applicable) will be collected before the procedure, along with medical information. Vital signs are routinely monitored throughout the clinical procedure and are available in the electronic medical record. The endoscopy will proceed per the University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) standard of care. The endoscopist performing the clinical procedure will evaluate the potential risk (if any) for the subject to continue with the procedure or study. Five mL of the reconstituted QRH-882260 Heptapeptide (\~100 μM) will be sprayed onto the site of interest through a catheter in the endoscope. Five minutes after QRH-882260 Heptapeptide application, the unbound peptide will be washed off using the endogator irrigator and the residual liquid will be suctioned. Pictures with white-light and fluorescence will be taken with the scanning fiber based molecular imaging endoscopic probe inserted via the instrument channel of the standard endoscope before the QRH-882260 Heptapeptide application, immediately after application and then again after the QRH-882260 Heptapeptide will be washed off. The area of interest identified will be resected/biopsied per discretion of the endoscopist per clinical care. All specimens taken are for clinical care only (not research use) and will be sent for routine histology per UMHS standard of care.