Rituximab Hyaluronidase in Combination With Chemotherapy in Treating Aggressive B-cell Lymphoma in Uganda
This phase I trial studies how well rituximab hyaluronidase and combination chemotherapy work in treating patients in Uganda with Burkitt lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, or Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus associated multicentric Castleman disease. Rituximab hyaluronidase is a combination of rituximab and hyaluronidase. Rituximab binds to a molecule called CD20, which is found on B cells (a type of white blood cell) and some types of cancer cells. This may help the immune system kill cancer cells. Hyaluronidase allows rituximab to be given by injection under the skin. Giving rituximab and hyaluronidase by injection under the skin is faster than giving rituximab alone by infusion into the blood. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, vincristine, methotrexate, etoposide, doxorubicin, and prednisone work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. While rituximab has a clear survival benefit in patients within developed countries, differences in supportive care and infectious co-morbidities require special attention. Giving rituximab hyaluronidase alone or in combination with chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with Burkitt lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, or Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus associated multicentric Castleman disease compared to chemotherapy alone in Uganda.
Burkitt Lymphoma|KSHV-associated Multicentric Castleman Disease|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab and Hyaluronidase Human|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Etoposide|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 including unanticipated problems and grade 3-5 adverse events (AEs) at least probably related to subcutaneous rituximab hyaluronidase (sqR) administration., Up to 12 months|Number of participants that result in sufficient pharmacodynamic criteria, Pharmacodynamic criteria is a Ctrough level above 25 ug/ml in children and adolescents after the first subcutaneous dose., Up to 12 months
Number of participants achieving a repose of complete response (CR), Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria CR: complete disappearance of all target lesions., 1 year|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate, 1 year|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate, 1 year|Disease-free survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate, 1 year
OUTLINE:

Open-label Phase I study characterizing the safety, tolerability, and activity of subcutaneous rituximab hyaluronidase (sqR) alone (KSHV-MCD), or combined with local standard of care chemotherapy (BL or DLBCL), in 2 age-based cohorts of patients:

1. Cohort 1: Age \>= 15
2. Cohort 2: Age: 2-14

sqR dose for Cohort 1 (adults) will be 1400 mg (flat dose); sqR dose for Cohort 2 (pediatrics) will depend on patient weight: \>= 35 kg: 1400 mg, \< 35 kg: 700 mg. For all participants, sqR will be administered with local standard of care chemotherapy (BL, DLBCL) or alone (KSHV-MCD), and supportive care.

Each cohort comprises two Therapy Groups. Therapy Group 1: up to 6 participants and will receive the first cycle of rituximab IV, and subsequent cycles as flat-dose sqR. Therapy Group 2: up to 12 participants and will receive flat-dose sqR for all cycles.

Disease-specific chemotherapy to be administered with rituximab hyaluronidase include:

PEDIATRIC BURKITT LYMPHOMA (BL): cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone followed by 6 cycles of cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and methotrexate (COP-COM).

DLBCL: 6 cycles of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone PO on days 1-5 of cycle 1 (CHOP).

ADULT BL: 6 cycles modified dose: etoposide, doxorubicin, vincristine, cyclophosphamide and prednisone PO on days 1-5 (adjusted EPOCH).

KSHV-MCD: Rituximab or rituximab hyaluronidase SC on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.