Pazopanib Plus Lapatinib Compared To Lapatinib Alone In Subjects With Advanced Or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study is being conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of pazopanib in combination with lapatinib with that of lapatinib alone in subjects with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose tumors overexpress the ErbB2 protein.
Neoplasms, Breast
DRUG: pazopanib (GW786034) 400 mg|DRUG: lapatinib (GW572016) 1500 mg|DRUG: lapatinib (GW572016) 1000 mg|DRUG: pazopanib (GW786034) 800 mg
Percentage of Participants With Progressive Disease at Week 12 in Cohort 1, The percentage of participants with progressive disease (PD) 12 weeks after randomization was measured. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), a response of PD is defined as a \>=20% increase in target lesions. Participants were also classified as having PD if their response at Week 12 was unknown or missing. Response was determined by an independent radiologist and by an investigator., Week 12
Overall Survival for Cohort 1, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization until death due to any cause. Participants who are alive as of the date of last contact are censored. There was insufficient follow-up to adequately assess OS for Cohort 2. Median OS cannot be presented for the lapatinib arm because the upper bound of the 95% confidence interval is undefined due to insufficient follow-up., Randomization until death due to any cause (up to 106.43 weeks)|Response at Week 12 for Cohort 1 and Cohort 2, The percentage of participants achieving either a complete (CR) or partial (PR) tumor response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) is presented. CR, all detectable tumor has disappeared; PR, a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum; Progressive disease (PD), a \>=20% increase in target lesions; Stable Disease, small changes that do not meet previously given criteria. IRC, independent review committee. Participants with an unknown or missing response were treated as non-responders., Week 12|Duration of Response in Cohort 1, Duration of response is defined as the length of time from the time from the first observation of response until progression of disease or death. Duration of response depends on two things: (1) when response is counted as starting; (2) when response is counted as ending.There were insufficient data to adequately assess duration of response for Cohort 2. IRC, independent review committee. For participants who do not progress or die, duration of response was censored at the date of last adequate assessment., Time from first documented evidence of complete or partial response until the first documented sign of disease progression or death due to any cause (up to 106.71 weeks)|Time to Response (Complete or Partial Response) in Cohort 1 and Cohort 2, Time to response is defined as the time from randomization to the time of first documented evidence of a complete (CR) or partial response (PR). The time to response will depend on when the response is counted as starting. Per RECIST: CR, all detectable tumor has disappeared; PR, a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the target dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum., The time from randomization to the time of first documented evidence of complete or partial response (up to 81.14 weeks for Cohort 1 and 44.29 weeks for Cohort 2)|Percentage of Participants With Progressive Disease at Week 12, The percentage of participants with progressive disease (PD) 12 weeks after randomization was measured. Participants were classified as having PD if their response at Week 12 was unknown or missing. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), PD is defined as a \>=20% increase in target lesions. IRC, independent review committee., Week 12
This study is being conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of pazopanib in combination with lapatinib with that of lapatinib alone in subjects with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose tumors overexpress the ErbB2 protein.