Neoantigen-expanded Autologous Immune Cell Therapy
The investigators aim to investigate the patient's tumor neoantigen to generate "personalized cancer vaccine" and then to expand autologous dendritic cells-cytokine-induced killer cells (DC-CIK). The autologous DC-CIK will be cultured in vitro and re-infused into patients.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: Neoantigen-expanded cell therapy.
Acute, subacute toxicities and AEs of neoantigen-expanded autologous immune cell therapy., Number of participants with ≥ grade 3 immune related Adverse Events (irAEs) as assessed by CTCAE v6.0., Baseline to 20 weeks after cell infusion|Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Determination of DLT to be made after receiving the second dose of cell product of each cohort., Day 28|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The dose where no DLT is observed among 3 consecutive participants, or no more than one DLT among 6 participants., until Day 28
The antitumor activity of neoantigen-expanded autologous immune cell therapy, Number of participants with complete response and partial response, as s assessed by RECIST 1.1 and RANO., every 6 weeks up to 24 weeks after cell infusion.
Cancer is the leading cause of death in the world. However, the response of traditional treatments(such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or target therapy) is yet limited. In this clinical trial study, the investigators will investigate the patient's tumor neoantigen to generate "personalized cancer vaccine" and then to expand autologous dendritic cells-cytokine-induced killer cells (DC-CIK). The autologous DC-CIK will be cultured in vitro and re-infused into patients. The similar clinical trial design and immune cell preparation have been recently published in international journals. Though adverse reactions (AE) have been reported, and there was no cases with severe adverse events (SAE), suggesting the safety of autologous immune cell therapy against cancers. The main propose of this clinical trial is to improve the treatment for solid tumors. By conducting this clinical trial, the investigators aim to enroll patients with refractory advanced solid tumors, and develop "neoantigen-expanded autologous immune cell therapy". The investigators will utilize "neoantigens" to expand the patients' autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells into DC-CIK. The enrolled patients will receive autologous DC-CIK of 10 doses within 4\~5 months of treatment, and the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of this immune cell therapy will be evaluated.