Relation Between Venetoclax Plasma Concentration and Remission in Adults with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (PREDICLAX)
Background: In combination with hypomethylating drugs, venetoclax has recently changed the therapeutic management of patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) for whom standard induction chemotherapy was not an option. Over and above the clinical benefits of this combination, the data show that more than half the patients did not show remission criteria, even after the first month's exposure to venetoclax.

Hypothesis: To compare the mean residual venetoclax plasma concentrations obtained in patients who went into complete composite remission versus those who did not go into remission at the end of the first cycle of venetoclax + azacitidine treatment.

Method: According to the French law, this is a multicenter, non-comparative, open-label, single-arm, interventional study with minimal risks and constraints. Selection, information and inclusion will concern adult patients (≥60 years) with a confirmed diagnosis of AML according to ELN 2022 guidelines. Included patients will be treated as standard care with a combination of venetoclax+azacitidine. This research protocol will not modify their usual care.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: Blood sampling for venetoclax drug dosage (venous puncture)
Comparison of mean plasma residual concentration of venetoclax, To compare the mean plasma residual concentration (ng/mL) of venetoclax (determined by LC-MS-MS) between patients who have entered composite complete remission (defined by the presence of remission criteria ≥ CRi, according to ELN 2022 guidelines) versus those who have not at the end of the first cycle of venetoclax+azacitidine treatment., 1 month
Study relationship between mean plasma residual concentration of venetoclax and remission occurrence, To estimate mean residual plasma concentrations (Cres, ng/mL) of venetoclax and azole antifungals during patients' usual care. Then study the relationship between mean venetoclax Cres and the achievement (or non-achievement) of remission over time (according to ELN 2022 guidelines) ., 24 months|Study performance of mean venetoclax Cres, To evaluate the performance (ROC curve) of mean venetoclax Cres (ng/mL) as a predictive biomarker of event-free survival (EFS) at 6 and 12 months., 6 and 12 months|Study survival, To estimate event-free survival (EFS), relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS)., 24 months|Study early deaths, To estimate the proportion of early deaths at 30 and 60 days post-inclusion., 24 months|Study the variability of plasma venetoclax and antifungal concentrations over time, To estimate the inter-individual (IIV) and intra-individual (IOV) variability of plasma venetoclax and antifungal concentrations over time., 24 months|Study the impact of parameters in uni- and multivariate analyses., To estimate the impact of the following parameters to the diagnosis of remission or Cres (venetoclax):

* patient characteristics: age \[years\], BMI (\[kg/m²\], sex\[male vs female\], ECOG \[1,2 or 3\], comorbidities reported in inclusion criteria, number of cytopenia grade\>2, according to CTCAE v5, white blood cell count \[G/L\], creatininemia \[µmol/L\], cytoreduction (yes or not).
* disease: AML classification (ELN 2022 guidelines), blast counts (G/L), cytogenetic status (fail, normal or not) and report, genetic status and report, abnormal rearrangement of genetic material and report.
* and (co-)treatments of interest: fluconazole, isavuconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, cannabidiol, ciclosporine, clarithromycine, diltiazem, ritonavir, verapamil,milk thistle, licorice; bosentan, carbamazépine, efavirenz, enzalutamide, felbamate, phénytoïne, phénobarbital, rifampicine, St. John's wort, grapefruit, bitter orange, star fruit)., 24 months|Study adverse events of interest, To compare mean venetoclax Cres between patients who have experienced one or more of the 5 AEs of interest versus those who have not over time., 24 months
ancillary study 1: study a medical device (VAMS Mitra, Neoteryx) to collect blood capillary sample as an alternative to venous puncture, To compare venetoclax Cres (ng/mL) values obtained with the Mitra® (Neoteryx) medical device (CE) with those obtained after conventional venipuncture (ng/mL)., 24 months|ancillary study 2: study exposure of plasma venetoclax over 24h, To compute the total integrated area under the plasma venetoclax concentration-time curve (AUC) over 24h in 30 patients cared in CHU of Caen only and to identify the best time of sampling.

Pharmacokinetic sampling (day 2 or 3 of cycle 2): Cres (prédose, ng/mL) and post-dose: 2h, 4h, 6h, 8h, 12h, 18h, 24h., 24 months
Background: In combination with hypomethylating drugs, venetoclax has recently changed the therapeutic management of patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) for whom standard induction chemotherapy was not an option. Over and above the clinical benefits of this combination, the data show that more than half the patients did not show remission criteria, even after the first month's exposure to venetoclax.

Hypothesis: To compare the mean residual venetoclax plasma concentrations obtained in patients who went into complete composite remission versus those who did not go into remission at the end of the first cycle of venetoclax + azacitidine treatment.

Method: According to the French law, this is a multicenter, non-comparative, open-label, single-arm, interventional study with minimal risks and constraints. Selection, information and inclusion will concern adult patients (≥60 years) with a confirmed diagnosis of AML according to ELN 2022 guidelines. Included patients will be treated as standard care with a combination of venetoclax+azacitidine. This research protocol will not modify their usual care.