Radiation Therapy in Treating Post-Menopausal Women With Early Stage Breast Cancer Undergoing Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well radiation therapy works in treating post-menopausal women with early stage breast cancer undergoing surgery. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. This may be an effective treatment for breast cancer.
Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Estrogen Receptor Negative|Estrogen Receptor Positive|HER2/Neu Negative|Invasive Cribriform Breast Carcinoma|Invasive Ductal Carcinoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Lobular Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Mucinous Breast Carcinoma|Papillary Breast Carcinoma|Progesterone Receptor Positive|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Tubular Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Number of Patients With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Toxicity will be assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) v 3.0., Up to 2 years|Quality-of-life Assessments, Will be rated by patients using the POST-B, the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT), and the Skindex-16., Up to 2 years|Cosmetic Differences in the Treated Breast, Will measure differences in the cosmetic size, shape, or texture of the breast. Cosmesis will be graded according to the Baker Scale. Patient reported cosmesis will also be evaluated using the Ontario Clinical Oncology Breast Cancer Questionnaire., Up to 2 years
Locoregional Control Rate, Locoregional control will be calculated with confidence interval estimates and will be compared to historical control rates., At 5 years|Overall Survival, The overall survival will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years|Disease Specific Survival, The disease specific survival will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. For select patients with early stage breast cancer undergoing wide local excision followed by single fraction radiation therapy (SFRT), we will evaluate rates of observer-rated toxicity, cosmetic outcomes and patient satisfaction, objective measures of toxicity and quality of life as well as delivery of intended dose.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Locoregional control reported at five years.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo wide local excision breast surgery and SFRT over 60-100 minutes once negative margins are obtained.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, and then every 6 months for 2 years.