Trial of Cabozantinib (XL184) in Castrate-Resistant Prostate Cancer Metastatic to Bone
The purpose of this study is to look at the effects of cabozantinib on castrate-resistant prostate cancer metastatic (cancer that has spread to other parts of the body) to the bone and to learn about any side effects caused by taking cabozantinib.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Cabozantinib
Percentage of Participants Who Remain Progression-free at 12 Weeks, Efficacy will be measured by the proportion of participants who remain progression-free at 12 weeks after initiation of the study. RECIST 1.1 will be used to measure progression. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to report progression-free survival., 12 weeks after participant initiates study
Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs) Related to Treatment, The incidence of grades 1-3 AEs, by CTCAE 4.0 category, either possibly, probably or definitely related to treatment. The NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) is a descriptive terminology which can be utilized for AE reporting., 18 months|Mean Fold Change in Bone Metabolism Biomarker Expression With Cabozantinib, Mean fold change in markers of bone metabolism in bone and serum with cabozantinib. Bone biomarkers include Osteocalcin, NTx, TRAcP, BMP2, SOST, BAP, CICP, 18 months|Progression-free Survival, The percentage of participants alive without progression at 12 weeks, 12 weeks|Response Proportion in Both Soft Tissue and Bone Disease., The percentage of participants that respond in soft tissue and bone disease., 18 months|Duration of Response., Duration of response in soft tissue and bone., 18 months|The Number of Patients That Are Progression Free by PSA, The number of patients that are progression free by PSA at 12 weeks, 12 weeks|Median Time to PSA Progression, 18 months
A significant proportion of patients with prostate cancer develop metastatic disease, which most commonly affects the skeleton. Bone metastases are the cause of significant morbidity and mortality in these patients, and require long-term management. Study participants in this research study will have a diagnosis of castration-resistant prostate cancer metastatic to bone.

Cabozantinib is not approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat people for castration-resistant prostate cancer metastatic to bone or for any other type of cancer. Giving cabozantinib to human cancer patients is experimental. Cabozantinib is currently being given to patients on other studies. Cabozantinib is known to have anti-tumor effects and to reduce bone metastases based on early clinical studies in prostate cancer and other cancers. The drug is known to have side effects. The most common side effects were fatigue, diarrhea, anorexia, rash, and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE) syndrome. To date, it is not known if cabozantinib is safe and/or effective.