Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Activated T-lymphocyte Cell Therapy in Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
Phase 2 Clinical trial to Evaluate the efficacy and safety of activated T-lymphocyte ("Immuncell-LC") cell therapy in Gemcitabine refractory advanced pancreatic cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Activated T lymphocyte
Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate is defined as the number of patients with a best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1). Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study.

Disease control rate = CR or PR or SD patients / ITT population \*100, Every 2 months from the baseline, up to 16 weeks|Stable Disease(SD), Of the 16 patients in the ITT population, stable disease(SD) was confirmed. Disease control rate was calculated based on the number of CR or PR or SD patients in the ITT population., Every 2 months from the baseline, up to 16 weeks|Progressive Disease(PD), Of the 16 patients in the ITT population, progressive disease (PD) was confirmed. Disease control rate was calculated based on the number of CR or PR or SD patients in the ITT population., Every 2 months from the baseline, up to 16 weeks
Overall Survival (OS), OS was calculated from the date of enrollment until death from any cause. And OS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods with 95% confidence intervals (CIs)., Every visit, up to 16 weeks|Time to Progression, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every 2 months from the baseline, up to 16 weeks|Quality of Life (QoL) Assessed Using the Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30), QLQ-C30 constitutes a functional scale(physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social functioning), symptom scores scale(fatigue, nausea/vomiting, pain, dyspnea, constipation, diarrhea, insomnia, appetite loss, financial difficulties), and global QoL scale. With the scores of all scales ranging from 0 to 100, a higher score indicates a better functional scale and a better global QoL scale as well as a worse symptom scores scale., Every one month from the baseline, up to 16 weeks|Quality of Life (QoL) Assessed Using Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30(QLQ-C30) in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer(QLQ-PAN26 Questionnaire), QLQ-PAN26 consists of questions (Qs) relating to disease symptoms, treatment (Tx) side effects and emotional issues specific to pancreatic cancer (PC). Questions include on altered bowel habits, pain, dietary changes, disease and Tx-related symptoms and issues related to the emotional and social well-being of participants with PC. All Qs are answered on 4-point Likert scale ranging from '1=not at all' to 4='very much' and subsequently transformed into scales that range from 0-100; higher scores= greater degree of symptoms or treatment side effects and emotional issues., Every one month from the baseline, up to 16 weeks
This was designed as a single-center, single group clinical trial, and subjects include patients with pathologically-confirmed Gemcitabine refractory advanced pancreatic cancer.

If subjects agree to participate in the clinical trial by signing a written consent, only appropriate subjects, who meet the criteria on the examinations and tests, will undergo this clinical trial. To participate in the clinical trial, subject's blood of more than 60 ml should be withdrawn to make a study drug at least 2 weeks before administration. Subjects should visit to hospital according to the protocol and receive a study drug. Therapeutic response rate, overall survival rate, time to progression and the quality of life should be investigated.