Synergistic Anti-tumor Effect of ChangTai Keli for Colon Cancer Patients
The aim of this study is to evaluate the synergistic anti-tumor effect of ChangTai Keli based on chemotherapy for colon cancer patients by a randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, multicenter clinical study.
Colon Cancer
DRUG: mFOLFOX6|DRUG: XELOX|DRUG: Placebo ChangTai Keli|DRUG: ChangTai Keli
Number of Participants With Adverse Event (AE), Severity was graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0, with the exception of some dermatology/skin adverse events that were graded using CTCAE v3.0 with modifications. Fatal adverse events are classified as grade 5. Serious adverse events include any event that is fatal, life threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or other significant medical hazard. Treatment-related AEs were those that the investigator considered a reasonable possibility that might have been caused by study drug., The time frame for adverse event reporting is from the first dose date to 30 days since the last dose date|Quality of life, Using QLQ-C30 (V3.0) to asses the impact of COPD on a person's life, and how this changes over time., Change from Baseline in the QLQ-C30 (V3.0)at the week 2, 4, 6, 8, 10,13, 26 of the treatment phase, the week 13, 26, 39 and 52, 65, 78, 91, 104, 117, 130 of the followup phase.
symptom, Using TCM scale to assess a patient's level of syptom. The symptom scale is a simple grading system that scored from 0, 2, 4, 6., Change from Baseline in symptom score at the week 2, 4, 6, 8, 10,13, 26 of the treatment phase, the week 13, 26, 39 and 52, 65, 78, 91, 104, 117, 130 of the followup phase.|Investigator-assessed Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The time from the date of randomization until objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. Objective tumor progression was determined through radiological imaging and based on the requirements of the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST Version 1.1), 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), the time from the date of randomization to the date of first disease progression, or death within 60 days after the last evaluable tumor assessment or randomization date (whichever was later)
Although many therapies exist and are being developed to relieve symptoms for colon cancer, there are few randomized controlled clinical trials to evaluate comprehensive Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) interventions in colon cancer. The aim of this study is to evaluate the synergistic anti-tumor effect of ChangTai Keli based on chemotherapy for colon cancer patients. This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the synergistic anti-tumor effect of TCM on colon cancer patients. Following a run-in period, approximately 360 subjects will be randomly assigned to conventional chemotherapy treatment group, ChangTai Keli and conventional chemotherapy treatment group for 26 weeks. After the 26 weeks treatment period, subjects in two treatments arms will follow-up 36 months.