Implementation of Evidence-Based Strategy (PC TEACH) for the Optimization of HPV Vaccination in Rural Primary Care
This study evaluates the implementation of evidence based strategies to optimize HPV vaccination in rural primary care settings. Some of the largest disparities in human papillomavirus vaccination (HPVV) rates exist in rural communities, which represent missed opportunities for cancer prevention. Primary care provider visits in these communities serve as a crucial opportunity to communicate the importance of timely vaccination that is essential to effective cancer prevention. This study implements and tests a practice-level intervention (PC TEACH) using practice facilitation of evidence-based strategies to expand reach to rural community-based primary care settings to optimize delivery and increase HPVV rates. PC TEACH program may help rural communities overcome access and awareness factors that keep them from receiving HPVV.
Human Papillomavirus Infection
OTHER: Educational Intervention
Change in Adolescent HPV vaccination rates, To evaluate the impact (short and long-term) of the proposed PC TEACH (primary care practice-level, medical office-based intervention) intervention on human papilloma virus vaccine (HPVV) uptake and completion rates using a staggered (stepped-wedge) intervention schedule. Briefly, practice-specific vaccine rates data will be modeled as a function of time in intervention (0, 6, 12, 18, or 24 months), while adjusting for baseline rates collected prior to intervention for each practice. For vaccine rates, an additional factor for calendar time will be included in the model to address potential seasonal effects., Up to 5 years (60 months)
Age at vaccination, will evaluate the impact of the proposed PC TEACH intervention on age at using a staggered (stepped-wedge) intervention schedule. Briefly, practice-specific vaccine rates data will be modeled as a function of time in intervention (0, 6, 12, 18, or 24 months), while adjusting for baseline rates collected prior to intervention for each practice., Up to 5 years (60 months)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify practices from across 20 rural counties in central and western New York (CWNY) using registry data from New York State Immunization Information System.

II. Leverage established community network contacts of primary care practices across 20 rural counties in CWNY to support and enhance recruitment and retention activities.

III. Establish a Rural Cancer Health Equity Community Advisory Board (CAB) to enhance capacity to implement evidence-based cancer prevention activities in rural primary care settings (like primary care practice-level, medical office-based intervention \[PC-TEACH\] for Human Papilloma Virus Vaccine \[HPVV\]).

IV. Recruit rural primary care practices to implement PC TEACH intervention and contribute practice, provider, and patient-level data including adolescent vaccination rates.

V. Implement systematic practice-level changes (i.e., PC TEACH strategies) in rural community-based primary care practices.

V. Evaluate effectiveness of PC TEACH intervention and quality improvement within the practices using process and outcome evaluation measures.

OUTLINE:

Primary practice providers sites receive PC TEACH over 3.5 hours for 12 months.

After completion of study, primary care provider sites are followed up for 3-6 months.