Trial of Preoperative Therapy for Gastric and Esophagogastric Junction Adenocarcinoma
Gastric cancer remains a significant global public health problem. Although in developed countries its incidence has dramatically decreased, on a worldwide scale it is still a leading cause of cancer-related deaths. Surgery is the only potentially curative treatment for gastric cancer. Although the survival rates for patients with early stage disease (stage 1A and 1B) are good, this subgroup of patients constitutes only 20% of those undergoing resection. The majority of patients will have locally advanced or metastatic disease at presentation, which has an extremely poor prognosis. The current five-year survival rate for gastric cancer in Western countries is approximately 20-30%, a figure that has improved little over the past 30 years. The intervention arm in TOPGEAR consists of pre-operative chemotherapy, pre-operative chemoradiotherapy, surgery and post-operative chemotherapy. The control arm consists of pre-operative chemotherapy, surgery and post-operative chemotherapy. The primary objective of TOPGEAR is to investigate whether the addition of chemoradiotherapy to chemotherapy is superior to chemotherapy alone in the neoadjuvant setting by improving pathological complete response rates in the first instance, and subsequently overall survival, in patients undergoing adequate surgery (D1+ dissection) for resectable gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Epirubicin + cisplatin + 5-fluorouracil OR epirubicin + cisplatin + capecitabine OR epirubicin + oxaliplatin + capecitabine OR 5-Fluorouracil + leucovorin + oxaliplatin + docetaxel|RADIATION: Preoperative chemoradiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Gastric resection
Overall survival, The interval from the date of randomisation to the date of death from any cause, or the date last known alive., Up to 5 years
Disease free survival, The time from the date of randomisation to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause., Up to 5 years|Pathological response rate, The extent of reduction in tumour size following pre-operative treatment, as determined by macroscopic and microscopic assessment of the tumour., At time of surgery|Proportion of participants with given grades of toxicities, The proportion of participants starting at least one cycle of treatment and the grades of the toxicities reported., Up to 5 years|Surgical complete resection rate (R0), The complete macroscopic resection of gross tumour with negative surgical margins., At the time of surgery
Purpose:

The purpose of this phase II/III clinical trial is to determine if pre-operative chemoradiotherapy improves overall survival in participants with resectable gastric cancer.

Trial details:

Participants will be randomised to receive either pre-operative chemotherapy or pre-operative chemoradiotherapy. The will undergo surgery and then receive further post-operative chemotherapy. Participants will be followed up for 5 years after treatment.