Safety and Efficacy Study of TNX-650 to Treat Refractory Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of TNX-650 for Injection when administered to patients with refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: TNX-650
To determine the safety and tolerability of TNX-650 for Injection when administered to patients with refractory Hodgkin's Lymphoma (HL)|To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of TNX-650 for Injection|To determine the systemic exposure to TNX-650 for Injection in patients with refractory HL|To determine phosphorylated STAT-6 and IL-13Rα1 levels in tumor samples, and serum IL 13 levels, which may be useful as early prognostic indicators of efficacy in later clinical studies|To determine the preliminary efficacy of TNX-650 for Injection at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or pharmacologically active dose, if MTD is not reached, based on tumor assessments using computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and
To determine the safety profile of TNX-650 for Injection at the MTD|To determine phosphorylated STAT-6 and IL-13Rα1 levels in tumor samples, and serum IL 13 levels, which may be useful as early prognostic indicators of efficacy in later clinical studies|To determine the preliminary efficacy of TNX-650 for Injection at the MTD, based on tumor assessments using CT or MRI, and FDG-PET
Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) is a lymphoid malignancy that accounts for approximately 7,000 to 8,000 new cancer cases per year in the United Sates. It occurs with a bimodal age-incidence distribution peaking in the 15- to 30-year old and 50- to 60-year old age groups. The pathological hallmark of the disease is the presence of malignant Reed Sternberg (RS) cells. Reed-Sternberg cells are interspersed among a heterogeneous population of non-malignant reactive cells, including T cells, eosinophils, neutrophils, B lymphocytes, plasma cells, histiocytes, fibroblasts, and stromal cells.

While more than 80% of patients will respond to initial radiotherapy or combination chemoradiotherapy, some patients will experience early relapse after initial therapy or be refractory to first-line therapy. These patients may be treated with second-line therapy, which may include autologous bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Patients with HL who relapse after first- and second-line therapy, or who are refractory to therapy, with or without autologous BMT, have a poor prognosis. The long-term event-free survival rate in this patient group is less than 10%; median survival is 16 months. At present, these patients have no treatment options other than investigational therapies.