Safety and Efficacy Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Combined With Lenvatinib (MK-7902/E7080) as First-line Intervention in Adults With Advanced Melanoma (MK-7902-003/E7080-G000-312/LEAP-003)-China Extension Study
The purpose of the China Extension study is to assess the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) combined with lenvatinib (MK-7902/E7080) compared to pembrolizumab alone (with placebo for lenvatinib) as first-line treatment in Chinese participants with no prior systemic therapy for their advanced melanoma.
Malignant Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Placebo for lenvatinib
Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) Per Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), PFS is defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. For this study, RECIST 1.1 has been modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to approximately 30 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death from any cause., Up to approximately 30 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed by BICR Per RECIST 1.1, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. For this study, RECIST 1.1 has been modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to approximately 30 months|Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by BICR Per RECIST 1.1, For participants who demonstrated CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions), DOR is defined as the date of the first documented evidence of CR or PR until PD or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. For this study, RECIST 1.1 has been modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to approximately 30 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment., Up to approximately 30 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to Adverse Events (AEs), The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., Up to approximately 28 months
As of 03-Apr-2023, active participants, investigator, and sponsor personnel or delegate(s) involved in the treatment administration or clinical evaluation of the participants will be unblinded.