MesoPher/Mitazalimab-combination Therapy in Metastatic Pancreatic Disease (REACtiVe-2 Trial)
Pancreatic cancer is expected to be the second leading cause of cancer-related death in 2020. Pancreatic cancer is known as an immunological cold tumor. It is thought that the characteristic desmoplastic stroma of established pancreatic adenocarcinomas acts as a physical as well as an immunosuppressive barrier leading to exclusion of T cells. The use of CD40 agonists (such as mitazalimab, also known as JNJ-64457107 and ADC-1013) may convert pancreatic adenocarcinomas into immunological hot tumors by T-cell-dependent and T-cell-independent mechanisms. Targeting the desmoplastic stroma, thereby making the tumor more permeable for T-cell infiltration, is seen as one of the assisting mechanisms. Furthermore, the immunological coldness of pancreatic cancers infers that tumor-reactive T-cell responses are absent or weak at best. Dendritic cell therapy introduces tumor-specific T cells and in combination with a CD40 agonist, may lead to synergistic anti-tumor responses which could be beneficial for pancreatic cancer patients.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: MesoPher|BIOLOGICAL: Mitazalimab
Incidence of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, The number of patients experiencing a DLT will be determined. Toxicities will be scored according to CTC criteria version 5.0 (Published November 27th, 2017). The toxicities occurring during 6 weeks after the first vaccination (i.e., the DLT observation period), will be considered as DLT, when considered possibly, probably or definitively related to MesoPher and/or mitazalimab combination therapy. All patients that cannot complete the first 3 doses as planned due to directly related toxicity will be discussed in the Study Steering Committee and they will determine whether the patient is classified as having a DLT., From first dose (week 0 of treatment phase) to end of the DLT observation period (week 6 of treatment phase)
Determine the presence of vaccine-induced dendritic cell mediated immune responses using ELISA and flow cytometry., Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin (KLH) responses: KLH is part of the DC vaccine and is used as a surrogate marker for DC-mediated immune stimulation and persistence of this response. KLH is known to induce a specific adaptive immune response readily detectable in sera (antibody response) and PBMC of vaccinated individuals. Serum samples will be collected before, during and after DC therapy as well as at selected intervals during follow-up. Humoral responses to KLH will be detected using ELISA. In addition, we will also measure cellular responses against KLH. Dendritic cells will be loaded with KLH protein lysate and co-cultured in vitro with PBMCs taken before and after study therapy. After co-culture, T cells will be stained for activation, cytotoxic and degranulation markers and measured by flow cytometry., From baseline to end of study (week 36)|Determine the intratumoral treatment effect by measuring T cell influx, We will use immunohistochemistry to stain T cells in order to determine T cell influx before and after 3 study treatments., From baseline to week 6|Determine vaccine-induced changes in the frequency of immune cell subsets using flow cytometry, Phenotypical analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) will be conducted with Aurora spectral flow cytometry immune panels comprising 40 different antibodies to analyze changes in the lymphoid and myeloid cell compartments. Vaccine-induced changes in the frequencies of immune cell (subsets) that represent distinct lineages and/or express different levels of activation, differentiation and co-signaling markers are measured. Combination of these readouts allows for the generation of immune profiles for individual patients., From baseline to end of study (week 36)|Determining predictive gene expression signatures related to therapy outcome using NanoString technology, Immuno-oncology gene expression signatures will be determined on PBMCs obtained pre- and post-combination treatment and on RNA isolated from OCT-embedded positive DTH skin reactions. This provides us with comprehensive profiling of the immune response including mechanistic pathway activity induced by DC/αCD40 combination therapy., From baseline to end of study (week 36)|Radiological response rate as defined by RECIST version 1.1 and iRECIST, Patients undergo regular radiological evaluations until documented evidence of progression as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria. After each radiographic evaluation patients will be assigned a RECIST response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) depending on the status of their disease compared to baseline and previous assessments. If a patient has had a radiological assessment, which cannot be evaluated, then the patient will be assigned a visit response of not evaluable (NE) (unless there is evidence of progression, in which case the response will be assigned as PD)., From baseline to end of study (week 36)
Rationale: Pancreatic cancer is expected to be the second leading cause of cancer-related death in 2020. Pancreatic cancer is known as an immunological cold tumor. It is thought that the characteristic desmoplastic stroma of established pancreatic adenocarcinomas acts as a physical as well as an immunosuppressive barrier leading to exclusion of T cells. The use of CD40 agonists (such as mitazalimab, also known as JNJ-64457107 and ADC-1013) may convert pancreatic adenocarcinomas into immunological hot tumors by T-cell-dependent and T-cell-independent mechanisms. Targeting the desmoplastic stroma, thereby making the tumor more permeable for T-cell infiltration, is seen as one of the assisting mechanisms. Furthermore, the immunological coldness of pancreatic cancers infers that tumor-reactive T-cell responses are absent or weak at best. Dendritic cell therapy introduces tumor-specific T cells and in combination with a CD40 agonist, may lead to synergistic anti-tumor responses which could be beneficial for pancreatic cancer patients.

Objective: To investigate safety and tolerability as well as the induced immune response upon MesoPher/mitazalimab combination therapy in metastasized pancreatic cancer after standard-of-care (SOC) treatment with (modified) FOLFIRINOX.

Study design: Open-label, single-center, phase I dose finding study using a modified toxicity probability interval (mTPI) design.

Study population: Adults with metastatic pancreatic cancer after SOC treatment with (modified) FOLFIRINOX.

Intervention: Leukapheresis is performed after which monocytes are used for differentiation to dendritic cells. Autologous dendritic cells pulsed with an allogeneic tumor lysate (MesoPher) will be administered intra-dermally and intravenously 3 times every 2 weeks. Booster vaccinations are given after 3 and 6 months. On the same day after administration of MesoPher a CD40 agonist (mitazalimab) will be administered intravenously.

Study parameters/endpoints: The main study endpoint are the dose-limiting toxicities of MesoPher/mitazalimab combination therapy. The secondary endpoints are the induced immune responses on therapy and the radiographical response rate according to RECIST and iRECIST.

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: Patients have to undergo additional outpatient clinic visits for this study and additional invasive procedures specifically for this trial, e.g. intravenous catheter placement and tumor metastasis biopsies. Although these are invasive procedures, associated risks are limited. Intravenous access is necessary during every visit, i.e. for leukapheresis, for drawing blood samples and for the administration of study medication. Leukapheresis is a standard procedure and will be performed according to our institutional guidelines. Leukapheresis demonstrates a limited risk for transient thrombocytopenia and leukopenia. Previous clinical studies have shown that injection with tumor lysate-pulsed dendritic cells (MesoPher) was well tolerated without major systemic toxicity, with the exception of low-grade flu-like symptoms (REACtiVE Trial, NL67169.000.18; DENIM/MM04: NCT03610360; MM03 NL44330.000.14 / NCT02395679).

Also, intravenous injection of mitazalimab up to 1200 µg/kg was well tolerated with manageable side effects. There are currently no trials investigating this combination therapy. Combining two immunomodulatory drugs increases the risk for toxicity. The objective of this phase I study is to investigate safety and tolerability of administrating MesoPher/mitazalimab combination therapy in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients. Patients may have potential beneficial anti-tumor responses following study medication.