Vorinostat After Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With High-Risk Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Vorinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth, and may stimulate the immune system to stop cancer cells from growing.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat after stem cell transplant in treating patients with high-risk lymphoma.
Lymphoma|Small Intestine Cancer
DRUG: vorinostat|OTHER: Correlative studies
Safety and Tolerability of Vorinostat (SAHA) After Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation, NCI CTCAE version 3.0 was used to assess Adverse Events (AE) Grade 1=Mild AE Grade 2=Moderate AE Grade 3=Severe AE Grade 4=Life-threatening or disabling AE, Up to 3 years
Clinical Benefit, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 3 years|Duration of Response, Median follow up of living patients, Up to 5 years|Time to Progression, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Up to 3 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To assess dose-limiting and nonhematologic toxicity of prolonged administration of vorinostat (SAHA) when administered after autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with high-risk lymphoma.

Secondary

* To determine, preliminarily, clinical activity by assessing the overall survival and progression-free survival.
* To evaluate the effect of vorinostat on immune reconstruction and acetylation.
* To obtain pilot data regarding an association of vorinostat with patient quality of life and inflammatory cytokine production of peripheral blood mononuclear cells.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vorinostat (SAHA).

Approximately 60 days after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), patients receive oral vorinostat once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 11 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Blood and bone marrow samples are collected periodically for laboratory correlative studies comprising immune reconstitution assays, regulatory T-cell expansion analysis, H3 and H4 acetylation by immunohistochemistry, cytokine bead array to quantify interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor alpha and interferon gamma. Quality of life correlative studies are measured by questionnaires periodically.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 30 days.