LUME-Ovar 1: Nintedanib (BIBF 1120) or Placebo in Combination With Paclitaxel and Carboplatin in First Line Treatment of Ovarian Cancer
The trial will be performed to evaluate if BIBF 1120 in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin is more effective than placebo in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin in first-line treatment of patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Safety information about BIBF1120/paclitaxel/carboplatin will be obtained.
Ovarian Neoplasms|Peritoneal Neoplasms
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: BIBF 1120|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
PFS Based on Investigator Assessment According to Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (mRECIST), and Additional Clinical Criteria., Progression free survival (PFS) is calculated as the time from randomisation to the date of disease progression, or to the date of death, whichever occurs first according to the Investigator assessment.

The primary PFS analysis of this trial was performed when approximately 753 patients had experienced a PFS event

Median, 25th and 75th percentiles are calculated from an unadjusted Kaplan-Meier curve for each treatment arm., First drug administration to date of disease progression or death whichever occurs first , upto 29 months|PFS Based on Investigator Assessment According to Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (mRECIST), and Additional Clinical Criteria (Follow up Analysis)., Follow-up analysis was conducted at the time of overall survival analysis. Progression free survival (PFS) is calculated as the time from randomisation to the date of disease progression, or to the date of death, whichever occurs first according to the Investigator assessment.

Median, 25th and 75th percentiles are calculated from an unadjusted Kaplan-Meier curve for each treatment arm., First drug administration to date of disease progression or death whichever occurs first until final Data Base Lock (DBL) 26September16, upto 62 months
PFS Based on Investigator Assessment According to mRECIST Version 1.1 (Key Secondary Endpoint)., Progression free survival is calculated as the time from randomisation to the date of disease progression, or to the date of death, whichever occurs first based on the Investigator assessment according to Modified Response Evaluation Criteria (mRECIST), version 1.1.

The primary PFS analysis of this trial was performed when approximately 753 patients had experienced a PFS event.

Median, 25th and 75th percentiles are calculated from an unadjusted Kaplan-Meier curve for each treatment arm., First drug administration to date of disease progression or death whichever occurs first , upto 29 months|PFS Based on Investigator Assessment According to mRECIST Version 1.1 (Key Secondary Endpoint - Follow up Analysis)., Follow-up analysis was conducted at the time of overall survival analysis. Progression free survival is calculated as the time from randomisation to the date of disease progression, or to the date of death, whichever occurs first based on the Investigator assessment according to Modified Response Evaluation Criteria (mRECIST), version 1.1. Median, 25th and 75th percentiles are calculated from an unadjusted Kaplan-Meier curve for each treatment arm., First drug administration to date of disease progression or death whichever occurs first until final Data Base Lock (DBL) 26September16, upto 62 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as time from randomization to date of death (irrespective of reason).

Median, 25th and 75th percentiles are calculated from an unadjusted Kaplan-Meier curve for each treatment arm., First drug administration to date of death until final DBL 26September16, upto 62 months|Time to CA-125 Tumour Marker Progression, Time to tumour-marker progression was defined as the time from randomisation until the date when Carbohydrate (cancer) antigen (CA-125) values increased to higher than twice the nadir value. CA-125 \>=2 x nadir in case nadir value \> Upper limit of normal (ULN) or CA-125 \>=2 x ULN in case nadir value \<= ULN., First drug administration until final DBL 26September16, upto 62 months|Objective Response Based on Investigator Assessment, Objective tumour response defined as either complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\] in patients with at least 1 target lesion reported at baseline, First drug administration until final DBL 26September16, upto 62 months|Change in Abdominal/Gastro-intestinal Symptoms Over Time, Change in abdominal/gastro-intestinal over time was calculated on symptoms (scale composite of items 31 to 37 of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Module for Ovarian Cancer 28 (EORTC QLQ OV-28).

As specified in the EORTC scoring manual, for each scale or item, a linear transformation was applied to standardize the raw score to a range from 0 to 100 (high scores represent a high/severe level of symptomatology).

Mean presented is Adjusted mean. Adjusted for the stratification factors macroscopic residual postoperative tumour at baseline (yes vs. no), FIGO stage (IIB-III vs IV), and Carboplatin level (AUC5 vs. AUC6)., First drug administration until final DBL 26September16, upto 62 months|Change in Global Health Status/ Quality of Life (QoL) Scale Over Time., Change in Global Health Status/ Quality of life (QoL) over time was calculated on Global Health Status/QoL scale (composite of items 29 and 30 of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) as a general measure.

As specified in the EORTC scoring manual, for each scale or item, a linear transformation was applied to standardize the raw score to a range from 0 to 100 (high scores represent a high/healthy level of functioning).

Mean presented is Adjusted mean. Adjusted for the stratification factors macroscopic residual postoperative tumour at baseline (yes vs. no), FIGO stage (IIB-III vs IV), and Carboplatin level (AUC5 vs. AUC6)., First drug administration until final DBL 26September16, upto 62 months
The trial will be performed to evaluate if BIBF 1120 in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin is more effective than placebo in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin in first-line treatment of patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Safety information about BIBF1120/paclitaxel/carboplatin will be obtained.