A Study of Combination Chemotherapy for Patients With Newly Diagnosed DAWT and Relapsed FHWT
This phase II trial studies how well combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with newly diagnosed stage II-IV diffuse anaplastic Wilms tumors (DAWT) or favorable histology Wilms tumors (FHWT) that have come back (relapsed). Drugs used in chemotherapy regimens such as UH-3 (vincristine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, carboplatin, etoposide, and irinotecan) and ICE/Cyclo/Topo (ifosfamide, carboplatin, etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and topotecan) work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. This trial may help doctors find out what effects, good and/or bad, regimen UH-3 has on patients with newly diagnosed DAWT and standard risk relapsed FHWT (those treated with only 2 drugs for the initial WT) and regimen ICE/Cyclo/Topo has on patients with high and very high risk relapsed FHWT (those treated with 3 or more drugs for the initial WT).
Anaplastic Kidney Wilms Tumor|Recurrent Kidney Wilms Tumor|Stage II Kidney Wilms Tumor|Stage III Kidney Wilms Tumor|Stage IV Kidney Wilms Tumor
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ifosfamide|DRUG: Irinotecan|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure|DRUG: Topotecan|PROCEDURE: Transabdominal Ultrasound|DRUG: Vincristine|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Event-free survival (EFS) for stratum 1-3, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate EFS, defined as the time from study entry until relapse or disease progression, secondary malignancy, or death., From study entry to the earliest of relapse or disease progression, second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years from study entry|EFS for stratum 4, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate 4-year EFS, defined as the time from study entry until relapse or disease progression, secondary malignancy, or death., From study entry to the earliest of relapse or disease progression, second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years from study entry
Overall survival (OS) for stratum 1-4, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate OS, defined as the time from study entry until death., From study entry to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years from study entry
Percentage of patients experiencing grade 3+ renal adverse events, Percentage of patients experiencing grade 3 or higher renal adverse events. Will be evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 weeks on average for Stratum 4 only|Collection of blood and urine samples, For all Strata 1-4, serial blood and urine samples will be collected (during protocol therapy, at the end of protocol therapy, and at first relapse) and banked for future analysis such as evaluation of minimal residual disease by assessing levels of circulating tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA)., Up to 42 weeks on average for Strata 1-3 and up to 30 weeks on average for Stratum 4|p53 biomarker analysis, For patients with diffuse anaplastic Wilms tumors (DAWT) (Strata 1 and 2), p53 from diagnostic tissue will be assessed, and rates of p53 mutations described overall and within each stratum. Degree of anaplasia as a predictor of p53 mutation status will be analyzed in logistic regression models, and association of p53 status with EFS and OS will be analyzed in Cox regression models, stratified by disease stage. Possible interactions between p53 mutation status and degree of anaplasia in outcome models will be explored., Based on tissue collected at diagnosis (Strata 1 and 2 only), with outcomes collected up to 5 years after study entry|EFS for patients with gross total disease resection, EFS will be described for newly diagnosed disease stage 2-4 DAWT patients (Strata 1 and 2) and relapsed favorable histology Wilms tumors (FHWT) patients (Strata 3 and 4) who have gross total disease resection prior to enrollment or at the time of delayed nephrectomy following adjuvant chemotherapy. Kaplan-Meier curves will be reported by strata with 95% confidence bands. Potential prognostic factors for these patients will be explored in Cox regression models., Up to 5 years after study entry|OS for patients with gross total disease resection, OS will be described for newly diagnosed disease stage 2-4 DAWT patients (Strata 1 and 2) and relapsed FHWT patients (Strata 3 and 4) who have gross total disease resection prior to enrollment or at the time of delayed nephrectomy following adjuvant chemotherapy. Kaplan-Meier curves will be reported by strata with 95% confidence bands. Potential prognostic factors for these patients will be explored in Cox regression models., Up to 5 years after study entry|Association of the number of nodes examined with EFS and OS, The number of lymph nodes examined at the time of primary nephrectomy and number of positive nodes will be collected for all DAWT patients who enroll to Strata 1 or 2. The association of the number of nodes examined with EFS and OS will be explored in Cox regression models stratified by disease stage. For each of these analyses, association will be expressed either as a single hazard ratio if the effect is found to be linear, or as continuous functions on the hazard ratio scale if the effect is found to be non-linear. Similar models will be fit to examine the association between ratio of positive nodes to nodes examined and outcomes. Confidence intervals or bands will be reported for all quantities., Nodal information from upfront or delayed nephrectomy, with outcomes collected for up to 5 years after study entry|Rates of usage of intensity-modulated radiation therapy, Will be reported descriptively for cohorts receiving radiation., Up to 7 or 30 weeks|Detection and quantification of ctDNA, Presence/absence of ctDNA at study entry (diagnosis for DAWT Strata 1 and 2, and first relapse for relapsed FHWT Strata 3 and 4) as well as ctDNA levels as a continuous variable will be associated with subsequent EFS using Kaplan-Meier methodology, log-rank tests, and Cox proportional hazards modeling. ctDNA over time (diagnosis, on treatment, and off treatment) will be associated with clinical outcomes using longitudinal modeling. Where sufficient EFS events exist, ctDNA will be evaluated alongside or in combination with other known risk factors to establish risk groups. Genomic features such as TP53 and 1q gain identified in ctDNA will be reported descriptively and correlated with tumor-based marker findings., Up to 42 weeks on average for Strata 1-3 and up to 30 weeks on average for Stratum 4
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to cyclophosphamide/ carboplatin/etoposide alternating with vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the event-free survival (EFS) of patients with newly diagnosed stage 4 diffuse anaplastic Wilms tumor (DAWT) as compared to historical controls.

II. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to cyclophosphamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the EFS of patients with standard-risk relapsed favorable histology Wilms tumor (SRrFHWT) as compared to historical controls.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to cyclophosphamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the overall survival (OS) of patients with newly diagnosed stage 4 DAWT as compared to historical controls.

II. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to cyclophosphamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the OS of patients with SRrFHWT as compared to historical controls.

III. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to cyclophosphamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the EFS and OS of patients with newly diagnosed stage 2 and 3 DAWT as compared to historical controls.

IV. To establish EFS and OS for high-risk (HRrFHWT) and very high risk (VHRrFHWT) relapsed favorable histology Wilms tumor treated with ifosfamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with cyclophosphamide/ topotecan.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe renal toxicity of ifosfamide/carboplatin/etoposide in HRrFHWT and VHRrFHWT patients using conventional and novel biomarkers of renal toxicity (urine NGAL, cystatin C and Kim1) in the context of the chemotherapy regimens used on this study.

II. To collect and bank serial blood and urine samples in patients with newly diagnosed DAWT or relapsed FHWT and tumor tissue in patients with relapsed FHWT, for future analysis.

III. To assess the impact of p53 gene and protein expression on outcome for patients with newly diagnosed DAWT.

IV. To determine EFS/OS in the subsets of patients with newly diagnosed DAWT or relapsed FWHT who undergo gross total resection at all disease sites at diagnosis or after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

V. To describe the rate of regional lymph node sampling at the time of nephrectomy with the use of a pre-operative surgical checklist for patients with newly diagnosed DAWT.

VI. To determine the feasibility of intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) with central quality assurance (QA) monitoring to reduce radiation induced toxicity to the heart, thyroid, breast and solitary kidney for children with lung and liver metastases (part of an overarching aim in this study and across frontline favorable histology Wilms tumor studies).

VII. To validate that circulating tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) can identify high-risk genomic features, define prognostic risk groups, and identify patterns of tumor evolution associated with the development of treatment resistance.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (REGIMEN UH-3):

CYCLES 1, 5, 7, 10, AND 13: Patients receive vincristine intravenously (IV) via minibag per institutional policy on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients also receive doxorubicin IV over 1-15 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days during cycles 1, 5, 7, 10, and 13 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CYCLES 2, 6, 9, 12, AND 14: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 15-60 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes and etoposide IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-4. Treatment repeats every 21 days during cycles 2, 6, 9, 12, and 14 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CYCLES 3, 4, 8, AND 11: Patients receive vincristine IV via minibag per institutional policy on days 1 and 8 and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days during cycles 3, 4, 8, and 11 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo radiation therapy (RT) at week 7 of cycle 3 as clinically indicated. Patients undergo a computed tomography (CT) scan, a positron emission tomography (PET) scan, a chest x-ray, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), an abdominal ultrasound, and/or a bone scan throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo blood specimen collection and biopsy throughout the trial.

ARM II (REGIMEN IFOSFAMIDE, CARBOPLATIN, ETOPOSIDE \[ICE\]/CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE \[CYCLO\]/TOPOTECAN \[TOPO\]):

CYCLES 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, AND 9: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 15-60 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive etoposide IV over 1-2 hours and ifosfamide IV over 2-4 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days during cycles 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, and 9 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CYCLES 3, 6, 8, AND 10: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes and topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days during cycles 3, 6, 8, and 10 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo surgery and/or RT during cycles 4, 7, and 10 as clinically indicated. Patients undergo a CT scan, a PET scan, a chest x-ray, MRI, an abdominal ultrasound, and/or a bone scan throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo blood specimen collection and biopsy throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for years 1-2, every 6 months for years 3-4, and once at year 5.