Regorafenib in Combination With TAS-102 in Subjects With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Who Have Progressed After Standard Therapy
0116-ASG REMETY is a multicenter, open-label, non-randomized, dose-escalation Phase I study evaluating the safety and anti-tumor activity of TAS-102 administered in combination with Regorafenib in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Pretreated Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: TAS 102|DRUG: Regorafenib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) will be determined by recording dose limiting toxicities (DLT) occurring during the first 2 treatment cycles of each patient in each tested dose level. DLT will be identified by observing frequency and severity of specific adverse events., 2 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR) according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, ORR is defined as the proportion of ALL Treated Subjects whose best overall response (BOR) from baseline is either a CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 criteria. BOR is determined by the best response designation recorded between the date of subject enrollment and the date of objectively documented progression. For subjects without documented progression, all available response designations will contribute to the BOR determination.

ORR will be evaluated by reporting absolute and relative frequencies., approx. 12 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression free survival will be calculated from the date of subject enrollment until the date of confirmed PD or death from any cause. If no event is observed (e.g. lost to follow-up) PFS is censored at the time of last tumor assessment., approx. 12 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall Survival will be calculated from the date of subject enrollment until the date of death from any cause. If no event is observed (e.g. lost to follow-up) OS is censored at the day of last subject contact., approx. 12 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Incidence of AEs, SAEs, Treatment Emergent Adverse Events according to CTC 4.03, approx. 12 months
The primary objective is to determine safety, feasibility and the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of a combination treatment consisting of TAS-102 and Regorafenib in subjects with mCRC who have progressed after standard therapy.