Olanzapine Impact on First-line Immunotherapy for Advanced EGFR-negative NSCLC
Clinical Trial

The objective of this clinical trial is to determine whether antidepressant medications, such as olanzapine, in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors are more effective than the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors alone. The main questions it aims to answer are:

Is the combination therapy of antidepressant medication with immune checkpoint inhibitors more efficacious than the therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors alone? What medical issues might participants encounter when treated with the combination of antidepressant medication and immune checkpoint inhibitors?

Participants will:

Take olanzapine in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors or immune checkpoint inhibitors alone for 2 months.

Visit the clinic for check-ups and tests every two weeks, and have follow-up visits every six weeks after the treatment ends.

Keep a record of their symptoms and disease progression.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Olanzapine|DRUG: Nivolumab
The Overall Survival（OS）, The Overall Survival（OS），From the time of a patient's diagnosis or the commencement of treatment, to the time of the patient's death., 24 months
An Open-label, Two-arm, Multicenter, Phase II Randomized Controlled Study on the Impact of Olanzapine on the Efficacy of First-line Immunotherapy in Patients with Advanced EGFR Mutation-negative Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC).

Primary Research Objective:

To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) in patients with advanced EGFR mutation-negative NSCLC treated with first-line PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors combined with olanzapine.

Secondary Research Objectives:

To evaluate the interval of progression-free survival (iPFS) in patients with advanced EGFR mutation-negative NSCLC treated with first-line PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors combined with olanzapine.

To evaluate other antitumor efficacy indicators in patients with advanced EGFR mutation-negative NSCLC treated with first-line PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors combined with olanzapine: progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DoR), and disease control rate (DCR).

To assess the safety (Safety) and the improvement of quality of life (QoL) in patients with advanced EGFR mutation-negative NSCLC treated with first-line PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors combined with olanzapine.

To explore the impact of antipsychotic medication on the immune response to first-line immunotherapy in advanced NSCLC.

Study Design:

This study is an open-label, two-arm, multicenter, phase II randomized controlled study designed to evaluate and observe the impact of olanzapine on the efficacy of first-line immunotherapy in patients with advanced EGFR mutation-negative NSCLC. Eligible participants who meet all inclusion criteria and do not meet any exclusion criteria will receive first-line treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies alone or in combination with chemotherapy (according to the instructions for use).

Study Subjects:

Ages 18 years and above (including 18) and up to 75 years (including 75); histologically or cytologically confirmed EGFR mutation-negative NSCLC; intended to receive first-line treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors alone or in combination with chemotherapy.

Inclusion Criteria:

Participants voluntarily join this study and sign an informed consent form, with good compliance and cooperation with follow-up.

Age is 18 years and above (including 18) and up to 75 years (including 75). ECOG score: 0-2 points. Expected survival is no less than 3 months. Staged as Stage IV according to the TNM system. Confirmed to have NSCLC with EGFR mutation-negative by histology or cytology. Has not received systemic antitumor treatment, and is intended to receive first-line treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors alone or in combination with chemotherapy.

Normal major organ function, that is, meeting the following criteria: (1) Hematological examination criteria must be met: Hb≥90 g/L; ANC≥1.5×10\^9/L; PLT≥80×10\^9/L. (2) Biochemical examination must meet the following criteria: TBIL\<1.5ULN; ALT and AST\<2.5ULN; serum Cr≤1.25ULN or endogenous creatinine clearance \> 45 ml/min (Cockcroft-Gault formula).

Women of childbearing age must have taken reliable contraceptive measures and have undergone a pregnancy test (serum or urine) within 7 days before enrollment, with a negative result, and are willing to use appropriate methods of contraception during the trial period and for 8 weeks after the last administration of the trial medication. For men, they must agree to use appropriate methods of contraception during the trial period and for 8 weeks after the last administration of the trial medication or have undergone surgical sterilization.

Data Analysis/Statistical Methods:

Common Analysis This study will summarize the data using corresponding descriptive statistics according to the type of data, that is, for quantitative data, mean (Mean), standard deviation (SD), median (Median), minimum value (Minimum), and maximum value (Maximum) will be used, and for count data and grade data, frequency and percentage will be used, and time-event data will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method for the median time and the overall 95% confidence interval.

Efficacy Analysis The primary efficacy endpoint, the objective response rate (ORR) based on the investigator's assessment, will be compared between groups using the Fisher's exact probability test and the two-sided 95% confidence interval will be listed.

The secondary efficacy indicators, including the interval of progression-free survival (iPFS), progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DoR), and disease control rate (DCR), will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for the median time and the median event and the two-sided 95% confidence interval will be listed, and the hazard ratio and its 95% confidence interval will be estimated. The disease control rate (DCR = CR + PR + SD) will be compared between groups using Fisher's exact probability test and the two-sided 95% confidence interval will be listed. Quality of life score statistical tests will use ANOVA or two-sided t-tests, and a P-value less than or equal to 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Comparisons of changes before and after within groups will be made using paired t-tests.

Safety Analysis Safety analysis will mainly summarize descriptive statistics. Statistics will be summarized for adverse events (AEs) and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), and laboratory data, vital signs, etc. At the same time, statistical summaries will be made for the exposure to the study drug (including treatment cycles, total dose received, and dose intensity). The above data will be analyzed and summarized according to the current clinical trial reporting standards. Including: summary of adverse events (all causes and related to treatment); incidence and severity of adverse events (all causes and related to treatment); analysis of adverse events related to the drug; analysis of the outcome of adverse events; analysis of serious adverse events.

Sample Size Estimation:

This study is an open-label, two-arm, multicenter, phase II randomized controlled study. The primary research objective is to evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) in patients with advanced EGFR mutation-negative NSCLC treated with first-line PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors combined with olanzapine. The study endpoint is the objective response rate (ORR) of the patients. Referring to historical literature, the ORR of first-line chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy in advanced NSCLC patients is about 50%, and it is expected that the combination with olanzapine can increase the ORR by 15%. After the first subject is enrolled, the longest observation period is 24 months, with α being two-sided 0.05, and the power being 90%, the study plans to enroll 156 subjects, with 78 in the experimental group and 78 in the control group, calculated with a 10% loss to follow-up rate.