Phase II Trial of Double Dose of Icotinib in Treating Brain Metastases From Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Brain metastases, a common complication,occur in 25-40% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Whole-brain radiation therapy(WBRT) and Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) are important approaches to the treatment of brain metastases from NSCLC. Known to us, epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) can pass through the blood-brain barrier and show promising antitumor activity against brain metastases from NSCLC, especially for EGFR mutation patients. However, due to the lower concentration of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in the cerebrospinal fluid and its inevitable emergence of drug resistance, brain metastases will be refractory or resistant to standard-dose EGFR inhibitors. Icotinib is one agent of EGFR-TKIs. The previous studies have shown that the Icotinib conventional dose (125mg, TID) is far from reached its maximum tolerable dose. It is a challenge whether the further dose escalation of Icotinib will enhance its concentration in cerebrospinal fluid and thereby improve its therapeutic effect. Here the investigators examine the therapeutic effect and side-effect of double dose of Icitinib in treating patients with brain metastases from NSCLC who have suffered from the failure of conventional dose treatment.
Brain Metastases|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Icotinib
Progression-free survival (intracranial lesions), 2 years
Partial response rate of intracranial lesions, 2 years|Partial response rate of extracranial lesion, 2 years|Overall survival, 3 years|Health-related quality of life quality, 2 years|number of adverse events such as skin rash,diarrhea ,abnormal liver function and so on, 2 years
Brain metastases, a common complication,occur in 25-40% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Whole-brain radiation therapy(WBRT) and Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) are important approaches to the treatment of brain metastases from NSCLC. Known to us, epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) can pass through the blood-brain barrier and show promising antitumor activity against brain metastases from NSCLC, especially for EGFR mutation patients. However, due to the lower concentration of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in the cerebrospinal fluid and its inevitable emergence of drug resistance, brain metastases will be refractory or resistant to standard-dose EGFR inhibitors. Icotinib is one agent of EGFR-TKIs. The previous studies have shown that the Icotinib conventional dose (125mg, TID) is far from reached its maximum tolerable dose. It is a challenge whether the further dose escalation of Icotinib will enhance its concentration in cerebrospinal fluid and thereby improve its therapeutic effect. Here the investigators examine the therapeutic effect and side-effect of double dose of Icitinib in treating patients with brain metastases from NSCLC who have suffered from the failure of conventional dose treatment.