Intrapleural Administration of HSV1716 to Treat Patients With Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma.
HSV1716, an oncolytic virus, is a mutant herpes simplex virus (HSV) type I, deleted in the RL1 gene which encodes the protein ICP34.5.

Malignant mesothelioma is an aggressive, asbestos-related tumour of the pleural and peritoneal cavities. It is a rare cancer which occurs in individuals who have been exposed to asbestos, although it typically occurs decades after exposure (10-40 years later). Malignant pleural mesothelioma forms plaques that are distributed on the surface of the pleural space in the lung. Approximately 30% of patients require an indwelling pleural catheter for drainage of pleural effusions. In this patient group, the indwelling catheter may be used to facilitate loco-regional delivery of HSV1716 to the pleural space.

This study seeks to evaluate the safety and biological effects of single and multiple administrations of HSV1716 in the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma.
Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
BIOLOGICAL: HSV1716 Intra-pleural delivery
Safety and tolerability of HSV1716 given by single and repeat intrapleural administration in patients with inoperable malignant pleural mesothelioma., Dose limiting toxicities will be assessed at 28 days after last injection of HSV1716.
Obtain evidence of HSV1716 replication and lysis of malignant pleural mesothelioma cells through analysis of pleural fluid and serum samples for evidence of cell death and/or HSV1716 replication and/or changes in appropriate biomarkers., Samples will be collected at each outpatient visit up to day 29 (Part A), or day 50 (Part B).
Tumour measurement as recorded by CT scans and assessed using the modified Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) for MPM., CT scans at Baseline, day 29 and day 57.
The study will be conducted in two parts. PART A is a single centre, single dose design, open label. Patients with inoperable malignant pleural mesothelioma will receive a single dose of HSV1716 by intrapleural administration. Delivery will be by direct administration via an indwelling catheter into the pleural cavity. PART B is a single centre, repeat dose design, open label. Two groups of three patients with inoperable malignant pleural mesothelioma will receive 2 (group 1) or 4 (group 2) single doses of HSV1716 at weekly intervals. Administration will be via an indwelling catheter into the pleural cavity.