Bevacizumab With or Without Fosbretabulin Tromethamine in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, or Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well bevacizumab with or without fosbretabulin tromethamine works in treating patients with ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cavity cancer that has come back or is persistent. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, find tumor cells and help kill them. Bevacizumab and fosbretabulin tromethamine may stop the growth of ovarian cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether bevacizumab is more effective with or without fosbretabulin tromethamine in treating ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cavity cancer.
Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Fosbretabulin Tromethamine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Progression-free Survival (PFS), The time from randomization until disease progression, death, or date of last contact. Endpoints are progression or death. Patients who are not observed with an endpoint are censored., For those patients whose disease can be evaluated by physical examination, progression was assessed prior to each 21 day cycle. CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle, up to 5 years
Incidence of Adverse Events (Grade 3 or Higher) as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 4.0, Toxicities will be characterized by their frequency and severity. Differences in the level of toxicities by treatment regimen will be assessed by classifying them as severe or not severe and examining the relative proportion of severe toxicities., Up to 5 years|Measurable Disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria and Progression Free Survival (PFS), Differences between measurable versus non-measurable disease status on PFS and OS will be examined with plots of survival curves, estimates of quartiles and hazard ratios., Up to 5 years|Tumor Response, Complete and Partial Tumor Response by RECIST 1.0, for those patients whose disease can be evaluated by physical examination, response wa assessed prior to each 21 day cycle. CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle, up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Differences between measurable versus non-measurable disease status on PFS and OS will be examined with plots of survival curves, estimates of quartiles and hazard ratios., Up to 5 years|Response by CA-125, The effects of treatment on the proportion responding by CA125 will be examined., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival hazard ratio of the combination of bevacizumab and fosbretabulin tromethamine (CA4P) compared to bevacizumab alone in patients with persistent or recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of fosbretabulin tromethamine plus bevacizumab.

II. To characterize and compare progression-free survival in patients with measurable disease (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria) and patients with detectable (non-measurable) disease between regimens.

III. To determine the overall survival for both regimens. IV. To estimate the proportion of patients with measurable disease who have objective tumor responses by treatment.

V. To provide descriptive information about cancer antigen (CA)-125 responses by regimen and where possible by objective tumor responses.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes and fosbretabulin tromethamine IV over 10-20 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.