A Phase II Study of Tivozanib in Patients With Metastatic and Non-resectable Soft Tissue Sarcomas
This study is for patients who have been diagnosed with soft tissue sarcoma that has spread (metastasized) or that is not eligible for removal by surgery. The purpose of this study is to determine how soft tissue sarcomas respond to treatment with an investigational drug called tivozanib. In some lab and clinical studies, tivozanib has been shown to interfere with the growth of some types of tumors. The study will also evaluate how safe the study treatment is by observing how many and what kind of adverse events (side effects) participants experience.
Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage III Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: tivozanib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Percentage of Patients With Progression-free Survival at 16 Weeks., Progression-free survival from study disease will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee, version 1.1 assessed using imaging scans (CT or MRI) and clinical assessment following 16 weeks of treatment.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions", or similar definition as accurate and appropriate., At 16 weeks of treatment.
Overall Response Rate Defined as Complete Response and Partial Response., The response to study treatment will be assessed after every 8 weeks (2 cycles) of therapy using CT or MRI scan images.Overall response rate will be measured per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI:

Complete response (CR) = disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR), = at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Every 2 cycles (8 weeks) up to 2 years|Clinical Benefit Rate as Defined by Complete Response, Partial Response and Stable Disease., The clinical benefit of study treatment will be assessed after 8 weeks (2 cycles) of therapy using scanning images (CT or MRI). Clinical benefit rate will be measured per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI:

Complete Response (CR) = disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR), = at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD.

Progressive Disease (PD) = At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions.

Stable Disease (SD) = Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Every 2 cycles (8 weeks) up to 2 years|Overall Survival up to 2 Years Beyond Progression, Patients will be followed-up with from first dose of study drug up to 2 years following the date of disease progression., Time from the first dose of study treatment up to 2 years beyond disease progression|Number of Patients With 0-3 VEGFR1 and VEGFR2 Protein Expression and Time in Days on Treatment, Tissue from biopsy will be collected during screening and proteins (VEGFR1 and VEGFR2) will be evaluated to see if there is a correlation with patient response to treatment.

VERGFR = vascular endothelial growth factor receptor

To determine if there was a correlation between response to Tivozanib and VEGFR expression, immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis on archival tumor tissue was performed. We performed standard IHC and applied combined intensity score (from 0 to 3) for antigen expression and proportional score of 0-3 for the cells that were positive. For antigen expression, 0 was no staining, +1 being 1-25% staining, +2 being 26-50% staining and +3 being 50% or greater staining. Number of patients with VEGFR1 expression was correlated with time patients were on treatment in days., Tissue collected during screening process, prior to first treatment and response measured until 350 days.|Treatment Toxicity as Measured by Adverse Events Experienced While on Treatment During Systematic Assessment., Toxicity will be assessed after 4 weeks (1 cycle) and every 4 weeks during treatment according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria for adverse events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0). In general adverse events (AEs) will be graded according to the following:

Grade 1 Mild AE Grade 2 Moderate AE Grade 3 Severe AE Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE Grade 5 Death related to AE, After every 4 weeks (1 cycle) until treatment discontinuation and up to a maximum of 2 years and 10 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival (defined as complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\] + stable disease \[SD\]) assessed at 16 weeks for patients treated with tivozanib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall response rate (defined as CR + PR). II. Clinical benefit rate (CR + PR + SD). III. Overall survival (up to 2 years beyond progression). IV. Correlation of clinical outcome with antibodies for vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 (VEGFR1) and VEGFR2.

V. Assess Safety and tolerability.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tivozanib orally (PO) daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, or until discontinuation per patient preference or physician recommendation.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.