Japanese Phase 2 Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Pomalidomide in Subjects With Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pomalidomide in combination with dexamethasone in subjects with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Myeloma Response Rate Based on the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria, Myeloma response was defined as a best overall response of stringent complete response (SCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR) or partial response (PR) SCR: CR and normal free light chain (FLC) ratio and no clonal cells in bone marrow; CR: Negative serum and urine on immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ≤ 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours; PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24 hours. In addition to the above, if present at baseline a ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required., From the first dose until the data cut-off date of 03 Sept 2014; Maximum time in follow-up was 36.0 weeks.|Myeloma Response Rate Based on the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria (Later Cut-off Date), Myeloma response was defined as a best overall response of stringent complete response (SCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR) or partial response (PR) SCR: CR and normal free light chain (FLC) ratio and no clonal cells in bone marrow; CR: Negative serum and urine on immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ≤ 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours; PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24 hours. In addition to the above, if present at baseline a ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required., From the first dose until the final data cut-off date of 25 September 2015; maximum duration on treatment was 80.9 weeks
Myeloma Response Rate Based on European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) Criteria, Myeloma response was defined as a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) CR is defined as: - Absence of original monoclonal paraprotein in serum and urine by immunofixation maintained at least 42 days. - \<5% plasma cell in bone marrow aspirate and on bone marrow biopsy, if performed. - No increase in size or number of lytic bone lesions. - Disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas. PR requires all of the following: - ≥ 50% reduction in level of serum monoclonal paraprotein, maintained at least 42 days. - Reduction in 24-hour urinary light chain extraction by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg, maintained at least 42 days. - For patients with non-secretory myeloma, ≥ 50% reduction in plasma cells in bone marrow aspirate and on biopsy, if performed, for at least 42 days. - ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas. - No increase in size or number of lytic bone lesions., From first dose until the data cut-off date of 03 September 2014; maximum time in follow-up was 36.0 weeks|Time to Response, Time to response was calculated as the time from the first dose to the initial documented response (partial response or better) based on IMWG criteria. SCR: CR and normal free light chain (FLC) ratio and no clonal cells in bone marrow; CR: Negative serum and urine on immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ≤ 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours; PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24 hours. If present at baseline a ≥ 50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required., From the first dose until the data cut-off date of 03 September 2014. Maximum time on follow-up was 36.0 weeks.|Myeloma Response Rate Based on European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) Criteria (Later Cut-off Date), Myeloma response was defined as a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) CR is defined as: - Absence of original monoclonal paraprotein in serum and urine by immunofixation maintained at least 42 days. - \<5% plasma cell in bone marrow aspirate and on bone marrow biopsy, if performed. - No increase in size or number of lytic bone lesions. - Disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas. PR requires all of the following: - ≥ 50% reduction in level of serum monoclonal paraprotein, maintained at least 42 days. - Reduction in 24-hour urinary light chain extraction by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg, maintained at least 42 days. - For patients with non-secretory myeloma, ≥ 50% reduction in plasma cells in bone marrow aspirate and on biopsy, if performed, for at least 42 days. - ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas. - No increase in size or number of lytic bone lesions., From the first dose until the final data cut-off date of 25 September 2015; maximum duration on treatment was 80.9 weeks|Time to Response (Later Cut-off Date), Time to response was calculated as the time from the first dose to the initial documented response (partial response or better) based on IMWG criteria. SCR: CR and normal free light chain (FLC) ratio and no clonal cells in bone marrow; CR: Negative serum and urine on immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ≤ 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours; PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24 hours. If present at baseline a ≥ 50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required., From the first dose until the final data cut-off date of 25 September 2015; maximum duration on treatment was 80.9 weeks|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Duration of Response, Duration of response (calculated for responders only) was defined as time from the initial documented response (partial response or better) to confirmed disease progression, based on IMWG criteria., From first dose until the data cut-off date of 03 September 2014; maximum time for follow-up was 36 weeks|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Duration of Response (Later Cut-off Date), Duration of response (calculated for responders only) was defined as time from the initial documented response (partial response or better) to confirmed disease progression, based on IMWG criteria., From the first dose until the final data cut-off date of 25 September 2015; maximum duration on treatment was 80.9 weeks|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was calculated as the time from the first dosing to the first documented progressive disease, as determined by the investigators based on the IMWG Uniform Response criteria, or death, whichever occurred earlier, From the first dose until the data cut-off date of 03 September 2014; maximum time on treatment was 36.0 weeks|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of PFS (Later Cut-off Date), PFS was calculated as the time from the first dosing to the first documented progressive disease, as determined by the investigators based on the IMWG Uniform Response criteria, or death, whichever occurred earlier, From the first dose until the final data cut-off date of 25 September 2015; maximum duration on treatment was 80.9 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Relation to study drug was assessed by the Investigator as either suspected or not suspected. Counts represent the suspected relationship. Severity was assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (NCI CTCAE v4.0): 1= Mild 2= Moderate 3= Severe 4= Life-threatening and 5= Death related to AE. Serious AEs (SAEs) were those that resulted in death, were life-threatening, required or prolonged inpatient hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly, or resulted in an important medical event that may have jeopardized the patient or required medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed above. Treatment Emergent Adverse Event (TEAE) was defined as any AE occurring on or after the first treatment of the study medication and within 28 days after the last dose., From first dose of study drug to final data cut-off date of 25 Sept 2015, maximum duration on treatment was 80.9 weeks
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pomalidomide in combination with dexamethasone in subjects with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.