Study In Urology Practices Looking At Impact Of OncotypeDX GPS Test On Men Choosing And Remaining On Active Surveillance
Genomic Health's OncotypeDX® Prostate Cancer Assay is a commercially available laboratory test that measures the activity of certain genes in prostate cancer. The purpose of this study is to better understand how the use of this test result impacts or affects treatment decisions for men newly diagnosed with low risk prostate cancer, their confidence in the treatment decision, and the effects and side effects of the treatment chosen on certain aspects of Quality of Life. This study will also determine what percentage of men choosing an active monitoring program as prescribed by their doctor remain on Active Surveillance and have avoided any treatment at one year after diagnosis after receiving the assay result.
Prostate Cancer
Rate of persistence on Active Surveillance at 1 and 2 years after receiving the OncotypeDX Genomic Prostate Score (GPS), The analysis will estimate the absolute magnitude of the rates of persistence at these two time points, and the change between the two rates. The rate of persistence, at the particular timepoint, will be calculated as the proportion of patients who remain on Active Surveillance as of the doctor visit at the time. The rate of persistence will range from 0% to 100%, with 100% indicating all evaluable patients stay on Active Surveillance at the particular timepoint, and 0% indicating no evaluable patient on Active Surveillance., The analysis will estimate the absolute magnitude of the rates of persistence at these two time points (1 and 2 years after receiving GPS)
This is a multicenter observational study that evaluates eligible patients who will submit prostate cancer diagnostic biopsy tissues for Oncotype DX Prostate Cancer Assay testing. A physician treatment recommendation will be made and the assay is ordered. The physician will review clinical data, the GPS report and discuss treatment options with the patient. At the following visit, a shared physician-patient treatment decision (immediate treatment or AS) will be made.

Men selecting AS as primary treatment will be followed to assess persistence on AS.

There is no required or standardized AS protocol for this study and the intensity of surveillance will be at the discretion of the investigator. Patients will not be required, but may undergo a standard TRUS guided surveillance biopsy at one year. In this study, the Oncotype DX Prostate Cancer Assay will be assessed on the diagnostic biopsy only and will not be assessed on subsequent biopsies.