Induction and Consolidation Chemotherapy in Patients With Locally Advanced CRM-positive Rectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the addition of 2 cycles of induction CapOx chemotherapy and 2 cycles of consolidation CapOx chemotherapy to standard chemoradiation improves 3-year disease-free survival in patients with locally advanced CRM"+" mid and low rectal cancer.
Rectal Neoplasms Malignant|Rectum Carcinoma|Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Rectal cancer surgery
3-year disease-free survival, 3 years
Adjuvant chemotherapy compliance, Proportion of patients who receive a complete course of adjuvant chemotherapy, 6 months|Acute chemotherapy toxicity, Toxicity measured according to NCI-CTCAE v.5.0, 6 months|pathologic complete response rate (pCR), 1 month|local recurrence rate, 3 years|3-year overall survival, 3 years|Operative morbidity, Morbidity measured according to Clavien-Dindo classification, 30 days|Preoperative tumor-associated complications rate, The rate of tumor-associated complications (bowel obstruction, bleeding etc) during neoadjuvant chemotherapy, 6 months|Sphincter preservation rate, 1 month
This trial aims to investigate the efficacy of adding neoadjuvant induction and consolidation chemotherapy compared to standard chemoradiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer patients with circumferential resection margin involvement. This is a prospective multicenter open-label randomized phase III clinical trial. Patients will be randomized using an online randomization system to receive either 2 cycles of induction CapOx (oxaliplatin 130 mg/m2 iv day 1, capecitabine 2000 mg/m2 per os bid days 1-14) chemotherapy, followed by chemoradiotherapy (54 Gy in 2 Gy fractions with concomitant capecitabine 825 mg/m2 per os bid on radiation days), then 2 cycles of consolidation CapOx chemotherapy, surgery (10-12 weeks following chemoradiotherapy) and 2 cycles of adjuvant CapOx chemotherapy OR chemoradiotherapy (54 Gy in 2 Gy fractions with concomitant capecitabine 825 mg/m2 per os bid on radiation days), surgery (10-12 weeks following chemoradiotherapy) and 6 cycles of adjuvant CapOx chemotherapy. A stratification will be performed based on N stage, tumor location in the middle or low rectum and clinical center. Patients with middle or low rectal cancer without distant metastases, with involved circumferential resection margin (based on pretreatment MRI) will be included.

The target accrual is 270 patients in each treatment arm (including 10% potential data loss) based on potential benefit of 12% 3-yr disease-free survival (60% vs 72%), α=0,05, power 80% in the experimental arm. An interim analysis is planned after 50% of the patients will reach a 3-year followup. Pelvic Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is performed in all patients for staging before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and before surgery. Pelvic MRI is subject to central review. Conduction of this study and data collection are controlled by a local institutional board.