A Clinical Study to Investigate the Efficacy of Intratumoral Tigilanol Tiglate in Soft Tissue Sarcoma
A Phase IIa open label study evaluating the preliminary efficacy of intratumoural tigilanol tiglate in advanced and/or metastatic soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities and body wall.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: Tigilanol Tiglate
Tumour Response, Proportion of participants who have achieved partial or complete ablation of treated tumour(s) and/or tumour segment(s) following injection(s) with tigilanol tiglate., 6 months|ORR as determined by RECIST, Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) V1.1, 3 and 6 months post initial treatment (Stage 2 only)
Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Total number of Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and number of AEs and SAEs deemed related to tigilanol tiglate., 6 months|Systemic Exposure, Evaluation of how much tigilanol tiglate is circulating in the blood after a single injection., Up to 24 hours after the first dose
Tumour Microenvironment, To assess changes in the tumour microenvironment by looking at the change from baseline of immune cell infiltration in tumour biopsy tissue collected from injected and/or non-injected tumours after injection with tigilanol tiglate., 7 days before and between 28 and 56 days after standard of care (Stage 2).|Evaluation of Peripheral Blood Mononucleocytes (PBMCs), Evaluation of Peripheral Blood Mononucleocytes (PBMCs)., 24 weeks|Local Recurrence Rate at injection site(s), Percentage of participants with local recurrence at injection site(s) at 6-months after first treatment., 6 months|Metabolite analysis, Metabolite analysis following a single intratumoural injection of tigilanol tiglate (Stage 2 only)., 24hrs following first injection.
Primary Objective

1. To evaluate tumour ablation in tumours and/or tumour segments following one or more treatments with tigilanol tiglate; and
2. To evaluate the effect of tigilanol tiglate on overall disease control (not limited to injected tumours) (Stage 2 only).

Secondary Objective

1. To assess the safety and tolerability of intratumoural injections with tigilanol tiglate; and
2. To evaluate systemic exposure through pharmacokinetic (PK) assessment after a single intratumoural injection of tigilanol tiglate.

Exploratory Objectives

1. To evaluate the microenvironment of injected tumours +/- non-injected tumours;
2. To evaluate the degree of immune response elicited with intratumoural tigilanol tiglate;
3. To evaluate local recurrence rate; and
4. To evaluate metabolites after a single intratumoural injection of tigilanol tiglate (Stage 2 only).