Evaluating a Fasting-mimicking Diet in Combination With Immunotherapy in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to learn the effects of fasting on cancer cells while you get maintenance treatment.
Stage IV NSCLC|NSCLC|Immunotherapy|Fasting Mimicking Diet
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: FMD|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Regular Diet Plus FMD
Feasibility of fasting mimicking diet intervention, Feasibility will be defined as the proportion of the patients who can finish the 3 cycles FMD without serious adverse events. The investigators define FMD as being a feasible intervention in NSCLC receiving checkpoint inhibitors if 70% of patients on study complete 3 cycles of FMD., Through study completion up to 2 years.|Compliance, Compliance will be measured by analysis of daily food diaries at the end of each FMD cycle., Through study completion up to 2 years.
Immune Mediated Toxicities, Toxicities as defined by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5.0., Through study completion up to 2 years.|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.1 criteria., Through study completion up to 2 years.|Disease control rate (DCR), Defined as Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) + Stable Disease (SD) per RECIST 1.1

., Through study completion up to 2 years.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as time from day 1 of starting on study to disease progression by RECIST 1.1 or death from any cause., Through study completion up to 2 years.|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung-(FACT-L), A 36-item, questionnaire measured on a 5-point Likert scale with response options ranging from "not at all" to "very much." Total scores are summed in the range of 0 to 136. Higher scores indicate better QOL., Through study completion up to 2 years.|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life -(EORTC QLQ-C30), A 30-item questionnaire measured on a 4-point response option ranging from ("not at all," to "very much"), except the global QoL scale which, has a 7-point response from ("very poor" to "excellent"). Scores range from 0-100, a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., Through study completion up to 2 years.
Cancer cells use an increased supply of glucose to make energy and do not have protection against fasting that normal cells do. Because of this, researchers would like to study how fasting may help immunotherapy target cancer cells. Initial studies suggest that fasting may decrease the side effects of immunotherapy and increase the chances of your cancer responding to the immunotherapy. Patient populations will have non-small cell lung cancer in which pembrolizumab have been recommended to treat the cancer as part of standard care