Lenvatinib Plus I-125 Seed Brachytherapy vs. Lenvatinib for TACE-refractory HCC
This study is conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib plus iodine-125 seed brachytherapy (Len-I) compared with lenvatinib (Len) alone for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) refractory to transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Non-resectable
PROCEDURE: Lenvatinib Plus I-125 Seed Brachytherapy|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Overall survival (OS), The time from date of randomization to death due to any cause., 4 years
Progression free survival (PFS), The time from date of randomization until the first occurrence of disease progression (according to mRECIST) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 4 years|Time to Progression (TTP), The time from date of randomization until the first occurrence of disease progression (according to mRECIST)., 4 years|Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of patients with the best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to mRECIST., 4 years|Disease control rate (DCR), The proportion of patients with the best response of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) according to mRECIST., 4 years|Adverse Events (AEs), Number of patients with AEs assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0., 4 years
This is a single-center, prospective and randomized controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Len-I versus Len alone for patients with TACE-refractory HCC.

187 patients with TACE-refractory HCC will be enrolled in this study. The patients will receive either Len-I or Len alone using an 2:1 randomization scheme.

Lenvatinib (body weight ≥ 60 kg, 12mg P.O. QD; body weight \< 60 kg, 8mg P.O. QD) will be administered to the patients and last until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first. For patients in the Len-I arm, iodion-125 seeds will be implanted into the the target lesions (viable intrahepatic tumor and/or vascular tumor thrombus) under CT guidance according to the pre-operative planning within 7 days after lenvatinib administration. Iodion-125 seeds implantation can be repeated on demand during follow-up based on the evaluation of laboratory and imaging examination.

The primary end point of this study is overall survival (OS). The secondary endpoints are progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP), objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and adverse events (AEs).