Atezolizumab and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Rare Solid Tumors
This phase II trial studies how well atezolizumab and bevacizumab work in treating patients with rare solid tumors. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab and bevacizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Appendix Adenocarcinoma|Human Papillomavirus-Related Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Human Papillomavirus-Related Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Human Papillomavirus-Related Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Penis|Human Papillomavirus-Related Vulvar Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor|Recurrent Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Nasopharynx Carcinoma|Recurrent Peritoneal Malignant Mesothelioma|Recurrent Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma|Stage III Merkel Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma AJCC v7|Stage IV Merkel Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Vaginal Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Not Otherwise Specified
DRUG: Atezolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Objective response, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 (modified RECIST for pleural mesothelioma). Will be defined as a complete response or partial response on two consecutive occasions 4 weeks apart as determined by an independent radiologist. For each tumor group, the best response rate and its 95% exact confidence interval will be estimated using the Clopper and Pearson method. The combination treatment will be assessed by performing the independent binomial test comparing the best response rate versus the historical control for each tumor group. The Bayesian classification and information sharing method proposed by Lee and Chen may be applied., Up to 4 years
Objective response, Will be assessed by immune-modified RECIST, Up to 4 years|Progression free survival, Will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 (modified RECIST for pleural mesothelioma). Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. The log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. Cox proportional hazards model may be utilized to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis., The time from enrollment to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years|Duration of response, Will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 (modified RECIST for pleural mesothelioma). For each tumor group the median duration of response and corresponding 2-sided 95% confidence interval will be reported., The time from the first occurrence of a documented objective response to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. The log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. Cox proportional hazards model may be utilized to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis., The time from enrollment to death from any cause, assessed up to 4 years|Progression free survival, Will be assessed by immune-modified RECIST, Up to 4 years|Duration of response, Will be assessed by immune-modified RECIST, Up to 4 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0. Verbatim adverse events and severity will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. The safety analyses will include all patients who received at least one dose of study treatment. Toxicity data will be summarized by frequency tables for each tumor type group. The association between the types and severity of toxicity and the tumor group will be evaluated. No formal statistical testing will be performed on these summary., Up to 4 years|Change in targeted vital signs, Baseline up to 4 years|Change in targeted clinical laboratory test results, Baseline up to 4 years
Predictive and prognostic biomarkers in blood and tumor tissue, The relationship between biomarkers in blood and tumor tissue and efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity, or other biomarker endpoints will be assessed. Summary statistics for biomarkers and their corresponding changes (or percent changes) from baseline will be tabulated by planned study day and dose in each tumor group. The time-course of biomarker measures will be investigated graphically. If there is indication of meaningful pattern over time, further analysis (eg, by linear mixed model) may be performed to characterize the relationship. Methods such as, but not limited to, logistic regression will be used to explore possible associations between biomarker measures and clinical outcomes., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of atezolizumab when given in combination with bevacizumab (atezo bev).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of atezo bev. II. To evaluate the safety of atezo + bev.

EXPLORATORY BIOMARKER OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify biomarkers that are predictive of response to atezo bev (i.e., predictive biomarkers), are associated with progression to a more severe disease state (i.e., prognostic biomarkers), are associated with resistance to atezo bev, are associated with susceptibility to developing adverse events, can provide evidence of study treatment activity, or can increase the knowledge and understanding of disease biology.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive atezolizumab and bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.