Sorafenib and Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Advanced Liver Cancer
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat when given together with sorafenib tosylate in treating patients with advanced liver cancer. Sorafenib tosylate and vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth or by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Liver Cancer
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|DRUG: vorinostat
Determine the appropriate Doses for the combination of sorafenib tosylate and vorinostat appropriate for phase II study in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)., Identify the maximum tolerated dose of the combination regimen of vorinostat and sorafenib to study further for efficacy of treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma, 4 weeks
Adverse events will be characterized in terms of nature, severity, attribution, onset and resolution according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0., Safety, tolerance, and toxicity of the combination of sorafenib tosylate and vorinostat in patients with HCC. Observe toxicities experienced by patients treated in cohorts of escalating doses of the drug combination., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Anti-tumor effects of the combination of sorafenib tosylate and vorinostat, Tumor masses will be evaluated for response according to the RECIST Criteria. Summarized using descriptive statistics for each cohort, along with their corresponding 95% confidence intervals., Up to 6 years
Outline: This is a dose-escalation study of vorinostat. The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and effectiveness of a combination of two cancer drugs, sorafenib (Nexavar) and vorinostat (Zolinza), in advanced liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma). Advanced means that the cancer has spread too far to consider surgery. Approximately 19 people will take part in this study.

After enrollment of 6 patients at sorafenib 400 mg orally twice a day and vorinostat 300 mg orally, only 2 of the 6 patients were evaluable for DLT (no DLTs). The other 4 patients were not evaluable for DLT because of required dose modifications. Because of this dose modification need, Cohort A has been modified to include 2 dose levels: Dose level A-1a (sorafenib 400 mg orally twice a day and vorinostat 200 mg orally once a day) and dose level A1 (sorafenib 400 mg orally twice a day with vorinostat 100 mg orally once a day). The starting dose upon reopening after approval of this version will be dose level A-1a. Dose level A1 will only be used if dose level A-1a is not tolerable.