Testing the Addition of Copanlisib to Eribulin in Metastatic Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of copanlisib and how well it works when given together with eribulin in treating patients with triple negative breast cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Copanlisib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as eribulin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving copanlisib and eribulin together may work better in treating advanced stage triple negative breast cancer compared to eribulin alone.
Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Unresectable Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Copanlisib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Eribulin Mesylate|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) (Phase I), MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which at most 1 of 6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity during the observation window., Up to 28 days|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) (Phase I), RP2D is the maximum tolerated dose at which at most 1 of 6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity during the observation window., Up to 28 days|Progression free survival (PFS) (Phase II), Patients who have not experienced progression or death will be censored at last follow up. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit estimator., From date of treatment start to date of progression or death, assessed up to 36 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) (Phase I), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with complete response, partial response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1., Up to 36 months|Clinical benefit rate (CBR) (Phase I), CBR defined as the proportion of patients with toxicity in each arm, in the overall population, and by PTEN/PIK3CA mutation status based on archival tumor tissue next generation sequencing., Up to 36 months|PFS (Phase I), PFS is defined from date of treatment start to date of progression or death. Patients who have not experienced progression or death will be censored at last follow up., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 36 months|ORR (Phase II), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with complete response, partial response by RECIST v1.1. Measured in the overall population by treatment arm; by treatment arm in patients with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) harboring mutations in PIK3CA/ PTEN or loss of PTEN expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) of baseline (pre-treatment) biopsy; and by treatment arm in patients with TNBC harboring mutations in PIK3CA/ PTEN by circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) at baseline (pre-treatment) biopsy and potential changes over time., Up to 36 months|CBR (Phase II), CBR is defined as the proportion of patients with clinical benefit (complete response, partial response, and stable disease lasting ≥ 24 weeks per RECIST v1.1) and toxicity in each arm. Measured in the overall population by treatment arm, in patients with TNBC harboring mutations in PIK3CA/ PTEN or loss of PTEN expression by IHC of baseline (pre-treatment) biopsy, by treatment arm in patients with TNBC harboring mutations in PIK3CA/ PTEN by ctDNA at baseline (pre-treatment) biopsy and potential changes over time., Up to 36 months
Tumor tissue mutation or gene expression profiles, Will correlate with treatment response, Up to 36 months|Intrinsic and adaptive resistance mechanisms, Will analyze pre and post treatment biopsies for gene expression and proteomic changes., Baseline up to 36 months|ctDNA mutation profiles and changes in mutation profile and variant allele frequencies (VAFs), Will determine ctDNA mutation profiles at baseline and changes in mutation profile and VAFs on C2D1 and at disease progression compared to baseline to correlate with treatment response., Baseline, cycle 2 day 1 (C2D2), and at disease progression|Circulating biomarkers predictive of treatment response, Up to 36 months|Plasma and serum proteomics and metabolomics predictive of treatment response, Up to 36 months|PTEN IHC results, Will compare PTEN IHC results at disease progression compared to baseline., Up to 36 months|PFS, PFS is defined from date of treatment start to date of progression or death. Patients who have not experienced progression or death will be censored at last follow up. Measured by treatment arm in patients with TNBC harboring mutations in PIK3CA/ PTEN or loss of PTEN expression by IHC of baseline (pre-treatment) biopsy and by treatment arm in patients with TNBC harboring mutations in PIK3CA/ PTEN by ctDNA at baseline (pre-treatment) biopsy and potential changes over time. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit estimator., From date of treatment start to date of progression or death, assessed up to 36 months|Target inhibition of PI3K pathway and mitotic arrest, Using phospho-AKT and phospho-histone H3 with eribulin plus copanlisib versus eribulin alone., Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety, toxicity profile, dose limiting toxicity (DLT), maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of copanlisib hydrochloride (copanlisib) in combination with eribulin mesylate (eribulin) in metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). (Phase I) II. To compare progression free survival (PFS) between eribulin and eribulin plus copanlisib arms in patients with metastatic TNBC treated with prior taxane and anthracycline. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) and clinical benefit rate (CBR) of the combination. (Phase I) II. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase I) III. To compare the ORR, CBR (complete response \[CR\]+partial response \[PR\]+stable disease \[SD\] \>= 24 weeks) and safety of eribulin and eribulin plus copanlisib arms. (Phase II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare PTEN (immunohistochemistry) IHC results between paired baseline tumor biopsy versus at time of disease progression.

II. Assess baseline (pre-treatment) tumor tissue mutation or gene expression profiles to correlate treatment response.

III. Assess intrinsic and adaptive resistance mechanisms by analyzing pre and post treatment biopsies for gene expression and proteomic changes.

IV. Determine circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) mutation profiles at baseline and changes in mutation profile and variant allele frequencies (VAFs) on cycle 2 day 1 (C2D1) and at disease progression compared to baseline to correlate with treatment response.

V. Assess circulating biomarkers predictive of treatment response. VI. Assess plasma and serum proteomics and metabolomics predictive of treatment response.

VII. To compare the ORR, CBR, PFS of eribulin and eribulin plus copanlisib arms in patients with tumors harboring mutations in PIK3CA/ PTEN or with loss of PTEN expression by IHC on baseline tumor biopsy.

VIII. To compare the ORR, CBR, PFS of eribulin and eribulin plus copanlisib arms in patients with tumors lacking PIK3CA/ PTEN pathway alterations.

IX. To compare the ORR, CBR, PFS of eribulin and eribulin plus copanlisib arms in patients with tumors harboring loss of PTEN expression by IHC in pre-treatment metastatic site (in patients with available tissue from metastatic site).

X. To compare PTEN IHC results between paired archival primary tumor versus (vs.) baseline tumor biopsies.

XI. To assess targeted inhibition by copanlisib and eribulin by measuring treatment induced changes in phosphorylated (phospho)-AKT (T308), phospho-AKT (S473), phospho-histone H3, and inhibition of apoptosis (cleaved caspase 3) between post-treatment tumor (C2D1-2) versus baseline.

XII. To compare the ORR, CBR, PFS of eribulin and eribulin plus copanlisib arms in patients with tumors harboring mutations in PIK3CA/PTEN by circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) at baseline, and potential changes over time.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose escalation study of copanlisib and eribulin followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I DOSE ESCALATION:

Patients receive copanlisib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and eribulin IV over 2 to 5 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive eribulin (higher dose) IV over 2 to 5 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients receive copanlisib IV over 1 hour and eribulin (lower dose) IV over 2 to 5 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Additionally, patients undergo a computed tomography (CT) scan and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at screening, cycle 3 day 1, and every 9 weeks thereafter. Patients also undergo a biopsy at baseline, cycle 2 day 1, and at time of disease progression as well as blood sample collection at baseline, cycle 2 day 1, every 9 weeks and at time of disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 36 months.