Training Effects in Colonoscopy
Colon cancer is the second most common cause of death among cancer-related deaths in Germany. Precancerous lesions such as adenomas can be detected efficiently by colonoscopy. To provide high quality in colonoscopy several quality parameters have been postulated in the past. The adenoma detection rate (ADR) is one of those parameters. Empirical data suggest that a detection rate of 20% should be demanded. Detection rates are influenced by a multitude of circumstances such as bowel cleanness. The facts that detection rates vary between colonoscopists suggests that leaning effects may also play a role. It is not known how ADR and other quality parameters evolve while trainees improve their skills in colonoscopy. The investigators postulate that a learning curve exists. The investigators therefore plan to evaluate chronologically the findings of trainee colonoscopists. A particular performance in detecting adenomas shall be calculated in relation to the amount of examinations performed.
Adenoma Detection Rate
Adenoma detection rate, While numbers of investigations rise new detection rates are calculated for each colonoscopist., every 50 examinations
Polyp detection rate, every 50 examinations
Amount of sedative used, every 50 exmainations
Colon cancer is the second most common cause of death among cancer-related deaths in Germany. Precancerous lesions such as adenomas can be detected efficiently by colonoscopy. To provide high quality in colonoscopy several quality parameters have been postulated in the past. The adenoma detection rate (ADR) is one of those parameters. Empirical data suggest that a detection rate of 20% should be demanded. Detection rates are influenced by a multitude of circumstances such as bowel cleanness. The facts that detection rates vary between colonoscopists suggests that leaning effects may also play a role. It is not known how ADR and other quality parameters evolve while trainees improve their skills in colonoscopy. The investigators postulate that a learning curve exists. The investigators therefore plan to evaluate chronologically the findings of trainee colonoscopists. A particular performance in detecting adenomas shall be calculated in relation to the amount of examinations performed.