MR-Guided Adaptive SBRT of Primary Tumor for Pain Control in Metastatic PDAC
The MASPAC trial investigates the added benefit of MR-guided adaptive SBRT of the primary tumor embedded between standard chemotherapy cycles for pain control and prevention of pain in patients with metastatic PDAC (mPDAC).
Pancreatic Cancer
RADIATION: SBRT|DRUG: SOC chemotherapy
Mean cumulative pain index, Mean Cumulative pain index: AUC of pain scores rated every 4 weeks until death or end of study using numeric rating scale (NRS, 0= no pain, 10 = worst pain) divided by number of multiples of 4 weeks since randomization, through study completion, at least 24 weeks or until death
Number of biliary complications, Biliary complications defined as cholangitis or post-hepatic cholestasis requiring drainage, through study completion, at least 24 weeks or until death|Malnutrition, Nutritional status measuring bioimpedance-derived phase angle (BIA) every 12 weeks, through study completion, at least 24 weeks or until death|Treatment toxicity, Treatment toxicity according to CTCAE v5.0, through study completion, at least 24 weeks or until death|Death from any cause, through study completion
Patients not progressing after 8 weeks of standard of care systemic therapy (SoC-CT: minimum doublet chemotherapy) will be included and randomized between arm A, receiving MR-guided adaptive SBRT of the primary tumor combined with continuation of SoC-CT, and arm B, continuing SoC-CT without SBRT.

Arm A: The primary tumor is treated with SBRT (6.6 Gy x 5) on a MR-LINAC in breath-hold technique. This scheme was shown to have a reasonable toxicity profile on a conventional LINAC. A low toxicity profile is even more important in patients with metastatic and therefore definitively incurable cancer. Therefore, treatment is performed on a MR-LINAC to deliver high doses to the tumor while keeping the toxicity profile as low as possible. For this purpose, daily adaptive planning is performed aiming to maintain stringent dose constraints for organs at risk (duodenum / stomach / bowel / kidney). Chemotherapy will be continued after SBRT. Arm B: Continuing SoC-CT (according to clinical routine appr. 2 weeks after the previous cycle) without SBRT.