Effect of Exercise on Bowel Function in Colorectal Cancer Survivors
The survival rate of colorectal cancer patients is increasing due to the development of medical technology. However, many colorectal cancer survivors (CRCs) have bowel dysfunction unlike other cancer survivors. After bowel dysfunction of CRCs was known, many previous studies were conducted to improve bowel dysfunction. Medication, probiotics, Biofeedback training (BFT), Kegel exercise, and sacral nerve stimulation were the methods of intervention research to improve bowel movements in CRCs. Research on randomized control trial of BFT and Kegel exercise is very insufficient. Surgery, chemo, and radiation have a lot of influence on the bowel process of CRCs. In particular, damage to the abdominal muscles, pelvic floor muscles, and autonomic nervous system can also be caused by secondary symptoms such as increased fatigue, reduced physical strength, and musculoskeletal diseases. Therefore, the investigators examine that exercise which can improve fatigue, physical fitness, and musculoskeletal disease affects bowel symptoms of colon cancer survivors.
Colorectal Cancer|Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
BEHAVIORAL: exercise
Anorectal manometry, Anorectal manometry is a test performed to evaluate patients with constipation or fecal incontinence. This test measures the pressures of the anal sphincter muscles, the sensation in the rectum, and the neural reflexes that are needed for normal bowel movements., Baseline (0 week)|Anorectal manometry, Anorectal manometry is a test performed to evaluate patients with constipation or fecal incontinence. This test measures the pressures of the anal sphincter muscles, the sensation in the rectum, and the neural reflexes that are needed for normal bowel movements., endline (7 week)
The survival rate of colorectal cancer patients is increasing due to the development of medical technology. However, many colorectal cancer survivors (CRCs) have bowel dysfunction unlike other cancer survivors. After bowel dysfunction of CRCs was known, many previous studies were conducted to improve bowel dysfunction. Medication, probiotics, Biofeedback training (BFT), Kegel exercise, and sacral nerve stimulation were the methods of intervention research to improve bowel movements in CRCs. Research on randomized control trial of BFT and Kegel exercise is very insufficient. Surgery, chemo, and radiation have a lot of influence on the bowel process of CRCs. In particular, damage to the abdominal muscles, pelvic floor muscles, and autonomic nervous system can also be caused by secondary symptoms such as increased fatigue, reduced physical strength, and musculoskeletal diseases. Therefore, the investigators examine that exercise which can improve fatigue, physical fitness, and musculoskeletal disease affects bowel symptoms of colon cancer survivors.