Combination Chemotherapy (FLAG-Ida) With Pivekimab Sunirine (PVEK [IMGN632]) for the Treatment of Newly Diagnosed Adverse Risk Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Other High-Grade Myeloid Neoplasms
This phase I trial finds the best dose of PVEK when given together with fludarabine, cytarabine, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), and idarubicin, (FLAG-Ida) regimen and studies the effectiveness of this combination therapy in treating patients with newly diagnosed adverse risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and other high-grade myeloid neoplasms. PVEK is a monoclonal antibody linked to a chemotherapy drug. PVEK is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as CD123 receptors, and delivers the chemotherapy drug to kill them. Chemotherapy drugs, such as idarubicin, fludarabine, high-dose cytarabine work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. G-CSF helps the bone marrow make more white blood cells in patients with low white blood cell count due to cancer treatment. Giving PVEK with the FLAG-Ida regimen may be a safe and effective treatment for patients with acute myeloid leukemia and other high-grade myeloid neoplasms.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Cytarabine|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor|DRUG: Idarubicin|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Pivekimab Sunirine
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities during cycle 1, Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) for trial monitoring are defined as follows: a) Any Grade ≥4 organ toxicity; and b) prolonged severe myelosuppression, as defined by ANC \<500/µL and platelet count \<25,000/µL, for \>42 days after initiation (day 1) of FLAG-Ida chemotherapy in the absence of residual disease (assessed by European LeukemiaNet \[ELN\] response criteria)., During cycle 1 on day 42, or the start of the next cycle
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed by the NCI CTCAE v.5. Will be analyzed using standard methods for such data: Wilcoxon-rank sum tests for quantitative data; Fisher's exact test for categorical data; Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression, and log-rank tests for time-to-event data., Up to 5 years|Measurable residual disease (MRD) rates, Will be estimated within the limits of the study with pivekimab sunirine (PVEK) + fludarabine, high-dose cytarabine, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and idarubicin (FLAG-Ida) across study cohorts. Will be analyzed using standard methods for such data: Wilcoxon-rank sum tests for quantitative data; Fisher's exact test for categorical data; Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression, and log-rank tests for time-to-event data., Up to 5 years|MRD status, MRD will be measured by multiparameter flow cytometry. All positive testing will be considered positive., Up to 5 years|Relapse-free survival, Will be assessed within the limits of the study by the relationship between MRD status after induction therapy and relapse risk/time to relapse. Will be analyzed using standard methods for such data: Wilcoxon-rank sum tests for quantitative data; Fisher's exact test for categorical data; Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression, and log-rank tests for time-to-event data., From the date of achievement of remission until the date of hematologic relapse or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be analyzed using standard methods for such data: Wilcoxon-rank sum tests for quantitative data; Fisher's exact test for categorical data; Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression, and log-rank tests for time-to-event data., From day 1 of study treatment to the date of death from any cause, up to 5 years|Complete remission rates, Will be analyzed using standard methods for such data: Wilcoxon-rank sum tests for quantitative data; Fisher's exact test for categorical data; Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression, and log-rank tests for time-to-event data., Up to 5 years|Duration of cytopenias, Will be evaluated by the impact of PVEK dosing regimens on the duration of cytopenias. Will be analyzed using standard methods for such data: Wilcoxon-rank sum tests for quantitative data; Fisher's exact test for categorical data; Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression, and log-rank tests for time-to-event data., Up to 5 years|Proportion of patients receiving allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation, Will be estimated within the limits of the study by the proportion of patients receiving allogeneic HCT in remission with PVEK + FLAG-Ida. Will be analyzed using standard methods for such data: Wilcoxon-rank sum tests for quantitative data; Fisher's exact test for categorical data; Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression, and log-rank tests for time-to-event data., Up to 5 years
OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of PVEK.

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive PVEK intravenously (IV) on day 1 or day 1 and 22. Patients also receive G-CSF subcutaneously (SC) on days 0-5, fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5, cytarabine IV over 2 hours on days 1-5, and idarubicin IV on days 1-3 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who still have cancer after the first cycle of study treatment may receive an additional cycle of induction chemotherapy with PVEK. Patients who go into remission after the first 1 or 2 cycles of study continue to Post-Remission Therapy.

POST-REMISSION THERAPY: Patients receive PVEK IV on day 1 or day 1 and 22 of each cycle and high-dose cytarabine IV every 12 hours on days 1-6 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and may undergo bone marrow biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan during screening and as clinically indicated on trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 5 years.