Identification of Molecular Biomarkers for Thyroid Cancer
This is a two part study; part A proposes to collect plasma samples to examine how ctDNA (circulating thyroid DNA) markers correlate with detection of recurrent disease, response to therapy, clinical outcome and pathological data. Part B aims to use tissue obtained from biopsies of primary or recurrent disease to establish cell lines and tumour explants to further investigate the biology of thyroid cancer in the preclinical setting
Thyroid Cancer
Primary Objective, Part A: blood and tumour tissue will be measured to determine molecular profiling., 3 Years (at the end of study)|Primary Objective, Part B: blood and tumour tissue will be assessed to establish cell lines and to determine patient derived xenograft (PDX) models of thyroid cancer, 3 years (at end of study)
To collect blood and tumour tissue for Part A: molecular profiling, including extraction of DNA for sequencing, RNA for expression levels and to identify expressed fusion genes, and proteins for proteomic studies and Part B: for establishment of cell lines and patient derived xenograft (PDX) models of thyroid cancer.

1. To correlate BRAF V600E, RAS, RET/PTC, RET, PAX8/PPARϒ, βcatenin, p53, PTEN and PI3K mutations in ctDNA with Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded tumour tissue (FFPE) mutational analysis.
2. To correlate the quantity of ctDNA fragments 3 monthly in patients with advanced disease on routine follow up with conventional tumour markers (Tg, calcitonin, CEA).
3. To correlate the quantity of ctDNA fragments 3 monthly once relapse suspected by conventional methods (Tg, Calcitonin, CEA, radiological)
4. To correlate the quantity of ctDNA fragments with response (RECIST, Tg, Calcitonin and CEA) to targeted therapies
5. To assess prognostic significance of ctDNA levels in metastatic/advanced thyroid cancer
6. To isolate live tumor cells for studies of novel treatment strategies (combinatorial treatments), therapy resistance and thyroid cancer biology
7. Retrieval and analysis of archival primary tissue blocks for comparison with metastatic tumour sites
8. To collect blood for analysis of noninvasive tests of tumour phenotype