Design of New Personalized Therapeutic Approaches for Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
In Europe diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a rare disease whereas in Italy it is not. Approximately 40% of DLBCL patients has refractory disease or will relapse after initial response. In onco-hematology, a role for gut microbiota (GM) in mediating immune activation in response to chemotherapy, has been suggested. In this scenario, the Investigators hypothesized that GM could play an important role in DLBCL prognosis and response to treatment, establishing a connection between lifestyle and clinical response. The project is aimed to the study of the functional GM layout in association with specific patterns of treatment response in de novo DLBCL undergoing standard first line chemo-immunotherapy. Results may build the scientific basis to design new and personalized intervention strategies (both in treatment approach and in life-style recommendations), to enhance clinical response and reduction of disease refractoriness through modulation of the gut microbial ecosystem.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
OTHER: Gut microbiota samples
GM dysbiosis assessment (bacterial DNA of gut microbiota in all patients), * dysbiosis index: the dysbiosis index relies on the calculation of the weighted ratio between health-promoting and disease-associated GM components
* relative abundance of GM biomarkers of an eubiotic GM state: all GM dysbiotic states share a common feature, i.e. the depletion of strategic health-promoting GM components such as Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and Lachnospiraceae. Thus, a GM dysbiotic state is determined by the assessment of a reduction of the abundance of these GM biomarkers below the thresholds characteristic of an eubiotc GM state., 18 months
Response to therapy, Complete disappearance of all detectable clinical evidence of disease and disease-related symptoms if present before therapy. when the PET scan was positive before therapy, a post-treatment residual mass of any size is permitted as long as it is PET negative and all lymph nodes and nodal masses must have regressed on CT to normal size ( 1.5 cm in their greatest transverse diameter for nodes 1.5 cm before therapy)., 2 years
In Europe diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a rare disease whereas in Italy it is not. Approximately 40% of DLBCL patients has refractory disease or will relapse after initial response. In onco-hematology, a role for gut microbiota (GM) in mediating immune activation in response to chemotherapy, has been suggested. In this scenario, the Investigators hypothesized that GM could play an important role in DLBCL prognosis and response to treatment, establishing a connection between lifestyle and clinical response. The project is aimed to the study of the functional GM layout in association with specific patterns of treatment response in de novo DLBCL undergoing standard first line chemo-immunotherapy. Results may build the scientific basis to design new and personalized intervention strategies (both in treatment approach and in life-style recommendations), to enhance clinical response and reduction of disease refractoriness through modulation of the gut microbial ecosystem.