Efficacy of Caffeine Injection as an Adjuvant to Opioid Therapy in Cancer Pain
Pain is a most common symptom and it has a high impact on quality of life in cancer patients. Many cancer patients have received opioid therapy, but also many of them have suffered from side effects of opioids. Drowsiness and confusion are common side effects of opioids. Caffeine is a well known psychostimulant,and it is widely used as an analgesics. Thus, the investigators aimed to prove the efficacy of intravenous caffeine administration as an adjuvant analgesics to opioids. At the same time, the investigators tried to find that the side effects of opioids could be ameliorated by caffeine.
Cancer|Pain
DRUG: Caffeine|DRUG: Normal saline
Numeric Rating of Scale (From 0 to 10) of Pain and Possible Side Effects (Drowsiness, Confusion, Nausea) of Opioids, Scores were measured by Numeric Rating Scale. Scores range from 0 to 10; higher scores represent higher levels of pain, and possible side effects (drowsiness, confusion, nausea) of opioids., two days|Numeric Rating of Scale (From 0 to 10) of Possible Sleep Disturbance of Opioids, Scores were measured by Numeric Rating Scale. Scores range from 0 to 10; a higher score represents a higher level of sleep disturbance., two days
Degree of Fatigue at the Point of Time With Numeric Rating Scale From 0 to 10, Scores were measured by Numeric Rating Scale. Scores range from 0 to 10; a higher score represents a higher level of fatigue., two days|Health-related Quality of Life, Scores were measured by Numeric Rating Scale. Scores range from 0 to 10; a higher score represents a better health-related quality of life., two days|Impact of Symptom Burden to Daily Life (by MD Anderson Symptom Inventory-Korean), Scores were measured by Numeric Rating Scale. Scores range from 0 to 10; a higher score represents a higher level of impact of symptom burden to daily life., two days
Previous studies on cancer pain lacked assessment of quality of life. And most of previous studies on cancer pain did not give attention to symptoms accompanied with pain. We include such variables as outcome measures, and aimed to evaluate the efficacy and the safety of intravenous caffeine in advanced cancer inpatients.