IV Ascorbic Acid in Advanced Gastric Cancer
Linus Pauling and Dr Ewan Cameron have published two retrospective studies about using high dose vitamin C to treat cancer patients forty years ago. Their studies have shown that high dose vitamin C usage could significantly prolong overall survival of patients with advanced cancer. Recently, preclinical study has shown that human colorectal cancer cells harboring KRAS or BRAF mutations are selectively killed by high levels of ascorbic acid (AA). High dose of AA impairs tumor growth in Apc/KRASG12D mutant mice. Previous phaseⅠclinical trials have found that high dose (1.5g/kg or 90g/m2) iv AA is well tolerated in cancer patients. This protocol is a phase Ⅲ, study of ascorbic acid (AA) infusions combined with treatment with mFOLOX6 versus mFOLOX6 alone as first-line therapy in patients with recurrent or advanced gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: ascorbic acid|DRUG: mFOLFOX6
Progression Free Survival, Time-to-event outcome measure (initial disease progression) measured in days from cycle 1 day 1 to day of first progression as defined by RECIST1.1 criteria from NCI, up to 5 years
Overall Survival, Time to event outcome measure (death), measured in days from cycle 1 day 1, up to 5 years|Response Rate, To utilize CT or PET/CT scans to assess overall tumor response rate (complete and partial response) and evaluate disease progression in subjects with advanced or recurrent RAS mutant colorectal cancer treated with the combination of ascorbic acid and FOLOX/FORFIRI +/- bevacizumab versus treatment with FOLFOX/FORFIRI +/- bevacizumab alone, up to 5 years
Linus Pauling and Dr Ewan Cameron have published two retrospective studies about using high dose vitamin C to treat cancer patients forty years ago. Their studies have shown that high dose vitamin C usage could significantly prolong overall survival of patients with advanced cancer. Recently, preclinical study has shown that human colorectal cancer cells harboring KRAS or BRAF mutations are selectively killed by high levels of ascorbic acid (AA). High dose of AA impairs tumor growth in Apc/KRASG12D mutant mice. Previous phaseⅠclinical trials have found that high dose (1.5g/kg or 90g/m2) iv AA is well tolerated in cancer patients. This protocol is a phase Ⅲ, study of ascorbic acid (AA) infusions combined with treatment with mFOLOX6 versus mFOLOX6 alone as first-line therapy in patients with recurrent or advanced gastric cancer.