Triapine, Cisplatin, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Cervical Cancer or Vaginal Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how triapine and cisplatin given together with radiation therapy works in treating patients with cervical cancer or vaginal cancer. Triapine may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving triapine together with cisplatin may make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy.
Recurrent Cervical Cancer|Recurrent Vaginal Cancer|Stage IB Cervical Cancer|Stage II Vaginal Cancer|Stage IIA Cervical Cancer|Stage IIB Cervical Cancer|Stage III Cervical Cancer|Stage III Vaginal Cancer|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer|Stage IVA Vaginal Cancer|Stage IVB Cervical Cancer|Stage IVB Vaginal Cancer|Therapy-related Toxicity
DRUG: triapine|DRUG: cisplatin|RADIATION: external beam radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: questionnaire administration|RADIATION: fludeoxyglucose F 18|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography|PROCEDURE: computed tomography
Fasting F-18 Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) Positron Emission Tomography (PET/CT) Imaging Complete Metabolic Response, Reported Following National Cancer Institute (NCI) and European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Guidelines., To quantitate change in pre-treatment standard uptake value (SUV) on PET/CT and posttreatment PET/CT or disease progression PET/CT. Change in PET/CT SUV will be associated with 3-month best overall clinical response., post therapy at 3 months
Clinical and Objective Response Assignment, Number of patients with a complete clinical responses defined as disappearance of all target lesions. A complete metabolic response on PET/CT will be defined as absence of abnormal FDG uptake at sites of abnormal FDG uptake noted on pre-treatment FDG-PET study., post therapy at 3 months|Clinical and Objective Response Assignment, Number of patients with a complete clinical responses defined as disappearance of all target lesions. A complete metabolic response on PET/CT will be defined as absence of abnormal FDG uptake at sites of abnormal FDG uptake noted on pre-treatment FDG-PET study., one month follow up assessment|Clinical and Objective Response Assignment, Number of patients with a complete clinical responses defined as disappearance of all target lesions. A complete metabolic response on PET/CT will be defined as absence of abnormal FDG uptake at sites of abnormal FDG uptake noted on pre-treatment FDG-PET study., three month follow up assessment|Percent of Patients With Incidence of Grade 2 or Higher Gastrointestinal and Genitourinary Toxicity, Assessed Using CTCAE v3.0 Until December 31, 2010 and CTCAE v4.0 Beginning January 1, 2011, Information will include the type, severity, time of onset, time of resolution, and the probable association with the study regimen. Frequency tables will be constructed to summarize observed incidence by severity and type of toxicity., After 5 weeks of radiation therapy|Progression-free Survival, Percentage of patients that did not have disease progression. Estimates of progression-free survival will be computed using the product-limit estimate of Kaplan and Meier., at 18 months from study entry|PET/CT Scan Metabolic Activity, Descriptive tabular data reporting mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum provided by metabolic response cohort. Status of 3-month post-treatment metabolic response associated with clinical response measured by RECIST criteria and with overall clinical outcome. Kaplan-Meier (product-limit) method of survival estimation used. Tests of equivalence of the estimates compared using the Wilcoxon long-rank test using P 0.05. Cox proportional hazards regression models used in multivariate analyses., Baseline (pre-therapy)|PET/CT Scan Metabolic Activity, Descriptive tabular data reporting mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum provided by metabolic response cohort. Status of 3-month post-treatment metabolic response associated with clinical response measured by RECIST criteria and with overall clinical outcome. Kaplan-Meier (product-limit) method of survival estimation used. Tests of equivalence of the estimates compared using the Wilcoxon long-rank test using P 0.05. Cox proportional hazards regression models used in multivariate analyses., 3 months post-treatment|PET/CT Scan Metabolic Activity, Descriptive tabular data reporting mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum provided by metabolic response cohort. Status of 3-month post-treatment metabolic response associated with clinical response measured by RECIST criteria and with overall clinical outcome. Kaplan-Meier (product-limit) method of survival estimation used. Tests of equivalence of the estimates compared using the Wilcoxon long-rank test using P 0.05. Cox proportional hazards regression models used in multivariate analyses., Up to 5 years|Change in Sexual Function, Assessed Using the Sexual Function-Vaginal Changes Questionnaire, Baseline to up to 5 years|Change in Smoking Behavior, Assessed Using the Smoking Questionnaire and Cessation Counseling, 18 months from study entry|Progression Free Survival by HPV Subtype, Tabular descriptive data will be presented. HPV sub-type will be associated with treatment related toxicity, clinical response, PET metabolic response, and overall clinical outcome. Kaplan-Meier (product-limit) method of survival estimation will be used. Tests of equivalence of the estimates will be compared using the Wilcoxon long-rank test using a threshold for statistical significance of P 0.05. Cox proportional hazards regression models will be used in multivariate analyses., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine three-month fasting F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET/CT) imaging complete metabolic response as defined by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) PET study group.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine 6-month progression-free survival rate as calculated from the date of first treatment until date of disease progression, relapse, or death.

II. To quantitate change in pre-treatment standard uptake value (SUV) on PET/CT and post-treatment PET/CT or disease progression PET/CT.

III. To quantitate pre-treatment, during treatment and 3-mo post-treatment grade 2 or higher gastrointestinal, genitourinary, and sexual function toxicity resulting from Triapine®, cisplatin, and radiation therapy as measured by CTCAE v3.0, which will be utilized until December 31, 2010; CTCAE v4.0 will be utilized beginning January 1, 2011.

IV. To associate smoking habit (non-smoker, smoker who quit during therapy, smoker) with 3-mo post-treatment PET/CT metabolic response and 3-mo best overall clinical response as measured by RECIST criteria after Triapine®, cisplatin, and radiation therapy.

V. To associate HPV or non-HPV sub-type cervical cancer with 3-mo post-treatment PET/CT metabolic response and 3-mo best overall clinical response as measured by RECIST criteria after Triapine®, cisplatin, and radiation therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to brachytherapy treatment (planned intracavitary brachytherapy vs none).

Patients receive cisplatin IV over 90 minutes on days 2, 9, 16, 23, and 30 and triapine IV on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, 19, 22, 24, 26, 29, 31, and 33. Patients also undergo pelvic external beam radiotherapy 5 days a week during weeks 1-5. Patients may undergo parametrial boost radiation and intracavitary low-dose or high-dose rate brachytherapy as clinically indicated.

Patients undergo whole-body F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose-PET/CT imaging at baseline, at 3 months after completion of study treatment, and at disease progression. Patients complete Sexual Function-Vaginal Changes Questionnaire and a smoking behavior questionnaire at baseline, at 3 months after completion of study treatment, and at disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.