Dolcanatide in Preventing Colorectal Cancer in Healthy Volunteers
This phase I trial studies how well dolcanatide works in preventing colorectal cancer in healthy participants. Dolcanatide is similar to a natural hormone released into the intestine. It is thought that people who have low levels of the hormone are more likely to get colon cancer. It may be possible to prevent colon cancer by giving a drug that is similar to the hormone, such as dolcanatide.
Colorectal Carcinoma
DRUG: Dolcanatide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Pharmacological Effect on Cyclic Guanosine Monophosphate (cGMP) Levels for Dolcanatide Arm Versus (vs.) Placebo, as Measured by the Differences in Mean cGMP Levels After 7 Days of Intervention, Pharmacological effect on cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels for dolcanatide arm versus (vs.) placebo, where this effect is defined as the arithmetic difference in mean cGMP levels before and after 7 days of dolcanatide from subject biopsies. This represents the increase in cGMP stimulated by 7 days of dolcanatide in an individual subject. The mean cGMP value will be calculated based on 6 biopsies collected from the rectum during a flexible sigmoidoscopy procedure. Each biopsy was analyzed in triplicate using a commercially available EIA kit., Baseline to 7 days
Pharmacodynamic (PD) Response Rate, Each participant will be assessed for PD response. The calculation is based on the standardized difference in means for the pharmacological effect on cGMP levels at the participant level, where a subject with a z \>= 1.645 will be considered a PD responder. A participant with a z \< 1.645 will be considered a non-responder. The PD response rate (percentage) of patients are summarized below by arm., Baseline to 7 days|Percentage of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Diarrhea Per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, The overall adverse event rates (percentages) for grade 3 or higher adverse events regardless of attribution to treatment are reported below. The percentages below are summarized for Diarrhea., Up to 21 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify the ability of dolcanatide (SP333), when administered as a single daily dose of 27 mg x 7 days, to induce a direct pharmacological effect on cGMP levels, based on biopsy samples from the rectum obtained pre- and post-intervention, as compared to placebo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the pharmacodynamic (PD) response rate between arms (dolcanatide versus placebo).

II. To confirm the safety and tolerability of dolcanatide, as compared to placebo.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Participants receive dolcanatide orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 7 days.

ARM B: Participants receive placebo PO QD for 7 days.

After completion of study, participants are followed up at 21 and 51 days.