Lifestyle Behavior Influences Among African American Patients With Stage 0-III Prostate Cancer Survivors and Their Partners
This trial studies the day-to-day stress, social support, and health lifestyle behaviors (such as physical activity and nutrition) in African American patients with stage 0-III prostate cancer survivors and their partners. How patients cope with stress may affect their lifestyle behaviors. This study may help understand not only survivors' behaviors but also partners' behaviors and how they interact.
Cancer Survivor|Partner|Spouse|Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DEVICE: Accelerometer|OTHER: Ecological Momentary Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration
Physical activity in both patients and partners, To assess the association between the common dyadic coping of partner or survivor and physical activity of the survivor or partner, will construct 2 new variables corresponding to each common dyadic coping variable for each individual., Up to 14 days|Nutrition in both patients and partners, To assess the association between the common dyadic coping of partner or survivor and nutrition of the survivor or partner, will construct 2 new variables corresponding to each common dyadic coping variable for each individual., Up to 14 days|Stress in both patients and partners, To assess the association between the common dyadic coping of partner or survivor and nutrition of the survivor or partner, will construct 2 new variables corresponding to each common dyadic coping variable for each individual., Up to 14 days|Social and physical contexts where health behaviors occur/co-occur among survivors and partners, Descriptive analysis (e.g., frequency) will be conducted to examine the places (e.g., home, neighborhood) in which the health behaviors occurred and the number of health behaviors engaged alone and with others (especially with partner). Also, contexts (days of a week and times of a day and place) in which survivors and partners engaged in health behaviors together will be investigated. All analyses will be exploratory in nature., Up to 14 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine temporal associations between dyadic coping and health behaviors such as physical activity and diet.

II. Identify social and physical contexts in which health behaviors occur/co-occur among survivors and their partners.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Investigate potential moderators for the associations between stress and dyadic coping.

OUTLINE:

Patients and partners complete questionnaires over 60 minutes about demographic information, stress, coping, and lifestyle behaviors at baseline and end of study. Patients and partners also receive an accelerometer and complete Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) questionnaire on stress, coping, physical activity, and eating behaviors over 5-10 minutes four time daily (QID; 7:30 am, 11:30 am, 3:30 pm, and 7:30 pm) via an smartphone application (app) for 14 days. Patients and partners also complete a survey on nutrition twice weekly (BIW) for a total of 4 surveys.