Monitoring Blood Flow and Metabolic Activity in Malignant Tissue of Head and Neck Region
This study will investigate the ability of Lucerno Dynamics Lara sensor when placed on the palpable carotid artery (or femoral artery) to monitor blood flow following the injection of 18-FDG and to distinguish peak flow in tumor versus tissue uptake. Investigators will then assess if differences in tumor versus tissue correlates with tumor response.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
DEVICE: Lara Scan|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PET/CT Scan - Pre-treatment and Post-treatment
Percentage of Tests That Input Function (IF) Could Be Calculated, If input function can be calculated on five (5) or more (out of 10) patients, then investigators will consider this a feasible procedure. Input function is calculated using time-activity curves (TAC) from the arterial blood flow detector and integrating the signal over time. Peak and minimum values of each of the four (4) Lara detector time-activity curves (TAC) will be recorded to determine a range of expected values and if they are different., At baseline
Change in Areas Under the Curve (AUC) Measurements, Investigators will use a repeated measures linear model with change in areas under the curve as the outcome and time from baseline and the baseline area under the curve as predictors. From the model investigators will report the estimated change at the post treatment Lara measurement. Participants should have three measurements of area under the curve (baseline, mid-treatment, 3-week measurement prior to PET scan)., Baseline up to 120 days after completion of treatment|Change in Time to Peak Arterial Blood Flow, Investigators will use a repeated measures linear model with change in areas under the curve as the outcome and time from baseline and the baseline area under the curve as predictors. From the model investigators will report the estimated change at the post treatment Lara measurement. Participants should have three measurements of area under the curve (baseline, mid-treatment, 3-week measurement prior to PET scan)., Baseline up to 120 days after completion of treatment
Tumor Response, A correlation will be calculated between areas under change and percent change in tumor size., Baseline and 120 days after completion of treatment
Primary Objective: To determine if Lara sensors placed over the carotid and femoral arteries can measure the plasma activity of 18 F-fludeoxyglucose (18-FDG) at time of injection and determine if that peak activity in the artery can be distinguished from peak activity in malignant tissue to provide enough information to obtain the arterial input function.

Secondary Objective: To evaluate changes (baseline to post treatment) in tissue uptake at first pass (AUC and time to peak blood flow) and during the 60-minute period (metabolic activity) leading to the , positron emission tomography (PET) scan. This data is to be collected from the Lucerno Device placed over the carotid and femoral arteries monitoring 18 F-fludeoxyglucose (18-FDG) activity in blood and malignant tissue throughout the pre positron emission tomography (PET) scan period.