Intratumoral Vusolimogene Oderparepvec (VO) in Combination With Pembrolizumab for Angiosarcoma
This is a multicenter, open-label study of Intratumoral Vusolimogene Oderparepvec (VO) to investigate safety and estimate when used in combination with pembrolizumab for treating participants with angiosarcoma. This is the first study evaluating this novel combination in participants with advanced angiosarcoma who have progressed after prior immunotherapy.
Angiosarcoma|Angiosarcoma, Adult
BIOLOGICAL: Vusolimogene Oderparepvec (VO)|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Percentage of participants with reported treatment-emergent adverse events (Safety Lead-In), Safety and tolerability will be reported as the percentage of the first 6 participants (the safety-lead in participants) who received at least one dose of study treatment with any reported treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), \>= Grade 3 TEAEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), and TEAEs requiring discontinuation of VO. Adverse events will be classified using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 1 year|Proportion of participants who experience an objective response (Phase 2 participants), Objective response will be measured per RECIST v. 1.1 and is defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and confirmed by repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after assessment for participants who completed at least 4 of the planned 8 intratumoral injections., Up to 1 year|Percentage of participants with reported treatment-emergent adverse events, The percentage of all participants who received at least one dose of study treatment with any treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), ≥ Grade 3 TEAEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), and TEAEs requiring discontinuation of VO. Adverse events will be classified using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 5.0., Up to 1 year
Median Duration of Response (DOR), The DOR is the time from the first day of documented response until disease progression. Objective response will be measured per RECIST v. 1.1 and is defined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) and confirmed by repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after assessment for participants who completed at least 4 of the planned 8 intratumoral injections. The median time in months will be reported along with 25% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year|Percentage of participants with documented Complete Response (CRR), The CRR is the percentage of participants with a demonstrated complete response as measured per RECIST v. 1.1 and confirmed by repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after assessment for participants who completed at least 4 of the planned 8 intratumoral injections will be reported, Up to 1 year|Percentage of participants with documented Clinical Benefit (CBR), The percentage of participants with demonstrated Clinical Benefit as measured per modified RECIST v. 1.1 criteria and is defined as having a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) and confirmed by repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after assessment for participants who completed at least 4 of the planned 8 intratumoral injections for greater than 3 months (\>=4 months), Up to 1 year|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The time that elapses between Day -14 and the earlier of the day of first documented disease progression or death from any cause for all evaluable patients. Disease progression is defined as progressive disease (PD) per modified RECIST 1.1,1 other documented clinical or radiographical progression per physician judgement, or death due to disease., Up to 2 years|Median Overall Survival, The OS is defined as the time that elapses in months between Day -14 and the date of death from any cause for all participants., Up to 2 years|Percentage of participants who experience an objective response, Objective response will be measured per RECIST v. 1.1 and is defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and confirmed by repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after assessment for participants who completed at least 4 of the planned 8 intratumoral injections and will be collected up to 30 days after the last dose of either study treatment., Up to 1 year
Primary Objectives:

Safety Lead-in:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of VO in combination with pembrolizumab.

Phase 2:

1. To assess the efficacy of VO in combination with pembrolizumab as determined by objective response rate (ORR).
2. To assess the safety and tolerability of VO in combination with pembrolizumab.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To assess the duration of response (DOR).
2. To assess the complete response rate (CRR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), progression free survival, and 1-year and 2-year overall survival (OS).
3. To further assess the efficacy of VO in combination with pembrolizumab as determined by objective response rate (ORR) per modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1

OUTLINE:

Participants may continue study treatment for up to 2 years with pembrolizumab and 24 weeks with VO. Some participants may be eligible to receive treatment after progression. For participants who discontinued for reasons other than confirmed progressive disease (PD) or completed treatment, tumor response assessments will continue approximately every 12 weeks from the last tumor assessment for up to two years or until the start of subsequent anticancer treatment, confirmed disease progression, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, death, whichever occurs first. Participants will also be followed-up every 6 months to assess for survival/disease/anti-cancer therapy status for up to 2 years