Magnetic Resonance-Guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound for Recurrent Rectal Cancer
This pilot study hypothesizes that hyperthermia delivered via magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound (MRg-FU) is technically feasible and can be safely used in combination with concurrent reirradiation and chemotherapy for the treatment of recurrent rectal cancer. Twenty recurrent rectal cancer patients who are not candidates for surgery will be recruited for hyperthermia treatment delivered via MRg-FU concurrent with reirradiation and oral chemotherapy.
Recurrent Rectal Cancer
DEVICE: Magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound|RADIATION: Standard Radiation|DRUG: Chemotherapy
Acute toxicities, Gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicities assessed as per Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) v4.0 after each MRg-FU treatment and 30, 60 and 90 days post-treatment., 3 months
Late toxicities, Gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicities assessed as per CTCAE v4.0 every 6 months post-treatment for three years., 3 years|The efficacy of MRg-FU in reducing pain, Patient reported pain will be assessed through completion of the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) and reporting of analgesic usage after each MRg-FU treatment, monthly post-treatment for three months and every 6 months post-treatment for 3 years., 3 years|Patient quality of life, Patient reported quality of life will be assessed through completion of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Colorectal (FACT-C) questionnaire after each MRg-FU treatment, monthly post-treatment for three months and every 6 months post treatment for 3 years., 3 years|Assessment of radiologic response following treatment., Assessment of response using the EORTC Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria., 3 years
Magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound (MRg-FU) is a non-invasive, outpatient modality being investigated for the thermal treatment of cancer. In MRg-FU, a specially designed transducer is used to focus a beam of low intensity ultrasound energy into a small volume at a specific target site in the body. MR is used to identify and delineate the tumour, focus the ultrasound beam on the target and provide real-time thermal mapping to ensure accurate heating of the designated target with minimal effect to the adjacent healthy tissue. The focused ultrasound beam produces therapeutic hyperthermia (40-42°C) in the target field causing protein denaturation and cell damage.

Currently, there is no prospective clinical data reported on the use of MRg-FU in the setting of recurrent rectal cancer. Recurrent rectal cancer is a vexing clinical problem. Current retreatment protocols have limited efficacy. The addition of hyperthermia to radiation and chemotherapy may enhance the therapeutic response. With recent advances in technology, the investigators hypothesize that MRg-FU is technically feasible and can be safely used in combination with concurrent reirradiation and chemotherapy for the treatment of recurrent rectal cancer without increased side-effects.