Zevalin and Velcade in Relapsed/Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects (good and bad) of the combination of ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) and bortezomib (Velcade) in patients with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma.

Zevalin is a monoclonal antibody that is combined with a radioactive substance and given with another monoclonal antibody called rituximab (Rituxan). It works by attaching to cancer cells and releasing radiation to damage those cells. Both Zevalin and Rituxan are given in this study, along with Velcade.
Mantle-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Rituximab, Bortezomib,Y90 ibritumomab tiuxetan
Response Rate (Complete Response + Partial Response), Disease will be assessed every 3 months.

The Cheson criteria will be used to define response:

Complete Response = Complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms if present prior to therapy.

Partial Response = A decrease of ≥ 50% in the sum of the products of their greatest transverse diameters (SPD) of up to six of the largest dominant nodes or nodal masses. These nodes or masses should be selected according to the following features: a) they should be clearly measurable in at least two perpendicular measurements; b) they should be from as disparate regions of the body as possible; and c) they should include mediastinal and retroperitoneal areas of disease whenever these sites are involved., 3 months
Number of Participants With Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival will be defined as time from on-study to disease progression or death, whichever comes first, 6 months|Overall Survival at 1 Year, Number of participants who were alive at the 1 year time point. (Overall survival will be defined as the time from on-study to death due to any cause.), 1 year|Overall Survival at 5 Year, Number of participants who were alive at the 5 year time point. (Overall survival will be defined as the time from on-study to death due to any cause.), 5 year
This is a non-randomized, unblinded single arm Phase II trial to evaluate the combination of yttrium90 ibritumomab tiuxetan and bortezomib in patients with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Standard hematology and chemistries, imaging and bone marrow biopsies will be done.

Research tests: 17cc of blood will be collected at screen, Day 8 OR 11 and month 3. Samples will be collected and stored for future analysis. These analyses may include but are not limited to measurements of proteasome inhibition. No genetic studies will be performed on these samples. Samples will be destroyed at the end of the study.

Primary Objective Estimate the overall response rate (CR + PR) of the combination of bortezomib and ibritumomab tiuxetan in patients with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma.

Secondary Objectives

* Estimate the progression free and overall survival in patients with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma who receive bortezomib and ibritumomab tiuxetan.
* Assess the toxicity of the combination of bortezomib and ibritumomab tiuxetan in patients with relapsed/refractory MCL.