A Study of IMC-A12 or Ramucirumab Plus Mitoxantrone and Prednisone in Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether IMC-A12 or IMC-1121B (ramucirumab) with Mitoxantrone and Prednisone is effective in the treatment of metastatic androgen- independent prostate cancer (APIC).
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: IMC-A12|DRUG: Mitoxantrone|DRUG: Prednisone|BIOLOGICAL: IMC-1121B (ramucirumab)
Composite Progression-free Survival (cPFS), Defined as the median time from randomization to the earliest of:

1. Tumor progression by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST);
2. Evidence of progression by bone scan, performed after completion of the first 3 cycles, demonstrating the appearance of \>=2 new lesions;
3. New skeletal events (New pathologic bone fracture in the region of metastatic disease; New bone lesion requiring radiation or surgery; Spinal cord or nerve root compression)
4. Symptomatic progression (for participants without measurable disease);
5. Other clinical events attributable to prostate cancer that require major interventions; or
6. Death from any cause

Participants who were ongoing with no progression or who discontinued treatment for reasons other than progression were censored at date of last assessment. Participants who started new anticancer treatment before progression were censored at date of last assessment before start of new anti-cancer therapy., Randomization to composite progressive disease, up to 23.4 months
Summary Listing of Participants Reporting Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Data presented are the number of participants who experienced A12 or 1121B (ramucirumab) related treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE), treatment related serious adverse events (SAE), or any Grade 3 or higher TEAE; any TEAE leading to discontinuation of A12 or 1121B (ramucirumab) treatment, and any TEAE leading to dose modification of A12 or 1121B (ramucirumab). A summary of SAEs and other nonserious AEs, regardless of causality, is located in the Reported Adverse Event section., Randomization to 36.3 months|Time to Radiographic Evidence of Disease Progression, Time between date of randomization and earliest date of radiographic progression defined as either:

1. Tumor progression by RECIST;
2. Evidence of progression by bone scan;
3. New skeletal events (New pathologic bone fracture in the region of metastatic disease; New bone lesion requiring radiation or surgery; Spinal cord or nerve root compression).

Participants who were ongoing with no radiographic evidence of disease progression, who discontinued treatment for reasons other than progression,or died before progression were censored at date of last tumor or bone radiographic assessment. Participants who started a new anticancer treatment before progression were censored at date of last tumor or bone radiographic assessment before start of new anti-cancer therapy., Randomization to date of radiographic progression, up to 36.3 months|Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Response Rate, PSA response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a decrease in PSA \>= 50 percent from baseline., Baseline up to data cut-off date (up to 36.3 months)|Composite Progression-free Survival (cPFS) at 6-months, Data presented are the percentage of participants without disease progression at 6 months.

Participants who were ongoing with no progression or who discontinued treatment for reasons other than progression were censored at date of last assessment. Participants who started new anticancer treatment before progression were censored at date of last assessment before start of new anti-cancer therapy., 6 months|Composite Progression-free Survival (cPFS) at 9-months, Data presented are the percentage of participants without disease progression at 9 months.

Participants who were ongoing with no progression or who discontinued treatment for reasons other than progression were censored at date of last assessment. Participants who started new anticancer treatment before progression were censored at date of last assessment before start of new anti-cancer therapy., 9 months|Composite Progression-free Survival (cPFS) at 12-months, Data presented are the percentage of participants without disease progression at 12 months.

Participants who were ongoing with no progression or who discontinued treatment for reasons other than progression were censored at date of last assessment. Participants who started new anticancer treatment before progression were censored at date of last assessment before start of new anti-cancer therapy., 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Participants who were alive at the time of study completion were censored at the time the participant was last known to be alive., First dose to death due to any cause up to 36.3 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response is Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR), as classified by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines. CR is a disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions without new lesions and progression of non-target lesions.

Objective response rate is calculated as a total number of participants with CR or PR divided by the total number of participants with measurable disease, multiplied by 100., Baseline to date of progressive disease or death up to 36.3 months|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) at Study Day 1, Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Ramucirumab.

All samples were assayed 36 months post sample collection, which exceeds the established long-term serum stability period for ramucirumab. Therefore, concentration data were invalid and pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses could not be conducted., Day 1|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) at Study Day 15, Maximum concentration (Cmax) of Ramucirumab.

All samples were assayed 36 months post sample collection, which exceeds the established long-term serum stability period for ramucirumab. Therefore, concentration data were invalid and pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses could not be conducted., Day 15|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) at Study Day 16, Maximum concentration (Cmax) of Ramucirumab.

All samples were assayed 36 months post sample collection, which exceeds the established long-term serum stability period for ramucirumab. Therefore, concentration data were invalid and pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses could not be conducted., Day 16|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) at Study Day 30, Maximum concentration (Cmax) of Ramucirumab.

All samples were assayed 36 months post sample collection, which exceeds the established long-term serum stability period for ramucirumab. Therefore, concentration data were invalid and pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses could not be conducted., Day 30|Minimum Concentration (Cmin) at Study Day 1, Minimum concentration (Cmin) of Ramucirumab.

All samples were assayed 36 months post sample collection, which exceeds the established long-term serum stability period for ramucirumab. Therefore, concentration data were invalid and pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses could not be conducted., Day 1|Minimum Concentration (Cmin) at Study Day 15, Minimum concentration (Cmin) of Ramucirumab.

All samples were assayed 36 months post sample collection, which exceeds the established long-term serum stability period for ramucirumab. Therefore, concentration data were invalid and pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses could not be conducted., Day 15|Minimum Concentration (Cmin) at Study Day 16, Minimum concentration (Cmin) of Ramucirumab.

All samples were assayed 36 months post sample collection, which exceeds the established long-term serum stability period for ramucirumab. Therefore, concentration data were invalid and pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses could not be conducted., Day 16|Minimum Concentration (Cmin) at Study Day 30, Minimum concentration (Cmin) of Ramucirumab.

All samples were assayed 36 months post sample collection, which exceeds the established long-term serum stability period for ramucirumab. Therefore, concentration data were invalid and pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses could not be conducted., Day 30
Prostate cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in men and the second leading cause of cancer-related death in men in the United States. Chemotherapy, either as a single agent or in combination, may lead to clinical response, pain control, and/or improved quality of life. Docetaxel is now the first-line standard therapy for AIPC. Mitoxantrone was approved in 1996 for use in combination with corticosteroids as initial chemotherapy for pain related to advanced Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer (HRPC). Hormonal manipulations and docetaxel-based chemotherapy are often effective in metastatic prostate cancer; however, disease becomes refractory to these interventions in the majority of men. Although mitoxantrone continues to be a significant agent in the treatment of HRPC, there exists a need for more efficacious therapy in docetaxel-refractory- AIPC. Because of the potential contribution of Insulin Like Growth Factor Receptor (IGF-IR) and VEGFR-2 mediated pathways in prostate cancer pathogenesis, it is hypothesized that each of these biological agents in combination with mitoxantrone and prednisone will result in clinically meaningful activity in AIPC. Therefore, ImClone plans to conduct a randomized Phase 2 trial to assess the safety and efficacy of IMC-A12 or IMC-1121B (ramucirumab) in combination with mitoxantrone and prednisone in participants with AIPC.