ReVital-CORE Program
Pilot feasibility study of the ReVital Chemotherapy Online Resiliency Evaluation (CORE) program. As part of standard of care, patients starting a new chemotherapy regimen are referred to complete a pre-chemotherapy cancer rehabilitation evaluation (i.e., prehab) and invited to enroll in the ReVital-CORE program study.

Once enrolled in ReVital-CORE, participants will complete a monthly online evaluation for 1 year. If frailty (or pre-frailty) is detected on any survey, physical or occupational therapy will be initiated for standard of care rehabilitation evaluation and treatment.
Frailty|Cancer|Chemotherapy-Induced Change
Accrual to the ReVital-CORE program., Proportion of patients who consent to enroll, out of the total number invited., 02/2022
Prevalence of frailty at major time points., Proportion of participants at all major timepoints (pre-chemo, and monthly following start of chemo for 12 months) who are identified as frail or pre-frail by a patient-reported frailty index., 02/2023|Impact of therapy on global quality of life., Change from baseline to discharge in quality of life as measured by the Patient Reported Outcomes Measuring System (PROMIS)-global 10-item questionnaire., 02/2023|Impact of therapy on frailty., Change from baseline to discharge in frailty as measured by a patient-reported frailty index., 02/2023
All patients starting a new chemotherapy regimen will be referred to completed a prehab evaluation with a specialized physical or occupational therapist be and invited to enroll in the ReVital-CORE program for the pilot, feasibility study.

Participants in the ReVital-CORE program study will be emailed an online evaluation each month via for one year. Once completed, the evaluation is automatically scored into: frail, pre-frail or robust categories using a validated frailty index. Any patient categorized as frail or pre-frail will be re-referred to rehabilitation by their cancer care team. For frail and pre-frail individuals, standard of care rehabilitation therapy will include either/and occupational and physical therapy evaluation and treatment and will be billed via their insurance.

The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate feasibility of the of the ReVital-CORE Program for individuals starting a new chemotherapy regimen. Secondary aims are to evaluate the prevalence, trajectory and predictors of frailty during the first year of chemotherapy treatment; and evaluate the impacts of prehab/rehabilitation for participants identified as frail and pre-frail.