Canady Helios Cold Plasma Scalpel Treatment at the Surgical Margin and Macroscopic Tumor Sites
The study designed is to evaluate the safety of Canady Helios™ Cold Plasma Scalpel (CHCPS) in patients with solid tumors with carcinomatosis scheduled to undergo surgical resection for cytoreduction. Patients with stage 4 resectable tumors as decided by a multidisciplinary disease management team may be included if the metastatic disease is non-synchronous (e.g. recurrent colorectal carcinoma with hepatic metastasis amenable for surgical resection).. Plasma is an ionized gas typically generated in high-temperature laboratory conditions. Plasma coagulators are currently used routinely as surgical tools with multiple applications that create temperatures between 37° C to 43°C and cause thermal injury. Earlier studies demonstrated the non-aggressive nature of cold plasma. As evidence accumulates, it is becoming clear that low-temperature cold plasma has an increasing role in biomedical applications.
Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Stage IV Breast Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer|Stage IV Liver Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer|Stage IV Lung Cancer|Stage IV Small Intestinal Cancer|Stage IV Gastric Cancer|Stage IV Bladder Cancer
DEVICE: Canady Helios Cold Plasma Scalpel
Number of Participants With Complications Due To Cold Plasma Application, Adverse events (CTCAE event version 4.03 to 5.0) within 30 days after Canady Helios Cold Plasma Scalpel treatment., Immediate after application of cold plasma, followed by 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and 15 month observations.
The study designed is to evaluate the safety of Canady Helios™ Cold Plasma Scalpel (CHCPS) in patients with solid tumors with carcinomatosis scheduled to undergo surgical resection for cytoreduction. Patients with stage 4 resectable tumors as decided by a multidisciplinary disease management team may be included if the metastatic disease is non-synchronous (e.g. recurrent colorectal carcinoma with hepatic metastasis amenable for surgical resection).. Plasma is an ionized gas typically generated in high-temperature laboratory conditions. Plasma coagulators are currently used routinely as surgical tools with multiple applications that create temperatures between 37° C to 43°C and cause thermal injury. Earlier studies demonstrated the non-aggressive nature of cold plasma. As evidence accumulates, it is becoming clear that low-temperature cold plasma has an increasing role in biomedical applications.