Anamorelin Study for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
Multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of anamorelin HCl. Approximately 100 subjects with advanced PDAC and cachexia will be randomized 1:1 to anamorelin HCl 100 mg or placebo, taken orally once daily (QD) for a total of 25 weeks. Subjects will be instructed to take the study drug at least 1 hour before their first meal of the day
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Anamorelin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Placebo
Weight change, demonstrate superiority of anamorelin HCl dosed at 100mg per day vs. placebo on body weight gain and improvement in anorexia symptoms in patients undergoing first-line chemotherapy for incurable pancreatic cancer., 25 weeks
Anorexia Questionnaire, Absolute change in the FAACT 5 item Anorexia Symptom Score from baseline at week, from baseline to week 13|Survival, Overall Survival, 25 weeks|Radiologic Response to Chemotherapy, Chemotherapy response will be evaluated by RECIST criteria, from baseline to week 13|Weight gain, from baseline to week 25 (end of the study)|Fatigue Questionnaire, Change in FACIT-F questionnaire, fatigue subscale, from baseline to week 13|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, expected toxicities for Chemotherapies (FOLFIRINOX and Gemcitabine/Nab-Paclitaxel) will be assessed by CTCAE v5.0, from baseline to week 25 (end of study)|AEs, AEs that are related to the drug, from baseline to week 25 (end of study)
Unplanned visits, number of unplanned visits for symptom management as defined by unscheduled clinic visits, emergency department visits, or hospitalizations, from baseline to week 25 (end of the study)|Chemotherapy Dose change, Percent change in dose intensity of chemotherapy as defined by percent reduction in anticipated chemotherapy dose as determined y the treating physician, from baseline to week 13
Anorexia and cachexia are common clinical sequelae of uncontrolled, metastatic cancer. These effects can impair physical function, reduce quality of life, impair tolerability of anticancer therapy, and reduce survival. Anorexia and cachexia are especially challenging problems in patients diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic cancer. With an annual incidence approaching 50,000 patients in the U.S. alone, pancreatic cancer has an annual mortality of approximately 40,000 patients with most individuals succumbing to their disease within two years. Between 70-80% of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer experience cancer cachexia, which has been associated with reduced survival, increased risk of disease progression, and impaired chemotherapy tolerance.

Anamorelin HCl is an orally-active selective ghrelin receptor agonist which has shown anabolic and appetite-stimulating effects. Several randomized, double-blind, clinical trials in cancer patients have shown that anamorelin HCL is safe, efficacious and increases lean body mass, bodyweight, and appetite. Investigators propose to test anamorelin HCL administered with chemotherapy in the first-line treatment of locally advanced unresectable and metastatic pancreatic cancer.

The study is a randomized, placebo controlled multicenter, Phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of anamorelin HCl. Approximately 100 patients with be enrolled in a 1:1 randomization to anamorelin HCL 100mg per day given concurrently with first-line chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone. Patients randomized to anamorelin HCL will take it daily for 24 weeks starting one day prior to chemotherapy. All patients will undergo an assessment by a certified nutritionist at or prior to their first cycle of chemotherapy. Both body weight and appetite will be measured at enrollment as well as at the initiation of chemotherapy. Patients will be stratified by degree of weight loss in the six months prior to enrollment, choice of first-line chemotherapy, and by baseline score of 5-item Anorexia Symptom Scale.