Alpelisib and Paclitaxel in PIK3CA-altered Gastric Cancer
Alpelisib (BYL719) is a PIK3CA-specific inhibitor, which was developed by Novartis (Basel, Switzerland). Our group conducted pre-clinical study of alpelisib in eight gastric cancer cell lines: four PIK3CA wild-type (SNU638, SNU668, SNU1, and SNU16) and four PIK3CA mutant (SNU719, AGS, SNU601, and MKN). As a result, alpelisib preferentially inhibited the growth of gastric cancer cells with PIK3CA mutations. In addition, alpelisib inhibited cell growth via G1 arrest and subsequently induces apoptosis in GC cells, and this effect is more remarkable in cells harboring PIK3CA mutations. Moreover, alpelisib in combination with paclitaxel showed synergistic cytotoxic effects and significantly increased apoptosis compared with alpelisib or paclitaxel monotherapy in GC cells.

The purpose of the study is to define the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of paclitaxel and alpelisib combination therapy in patients with advanced tumors and to evaluate the efficacy of paclitaxel and AZD8186 combination therapy as a second-line therapy in patients with advanced gastric cancer with PTEN aberrations. This study is divided into Phase IB and Phase II.
Solid Tumor|Stomach Cancer
DRUG: Alpelisib|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Maximal tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), Phase IB, 4 weeks|Progression-free survival rate at 4 months, Phase II, 4 months
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of alpelisib and paclitaxel by NCI CTCAE version 4.03, Phase IB, 4 weeks|Rate of adverse events of all grade by NCI CTCAE version 4.03, Phase IB/II, during treatment|Peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of alpelisib, Phase IB, during treatment|Trough plasma concentration (Ctrough) of alpelisib, Phase IB, during treatment|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of alpelisib, Phase IB, during treatment|Preliminary anti-tumor activity of alpelisib plus paclitaxel combination, Phase IB, during treatment|Overall survival, Phase II, during treatment|Progression-free survival, Phase II, during treatment|Objective response rate, Phase II, during treatment|Disease control rate, Phase II, during treatment|Duration of response, Phase II, during treatment|Time to response, Phase II, during treatment
Exploratory biomarker analysis for efficacy and resistance of alpelisib plus paclitaxel combination (using collected clinical samples) including mutations and RNA/protein expression levels of PI3K pathway genes, Phase IB/II, during treatment
Alpelisib (BYL719) is a PIK3CA-specific inhibitor, which was developed by Novartis (Basel, Switzerland). Our group conducted pre-clinical study of alpelisib in eight gastric cancer cell lines: four PIK3CA wild-type (SNU638, SNU668, SNU1, and SNU16) and four PIK3CA mutant (SNU719, AGS, SNU601, and MKN). As a result, alpelisib preferentially inhibited the growth of gastric cancer cells with PIK3CA mutations. In addition, alpelisib inhibited cell growth via G1 arrest and subsequently induces apoptosis in GC cells, and this effect is more remarkable in cells harboring PIK3CA mutations. Moreover, alpelisib in combination with paclitaxel showed synergistic cytotoxic effects and significantly increased apoptosis compared with alpelisib or paclitaxel monotherapy in GC cells.

The purpose of the study is to define the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of paclitaxel and alpelisib combination therapy in patients with advanced tumors and to evaluate the efficacy of paclitaxel and AZD8186 combination therapy as a second-line therapy in patients with advanced gastric cancer with PTEN aberrations. This study is divided into Phase IB and Phase II.