Post-Prostatectomy Linac-Based Ultrahypofractionated Radiotherapy for Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer
Radical prostatectomy is a common treatment for localized prostate cancer. More than 30% of men who undergo surgery will subsequently develop recurrence, particularly in patients with adverse features where the risk may be even higher. Recurrence typically manifests as a rise in serum-level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA), referred to as biochemical recurrence. Post-operative radiotherapy is a potentially curative option for many patients, as shown in multiple prior randomized studies. A standard course of post-operative radiation requires 6 to 6 and half weeks of treatment, 5 days a week; however, new high-precision radiation techniques with image guidance, termed stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), can deliver an equivalent or higher dose of treatment in 5 visits. Our group, amongst others, have demonstrated in previous studies, that the new 5-treatment technique was safe, convenient and effective in patients with intact prostates. Currently, limited data exists on this approach after prostatectomy. This study will be one of the first to assess the side effect profile and efficacy of SBRT in patients with localized prostate cancer who are considered candidates for post-prostatectomy radiation.
SBRT|Radical Prostatectomy
RADIATION: SBRT
Acute genitourinary (GU) and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities, Based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, Through accrual completion, up to 3 years
Incidence of late GU and GI toxicities (≥6 months), Using CTCAE v5.0, Through accrual completion, up to 3 years|Biochemical disease-free survival (bDFS), Biochemical disease-free survival (bDFS), Through study completion, up to 3 years
Radical prostatectomy is a common treatment for localized prostate cancer. More than 30% of men who undergo surgery will subsequently develop recurrence, particularly in patients with adverse features where the risk may be even higher. Recurrence typically manifests as a rise in serum-level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA), referred to as biochemical recurrence. Post-operative radiotherapy is a potentially curative option for many patients, as shown in multiple prior randomized studies. A standard course of post-operative radiation requires 6 to 6 and half weeks of treatment, 5 days a week; however, new high-precision radiation techniques with image guidance, termed stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), can deliver an equivalent or higher dose of treatment in 5 visits. Our group, amongst others, have demonstrated in previous studies, that the new 5-treatment technique was safe, convenient and effective in patients with intact prostates. Currently, limited data exists on this approach after prostatectomy. This study will be one of the first to assess the side effect profile and efficacy of SBRT in patients with localized prostate cancer who are considered candidates for post-prostatectomy radiation.