Preoperative Pembrolizumab and Chemotherapy in Resectable, Recurrent HNSCC
This research study is evaluating effectiveness and safety of a combination of immunotherapy drug, pembrolizumab, with chemotherapy, as a possible treatment before and after surgery for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC). The combination of pembrolizumab and chemotherapy will be given prior to your surgery, while immunotherapy pembrolizumab will be continued for approximately 1 year after surgery.

The names of the study drugs involved in this research study are:

* pembrolizumab (a type of immunotherapy)
* docetaxel (a type of chemotherapy)
* cisplatin (a type of chemotherapy)
* carboplatin (a type of chemotherapy)
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Head and Neck Cancer|Resectable Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Second Primary Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: CISPLATIN|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel
Rate of Major Pathological Response (mPR), Major pathologic response (mPR) is defined as having ≤ 10% invasive squamous cell carcinoma within the resected primary tumor specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes as assessed by pathologists. Rate is the proportion of treated participants who experienced mPR., 2 months
Grade 3-5 Treatment-related Toxicity Rate, Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3-5 AE of any type during the time of observation. All grade 3-5 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 as reported on case report forms were counted., Up to 18 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Every six months up to 5 years|Median Disease-Free Survival (DFS), Disease-Free Survival (DFS) based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from surgery to the first recurrence or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Participants alive without disease recurrence are censored at date of last disease evaluation., Every six months up to 5 years|Best Radiological Response Rate, Best radiological response are based on the RECIST 1.1 criteria, defined protocol section 11.2.4., Before Salvage Surgery, upto 10 weeks from study registration
This is a Phase II, open-label, non-randomized, single arm, single-center interventional study of neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy with pembrolizumab, cisplatin (or carboplatin), and docetaxel followed by surgery followed by adjuvant pembrolizumab therapy in patients with resectable recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC). This study will also include individuals with new HNSCC which developed in a field that has received prior radiation therapy. Pembrolizumab works by helping the immune system to fight HNSCC.

This research study involves screening for eligibility, study treatment visits including evaluations, radiologic scans, tumor biopsies, and blood tests.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Pembrolizumab for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC) setting before and after surgery, but it has been approved for HNSCC in the advanced incurable setting when surgery is no longer possible or cancer has spread to parts of the body outside the head and neck region.

All other drugs used in this study have been approved by the FDA for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC) in the advanced incurable setting.

Participation in this research study is expected to last for up to 5 years.

It is expected that about 28 people will take part in this research study.

Merck Sharp \& Dohme LLC is supporting this research study and providing the study drug.