Randomized Controlled Trial of Talc Instillation In Addition To Daily Drainage Through a Tunneled Pleural Catheter to Improve Rates of Outpatient Pleurodesis in Patients With Malignant Pleural Effusion
The purpose of this study is to compare the experiences of subjects who drain malignant (cancerous) pleural effusions (fluid) from around their lung(s) in a more frequent manner using a talc instilled via tunneled pleural catheter combined with daily drainage and those subjects who drain this fluid in a daily standard manner.
Malignant Pleural Effusion
DRUG: Talc
Percentage of Participants Undergoing Accelerated Pleurodesis, Up to 90 Days
Dyspnea as Measured by Questionnaire, Borg Dyspnea Scale was used to rate difficulty of breathing. This scale starts at number 0 where breathing is causing no difficulty at all and progresses through to number 10 where breathing difficulty is maximal. Lower scores on this scale equal a better outcome., Baseline, 30 days, 90 Days|Qualify of Life as Measured by Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) at Baseline, Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) was evaluated for overall health status. The SF-36 is composed of eight multi-item scales (Physical functioning, Role limitations due to physical health, Role limitations due to emotional problems, Energy/fatigue, Emotional well-being, Social functioning, Pain, General health), with scores for each of these scales (or dimensions) ranging from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate higher qualify of life., Baseline|Qualify of Life as Measured by Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) at 30 Days, Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) was evaluated for overall health status. The SF-36 is composed of eight multi-item scales (Physical functioning, Role limitations due to physical health, Role limitations due to emotional problems, Energy/fatigue, Emotional well-being, Social functioning, Pain, General health), with scores for each of these scales (or dimensions) ranging from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate higher qualify of life., 30 days|Qualify of Life as Measured by Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) at 90 Days, Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) was evaluated for overall health status. The SF-36 is composed of eight multi-item scales (Physical functioning, Role limitations due to physical health, Role limitations due to emotional problems, Energy/fatigue, Emotional well-being, Social functioning, Pain, General health), with scores for each of these scales (or dimensions) ranging from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate higher qualify of life., 90 days
Study Activities: Patients will be randomized to either the standard daily drainage group or the talc instilled via tunneled pleural catheter combined with standard daily drainage group. Patients will complete questionnaires regarding their health. If you are randomized to the talc group, you will receive talc infused through the tunneled pleural catheter. If you are randomized to the standard daily drainage group, you will not receive any additional therapy. Patients will complete a drainage diary for everyday they drain fluid which will provide information on drainage volume, fluid color, pain, and complications. At 30 days and 90 days post randomization, patients will return to clinic for follow-up, at which time they will have a physical exam, chest x-ray, and complete questionnaires regarding their health.

Risks/Safety Issues: Risks associated with talc include fever and pain. Less likely risks associated with talc include infection, dyspnea, hypoxemia, pneumonia, unilateral pulmonary edema, hemoptysis, pulmonary emboli, and bronchopleural fistula.