Tavo and Pembrolizumab in Patients With Stage III/IV Melanoma Progressing on Either Pembrolizumab or Nivolumab Treatment
Keynote 695 is Phase 2 study of intratumoral tavokinogene telseplasmid (tavo; pIL-12) Electroporation (EP) plus IV Pembrolizumab. Eligible patients will be those with pathological diagnosis of unresectable or metastatic melanoma who are progressing or have progressed on either pembrolizumab or nivolumab.
Stage III/IV Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: tavokinogene telseplasmid|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DEVICE: ImmunoPulse
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR by blinded independent central review (BICR) based on RECIST v1.1, approximately 2 years
Objective Response rate (ORR), ORR by investigator assessment based on RECIST v1.1, approximately 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR by Investigator assessment and BICR based on RECIST v1.1, approximately 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS by investigator assessment and BICR based on RECIST v1.1, approximately 2 years|Immune Progression Free Survival (iPFS), iPFS by Investigator assessment and BICR based on iRECIST, approximately 2 years|Immune Overall Response Rate (iORR), iORR by Investigator assessment and BICR based on iRECIST, approximately 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival, approximately 2 years
The study will be comprised of a screening period, a treatment period (up to 2 years), a long term follow-up period, and a survival follow-up period.

Eligible subjects will be treated with TAVO-EP to the accessible lesions on days 1, 5, and 8 every 6 weeks and with IV pembrolizumab (200 mg) on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle for up to 18 TAVO-EP cycles and 35 pembrolizumab cycles (from baseline) of continued treatment (approximately 2 years) or until disease progression. As many accessible lesions may be treated, as deemed feasible by the treating physician, as long as the size of each lesion is greater than 0.3 cm × 0.3 cm.

Long-term Follow-up: All subjects will be followed after End of Treatment (EOT) visit for SAEs (through 90 days from last dose of study drug). Subjects who discontinue treatment will enter the long-term follow-up period unless they have started a new anti-cancer therapy (or other local anticancer immunotherapy) or have withdrawn consent for non-survival assessments. They will have scans, photographs, and investigator-assessed disease evaluation per RECIST v1.1 collected every 3 months until disease progression, or the subject receives a new systemic anti-cancer treatment (or other local anticancer immunotherapy).

Survival Follow-up: Once a subject receives a new systemic anti-cancer treatment (or other local anticancer immunotherapy), they will move into survival follow-up. All subjects will be followed for survival and disease status, every 3 months up to a total duration of 5 years, withdrawal of consent, or until Sponsor terminates the study.