PARP Inhibitor CVL218 in Combination Therapy for Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of CVL218 in combination with Toripalimab injection/Sintilimab injection (Darbersol, Sintilimab) in the treatment of advanced solid tumors. It focuses on assessing the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic profile of a three-drug combination regimen comprising albumin-bound paclitaxel injection (Kealil), paclitaxel injection (Taxol), and Fuquinitinib capsule (Aiutec, Fruquintinib).
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: CVL218
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during the observation period of DLT, The duration of DLT evaluation in Phase Ib is within the first cycle after dosing (within 21 days). Starting from the 500mg BID CVL218 dose group, each dose group was enrolled on the basis of 3 cases. If DLT was present in 2/3 or more of the group, one dose level should be lowered. If 1/3 of the subjects developed DLT, 3 more subjects were enrolled with the same dose. If 2/6 or more subjects develop DLT, the dose level should be lowered by one dose. After each dose group completes the DLT assessment, it is decided whether to move to the next dose group. The recommended dose (RP2D) will be determined based on the combined data of safety and tolerability, PK, pharmacodynamics, and initial anti-tumor efficacy of the drug obtained during the dose escalation phase. If dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) occurs in 0/3 subjects in a group, or in less than 2/6 subjects, the CVL218 dose can be used as the recommended dose., Incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during the observation period of DLT，No more than six months；The interruption and reduction of drug dose in the cohorts of the combination regimen were studied，No more than three years
Duration of response (DoR), progression-free survival (PFS), disease control rate (DCR)as assessed by the RECIST v1.1, Duration of response (DoR), progression-free survival (PFS), disease control rate (DCR)as assessed by the RECIST v1.1, Imaging evaluation was performed every 6 weeks (±7 days) for six months prior to treatment. After six months, they were evaluated every 12 weeks (±7 days). Tumor evaluation can be performed more frequently by the investigator according to clinical needs.
This Phase Ib/II clinical study is designed to determine the recommended Phase II dosage of the combination therapy and its initial efficacy. The study consists of two phases: an exploratory phase (Ib) and an extended phase (II), each divided into three stages: the screening period, treatment period, and follow-up period.

The screening period occurs 28 days prior to the first dose administration. Three parallel queues were organized, with Phase Ib enrolling 3-6 participants per dose level cohort and Phase II enrolling approximately 20 participants per cohort.

In Phase II, subjects must demonstrate evidence of deleterious HRD gene variants (such as BRCA1, BRCA2, PALB2, ATM, CHEK2 variants) or a positive PD-L1 molecular expression level combined score (CPS) of ≥1. Additionally, Phase II participants are required to consent to the provision of sufficient archived or fresh tumor tissue and blood samples for biomarker analysis in the central laboratory, including determination of HRD gene mutation status and PD-L1 expression level (details in Section 7.4).

During the treatment period, the three cohorts received CVL218 orally (PO) in combination with a fixed dose of either terriplizumab injection (Toripalimab) or Sintilimab injection (Darbersol, Sintilimab). Additionally, they were administered albumin-bound paclitaxel injection (Kealil)/paclitaxel injection (Taxol)/Fuquintinib capsule (Aiutec, Fruquintinib).

CVL218 was administered at two dose levels, ranging from low to high (500 mg, 700 mg), twice daily (BID), during the exploration of cohorts in Phase Ib. After determining the recommended dose of CVL218 in all cohorts of the three-drug combination, this dose level was maintained during Phase II. When CVL218 and the combination were administered on the same day, CVL218 was given first.