External-Beam Radiation Therapy, Capecitabine, and Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving radiation therapy together with capecitabine and sorafenib before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of capecitabine when given together with sorafenib and external-beam radiation therapy and to see how well it works in treating patients with locally advanced rectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Dose-limiting toxicity of the treatment combination (Phase I), during trial treatment (12 weeks)|Pathological near complete or complete tumor response (Dworak grade 3 and 4) (Phase II), after trial treatment (approx. 12 weeks).
R0 and R1 resection, after trial treatment (approx. 12 weeks)|Postoperative complications, within 8 weeks after surgery|Time to distant failure, during 3 years follow-up.|Disease-free survival, during 3 years follow-up.|Adverse events as assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0, during trial treatment.
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the recommended dose of neoadjuvant capecitabine when given together with sorafenib tosylate and external-beam radiotherapy in patients with K-ras mutated, locally advanced rectal cancer. (Phase I)
* Assess the efficacy and safety of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of capecitabine followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily and oral sorafenib tosylate once daily on days 1-33. Patients also undergo external-beam radiotherapy once daily on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26, and 29-33. Approximately 6 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo surgery.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 8 weeks and then periodically for up to 3 years.