Incidence of Second Primary Malignancies in Prostate Cancer Patients With Bone Metastases - an Observational Retrospective Cohort Study in Sweden
This study is conducted to obtain information about prostate cancer patients with bone metastases before the end of 2013. The incidence of second primary malignancies and overall survival in patients with castration resistant prostate cancer are of particular interest. Information from this study will serve as a historical reference for the REASSURE study (Background incidence study)
Prostatic Neoplasms
OTHER
Incidences of Second primary malignancies that are characterized by the following ICD-10 codes: C00-C76, C81-C96, D00-D09, D37-D48., Up to 15 years
Incidences of any site-specific second primary malignancies, Site-specific ICD-10 code groups from the range of all neoplasm codes C00 - D48, Up to 15 years for mPC patients and up to 7 years for mCRPC patients|Overall survival, Up to 15 years for mPC patients and up to 7 years for mCRPC patients|Pathologic fracture, ICD-10 codes: M49.5, M84.4, M90.7, Up to 15 years for mPC patients and up to 7 years for mCRPC patients|Spinal cord compression, ICD-10 codes: M43.9, M48.5, G95.2, G95.8, Up to 15 years for mPC patients and up to 7 years for mCRPC patients|Surgery to bone, Based on the Nordic Medico-Statistical Committee (NOMESCO) classification of surgical procedure codes (NCSP codes), Up to 15 years for mPC patients and up to 7 years for mCRPC patients|Radiation to bone, Based on NCSP codes, Up to 15 years for mPC patients and up to 7 years for mCRPC patients
Prostate cancer (PC) is the most common non-cutaneous malignancy in men. Once it becomes metastatic, it poses a serious threat to the patients' quality of life and survival. The most common site of metastases is the skeletal system: Among castration-resistant prostate cancer patients bone metastases are involved in over 90% of metastatic cases.

The development of new treatments has led to improved quality of life and prolonged lifetime among castration-resistant prostate cancer patients with metastases (mCRPC). A recent randomized clinical trial indicated significant improvement in survival and quality of life among patients with bone metastases treated with alpha emitter radium-223 as compared with placebo. To further evaluate the safety profile of Radium-223 in patients with castration resistant prostate cancer with bone metastases, Radium-223 alpha Emitter Agent in non-intervention Safety Study in mCRPC popUlation for long-teRm Evaluation (the REASSURE study), an international prospective observational single-arm cohort study was implemented as a post-marking requirement requested by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA).

In the case that new treatments improve the length and quality of life substantially, it can be challenging to obtain an appropriate comparison group in the post-authorization phase. This study is conducted to obtain information about prostate cancer patients with bone metastases before the end of 2013. The incidence of second primary malignancies and overall survival are of particular interest. Information from this study will serve as a historical reference for the REASSURE study