Neratinib in Combination With Ruxolitinib in Patients With mTNBC
The goal of this clinical trial is to assess the safety and efficacy of combined ruxolitinib and neratinib in patients with chemotherapy-pretreated metastatic triple negative breast cancer. This trial will evaluate one dosing schedule of neratinib in ruxolitinib in patients with metTNBC with locoregional recurrence.
Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Breast Cancer
DRUG: Neratinib Oral Tablet|DRUG: Ruxolitinib Oral Tablet
Objective Response Rate, Calculate objective response rate (CR+PR) associated with neratinib in combination ruxolitinib. Objective response rate will be calculated by defining the proportion of patients who have a complete or partial response to the study therapy, as determined by the treating physician., 18 months
Duration of Response, Calculate duration of response associated with neratinib in combination with ruxolitinib. Duration of response will be calculated from the time of tumor response to disease progression in patients responding to study therapy, 18 months
Genetic Evaluation, Signaling signatures of research biopsies will be analyzed via Next Generation Sequencing and Reverse Phase Protein Array, 18 months
Metastatic triple negative breast cancer (metTNBC) lacks expression of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), making it unresponsive to both endocrine and HER2-targeted therapies. Chest wall recurrence is common in patients with treatment resistant metTNBC and leads to substantial morbidity as no successful therapeutic options exist. Patients suffer with escalated progression of disease across the entire chest wall with substantial wound control issues. Chest wall recurrence generally occurs within one year following chemotherapy or immunotherapy given with curative intent, and in general signifies metTNBC that is primary resistant to standard therapy.

There is long standing evidence that EGFR is an important signaling pathway in metTNBC as this cancer overexpresses EGFR compared to other breast cancer subtypes. This exposes a pathway that is targetable for treatment, making EGFR a compelling molecular therapeutic target in metTNBC. Another key contributor to progression of TNBC is the JAK/STAT3 signaling pathway and assessments of EGFR have shown that it is a positive regulator of STAT3 that drives proliferation and survival of metTNBC.

The investigators hypothesize that combined inhibition of EGFR and JAK/STAT3 using neratinib and ruxolitinib will lead to greater inhibition of the critically important EGFR pathway in TNBC with greater efficacy than targeting EGFR or JAK/STAT3 alone.