Acupuncture in Treating Nerve Pain in Patients With Stage I, Stage II, or Stage III Breast Cancer Who Are Receiving Paclitaxel
RATIONALE: Acupuncture may help relieve nerve pain caused by chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well acupuncture works in treating nerve pain in patients with stage I, stage II, and stage III breast cancer who are receiving paclitaxel.
Breast Cancer|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
OTHER: acupuncture therapy|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: management of therapy complications
Change in the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory Scores, At the end of 4 courses of chemotherapy
Percentage of patients requiring a dose reduction or additional neuropathy distress related pharmacologic management, Eight weeks after study enrollment|Impact of assigning patients the worst score when dose reducing/or prescribing additional treatment, Eight weeks after study enrollment|Observed improvement in patients following treatment with acupuncture as to compared to those no longer receiving acupuncture, Eight weeks after study enrollment|Comparison of changes in neurological assessment of patients, At the end of therapy and 1 month after the end of therapy|Correlation between nerve inventory questionnaires and quantitative nerve tests, Eight weeks after study enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore the potential for the use of acupuncture to prevent a worsening of the nerve damage in patients (during treatment) due to paclitaxel as measured by a Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the impact of acupuncture based on neurological assessment, quantitative sensory tests and nerve conduction tests.

II. Evaluate the improvement observed when treating patients for peripheral neuropathy (post-chemotherapy) with acupuncture based on the same metrics.

III. To correlate objective measures of neuropathy (nerve conduction, quantitative sensory tests, neuropathy composite score, and blood cytokine levels) with the subjective questionnaire/quality of life measures.

OUTLINE:

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel every 2 weeks for 4 courses as standard of care. Patients undergo acupuncture therapy comprising 2 30-minute sessions a week for 4 weeks during courses 3 and 4.

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel every 2 weeks for 4 courses as standard of care. Patients then undergo acupuncture therapy comprising 2 30-minute sessions a week for 4 weeks.