Tranexamic Acid in Nasal Mohs Reconstruction
This study will be a prospective randomized control trial to evaluate the effects of subcutaneously administered TXA among patients undergoing nasal Mohs reconstruction with local flaps at VUMC.
Postoperative Bleeding|Skin Cancer Face
DRUG: Treatment (tranexamic acid and 1% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine)|DRUG: Control (1% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine)
Surgical site swelling and bruising (surgeon), Photos will be taken by a research team member at the first postoperative clinic visit and then analyzed and graded by a blinded reviewer for measures including surgical site bruising and swelling. Surgical site swelling and bruising will be graded on a 4 point scale, with 0 indicating no swelling and bruising and 3 indicating significant swelling and bruising., One week|Surgical site swelling and bruising (patient), Subjective measures of patient perceived swelling and bruising will be collected via a patient completed survey given at the first postoperative clinic visit. Surgical site swelling and bruising will be graded on a 4 point scale, with 0 indicating no swelling and bruising and 3 indicating significant swelling and bruising., One week|Intraoperative bleeding, Intraoperative bleeding will be assessed using the validated Boezaart Bleeding scale (6 point scale, with 0 indicating no bleeding/cadaveric conditions and 5 indicating severe bleeding/constant suctioning required). Values will be assigned by the attending surgeon and recorded by the research team., Intraoperative|Intraoperative bleeding, Attending surgeon will score the approximate percent blood saturation of each surgical sponge used in the case. Values from each sponge will be added together for a total cumulative value, with a higher cumulative value indicating a greater amount of intraoperative bleeding., Intraoperative
Postoperative pain, Subjective measure of patient perceived pain will be collected via a patient completed survey given at the first postoperative clinic visit. Responses will be graded on a 5 point scale, with 1 indicating "no pain" and 5 indicating "severe pain.", One week|Postoperative pain, Objective measure of pain control will also be collected with an estimate of total amount of opioid pain medication used in the first week after surgery., One week|Postoperative patient satisfaction, Subjective measure of postoperative patient satisfaction will be collected via a patient completed survey given at the first postoperative clinic visit. Responses will be graded on a 5 point scale, with 1 indicating "very dissatisfied" and 5 indicating "very satisfied.", One week
Tranexamic acid (TXA) is an antifibrinolytic agent that acts to decrease bleeding by stabilizing the fibrin matrix involved in the clotting cascade. The use of TXA has been extensively described in the literature to prevent exsanguination in trauma and in various surgical procedures, as well as for heavy menstrual bleeding and epistaxis. Studies have suggested administration of TXA may improve outcomes in aesthetic surgery as well, specifically regarding intraoperative bleeding and postoperative ecchymosis and hematoma formation. TXA may be administered systemically, via IV or PO routes, or locally, via topical application or subcutaneous injection. Local administration allows for similar benefits with minimal risk of systemic effects.

Following facial Mohs reconstruction patients often experience surgical site ecchymosis and swelling, which may be distressing, painful, prolong healing, and result in increased healthcare utilization. Other complications include hematoma, wound dehiscence, and suboptimal scarring. Given the growing body of literature demonstrating the benefits of TXA in surgical bleeding outcomes, TXA may also be beneficial in improving postoperative Mohs complications and patient satisfaction.

To date, no studies have investigated the use of perioperative TXA specifically in nasal Mohs reconstruction. This study will be a prospective randomized control trial to evaluate the effects of subcutaneously administered TXA among patients undergoing nasal Mohs reconstruction with local flaps at VUMC.