Rifaximin and Placebo in the Treatment of Bowel Dysfunction After Anterior Resection for Rectal Cancer
The most common long-term problems after rectal surgery are bowel problems. These problems can include needing to pass bowel movements a lot, loose or mushy stools, inability to fully clear your bowels, and/or poor control of gas and stool. The investigators believe that a major cause of these problems is too much bacteria in the bowel and treatment with antibiotic tablets will hopefully help improve these bowel problems. In order to test this idea, the Colorectal Surgery Service of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center is sponsoring a clinical trial. This trial will compare the antibiotic rifaximin and a placebo (a harmless tablet that has no effect) in the treatment of these bowel problems. Following this we will attempt to see if another antibiotic metronidazole also helps to treat these bowel problems. Both Metronidazole and rifaximin are well established drugs that have minimal side effects.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Rifaximin|DRUG: Placebo
Number of Participants Who Completed MSKCC Bowel Function Instrument (BFI Score) in Patients Following Anterior Resection (AR) or Sphincter Preserving Surgery (SPS) for Rectal Cancer., 1 year
To Determine if Reduction in Intestinal Bacterial Quantity Correlates With Improvement in Bowel Symptoms (BFI Score)., 1 year|To Explore the Bacterial Composition of Stool Before and After Antibiotic Treatment., 1 year|To Identify Dynamic Changes in Bowel Function During and After Antibiotic Treatment Using a Bowel Function Log., 1 year|Efficacy of Metronidazole, in the treatment of bowel dysfunction as measured by the MSKCC BFI in patients following AR or SPS for rectal cancer for patients who have no improvement following treatment with rifaximin or placebo., 1 year
The most common long-term problems after rectal surgery are bowel problems. These problems can include needing to pass bowel movements a lot, loose or mushy stools, inability to fully clear your bowels, and/or poor control of gas and stool. The investigators believe that a major cause of these problems is too much bacteria in the bowel and treatment with antibiotic tablets will hopefully help improve these bowel problems. In order to test this idea, the Colorectal Surgery Service of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center is sponsoring a clinical trial. This trial will compare the antibiotic rifaximin and a placebo (a harmless tablet that has no effect) in the treatment of these bowel problems. Following this we will attempt to see if another antibiotic metronidazole also helps to treat these bowel problems. Both Metronidazole and rifaximin are well established drugs that have minimal side effects.