Study of Zanubrutinib, Rituximab and Combination Chemotherapy in Newly-diagnosed Aggressive B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), with high aggressiveness and mortality, is one of the top ten high-incidence tumors in the world and is among the ten most prevalent cancers worldwide with the fastest growing incidence. Although novel immunotherapies represented by anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies and CAR-T cell therapies have significantly improved the prognosis of B-NHL patients, there are still nearly one-third of patients who are resistant to initial treatment or relapse after remission. Zanubrutinib is an oral small molecule BTK inhibitor, and has shown good efficacy and safety in multiple subtypes of B-cell lymphoma. However, the efficacy of zanubrutinib in highly aggressive B-cell lymphoma remains to be further studied
High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 and/or BCL6 Rearrangements|Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma|B-cell Non Hodgkin Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Zanubrutinib+R-CHOP; Zanubrutinib+R-DA-EPOCH; Zanubrutinib+R-HD MTX|DRUG: R-CHOP; R-DA-EPOCH; R-HD MTX
ORR, per 3 and 6 cycle, 3 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS), 3 years|Occurrence of adverse events and serious adverse events, per 3 and 6 cycle, 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), 3 years
Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), with high aggressiveness and mortality, is one of the top ten high-incidence tumors in the world and is among the ten most prevalent cancers worldwide with the fastest growing incidence. B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) is the most common type of NHL. Although novel immunotherapies represented by anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies and CAR-T cell therapies have significantly improved the prognosis of B-NHL patients, there are still nearly one-third of patients who are resistant to initial treatment or relapse after remission.

High-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBL)-DH/TH with MYC/BCL2 and/or BCL6 translocation, accounts for about 7-10% in DLBCL. The remission rate of conventional chemotherapy is low.(ORR:32%,CR:12%). The median OS is 12 months. The survival outcome of induction chemotherapy is improved limited compared to R-CHOP. Currently, there are a lack of effective treatments options for HGBL. How to improve curative effect needs more research.

Zanubrutinib is an oral small molecule BTK inhibitor, and has shown good efficacy and safety in multiple subtypes of B-cell lymphoma. Zanubrutinib received FDA approval for adult mantle-cell lymphoma (MCL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SLL/CLL) patients who have received at least one previous treatment on 15 Nov 2019, becoming the first US-listed Chinese innovative anti-cancer drug. However, the efficacy of zanubrutinib in highly aggressive B-cell lymphoma remains to be further studied.

Therefore, we present this study protocol to add Zanubrutinib to the first-line treatment of highly aggressive B-NHL, applying zanubrutinib combined with rituximab plus chemotherapy in the treatment of highly aggressive B-NHL compared to rituximab plus chemotherapy.