XELOX and XELIRI Alternative Regimen as First-line Treatment for Advanced Colorectal Cancer
Colorectal cancer will be resistant to Chemotherapy drugs after treated for a period of time .In the past, the classical treatment regiment was to change other drug after tumor progressed. In theory, the continuous use of such a drug could shortening the patient's drug resistance time. It has been shown that the alternate use of the two drug combinations is reasonable in clinical. This application can not only further improve the curative effect but also significantly reduce the side effects. So the investigators are going to carry out a prospective phase II clinical study. The control group change to second-line treatment after progression of first-line drugs. The experimental group use the first line and the second line,alternately, for every two cycles. The combination of bevacizumab is a first line development, and the second line can still be used .Objective to compare the clinical value of XELOX and XELIRI alternation regimen in the first-line treatment of advanced colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Chemotherapy
DRUG: XELIRI|DRUG: XELOX
Adverse Events, Adverse events will be evaluated according to NCI CTCAE 4.0, 22 months|time to failure of strategy（TFS）, time from the beginning of the treatment until appear the following events, including death and implementation.the progress of disease, 22 months
Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of patients whose tumor is reduced to a certain amount and maintain a certain period of time., 22 months|Disease control rate(DCR), The rate of cases of remission and stable disease accounts for the total evaluable cases after treatment, 22 months|Overall Survival (OS), overall survival time after the beginning of the treatment, 22 months|time to failure of strategy（TFS）, time from the second beginning of the treatment until appear the following events, including death and implementation.the progress of disease, 22 months
Colorectal cancer will be resistant to Chemotherapy drugs after treated for a period of time .In the past, the classical treatment regiment was to change other drug after tumor progressed. In theory, the continuous use of such a drug could shortening the patient's drug resistance time. It has been shown that the alternate use of the two drug combinations is reasonable in clinical. This application can not only further improve the curative effect but also significantly reduce the side effects. So the investigators are going to carry out a prospective phase II clinical study. The control group change to second-line treatment after progression of first-line drugs. The experimental group use the first line and the second line,alternately, for every two cycles. The combination of bevacizumab is a first line development, and the second line can still be used .Objective to compare the clinical value of XELOX and XELIRI alternation regimen in the first-line treatment of advanced colorectal cancer.