VIdeo Assisted Thoracoscopic Lobectomy Versus Conventional Open LobEcTomy for Lung Cancer
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide and survival in the United Kingdom (UK) remains amongst the lowest in Europe. Surgery is the main method of managing early stage disease and is traditionally undertaken via conventional open surgery. However, over the last decade there has been a surge in the number of minimal access resections performed using Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS). However, there remains a need for well-designed and conducted randomised controlled trial (RCT) to provide the evidence base for the wide spread uptake and delivery of this surgical approach.
Lung Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Open Surgery|PROCEDURE: Video Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery (VATS)
Self-reported physical function using HRQoL questionnaire QLQ-C30, Physical functioning scale, ranges between 0 and 100. High score indicates high level of physical functioning., 5 weeks post randomisation
Time from surgery to hospital discharge, assessed up to 12 months, Time from surgery to hospital discharge, assessed up to 12 months|Adverse health events to 1 year, Adverse health events to 1 year|Proportion of patients taking up adjuvant treatment, assessed up to 12 months, Proportion and time to uptake of adjuvant treatment, assessed up to 12 months|Time to uptake of adjuvant treatment, assessed up to 12 months, Proportion and time to uptake of adjuvant treatment, assessed up to 12 months|Proportion of patients upstaged to pN2 disease after surgical procedure, assessed up to 3 months post surgery, Proportion of patients upstaged to pN2 disease after surgical procedure, assessed up to 3 months post-surgery|Overall and disease-free survival to 1-year, 1 year|Proportion of patients who undergo complete resection during the procedure, , assessed up to 12 months, Proportion of patients who undergo complete resection during the procedure, assessed up to 12 months|Proportion of patients who experience prolonged incision pain (defined as the need of analgesia > 5 weeks post-randomisation), Up to 1 year|Disease-specific HRQoL - EORTC QLQ-C30 to 1-year, 3 types of scales. Functioning scales which include physical functioning, role functioning, emotional function, cognitive functioning and social functioning. Symptom scales which include fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain, dysponea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhoea, financial difficulties.

An overall global health status/QoL All scales range between 0 and 100. For functioning scales, a high score indicates a high level of functioning. Similarly, a high global health status/QoL score indicates a high quality of life. For symptom scales, a high score indicates a high level of symptoms., Measured at 2 week, 5 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 1-year post randomisation|Disease-specific HRQoL - EORTC QLQ-LC13 to 1-year, Symptoms scales which include Dyspnoea, Couging, Haemoptysis, Sore mouth, Dysphagia, Peripheral neuropathy, Alopecia, Pain in chest, Pain in arm or shoulder, Pain in other parts, and Pain medication. For these scales, a high score indicates a high level of symptoms, as with the QLQ-C30.

Scales range between 0 and 100., Measured at 2 week, 5 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 1-year post randomisation|Generic HRQoL - EORTC EQ5D to 1-year, Subscales: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression. These range from 1-5.

subscales mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression are combined to calculate an overall index score which ranges from -0.59 to 1.

A higher score indicates better quality of life, Measured at 2 week, 5 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 1-year post randomisation|Resource use, Resource use to 1-year (measured for the duration of post-operative hospital stay until discharge, and at 5 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 1-year post randomisation), Up to 1 year
The uptake of surgery for lung cancer in the UK is low and minimal access surgery may be regarded as a more acceptable intervention (compared to open surgery) by patients, referring respiratory physicians and oncologists. However, a large multi-centre RCT is essential to inform patient and clinician decision making and influence surgical practice in the UK.

The VIOLET study will compare the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and acceptability of VATS lobectomy versus open surgery for treatment of lung cancer and will test the hypothesis that VATS surgery is superior to open surgery with respect to self-reported physical function five weeks after randomisation (approx. one month after surgery).

Specific objectives are to estimate:

A. The difference between groups in the average self-reported physical function at five weeks.

B. The difference between groups with respect to a range of secondary outcomes including assessment of efficacy (hospital stay, pain, proportion and time to uptake of chemotherapy), measures of safety (adverse health events), oncological outcomes (proportion of patients upstaged to pN2 disease and disease free survival) and overall survival.

C. The cost effectiveness of VATs and open surgery.