Atezolizumab in Treating Patients With Cancer Following Adoptive Cell Transfer
This pilot phase I trial studies the side effects of atezolizumab in treating patients with cancer following adoptive cell transfer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.) 4.0 (CTCAE version 5.0 will be used starting 04/01/2018). Adverse experiences will be graded and recorded throughout the study and during the follow-up period., Up to 6 weeks
Expansion of engrafted T cells following atezolizumab administration in the peripheral blood and within the tumor microenvironment, Summary statistics, such as the mean, median, counts and proportion, will be used to summarize the patients., Up to 1 year|Phenotype and function of engrafted T cells following atezolizumab administration, Summary statistics, such as the mean, median, counts and proportion, will be used to summarize the patients., Up to 1 year|Anti-tumor activity, Summary statistics, such as the mean, median, counts and proportion, will be used to summarize the patients., Up to 1 year|The response rate, Will be assessed using immune related Response Criteria (irRC) and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1, or other tumor-specific criteria. Summary statistics, such as the mean, median, counts and proportion, will be used to summarize the patients., Up to 1 year|Survival outcomes, Will be assessed using immune related Response Criteria (irRC) and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1, or other tumor-specific criteria. Survival estimates will be computed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Potential association between variables will be measured using Pearson correlation coefficients, chi-square tests, one- or two-sided t-tests or logistic regression analyses as appropriate. Non-parametric tests such as Spearman correlation coefficients, Fisher's exact tests and Wilcoxon rank sum tests may be substituted if necessary. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be constructed and selected results will be illustrated using figures and plots., Up to 1 year|Progression free survival, Will be assessed using immune related Response Criteria (irRC) and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1, or other tumor-specific criteria. Survival estimates will be computed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Potential association between variables will be measured using Pearson correlation coefficients, chi-square tests, one- or two-sided t-tests or logistic regression analyses as appropriate. Non-parametric tests such as Spearman correlation coefficients, Fisher's exact tests and Wilcoxon rank sum tests may be substituted if necessary. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be constructed and selected results will be illustrated using figures and plots., Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis, Will be tailored for each cohort as continuous variables, depending on the type of adoptive cell transfer (ACT) previously administered., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety of atezolizumab (MPDL3280A) administration in patients who have received adoptive cell transfer (ACT) prior to enrollment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the expansion of engrafted T cells following atezolizumab administration in the peripheral blood and within the tumor microenvironment.

II. To evaluate the phenotype and function of engrafted T cells following atezolizumab administration.

III. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. IV. To evaluate the response rate using immune related Response Criteria (irRC) and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1, or other tumor-specific criteria.

V. To evaluate survival outcomes and progression free survival using irRC and RECIST v1.1, or other tumor-specific criteria.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30- 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for a total of 17 doses over up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and biopsy on study. Patients also undergo blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and then every 3 months thereafter.