NKTR-102 in Combination With Cetuximab in Patients With Refractory Solid Tumors (Phase 2a) and Metastatic or Locally Advanced Colorectal Cancer (Phase 2b)
Study 07-PIR-02 is a Phase 2 study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NKTR-102 (PEG-irinotecan) for the treatment of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). The study is comprised of two sequential components - Phase 2a and Phase 2b. The Phase 2a portion is an open-label, dose-finding trial in multiple solid tumor types that are refractory to standard curative or palliative therapies. The primary endpoint of the Phase 2a is to establish the /recommended Phase 2 Dose (RPTD) of NKTR-102 by measuring the frequency of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT). The Phase 2b portion is an open-label, randomized, two-arm study in patients with second-line metastatic colorectal cancer and study participants will be randomized (1:1) to receive either NKTR-102 and cetuximab or irinotecan and cetuximab. The primary endpoint of the Phase 2b portion of the trial is progression-free survival. Secondary endpoints for both the Phase 2a and 2b portion include response rate, response duration, overall survival, standard pharmacokinetics, and incidence of toxicities, including diarrhea and neutropenia.
Tumor|Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: NKTR-102 100 mg/m2|DRUG: NKTR-102 125 mg/m2|DRUG: Cetuximab
Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicities, Number of patients with Dose Limiting Toxicities, 12 months
Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicities by NCI-CTCAE, Number of patients with Dose Limiting Toxicities by NCI-CTCAE, 12 months|Number of Patients With Overall Response, Complete Response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter. The best overall response was the best response recorded from the start of the study drug until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., 12 months
The Phase 2a portion of this study is completed. The following entries reflect the Phase 2a portion of this study only. The Phase 2b portion of the study was not enrolled. Based on emerging data regarding the corresponding low efficacy of cetuximab in patients with KRAS mutations, as well as revised NKTR-102 clinical development plans, the Phase 2b portion of the study was not completed.