High Precision Imaging of Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen for Personalized Treatment in Prostate Cancer
This is an Investigator Initiated, non-commercial, single center, non-randomized, single arm, open label pilot study on 194 patients. The patients are affected by prostate cancer but in two different clinical settings. The first group is characterized by patients who are going to be operated of radical prostatectomy and they will undergo the study imaging preoperatively. The second group experiences biochemical relapse after primary treatment.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: 68Ga-PSMA (HBED-CC) PET
68Ga-PSMA PET/MR imaging accuracy before radical prostatectomy + pelvic lymph node dissection [RP + PLND]. Work unit 1. 68Ga-PSMA PET/MR imaging accuracy in patients with biochemical recurrence after primary treatment. Work unit 2., Assessment of the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive, through study completion, an average of 2 year
The correlation of tracer uptake to Gleason scores within the prostate tumor and within metastatic lymph nodes. Work unit 1., Correlation between tracer uptake and pathology Gleason score, through study completion, an average of 2 year|Comparison of diagnostic accuracy between 68Ga-PSMA PET, MR and combined 68Ga-PSMA PET/MR. Work unit 2., Assessment of the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value, through study completion, an average of 2 year|The evaluation of change in patient management based on imaging results of 68Ga-PSMA PET/MR in patients with biochemical recurrence. Work unit 2., Proportion of patients with treatments different from follow-up after the evaluation of 68Ga-PSMA PET/MRI, through study completion, an average of 2 year
Novel, sensitive tools, such as 68Ga-PSMA PET imaging, have great potential for very early disease detection and open the possibility of early curative local salvage treatment (with surgery, radiotherapy or a combination of both). This project will moreover provide important insights into the biodistribution and dosimetry of 68Ga-PSMA, opening possibilities of 90-Yttrium or 177-Lutetium-PSMA-based radionuclidetherapy of patients with metastatic PC in the future.

The study consists of 2 work units (WU):

Work-unit 1: Patients at high risk for nodal involvement prior to radical prostatectomy with extended lymph node dissection Work-unit 2: Biochemical recurrence after initial treatment with curative intent