To Explore the Benefits of the MonaLisa Touch速 System in Gynaecological Cancer Patients Treated by (Chemo)-RT
The increasing survival rate of gynaecological cancer patients highlights the need to improve their Quality of Life (QoL) after treatment. Among all QoL factors, sexuality is unfortunately often neglected, especially vaginal dryness and fibrosis/stenosis. Currently, the latter is standardly treated by vaginal dilators, which may induce pain and discomfort (1). A new possibility, already used in some centers, is the MonaLisa Touch速 system, a microablative CO2 laser (2). Its efficiency to improve sexual QoL has already been demonstrated in breast cancer patients treated with chemotherapy and/or hormonotherapy and in menopausal women (3). Unfortunately, almost no study have been conducted yet for patients undergoing radiotherapy to the pelvic area to prevent vaginal morbidity. Our randomised study will explore the benefits of the MonaLisa Touch速 device for the prevention of sexual adverse events induced by pelvic (chemo-) radiotherapy for pelvic cancers.
Gynecologic Cancer
DEVICE: MonaLisa Touch device|DEVICE: Vaginal dilatators
Variations of the sexual function through FSFI questionnaire, Sexual QOL questionnaire, before (chemo-RT) to 15 months post (Chemo)-RT treatment|Variations of the sexual function through SHQ-22 questionnaire, Sexual QOL questionnaire, before (chemo-RT) to 15 months post (Chemo)-RT treatment
Vaginal functional changes by means of VHI score, Objective assessement through vaginal tactus, 3 months to 15 months post (Chemo)-RT treatment|Patient complience, Percentage of patients who followed the required treatment as required., 3 months to 15 months post (Chemo)-RT treatment
Patients will be randomly (1:1) assigned to the dilators (standard of care) or MonaLisa Touch速 system (2 arms). Patients will be stratified for endometrial or cervix cancer, radiotherapy dose and techniques, menopausal status, tumor stage, chemotherapy or not, surgery or not. Patients will begin the Mona Lisa at 3 months, once per month during 6 months while the follow-up assessment will continue until 12M after end of RT treatment. Patients randomized in dilator arm will also begin 3 months post end of RT and will use them twice every 2 weeks for 12M (as standard of care).

Questionnaires (FSFI- Female Sexual Function Index \[10\], SHQ-22) and VHI (Vaginal Health Index \[11\]) will be performed before treatment, at 3, 6, 9, 12 and 15M. Partners will also be asked to fill the sexual quality of life questionnaire EORTC SHQ-22 before and after treatment.