Neoadjuvant Radiotherapy and Immediate Implant-Based Breast Reconstruction
Neoadjuvant radiotherapy(NART) followed by mastectomy and immediate DIEP flap reconstruction is feasible and technically safe. However, reports of NACT followed immediate implant-based breast reconstruction are rare. Some studies have shown that NART followed immediate implant-based breast reconstruction seems feasible and can be safely attempted. It's well known that radiotherapy after implant-based breast reconstruction have negative effects on implant and cosmetic results. So, investigators conducted a polit study to learn about acute post-surgical complications following skin-sparing mastectomy and immediate implant-based breast reconstruction after NART.
Breast Cancer|Implant Breast Reconstruction|Neoadjuvant Radiotherapy
RADIATION: Neoadjuvant radiotherapy
Postoperative complications at 3 months following skin-sparing mastectomy and immediate implant-based breast reconstruction after NART, Surgical complications are defined as any complication requiring surgical intervention necessary within a period up to three months after the final reconstruction. Including Infection, hematoma , loss of implant or flap, fat necrosis, wound breakdown,defined and scored using the C-DC37., 3 months following skin-sparing mastectomy and immediate breast reconstruction
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0 ., Other adverse events following NART or surgery other than described in the primary outcome measure., Within 3 months after both breast reconstruction and radiotherapy|Number of participants with removal of implant., Implant are removed for postoperative complications., 6 months after surgery|Patient satisfaction., Patient satisfaction (as measured using the BREAST-Q reconstruction module) before, 3 months after, and 12 months after surgery., 3 months and 12 months after surgery|Pathological complete response (pCR) assessed in skin-sparing mastectomy specimen, A pCR was defined as absence of invasive and in situ carcinoma in the breast, irrespective of nodal status (ypT0)., Within 2 weeks after skin-sparing mastectomy
Radiotherapy after implant-based breast reconstruction have negative effects on implant and cosmetic results, including severe capsular contracture, mastectomy flap necrosis ,reoperation and so on. Postmastectomy radiotherapy( PMRT )is associated with implant reconstruction failure. PRADA study has shown neoadjuvant radiotherapy followed by skin-sparing mastectomy and immediate DIEP flap reconstruction is feasible and technically safe. The investigators assume that neoadjuvant radiotherapy can avoid the negative effects of PMRT on an implant and the capsule of an implant and would lead to better cosmetic results and less complications compared to PMRT. Furthermore, some studies have shown that NART could potentially result in shorter time between diagnosis and treatment completion. So, investigators conducted a polit study to learn about acute post-surgical complications following skin-sparing mastectomy and immediate implant-based breast reconstruction after NART.