Clinical Study on Nutrition Intervention in Patients With Esophageal and Gastric Cancer Treated With Chemotherapy
Patients with esophageal cancer and gastric cancer undergoing chemotherapy were selected as research objects to conduct nutritional risk screening, malnutrition assessment and quality of life assessment. They were randomized into the nutrition counseling group (NC) and the nutrition support therapy group (NST). To evaluate the nutrition and life quality of patients with esophageal cancer and gastric cancer before and after chemotherapy, and to study the effects of nutritional support therapy on nutrition and life quality.
Nutrition Aspect of Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutritional counseling，Enteral Nutrition
Nutritional risk screening（NRS） 2002 scale, Nutritional risk screening（NRS） 2002 scale of patients with esophageal and gastric cancer before and after chemotherapy. The score includes 0,1,2,3,4,5,6 and 7., Nutritional risk screening（NRS） 2002 scale during day 1 and day 42
rates of malnutrition of patients, Rates of malnutrition of patients with esophageal and gastric cancer before and after chemotherapy. The result is shown as "percent"., rates of malnutrition of patients during day 1 and day 42|quality of life of patients with esophageal and gastric cancer before and after chemotherapy, quality of life of patients with esophageal and gastric cancer before and after chemotherapy. The scale include EQ-5D (score of 0-1）, rates of quality of life of patients during day 1 and day 42|quality of life of patients with esophageal and gastric cancer before and after chemotherapy, quality of life of patients with esophageal and gastric cancer before and after chemotherapy. The scale include EQ-5D VAS (score of 1-100）, rates of quality of life of patients during day 1 and day 42
In view of the high incidence of malnutrition in esophageal cancer and gastric cancer and chemotherapy may further aggravate malnutrition and reduce quality of life. According to the inclusion criteria, 280 patients with esophageal cancer and gastric cancer undergoing chemotherapy were selected as research objects to conduct nutritional risk screening, malnutrition assessment and quality of life assessment. They were randomized into the nutrition counseling group (NC) and the nutrition support therapy group (NST). To evaluate the nutrition and life quality of patients with esophageal cancer and gastric cancer before and after chemotherapy, and to study the effects of nutritional support therapy on nutrition and life quality; On this basis, a nutrition and life quality management system for patients with tubular upper digestive tract chemotherapy tumors was constructed, and the system was objectively evaluated from the clinical point of view, so as to provide a feasible scheme for improving the nutrition and life quality of patients with tubular upper digestive tract chemotherapy tumors.