Evaluation of the Efficacy of a Virtual Reality When Placing a Needle on an Implantable Venous Access Device in Children with Leukemia
Main objective:

Evaluate the effectiveness of the repeated use of interactive or hypnotic virtual reality compared to standard treatment, on pain, during each needle placement on PAC for 3 months on children or adolescents (6 to 16 years old) with acute leukemia

Hypothesis:

Repeated use over 3 months of hypnotic or interactive virtual reality provides more benefits in terms of :

* pain management
* anxiety of the child and his parents
* satisfaction of the child\&#39;s care, of his parents and of the caregivers compared to the standard method when inserting a needle into an implantable port in the pediatric oncology department or day hospital.
Virtual Reality|Children and Adolescents|Acute Leukemia|Anxiety and Fear
DEVICE: Hypnotic Virtual reality|DEVICE: Interactive virtual reality|OTHER: Standard method
Children&#39;s pain self-evaluation, Self-evaluation of children\&#39;s pain with the visual analog scale in vertical position.

Quote from 0 to 10 with 10 being the worst score., 15 minutes after the care
Children&#39;s fear evaluation, Children\&#39;s fear evaluation by the nurse with the visual analog scale from 0 to 10 with 10 being the worst score, 15 min before and right after the procedure|Children&#39;s heart rate measurement, Heart rate mesure using a digital sensor, 15 min before and right after the procedure|Evaluation of the care, Satisfaction of the care given to the child filled out by nurses, parents and child using a questionnaire. Score going fro 1 to 3 with 3 being the best score = very satisfied, 4 and 12 weeks post-inclusion
Children and adolescents with acute leukemia frequently have anxiety-provoking and painful care in the management of their disease. As soon as the diagnosis is announced, the installation of a central line is recommended to allow the administration of chemotherapy treatments, parenteral nutrition, and blood tests. The implantable port (IP) is more often used than the central catheter. It allows the injection of drugs directly into the implantable port, through the skin using a specific needle whose caliber can be variable. This treatment, which can be repeated weekly, causes pain and anxiety for children. The use of skin anesthetic patches (EMLA®) is recommended to limit pain during needle installation. According to the literature, this system limits the pain associated with needle injections but does not reduce children\&amp;amp;#39;s anxiety about this upcoming treatment. The repetition of the gesture, often for several months, is a source of discomfort and pain that only increases over time. A memorization of pain increases the apprehension of care by the child, his parents and can also create difficult care conditions for the caregiver. These children receive multiple treatments, which is why a non-drug intervention is recommended for the management of pain and anxiety. Standard distraction (e.g.: speech) is recommended but it is often insufficient. This is why the use of interactive or hypnotic virtual reality (VR) could improve the care of these children and in particular reduce anxiety and fear. The immersion of the child in a three-dimensional environment with sound and visual stimulation potentiates the diversion of his attention. Thus, it seems necessary to evaluate the impact of interactive or hypnotic virtual reality on pain and anxiety during repeated painful care in children with acute leukemia.