Laser Ablation for Intermediate and Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Portal Vein Tumor Thrombus
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most-common cancer worldwide and the second most-common cause of cancer mortality. Liver resection is the first-line curative treatment for huge HCC. The 5-year overall survival (OS) rates after hepatic resection were range from 25% to 45% and the incidence of portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) for intermediate and advanced hepatocellular carcinoma patients were as high as 60%-90%. At present, there is no effective treatment for patients with PVTT. Laser ablation (LA) showed a good performance in eliminating the PVTT and the three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) with γ Ray (γ-knife) can also be used to treat patients with PVTT. But there still lack of evidence-based research to compare the clinical outcome of 3D-CRT with γ Ray and LA. In view of this, we aim to implement a randomized controlled study to find out an effective treatment for intermediate and advanced hepatocellular carcinoma patients with PVTT based on evidence-based research.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Laser Ablation|Portal Vein Tumor Thrombus
PROCEDURE: LA|PROCEDURE: 3D-CRT
Toxic and side effects caused by 3D-CRT or LA, 3 years|Postoperative complication, 3 years|Overall survival, 3 years
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most-common cancer worldwide and the second most-common cause of cancer mortality. Liver resection is the first-line curative treatment for huge HCC. The 5-year overall survival (OS) rates after hepatic resection were range from 25% to 45% and the incidence of portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) for intermediate and advanced hepatocellular carcinoma patients were as high as 60%-90%. At present, there is no effective treatment for patients with PVTT. Laser ablation (LA) showed a good performance in eliminating the PVTT and the three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) with γ Ray (γ-knife) can also be used to treat patients with PVTT. But there still lack of evidence-based research to compare the clinical outcome of 3D-CRT with γ Ray and LA. In view of this, we aim to implement a randomized controlled study to find out an effective treatment for intermediate and advanced hepatocellular carcinoma patients with PVTT based on evidence-based research.