Comparison of Efficacy and Safety of Tislelizumab (BGB-A317) Versus Docetaxel as Treatment in the Second- or Third-line Setting in Participants With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The purpose of this study is to show that tislelizumab will improve overall survival in participants with Stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer when compared to docetaxel in second or third-line treatment setting.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel
Overall Survival (OS) in All Participants (Co-primary Endpoint), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Median OS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Data for participants who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. Data for participants who did not have postbaseline information were censored at the date of randomization., From randomization to the data cutoff date of 10 August 2020; up to 32.4 months|Overall Survival (OS) in Programmed Cell Death Protein Ligand-1 (PD-L1)-Positive Participants (Co-primary Endpoint), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Median OS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Data for participants who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. Data for participants who did not have postbaseline information were censored at the date of randomization., From randomization up to the final efficacy analysis data cut-off date of 15 July 2021; Up to 43 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) in All Participants, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants who had a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 Tumor assessments included computed tomography (CT) scans or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with preference for CT, of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis.

CR: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the size of target lesions and no progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions, or disappearance of all target lesions with persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits and no new lesions., From randomization up to the final efficacy analysis data cut-off date of 15 July 2021; Up to 43 months|Objective Response Rate in PD-L1-Positive Participants, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants who had a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 Tumor assessments included computed tomography (CT) scans or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with preference for CT, of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis.

CR: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the size of target lesions and no progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions, or disappearance of all target lesions with persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits and no new lesions., From randomization up to the final efficacy analysis data cut-off date of 15 July 2021; Up to 43 months|Duration of Response (DOR) for All Responders, DoR was defined as the time from the first documented objective response to documented disease progression as assessed by the investigator using RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first.

Median DOR was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of any new lesions., From randomization up to the final efficacy analysis data cut-off date of 15 July 2021; Up to 43 months|Duration of Response (DOR) in PD-L1-Positive Responders, DoR was defined as the time from the first documented objective response to documented disease progression as assessed by the investigator using RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first.

Median DOR was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of any new lesions., From randomization up to the final efficacy analysis data cut-off date of 15 July 2021; Up to 43 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) in All Participants, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first objectively documented disease progression as assessed by the investigator per RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first.

Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization up to the final efficacy analysis data cut-off date of 15 July 2021; Up to 43 months|Progression-free Survival in PD-L1 Positive Participants, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first objectively documented disease progression as assessed by the investigator per RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first.

Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization up to the final efficacy analysis data cut-off date of 15 July 2021; Up to 43 months|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Global Health Status (GHS)/Quality of Life (QOL) Score, The EORTC QLQ-30 contains 30 questions that incorporate 5 functional scales (physical functioning, role functioning, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning, and social functioning), 1 global health status scale, 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, and pain), and 6 single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). The participant answers questions about their health during the past week. There are 28 questions answered on a 4-point scale where 1 = Not at all (best) and 4 = Very Much (worst) and two global health quality of life (QOL) questions answered on a 7-point scale where 1 = Very poor and 7 = Excellent. Raw scores are transformed into a 0 to 100 scale via linear transformation. Higher scores in GHS/QoL score indicates better quality of life., Baseline and Cycle 6 (each cycle was 3 weeks)|Change From Baseline in EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire Lung Cancer 13 Items (QLQ-LC13) Coughing, Dyspnoea, and Chest Pain Scores, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is the lung cancer module of the QLQ-C30 and measures lung cancer-specific disease and treatment symptoms. It includes 13 questions about specific symptoms in which participants respond based on a 4-point scale, where 1 is "not at all" and 4 is "very much". Raw scores are transformed into a 0 to 100 scale via linear transformation. Lower scores indicate an improvement in symptoms., Baseline and Cycle 6 (each cycle was 3 weeks)|Change From Baseline in European Quality of Life 5-Dimensions, 5-level (EQ-5D-5L) Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), The EQ-5D-5L measures health outcomes using a VAS to record a participant's self-rated health on a scale from 0 to 100, where 100 is 'the best health you can imagine' and 0 is 'the worst health you can imagine.' A higher score indicates better health outcomes., Baseline and Cycle 6 (each cycle was 3 weeks)|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study drug, whether considered related to study drug or not.

The investigator assessed the severity of each AE and graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) v4.03 as defined below:

* Grade 1: Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated.
* Grade 2: Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate activities of daily living.
* Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life threatening. hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting selfcare activities of daily living.
* Grade 4: Life threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated.
* Grade 5: Death related to AE., From first dose of study drug to 30 days after last dose, up to the study completion date cut-off date of 18 January 2024 (up to approximately 63 months)
This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter Phase 3 study in adult participants with histologically confirmed, locally advanced or metastatic (Stage IIIB or IV), NSCLC (squamous or non-squamous) who have disease progression during or after a platinum-containing regimen.