Peptide Vaccination for Patients at High Risk for Recurrent Melanoma
This study will examine the effectiveness and side effects of an experimental vaccine to prevent recurrence of melanoma. The likelihood of melanoma returning is higher in patients who have melanoma lesions deep in the skin, in patients who have had positive lymph nodes, and in patients who have had surgery for metastatic disease (cancer that has spread beyond the primary site). Melanoma tumors produce proteins called glycoprotein 100 (gp100) and melanoma-associated antigen recognized by T cells 1 (MART-1). Vaccination with specific pieces of these proteins (peptides) may boost the immune system's fight against the cancer. The vaccine injections are mixed with an oil-based substance called Montanide ISA-51, which is intended to increase the immune response to the peptide.

Patients 16 years of age and older whose melanoma has been surgically removed and who are currently free of disease may be eligible for this study. Candidates will be screened with a physical examination and blood and urine tests. An electrocardiogram (EKG), x-rays and other imaging studies will be done if recent results are not available. Some candidates may require heart tests, such as a cardiac stress test or echocardiogram, or lung function tests. In addition, all candidates will be tested for human leukocyte antigen (HLA) tissue type; patients must be type human leukocyte antigens (HLA-A)\*0201, the type on which this vaccine is based.

Participants will be randomly assigned to receive one of four different vaccines to determine which peptides offer the best immunity. Each treatment course consists of two injections of the vaccines every 3 weeks for four times. The injections are given under the skin of the thigh. After every other treatment course (every 6 months), patients will undergo a series of x-rays and scans to look for tumor. The immunizations may continue for up to 12 months as long as the melanoma does not return. The injections are given at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Center. Patients are monitored for 1 hour after each injection and have blood tests and a physical examination to look for treatment side effects.

Patients will be followed with blood tests every 12 weeks to monitor body functions. They will also undergo leukapheresis-a procedure to collect white blood cells-before starting treatment and about 3 to 4 weeks after the fourth vaccine to evaluate how the vaccines affect the action of the immune system cells. For this procedure, blood is drawn through a needle in the arm, similar to donating blood. The blood goes through a machine that separates out the lymphocytes (white blood cells), and the rest of the blood is returned through a needle in the other arm. Some patients may undergo a biopsy-surgical removal of a small piece of tissue under local anesthetic-of normal skin and tumor or lymph node tissue to examine the effects of the vaccines on the tumor immune cells.

Patients whose disease returns during the first course of vaccine therapy will have surgery to remove the tumor and will continue to receive the vaccine treatment. Patients whose tumor returns after completing one course of therapy may receive a substance called interleukin-2 (IL-2), which can boost immune function against the tumor. interleukin-2 (IL-2) is given intravenously (through a small tube placed in a vein) every 8 hours for 4 days. This regimen is repeated after 10 to 14 days. Those who respond to interleukin-2 (IL-2) will have a third course of treatment after 2 months. Patients whose disease recurs after treatment will be taken off the study and will be referred back to their referring physician or to another study, if an appropriate one is available.
Melanoma
DRUG: Glycoprotein 100 (GP100): 209-217 (210M)|DRUG: Interleukin-2 (IL-2)|DRUG: Montanide ISA 51|DRUG: Melanoma antigen recognized by T-cells (MART)-1: 27-35|DRUG: 27-35 (27L): melanoma antigen recognized by T-cells (MART)-1|DRUG: melanoma antigen recognized by T-cells (MART)-1: 26-35(27L)
Immunologic Response Rate, Immunologic monitoring will be conducted using in vitro sensitization assays. The immunologic response in these assays will be considered positive if at least a two-fold increase in vaccine specific interferon gamma (y-IFN) secretion is seen between post vaccination specimens compared to the pre vaccination specimens., 11 months|Response Rate, Response is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (whichever is first) until the first date that recurrent disease is objectively documented. Complete response is the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., 6 years
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Here are the number of participants with adverse events. For details about the adverse events see the adverse event module., 11 months
Human leukocyte antigens (HLA-A)\*0201 positive patients at high risk for recurrence of melanoma, or completely resected metastatic melanoma will receive immunization with peptides representing human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-restricted T cell epitopes of the melanoma antigen recognized by T-cells (MART-1) or glycoprotein 100 (gp100) melanoma antigens emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 or Montanide trademark(TM) ISA 51 vegetable grade (VG). Patients will be randomized to receive one of three different melanoma antigen recognized by T-cells (MART-1) peptides or to receive a combination of a melanoma antigen recognized by T-cells (MART-1) peptide plus a glycoprotein 100 (gp100) peptide. This study is designed to evaluate the immunologic effects of the different peptide immunizations.