Fecal Microbiota Transplant and Pembrolizumab for Men With Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer.
All patients will be required to have a biopsy of a metastatic tumor deposit at study entry. Pembrolizumab will be administered at a dose of 200 mg as a 30 minute IV infusion every 3 weeks. Enzalutamide will be continued at dose of 160 mg orally every day. Patients who have neither rapid disease progression or disease response will undergo a fecal microbiota transplant, have a second biopsy (if medically feasible), and be re-treated with pembrolizumab.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Cancer Metastatic
BIOLOGICAL: Fecal microbiota transplant|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Enzalutamide
Anticancer effect of fecal microbiota transplant from responders to pembrolizumab to non-responders., Percentage of participants with a PSA decline of ≥ 50% at any time point on study after FMT., From 14 weeks up to 2 years
Percent PSA change, Change between baseline PSA and nadir PSA, in a negative direction. If no decrease in PSA, change between baseline PSA and PSA at 12 weeks., From 12 weeks up to 2 years|Radiographic response rate, Best response: Percentage of participants who have stable disease, partial response, complete response, and progressive disease., 2.5 years|Time to PSA progression, Time from first treatment with pembrolizumab to confirmed PSA progression per PCWG3., 2 years|Time to radiographic progression, Time from first treatment with pembrolizumab to radiographic progression per PCWG3 and RECIST 1.1., 2.5 years|PSA progression-free survival, Time from first treatment with pembrolizumab to confirmed PSA progression per PCWG3 or death., 2 years|Radiographic progression-free survival, Time from first treatment with pembrolizumab to radiographic progression per PCWG3 and RECIST 1.1 or death., 2.5 years|Overall survival, Time from first treatment with pembrolizumab to death., 3 years|Time to next therapy, Time from first treatment with pembrolizumab to day 1 of the next systemic prostate cancer therapy., 2.5 years|Characterization of safety profile, All adverse events and their relationships to study drugs and procedures will be recorded., 2.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

To determine the anticancer effect of fecal microbiota transplant from participants who respond to pembrolizumab into those who have not responded in metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer.

OUTLINE:

The investigators propose to study the effects of fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) in patients whose disease does not respond to treatment with the combination of pembrolizumab and enzalutamide. Patients will remain on enzalutamide throughout the study and be treated with pembrolizumab for 4 cycles. Their disease will be assessed by tumor imaging. Patients whose disease responds to treatment will become stool donors to non-responders. Non-responders will undergo a second biopsy (if medically feasible) and be re-treated with pembrolizumab.