Could Ki-67 be Used as a Diagnostic or Prognostic Marker in Hemato-oncological Diagnostics?
Ki-67 is used as a marker for determination of the proliferative activity in solid tumors. The use within hemato-oncological malignancies is limited. This is related to limited technical possibilities of flow cytometry in the past. Meanwhile, flow cytometry in hemato-oncological malignancies has progressed to assessment of 8 colors and makes it possible to add Ki-67 as an additional marker to the 8-color panels. Adding Ki-67 to these panels could lead to improved diagnosis and prediction of therapy response for a number of hemato-oncological malignancies.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome/Neoplasm
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Flow cytometry
Maturation patterns diagnosis, Maturation patterns based on immunophenotype for red blood cells and several types of immune cells and their respective contributions to diagnosis.

Maturation patterns are scored by various methods/combinations to form diagnostic score. A higher diagnostic score will lead to a more likely diagnose for MDS and/or AML., 5 years|Proliferative index diagnosis, Ki-67 proliferative index (within populations and maturation) and its contribution to diagnosis. A lower Ki-67 proliferative index will lead to a more likely diagnose for MDS and/or AML., 5 years|Proliferative index prognosis, Ki-67 as prognostic parameter. A lower Ki-67 proliferative index will (hypothetically) lead to worse prognosis for MDS and AML in terms of: transfusion dependence (expressed in amount of transfusions in 2 months), chemotherapy response (expressed as total remission, normalization of blood values, possibly also normalization of cytogenetics in bone marrow cells), overall survival (expressed in months after diagnosis), Risk scores. Higher risk scores are correlated with worse prognosis., 5 years
Ki-67 is used as a marker for determination of the proliferative activity in solid tumors. The use within hemato-oncological malignancies is limited. This is related to limited technical possibilities of flow cytometry in the past. Meanwhile, flow cytometry in hemato-oncological malignancies has progressed to assessment of 8 colors and makes it possible to add Ki-67 as an additional marker to the 8-color panels. Adding Ki-67 to these panels could lead to improved diagnosis and prediction of therapy response for a number of hemato-oncological malignancies.