Effect of Silkworm Pupa Tablets in Gastrointestinal Malignancies at Nutritional Risk Following Radical Surgery
This is a randomized, double-blind, very low dose parallel-controlled, prospective, multi-center trial evaluating the improvement of nutritional status and frailty with silkworm pupa tablets after radical resection of gastrointestinal malignancies for 3 months intervention. The primary endpoints are body weight and frailty prevalence, The secondary endpoints are body mass index (BMI), skeletal muscle index (SMI) at the third lumbar vertebra (L3-SMI), sarcopenia prevalence and quality of life.
Nutritional Deficiency|Gastrointestinal Cancer|Frailty Syndrome
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Silkworm pupa tablets|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Control product
Body weight, Measured at baseline and 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after enrollment, 3 months|Frailty prevalence, The incidence of frailty, using Fried frailty phenotype to assess physical frailty, measured at baseline and 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after enrollment, 3 months
Body mass index (BMI), Calculated as weight (kg)/height (m2), measured at baseline and 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after enrollment, 3 months|L3-SMI, Derived as the ratio of skeletal muscle area (SMA) to height \[SMA (cm2)/height (m2)\], at the third lumbar vertebra, measured at baseline and after 3 months, 3 months|Sarcopenia prevalence, The incidence of sarcopenia, using the diagnostic criteria for sarcopenia published by the Asian Sarcopenia Working Group (AWGS) in 2019 or L3-SMI criteria, measured at baseline and 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after enrollment, 3 months|Quality of life, Using the questionnaire of EORTC QLQ-C30 measured at baseline and 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after enrollment, 3 months|Quality of life, Using the questionnaire of EORTC QLQ-STO22, measured at baseline and 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after enrollment, 3 months
Previous study has indicated that silkworms pupae extracts may increase muscle mass and strength, here we conduct a randomized, double-blind, very low dose parallel-controlled, prospective, multi-center trial.

1. Study population: malignant gastrointestinal tumors, including gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, and pancreatic cancer, and has undergone radical surgical resection. If necessary, perioperative systemic treatment has been completed by the time of screening, and has a nutritional risk score of ≥3 (based on the NRS 2002 nutritional risk screening tool).
2. Sample size: totally 120 cases, including 60 cases in the experimental group and 60 cases in the control group.
3. Research content: In this study, participants will begin taking the trial product or control immediately upon enrollment, with a treatment duration of 3 months.Experimental Group: Wanshililongbao silkworm pupa tablets. Control Group: contains 0.5% of the active ingredient of the trial product, indistinguishable in appearance.