Utility Of Mutational Load As A Predictor For Endoscopic Treatment Response In Barrett's Esophagus
To evaluate association between mutational load (ML) from esophageal biopsy specimens in pre-endoscopic eradication therapy (EET) in Barrett's Esophagus (BE) or Intramucosal adenocarcinoma (IMC) patients and treatment resistance (treatment resistance will be defined as disease recurrence and/or need for additional intervention such as increased acid suppression, need for anti-reflux surgery, or use of alternate ablative modality).
Barretts Esophagus With Dysplasia|Intramucosal Adenocarcinoma
OTHER: Study Driven Procurement of Biopsies
Correlation of Mean Mutational Load (ML) and Treatment Resistance, Treatment resistance will be assessed as a dichotomous variable and defined as those with one or more of the following features: disease recurrence, need for increased acid suppression, need for anti-reflux surgery, or use of alternate ablative modality. The association between pre-EET ML and treatment resistance will be calculated using the difference between the two mean ML values., Baseline until Month 24
Correlation of Mutational Load and Dysplasia Category, The worst pathologic diagnosis at baseline will be recorded and ML between the three dysplasia groups (low grade dysplasia, high grade dysplasia, and esophageal adenocarcinoma) will be compared., Day 1, at enrollment|Correlation of Mutational Load and Number of Ablation Sessions to CEIM, ML calculation will be compared to number of sessions required to achieve CEIM., From Baseline until the date of first documentation of CEIM, assessed up to 24 Months|Correlation of Mutational Load and Stricture Formation, ML calculation will be compared to stricture rates., From Baseline until the date of first documentation of CEIM, assessed up to 24 Months
Potential subjects will be identified via protocol and Institutional Review Board (IRB) methods prior to obtaining written informed consent. Once written informed consent is obtained, subjects will continue with planned routine care upper endoscopy. During the first study visit an upper endoscopy will be performed. At this visit, research specimens will be obtained for mutational load (ML) analysis and gastroenterologist (GI) pathologist diagnosis for the presence of adenocarcinoma or degrees of dysplasia. ML will be correlated to the pathology diagnosis on this research biopsy. Subjects will then undergo EET per routine standard of care at the treating institution until CEIM achieved. Subjects will be followed (data collection only) during treatment period until CEIM is achieved. After subjects reach CEIM, four additional research biopsies will be collected, from the midpoint of previous BE site.