Efficacy of the Transversus Abdominis Plane Block on Analgesia After Cephalic Duodeno-pancreatectomy
Pancreatic duodenectomy is one of the treatments offered to patients with neoplastic disease of the pancreas. In France, in 2018, 14,000 duodeno-pancreatectomies were performed, including 140 at the Hautepierre hospital at the Strasbourg University Hospital. Pancreaticoduodenectomy is a major surgery, causing significant postoperative pain that should be minimized through multimodal analgesia involving in particular locoregional anesthesia. Since 2019, the recommendations of the ERAS company concerning ERAS (Improved Rehabilitation After Surgery) after pancreaticoduodenectomy recommend the establishment of thoracic epidural analgesia in order to limit postoperative pain. When there is a contraindication to the placement of a thoracic epidural, in particular due to arterial and/or venous vascular reconstructions requiring potential perioperative curative anticoagulation, the administration of local anesthetic by pericatricial catheter is recommended. recommended. The Transversus Abdominis Plane (TAP) block has proven analgesic efficacy, safety and harmlessness in colorectal surgery.
Pancreatic Neoplasms
Efficacy of the echo-guided TAP Block on analgesia, Morphine consumption in the first 24 postoperative hours
Pancreatic duodenectomy is one of the treatments offered to patients with neoplastic disease of the pancreas. In France, in 2018, 14,000 duodeno-pancreatectomies were performed, including 140 at the Hautepierre hospital at the Strasbourg University Hospital. Pancreaticoduodenectomy is a major surgery, causing significant postoperative pain that should be minimized through multimodal analgesia involving in particular locoregional anesthesia. Since 2019, the recommendations of the ERAS company concerning ERAS (Improved Rehabilitation After Surgery) after pancreaticoduodenectomy recommend the establishment of thoracic epidural analgesia in order to limit postoperative pain. When there is a contraindication to the placement of a thoracic epidural, in particular due to arterial and/or venous vascular reconstructions requiring potential perioperative curative anticoagulation, the administration of local anesthetic by pericatricial catheter is recommended. recommended. The Transversus Abdominis Plane (TAP) block has proven analgesic efficacy, safety and harmlessness in colorectal surgery.