The Effect of Guided Imagery and Music Therapy on Post-Operative Recovery After Gynecological Oncology Surgery
This pilot study will be a prospective, randomized trial which will take place at the University of Minnesota Medical Center (UMMC). Eligible patients will be identified at the time of their first clinic visit. If selected to be involved in the study, the patients will be randomized to one of three different groups: a Guided Imagery and Music therapy group (GIMT) or one of two control groups.
Ovarian Cancer|Uterine Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Guided imagery and music therapy|BEHAVIORAL: White Noise|OTHER: No intervention
Change in Mean Pain Score, Determined by using a Visual Analog Pain Scale (VAS)- A Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain is a horizontal line 100 mm in length with the left end labeled 'No pain' and the right end labeled 'Very severe pain'. The subject marks a point on the line that represents their perception of their current state. The VAS score is determined by measuring the distance from the left end of the line to the point on the line marked by the subject. The range of possible values for this pain score is 0 to 100 millimetres., From Admission through 4 Weeks Post Surgery
Use of Pain Medication, List of pain medications and number of times administered., From Admission to 4 Weeks Post Surgery|Use of Anti-Nausea Medications, List of anti-emetic medications and number of times administered, From Admission to 4 Weeks Post Surgery|Mean Change in Patient Quality of Life Score, Using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy General Scale (FACT-G) for patients with cancer (consisting of a four-factor structure - "Physical well-being", "Social-family well-being", "Functional well-being" and "Emotional well-being"). Five response choices range from "not at all" to "very much"., From Admission to 4 Weeks Post Surgery|Average Number of Days Hospitalized, From Admission through 4 Weeks Post Surgery|Hospital Readmission Rates, From Admission Through 4 Weeks Post Surgery|Change in Profile of Mood States (POMS), The Profile of Mood States (POMS) original scale contains 65 self-report items using the 5-point Likert Scale. Participants can choose from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely). The test takes approximately 3 to 7 minutes for healthy participants, and longer for the physically ill., From Admission Through 4 Weeks Post Surgery|Length of Hospital Stay (Days), From Admission through 4 Weeks Post Surgery
The GIMT group will undergo a standardized regimen of peri-operative guided imagery and music therapy guided by CDs. As there are no studies which discuss whether the act of listening to any therapy will affect outcomes, we will also explore whether white noise can affect outcomes as well. Therefore, one control group (WN) will abide by the same regimen and will listen to a CD with white noise; the other control group (CP) will have no intervention at all and will follow our current peri-operative procedures.