Testing Crizotinib as Potentially Targeted Treatment in Cancers With MET Genetic Changes (MATCH - Subprotocol C1)
This phase II MATCH treatment trial tests how well crizotinib works in treating patients with solid tumors, lymphoma, or multiple myeloma that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced) or that does not respond to treatment (refractory) and who have MET gene amplification. Crizotinib is in a class of medications called tyrosine kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of enzymes that cancer cells need to grow and spread. It may also prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Crizotinib|PROCEDURE: Radiologic Examination
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients whose tumors have a complete or partial response to treatment among analyzable patients. Objective response is defined consistent with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. 90% two-sided confidence interval is calculated for ORR. For the purposes of this study, patients should be re-evaluated for response: \* For treatments given in 21 day (3 week) cycles: every 3 cycles (9 weeks) for the first 33 cycles, and every 4 cycles thereafter (12 weeks) \* For treatments given in 28 day (4 week) cycles: every 2 cycles (8 weeks) for the first 26 cycles, and every three cycles thereafter (12 weeks) \* For treatments given in 42 day (6 week) cycles: every 2 cycles (12 weeks), Up to 3 years
Overall survival (OS), Will be evaluated specifically for each drug (or step). OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From start of treatment that step until death, or censored at the date of last contact, assessed up to 3 years|6-month progression-free survival (PFS) rate, Progression free survival is defined as time from treatment start date to date of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Please refer to the protocol for detailed definitions of disease progression. 6 month PFS rate was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, which can provide a point estimate for any specific time point., From start of treatment on that step until determination of disease progression or death from any cause, censored at the date of last disease assessment for patients who have not progressed, assessed at 6 months|Progression free survival, PFS was defined as time from treatment start date to date of disease progression or death from any causes, whichever occurred first. Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Please refer to the protocol for detailed definitions of disease progression., From start of treatment on that step until determination of disease progression or death from any cause, censored at the date of last disease assessment for patients who have not progressed, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response (OR) to targeted study agent(s) in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with targeted study agent in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

II. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. III. To identify potential predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and imaging-based assessment platforms.

IV. To assess whether radiomic phenotypes obtained from pre-treatment imaging and changes from pre- through post-therapy imaging can predict objective response and progression free survival and to evaluate the association between pre-treatment radiomic phenotypes and targeted gene mutation patterns of tumor biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive crizotinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiologic evaluation and collection of blood samples throughout the study. Patients may undergo biopsy at screening, on study, and/or at end of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 additional year.