TIL and Anti-PD1 in Metastatic Melanoma
The ACTME study is an investigator initiated, single center phase I/II clinical trial for patients with progressive unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma. The trial consists of both a phase I part to determine safety and feasibility and a phase II part to evaluate first clinical activity of IFN-alpha, nivolumab and TIL. The treatment with IFN-alpha will be added after the combination of TIL and nivolumab has proven to be safe.
Toxicity, Drug|Adverse Drug Event|Effects of Immunotherapy
DRUG: Nivolumab & Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes with/without Interferon-Alpha
Incidence of treatment-related serious adverse events as assessed by CTCAE 4.0 criteria, To evaluate the safety and toxicity of ACT with nivolumab, followed by evaluating the safety and toxicity of IFN-alpha, and nivolumab plus ACT according to the common terminology criteria of adverse events (CTCAE) 4.0 criteria. Treatment related adverse events grade 3 or less and SAE related to treatment that do not result in treatment termination are considered acceptable for continuation of the study.

* Grade 1: Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated.
* Grade 2: Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental ADL
* Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL
* Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated
* Grade 5: Death related to AE, 14 weeks after start of treatment
Evaluation of disease control rate according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, Disease control is defined by complete response, partial response or stable according to RECIST 1.1 versus no clinical benefit defined as progressive disease.

Complete response: Disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions, nodes must regress to \<10mm short axis, no new lesions, confirmation required Partial response: ≥30% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline, confirmation required Progressive disease: ≥20% + 5 mm absolute increase in tumor burden compared with nadir, appearance of new lesions or progression of nontarget lesions Stable disease: neither partial response nor progressive disease, 14 weeks after first nivolumab infusion|Evaluation of disease control rate according to immune RECIST response criteria, Disease control is defined by complete response, partial response or stable according to the iRECIST versus no clinical benefit defined as progressive disease.

Complete response: Disappearance of all lesions Partial response: ≥30% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline. Progressive disease: ≥20% + 5 mm absolute increase in tumor burden compared with nadir Stable disease: neither progressive disease nor partial response, 14 weeks after first nivolumab infusion|To study the potential working mechanisms of the different treatment compounds. Therefore, blood will be drawn to analyse changes in circulating immune cells and their function during treatment., The investigators will analyse the patients their tumor material, blood, serum and the TILs used for infusion, Within 5 years after first inclusion|To establish a possible prognostic biomarker profile in patients tumor material, blood, serum and TILs used for infusion, The investigators will analyse the patients their tumor material, blood, serum and the TILs used for infusion to look at changes in the number and phenotype of circulating immune cells, the cytokines that are produced by these cells and serum/plasma markers of persistence., Within 5 years after first inclusion|To characterize the infusion product, The expression of co-inhibitory molecules on T cells and regulatory T cells will be measured by flow cytometry. Furthermore, the investigators will assess the fraction of tumor-specific TIL, their cytolytic capacity as well as to analyse their persistence in the circulation. The supernatants of T cell are used for cytokine analysis assays., Within 5 years after first inclusion|To analyse potential correlations between the clinical response and hypothesis related immune parameters, Within 5 years after first inclusion|To analyse the overall survival following treatment, The overall survival of all patients entering the study will be monitored, Within 5 years after first inclusion
The ACTME is an investigator initiated, single center phase I/II clinical trial for patients with progressive unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma.

Patients are conditioned by low-dose IFN-alpha and treated with ACT and PD-1 antibodies. With this approach the investigators hope to solve 4 of the most important aspects curtailing the efficacy of current immunotherapies in metastatic melanoma:

1. the lack of sufficient numbers of activated tumor-reactive T cells in patients by providing ACT; and
2. the inhibition of T-cell effector function through PD-1 signalling by administration of nivolumab; as well as
3. the toxicity of high-dose IL-2, and
4. long term hospitalization of patients due to the conditioning-regimen used in most ACT protocols by replacing it with low-dose IFN-alpha treatment.

The trial consists of both a phase I part to determine safety and feasibility and a phase II part to evaluate first clinical activity of IFN-alpha, nivolumab and TIL.

The treatment with IFN-alpha will be added after the combination of TIL and nivolumab has proven to be safe in the first cohort of the phase I part of the trial.