Effect of Combination of Bortezomib/Dexamethasone/Zoledronic Acid on Bone Disease in Patients With Multiple Myeloma Relapsed After 1-3 Prior Lines of Therapy
The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of bortezomib in combination with dexamethasone and zoledronic acid on bone mineral density (BMD) and skeletal related events (SREs) in Patients with Multiple Myeloma who Have Relapsed after 1-3 Prior Lines of Therapy
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Zoledronic Acid|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Bone Mineral Density (BMD), BMD of the lumbar spine (L1-L4, anteroposterior view) and femoral neck (FN) was measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) using a Hologic QDR-1000 scanner on day 21 of cycle 4 (day 84), day 84
Bone Mineral Density (BMD), BMD of the lumbar spine (L1-L4, anteroposterior view) and femoral neck (FN) was measured by Dual Energy X-Absorptiometry scan (DEXA-scan) using a Hologic QDR-1000 scanner on day 21 of cycle 8 (day 168), day 168|Bone Remodelling, Bone remodelling was studied by the measurement of the following serum indices on day 21 of cycle 4 (day 84) using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA): i) bone resorption marker C-terminal cross-linking telopeptide of collagen type I (CTX) and ii) bone formation markers \[osteocalcin (OC)\]., day 84|Bone Remodelling, Bone remodelling was studied by the measurement of the following serum indices on day 21 of cycle 8 (day 168) using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA): i) bone resorption marker C-terminal cross-linking telopeptide of collagen type I (CTX) and ii) bone formation marker \[osteocalcin (OC)\]., day 168|Bone Pain, Bone pain was measured with the use of the Visual Analogue Scale on day 21 of cycle 4 (day 84).

Bone pain was measured with the use of the Visual Analogue Scale. The visual analogue scale or visual analog scale (VAS) is a psychometric response scale which can be used in questionnaires. It is a measurement instrument for subjective characteristics or attitudes that cannot be directly measured.

The VAS for Bone Pain was constructed as follows:

None Mild Moderate Severe Worst possible 1,2 3,4 5,6 7,8 9,10 Lower values are considered to be of a better outcome, higher values are considered to be of a worst outcome., On the day 84|Bone Pain, Bone pain was measured with the use of the Visual Analogue Scale on day 21 of cycle 8 (day 168).

Bone pain was measured with the use of the Visual Analogue Scale. The visual analogue scale or visual analog scale (VAS) is a psychometric response scale which can be used in questionnaires. It is a measurement instrument for subjective characteristics or attitudes that cannot be directly measured.

The VAS for Bone Pain was constructed as follows:

None Mild Moderate Severe Worst possible 1,2 3,4 5,6 7,8 9,10 Lower values are considered to be of a better outcome, higher values are considered to be of a worst outcome., On the day 168|Skeletal Survey for New Osteolytic Lesions/Fractures, Skeletal survey was measured using conventional radiography \[imaging of the whole skeleton (skull, cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, pelvis, humeri, femoral bones)\] on day 21 of cycle 8 (day 168), day 168|Skeletal Survey for New Osteolytic Lesions/Fractures, Skeletal survey was measured using conventional radiography \[imaging of the whole skeleton (skull, cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, pelvis, humeri, femoral bones)\] every 6 months for up to 18 months, 18 months|New Skeletal-related Events (SRE: Pathologic Fractures, Need for Bone Radiation Therapy or Surgery), New Skeletal-related events (SRE: pathologic fractures, need for bone radiation therapy or surgery) following 8 cycles (day 168) of therapy, day 168|New Skeletal-related Events (SRE: Pathologic Fractures, Need for Bone Radiation Therapy or Surgery), New Skeletal-related Events (SRE: Pathologic Fractures, Need for Bone Radiation Therapy or Surgery) after 18 months post VD, 18 months|Bone Remodelling, Bone remodelling was studied by the measurement of the following serum indices on day 21 of cycle 4 (day 84) using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) bone formation marker \[bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (bALP)\]., day 84|Bone Remodelling, Bone remodelling was studied by the measurement of the following serum indices on day 21 of cycle 4 (day 84) using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA): bone formation marker \[bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (bALP) \]., day 168
Multiple Myeloma represents a malignant proliferation of plasma cells derived from a single clone. The most common symptom in myeloma, affecting more than 70% of patients at diagnosis, is bone pain. The pain usually involves the back and ribs, and is precipitated by movement. Bone fractures are commonly seen in myeloma patients and may present with persistent localized pain.

VELCADE (bortezomib) is a proteasome inhibitor used for the treatment of multiple myeloma.

VELCADE seems to be the first agent to combine significant anti-myeloma activity and beneficial effects on bone remodeling. Thus, it appears to be a very promising tool for the treatment of myeloma patients.

In this study, a regimen consisting of bortezomib/dexamethasone/zoledronic acid will be used. The rationale for using this regimen is that:

* VELCADE (bortezomib) is indicated for the treatment of relapsed myeloma patients participating in the study and it has also a beneficial effect on biochemical markers of bone formation.
* In phase II studies, the addition of dexamethasone in patients with a suboptimal response to bortezomib alone improved efficacy in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma patients, without increasing adverse events. Therefore, in this study, the addition of dexamethasone aims at providing the optimal therapy for participating myeloma patients.
* Zoledronic acid, the most potent i.v. bisphosphonate, is used because of its established effect on reducing skeletal related events in patients with multiple myeloma due to its inhibitory effect on osteoclastic bone resorption.

Dosages and timing of dosages are based on current recommendations and guidelines for the treatment of myeloma patients who Have Relapsed after 1-3 Prior Lines of Therapy.