Diclofenac for the Treatment of Patients with Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer on Single Agent Immunotherapy
This phase II trial tests how well diclofenac works in treating patients non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that may have spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic) on single agent immunotherapy. Diclofenac, a type of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID), blocks the body's production of a substance that causes inflammation and may decrease tumor growth and improve the effectiveness of immunotherapy. Immunotherapy with pembrolizumab, atezolizumab, nivolumab or cemiplimab, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving diclofenac may kill more tumor cells in patients with metastatic NSCLC on single agent immunotherapy.
Advanced Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC V8
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Diclofenac Potassium|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Clinical benefit rate (CBR), CBR will be defined as complete response, partial response, and/or stable disease. Clinical response will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Clinical benefit rate will be reported as a proportion, with an exact 80% confidence interval estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method., At 12 weeks
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs severity will be assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Descriptive statistics will be reported, using frequencies and percentages for each toxicity., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined per RECIST 1.1. ORR will be reported as a proportion, with an exact 95% confidence interval estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method., At 12 weeks|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be determined by RECIST 1.1. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and a 95% confidence interval for median PFS will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley approach., From initiation of treatment to progression or death up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and median OS will be calculated. A 95% confidence interval will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley approach., From diagnosis to death from any cause up to 1 year|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and median DOR will be calculated. A 95% confidence interval will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley approach., From the date of first response to the date of the first progressive disease or death due to any cause up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate of concomitant diclofenac potassium (diclofenac) and single agent checkpoint blockade.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of concomitant diclofenac and single agent checkpoint blockade.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of concomitant diclofenac and single agent checkpoint blockade in NSCLC.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the change in immunophenotype in circulating CD8 T cells following initiation of diclofenac oral therapy in patients who show early sings of progression on single agent immunotherapy for advanced lung cancer.

II. To investigate the role of PD-L1 expression status in response to the addition of diclofenac daily oral therapy in patients who show early sings of progression on single agent immunotherapy for advanced lung cancer.

III. To evaluate the role of serum lactic acid levels in determining dose exposure to diclofenac.

IV. To evaluate the change in circulating immune parameters (CD4 T cells and B cells) with the addition of diclofenac to single agent immunotherapy.

V. To evaluate the role of the tumor microenvironment at the time of diagnosis on efficacy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive diclofenac orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and standard of care immunotherapy with pembrolizumab, atezolizumab, nivolumab or cemiplimab on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 or 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection and computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET), or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 1 year.