Oxaliplatin and Irinotecan in Treating Young Patients With Refractory Solid Tumors or Lymphomas
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of oxaliplatin when given together with irinotecan in treating young patients with refractory solid tumors or lymphomas. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin and irinotecan, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Oxaliplatin may help irinotecan kill more cancer cells by making cancer cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving oxaliplatin together with irinotecan may kill more cancer cells.
Childhood Burkitt Lymphoma|Childhood Central Nervous System Germ Cell Tumor|Childhood Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Childhood Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Childhood Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Brain Stem Glioma|Recurrent Childhood Cerebellar Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Cerebral Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Ependymoma|Recurrent Childhood Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Recurrent Childhood Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Liver Cancer|Recurrent Childhood Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Childhood Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Small Noncleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Childhood Visual Pathway Glioma|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma/Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Melanoma|Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Cancer|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Recurrent Wilms Tumor and Other Childhood Kidney Tumors|Recurrent/Refractory Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: oxaliplatin
MTD of oxaliplatin, defined as the maximum dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience DLT, Graded using the NCI CTCAE version 3.0., 21 days
Overall response assessed using RECIST criteria, Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of oxaliplatin when administered with irinotecan in pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors or lymphomas.

II. Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

II. Correlate UGT and BCRP genotype with the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of oxaliplatin.

Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1 and 8 and irinotecan IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 and 8-12. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oxaliplatin until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.