Research on Risk Factors and Interventions of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Complicated With Depression and Anxiety
The current study intends to establish a prediction method and evaluation system for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) complicated with affective disorder, such as depression and anxiety, through the epidemiological investigation. Randomized controlled studies on the efficacy of various intervention methods should be carried out to develop early intervention measures and methods in order to reduce the harm of psychological disorders, to facilitate the mental health of PCOS patients, and thus to improve the quality of life.
PCOS (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome) of Bilateral Ovaries|Depression, Anxiety
DRUG: Oral Contraceptives, Combined|DRUG: Metformin Pill|OTHER: lifestyle intervention
Depression, The self-rating depression scale(SDS) is assessed before and after intervention. The SDS score multiplied by 1.25 is a standard score, which is between 25-100. A score no less than 50 is consider as depression., one year|Anxiety, The self-rating anxiety scale(SAS) is assessed before and after intervention. The SAS score multiplied by 1.25 is a standard score, which is between 25-100. A score no less than 50 is consider as anxiety., one year|Health Related Quality of Life in PCOS, The scores of Health Related Quality of Life Questionnaire are assessed before and after treatment, which range from 30 to 210. Higher scores indicate higher quality of life of PCOS patients with less influence from PCOS., one year
PCOS is one of the most common reproductive endocrine and metabolic diseases in women of adolescence and childbearing age. The prevalence of PCOS in reproductive women is as high as 5-10%, about 50-80% of whom are infertile and need ovulation induction or in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET). Ovulation/anovulation and hyperandrogenemia are two main features of PCOS. Moreover, about 50-60% of PCOS patients present insulin resistance/hyperinsulinemia. The probability of miscarriage in PCOS is also higher than that of control women. Pregnancy complications in PCOS patients, such as gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, etc., and long-term complications of metabolic syndrome and endometrial cancer are more likely to happen. These not only greatly affect women's reproductive health, but also seriously endanger their psychological status. A large sample of data has shown that the risk of depression in women with PCOS is 3.78 times higher than that of the control women, 5.62 times for anxiety, and 1.78 times for bipolar disorder. With the economic development, more and more attention is paid to the quality of life including their mental health. However, there is few data on the risk factors of depression, anxiety and other psychological disorders in women with PCOS. There is a lack of effective evaluation and prediction systems. It is urgent to establish a risk assessment system for PCOS complicated with psychological diseases through scientific and systematic research, to formulate comprehensive intervention measures to improve the quality of life of women with PCOS and to reduce the incidence of affective disorders.