Her2-positive Lung Cancer Treated With Dedicated Drug
HER2 (erbB-2/neu) is a member of the erbB receptor tyrosine kinase family. ERBB2 gene which encodes human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2) is a major proliferative driver activating downstream signaling through PI3K-AKT and MEK-ERK. HER2 overexpression or gene amplification is associated with sensitivity to trastuzumab and lapatinib in breast cancer. Among actual lung cancer biomarker, HER2 remains apart. HER2 involvement is known for a long time but clinical research has been stopped for many years since the first clinical trials in unselected patients were negative. Recently trastuzumab + pertuzumab + docetaxel has been tested for first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer (CLEOPATRA trial). Analysis of the primary end point showed that patients who received pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and docetaxel (pertuzumab group) had a significantly longer median progression-free survival, as assessed by independent reviewers an did those who received placebo, trastuzumab, and docetaxel (control group) (hazard ratio favoring the pertuzumab group, 0.62). There is thus a strong rational for treating HER2 mutated lung cancer patient with these drugs.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Stage III|HER2 Gene Mutation
DRUG: pertuzumab + trastuzumab + docetaxel
Overall Response, Proportion of patients with a confirmed complete response or partial response according to RECIST version 1.1, [Time Frame: About 24 months]
Objective Response Rate, Percentage of patient with objective response rate with RECIST 1.1 as assessed by radiology review committee, 6 weeks|Overall Survival, Time from enrollment until death due to any cause, About 24 months|Progression-free survival, Time from enrollment to first observation of progression (according to RECIST v1.1) or date of death (from any cause), About 24 months|Duration of response, Time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression., About 24 months|Objective Response Rate, Percentage of patient with objective response rate with RECIST 1.1 as assessed by investigators, 6 weeks (confirmation needed at least after 4 weeks)|Incidence, type and severity of non-serious and serious adverse event, About 24 months
Correlation between OR, PFS, and HER2 mutation kinetic on cfDNA, About 24 months
HER2 (erbB-2/neu) is a member of the erbB receptor tyrosine kinase family. ERBB2 gene which encodes human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2) is a major proliferative driver activating downstream signaling through PI3K-AKT and MEK-ERK. HER2 overexpression or gene amplification is associated with sensitivity to trastuzumab and lapatinib in breast cancer. Among actual lung cancer biomarker, HER2 remains apart. HER2 involvement is known for a long time but clinical research has been stopped for many years since the first clinical trials in unselected patients were negative. Recently trastuzumab + pertuzumab + docetaxel has been tested for first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer (CLEOPATRA trial). Analysis of the primary end point showed that patients who received pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and docetaxel (pertuzumab group) had a significantly longer median progression-free survival, as assessed by independent reviewers an did those who received placebo, trastuzumab, and docetaxel (control group) (hazard ratio favoring the pertuzumab group, 0.62). There is thus a strong rational for treating HER2 mutated lung cancer patient with these drugs.