Acalabrutinib Monotherapy vs Investigator's Choice of Treatment in Patients With CL Leukaemia and Heart Failure
This will be a global Phase IV, open-label, randomised study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of acalabrutinib (monotherapy, 100 mg orally \[po\], twice daily \[bd\]) compared to investigator's choice of treatment, in patients with CLL (TN or R/R) and moderate to severe cardiac impairment. All patients will have cardiac impairment as defined by LVEF of \< 50%.

Randomisation will be stratified by LVEF \> 40% vs ≤ 40% to stratify for moderate and severe cardiac impairment, which for this study are defined as follows:

Severe cardiac impairment: in those with LVEF ≤ 40% Moderate cardiac impairment: in those with LVEF \> 40% to \< 50%. The study is planned to take place in approximately 20 centres globally. The study will be conducted in centres that have established close collaboration between the Haematology and Cardiology divisions, preferably with a cardio-oncologist on the team.

An IDMC will be responsible for making recommendations for study continuation.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia|Heart Failure
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|OTHER: Investigator's choice of treatment
Safety endpoints 1: To evaluate the incidence of CV (CardioVascular) adverse events leading to drug discontinuation after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Frequency and time to discontinuation of any study treatment due to worsening in cardiovascular function or cardiovascular AEs., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Safety endpoints 2: To evaluate the duration on treatment prior to drug discontinuation due to CV adverse events after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Incidence of Grade 4 and 5 cardiovascular events of interest., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Safety endpoints 3: To evaluate the incidence of life threatening and fatal cardiac events of interest after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Incidence and relationship to study treatment of Grade ≥ 3 AEs., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Safety endpoints 4: To evaluate the frequency of grade≥3 Adverse events after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Incidence and relationship to study treatment of Adverse events of special interest (AESI) defined per Acalabrutinib IB, Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Safety endpoints 5: To evaluate the frequency of AESI per Acalabrutinib IB after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Incidence and relationship to study treatment of Non-cardiovascular AE that led to discontinuation of any study treatment., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Safety endpoints 6: To evaluate the rate of discontinuation due to non-CV adverse events after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Incidence and relationship to study treatment of Events of clinical interest (ECI) per acalabrutinib IB, Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Safety endpoints 7: To evaluate the rate of any serious adverse event after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Incidence and relationship to study treatment of Serious adverse events (SAEs)., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.
Efficacy Endpoints 1:To evaluate the overall survival after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Overall survival (OS), defined as the time from randomisation to death from any cause.

Per iwCLL 2018 criteria:

• Event-free survival (EFS), defined as the time from randomisation to disease progression, initiation of subsequent anti-CLL therapy, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Efficacy Endpoints 2:To evaluate the overall response rate after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Overall response rate (ORR), defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response (CR), complete response with incomplete bone marrow recovery (CRi), nodular partial response (nPR) or partial response (PR)., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Efficacy Endpoints 3: To evaluate the duration of response after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Duration of response (DOR), defined as the time from the first documented response (PR or better) to disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of disease progression)., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Efficacy Endpoints 4: To evaluate the progression free survival after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the time from randomisation to disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of disease progression)., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.|Efficacy Endpoints 5:To evaluate the event free survival after acalabrutinib treatment compared to investigators choice of treatment., Overall response rate (ORR), defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response (CR), complete response with incomplete bone marrow recovery (CRi), nodular partial response (nPR) or partial response (PR)., Visits are screening+ 8 visits( every 4 weeks) and then every 16 weeks until termination of the study which would be 4 years from the last subject randomized.
Randomised controlled study:

Treatment phase:

Patients will receive treatment with either acalabrutinib 100 mg po tablets bd (until unacceptable toxicity or progression) or investigator's choice of treatment (chlorambucil, venetoclax, ibrutinib, zanabrutinib, rituximab or Obinutuzumab etc). For the control arm the treatment type and duration will be defined by the PI prior to randomisation.

Each treatment cycle is 28 days/4 weeks. Haematology visits (labs, physical exam), will be performed at the first day of each cycle for the first 8 cycles and every 4 cycles there after.

Response assessment will be performed by the PI in accordance with modified iwCLL 2018 criteria every 4 cycles (16 weeks). Imaging and BM testing only as deemed appropriate by PI.

Safety assessments will be performed at every visit.

Cardiology assessments will be performed at the end of cycle 1 (C2D1) and 3 (C4D1) and thereafter every 4 cycles (16 weeks). These assessments will include:

* A cardiology consult.
* ECHO, 12-lead ECG and 24-hour Holter.
* Cardiac biomarkers.
* Any additional testing will be performed as clinically indicated.

Cardiac MRI post-screening will be performed every year.

Decisions for permanent withdrawal or modifications to treatment due to cardiac AEs will be made by PI after close consultation with the cardiologist.

Post-Treatment Phase:

Safety assessments

Once treatment is discontinued due to any of the reasons mentioned above, a safety follow-up (SFU) will occur within 45 days of the last dose of treatment. This will occur regardless of the patient developing progressive disease or initiation a new anti-CLL therapy during that timespan. The evaluation will include:

* Cardiology consult
* Cardiac biomarkers
* 12-lead ECG, ECHO and 24 hour Holter
* Cardiac MRI (if not performed in the last 6 months).

The subsequent safety assessments will continue until disease progression, WoC, death or termination of study whichever occurs first.

These will mirror the in-treatment schedule, with cardiology consults including ECHO, ECG, cardiac biomarkers and 24 hour Holter performed every 16 weeks and yearly cardiac MRI. Once patient has progressive disease they will be contacted to assess survival status every 16 weeks.

Response assessments Patients that discontinue treatment prior to progression will continue to be evaluated for disease progression every 16 weeks. The response assessment will be per iwCLL 2018 guidelines and will be performed by the PI. Bone marrow testing and imaging will continue to remain optional and per PI discretion.

Once patient has progressive disease they will be contacted every 16 weeks for survival status and information on any new anti-cancer therapy until WoC, death, termination of study by Sponsor whichever occurs first.