A Study of Tetrathiomolybdate (TM) Plus Capecitabine
There are two parts to this study. It is a phase 1b followed by a randomized phase 2 study to assess whether adding 3 years of adjuvant tetrathiomolybdate (TM) to standard 6 months treatment of adjuvant capecitabine and pembrolizumab in high risk for relapse triple negative breast cancer.

In the phase 1b part of the study, TM is added to adjuvant capecitabine and pembrolizumab in high risk for relapse triple negative breast cancer (RCB 2, 3, risk for relapse \>60% at 5 years) after completion of neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy and surgery to establish the safety of the combination. This will be followed by a randomized phase 2 clinical trial of adjuvant TM and capecitabine vs capecitabine alone.

If pembrolizumab was administered in the neoadjuvant setting, it may be continued in the adjuvant setting per investigator discretion.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer|Residual Disease
DRUG: Tetrathiomolybdate|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Phase 1b: To establish the safety of the combination of adjuvant tetrathiomolybdate with capecitabine and pembrolizumab by the number of dose limiting toxicities, To establish the safety of the combination of adjuvant tetrathiomolybdate with capecitabine and pembrolizumab administered to patients with triple negative breast cancer after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and with a non-pCR (RCB 2, 3) after standard surgery. The safe dose is defined as the dose level at which no more than 1 out of 6 patients has a DLT on Cycle 1. A dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as a grade 3 hematologic toxicity or non-hematologic toxicity excluding hand foot syndrome, mucositis, or diarrhea. The DLT window is 4 weeks. All toxicities will be summarized., 3 years|Phase 2: Distant relapse-free survival (DRFS) between TM and capecitabine versus capecitabine as measured with the STEEP system, The primary endpoint of this study is distant relapse-free survival (DRFS) between TM and capecitabine versus capecitabine. The continued use of adjuvant immunotherapy with pembrolizumab is left to investigator choice. DRFS is defined in accordance with the STEEP system. This definition of DRFS, includes the following as events: distant recurrence, death from breast cancer, death from non-breast cancer or unknown causes, or any second primary invasive cancer. DRFS will be compared by arm in each of the two RCB groups separately using time-to-event analytic methods such as the log-rank test and Cox regression., 10 years
Phase 1b: Distant Relapse free survival (DRFS) between TM, capecitabine and pembrolizumab versus capecitabine and pembrolizumab as measured with the STEEP system, Distant Relapse free survival (DRFS) between TM, capecitabine and pembrolizumab versus capecitabine and pembrolizumab. DRFS is defined in accordance with the STEEP system. This definition of DRFS, includes the following as events: distant recurrence, death from breast cancer, death from non-breast cancer or unknown causes, or any second primary invasive cancer. This will be analyzed descriptively due to small sample sizes and possibly different dose levels., 3 years|Phase 1b: Plasma concentrations of capecitabine, pembrolizumab and TM will be performed in a sub cohort of at least nine patients enrolled in the phase 1b part of this study, Pharmacokinetics of capecitabine, pembrolizumab and TM. Capecitabine and 5 fluoro-uracil will be measured in plasma and 5FU intracellular nucleotides will be measured in PBMCs. Plasma pembrolizumab concentrations will be measured using the commercially available ELISA assay., 3 years|Phase 2: Overall Survival compared by arm in each of the two RCB groups separately, Overall survival (OS) between the two arms via the Kaplan-Meier method, 10 years|Phase 2: invasive disease-free survival compared by arm in each of the two RCB groups separately, Invasive disease-free survival (iDFS) between the two arms via the Kaplan-Meier method, 10 years|Phase 2: Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 comparing capecitabine and tetrathiomolybdate +/- pembrolizumab versus capecitabine alone +/- pembrolizumab, Treatment-related adverse events comparing capecitabine and tetrathiomolybdate +/- pembrolizumab versus capecitabine alone +/- pembrolizumab. Safety will be described by calculating the frequencies and 95% confidence intervals for each adverse event, with the maximum grade per toxicity serving as the patient-specific summary measure. Safety in terms on adverse events will be described over the entire time period, in addition to specific time periods (after 1 year, 2 and 3 years after the start of therapy) to evaluate late onset adverse events., 5 years|Phase 2: Survival in patients that complete at least 6 months of treatment, Overall survival (OS) and invasive disease-free survival (iDFS) in patients that complete at least 6 months of TM and capecitabine therapy versus capecitabine alone (+/- pembrolizumab for each arm) (enough time to be copper depleted) via the Kaplan-Meier method, 10 years|Phase 2: Effect of copper depletion on serial blood-based biomarkers, Effect of copper depletion on serial blood-based biomarkers including: VEGFR2+ EPCs, LOXL-2, ctDNA, other biomarkers in process of validation by correlation coefficients, 5 years|Phase 2: Patient-reported quality of life measurements to assess whether the addition of TM to capecitabine impacts health-related quality of life and differ between arms over time, Patient-reported quality of life (PROs) including: oral, gastrointestinal, cutaneous, neurological, and treatment-related symptoms will be assessed every 16 weeks in both arms through surveys. The questionnaire uses a 5-point Likert scale to assess severity with a scale from none, never, not at all, etc. to very much, constantly, very severe, etc. or yes and no. Separate mixed linear models will be conducted for each symptom to compare the average difference between the randomized arms., 5 years|Phase 2: Plasma concentrations of capecitabine, pembrolizumab and TM will be performed in a sub cohort of patients enrolled in the randomized phase 2 part of this study, Based on the phase 1b pharmacokinetics analyses, a population pharmacokinetic sampling schema will be developed for a sub cohort (the number of participants will be determined based on the phase 1b results) in the randomized phase 2 part of the study. Pharmacokinetics of capecitabine, pembrolizumab and TM. Capecitabine and 5 fluoro-uracil will be measured in plasma and 5FU intracellular nucleotides will be measured in PBMCs. Plasma pembrolizumab concentrations will be measured using the commercially available ELISA assay., 5 years
Scientific Rationale for the study design: Copper depletion is designed to be a complement to standard therapy to overcome resistance mechanisms hence it would be optimal to combine it with standard adjuvant therapy which at the current time is capecitabine and pembrolizumab.

Study Design:

Phase 1b: Patients with triple negative breast cancer who have completed standard neoadjuvant therapy (chemotherapy + pembrolizumab) and who have residual disease at RCB 2, 3 will start adjuvant therapy with standard dose capecitabine, standard dose pembrolizumab and tetrathiomolybdate (TM). Patients must have received neoadjuvant immunotherapy (pembrolizumab) and wish to continue adjuvant immunotherapy for at least one cycle on trial. The capecitabine will be for 6 months with concurrent TM and TM will continue for an additional 2.5 years (for a total of 3 years of treatment). Patients must stay on immunotherapy for at least the first cycle of the study and subsequently as per physician's choice.

This phase of the study is designed to assess safety of TM with capecitabine + immunotherapy (pembrolizumab) as adjuvant therapy for TNBC.

With a standard 3+3 design, the maximum possible total number of patients is 18.

Randomized Phase 2: Patients with triple negative breast cancer who have completed standard neoadjuvant therapy (chemotherapy +/- pembrolizumab) and who have residual disease at RCB 2, 3 will start adjuvant therapy with standard dose capecitabine or capecitabine and tetrathiomolybdate (TM). If they received neoadjuvant pembrolizumab and wish to continue adjuvant immunotherapy, they may continue. The capecitabine will be for 6 months with concurrent TM and TM will continue for an additional 2.5 years (for a total of 3 years of treatment). If they elect to continue immunotherapy, then they should complete one year total or as per physician's choice.

Patients will be randomized with a 1:1 allocation ratio between the two treatment arms.

There will be at most 186 patients accrued to account for 10% loss to follow-up over the course of the approximately 5-year study period.

Study Treatment:

Phase 1b:

• Induction Phase TM dose: as per dose escalation nomogram. Dose Level 1 is 140 mg a day (TM 100 mg + 40 mg QHS) Ceruloplasmin (Cp) target: Will be done at local lab. The Cp target goal is to be 1-6 mg/dL below the lower limit of normal for the reference lab (see Section 7.1).

Capecitabine Dose: 1000 mg per square meter of body-surface area, twice per day, on days 1 to 14 every 3 weeks.

Pembrolizumab: Standard doses will be used (200 mg IV Q3 weeks or 400 mg IV Q6 weeks

• Maintenance Phase TM dose: as per dose escalation nomogram Dose Level 1 is 100 mg a day (TM 100 mg daily) Cp target: Will be done at local lab. Goal is to be 1-6 mg/dL below the lower limit of normal for the reference lab (see Section 7.1). TM dosed according to Cp level and ANC in 20mg TM capsule increments.

Capecitabine Dose: 1000 mg per square meter of body-surface area, twice per day, on days 1 to 14 every 3 weeks for a total of 6 months Pembrolizumab: Standard doses will be used (200 mg IV Q3 weeks or 400 mg IV Q6 weeks for one year total as per package insert or per physician's choice).

Study Duration: TM and capecitabine and pembrolizumab will be administered concurrently for 6 months, and the TM will continue for an additional 2.5 years (total duration of TM treatment is 3 years).

If no DLT is observed at dose level +2 then that is the dose that will proceed to the randomized phase 2 portion of the study.

Randomized Phase 2:

* Randomization: Patients will be randomized 1:1 to the combination of Capecitabine and TM vs. Capecitabine. If pembrolizumab was administered in the neoadjuvant setting and the oncology team chooses to continue in the adjuvant setting, standard doses will be used (200 mg IV Q3weeks or 400 mg IV Q6 weeks for one year total as per package insert or per physician's choice)
* Induction Phase TM dose: Will be determined in phase 1b part of this study. If no DLT noted at dose level 2, then will proceed with TM dose 180 mg a day (TM 100 mg qAM + 80 mg QHS) Cp target: Will be done at local lab. Goal is to be 1-6 mg/dL below the lower limit of normal for the reference lab (see Section 7.1) Capecitabine Dose: 1000 mg per square meter of body-surface area, twice per day, on days 1 to 14 every 3 weeks for a total of 6 months Pembrolizumab: optional as per physician's choice. Standard doses will be used (200 mg IV Q3weeks or 400 mg IV Q6 weeks for one year total per package insert or per physician's choice
* Maintenance Phase TM dose: Will be determined in phase 1b part of this study. If no DLT noted at dose level 2, then will proceed with TM dose 100 mg a day (TM 100 mg QD) Cp target: Will be done at local lab. Goal is to be 1-6 mg/dL below the lower limit of normal for the reference lab (see Section 7.1). TM dosed according to Cp level and ANC in 20mg TM capsule increments.

Capecitabine Dose: 1000 mg per square meter of body-surface area, twice per day, on days 1 to 14 every 3 weeks for a total of 6 months Pembrolizumab: optional as per physician's choice. Standard doses will be used (200 mg IV Q3weeks or 400 mg IV Q6 weeks for one year total per package insert or per physician's choice.

Study Duration: TM and capecitabine will be administered concurrently for 6 months, and the TM will continue for an additional 2.5 years (total duration of TM treatment is 3 years). Pembrolizumab is optional and should be administered according to standard guidelines.