Siliphos in Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Milk thistle is an herbal drug that may have some liver protection properties and may reduce inflammation in the liver. It may also have anticancer effects. However milk thistle is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration for any medical purpose in the United States.

It has not been used in patients with liver cancer previously, to our knowledge, but there have been many studies of its use in patients with hepatitis and cirrhosis. Some of these studies have shown that milk thistle may help reduce elevated liver function tests.

Siliphos is a derivative of milk thistle that can be absorbed better than some other types of milk thistle. The investigators would like to perform a study to identify doses of siliphos that are safe to take in advanced liver cancer and to identify positive or negative side effects this compound may have. The investigators will be using this information in future studies to see if siliphos can be used as a therapy in patients with advanced liver cancer to reduce elevated liver function tests.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Silybin
The maximum tolerated dose of siliphos in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, Weeks 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12
Mean intra-patient percent change in AST, ALT and total serum bilirubin levels, Fasting morning blood samples collected at baseline, weeks 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12, From baseline to 3 months|Quality of life as measured by the FACT-hepatobiliary questionnaire, Questionnaire administered at baseline, weeks 1, 6, and 12, From baseline to 3 months|Plasma concentrations of silybinin, silybinin B, silibinin glucoronide, and silibinin sulfate, Fasting morning blood samples collected at baseline, weeks 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12, From baseline to 3 months|Mean intra-patient percent change in serum concentrations of CRP, IGF-1, and IGFBP-3, Fasting morning blood samples collected at baseline, weeks 1, 3, 6, and 12, From baseline to 3 months|Tumor response as measured by RECIST criteria and AFP concentrations, Fasting blood samples collected at baseline, weeks 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 for AFP concentrations.

MRI of abdomen/pelvis \& CT of chest at baseline and week 12, From baseline to 3 months
Milk thistle (MT) has been historically used to treat patients with liver diseases, and has been shown to have antioxidant, anti inflammatory, and hepatoprotective properties. It may also have direct anticancer effects through inhibition of growth factors and promotion of cell cycle arrest. MT has been shown to improve LFTs in several studies of patients with cirrhosis. To our knowledge, there have been no published trials evaluating the clinical efficacy of MT in advanced HCC. We therefore propose a phase I study to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of silybinphosphatidylcholine (a commercially available preparation with increased bioavailability), in patients with advanced HCC. We will use a traditional dose escalation, open label design with a study intervention period of 3 months, followed by one year of observation, with a maximum total of 30 subjects, evaluating a dose range between 1 to 12 gm Siliphos. The data obtained from this study will be utilized in the future to evaluate MT efficacy in reducing liver function tests in advanced HCC, which will have significant implications in its use as a potential adjunctive agent in patients with currently limited treatment options.