A Study to Test the Efficacy, Safety, and Pharmacokinetics of Rozanolixizumab in Adult Study Participants With Leucine-Rich Glioma Inactivated 1 Autoimmune Encephalitis
The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy of rozanolixizumab as measured by seizure freedom, change in cognitive function, use of rescue medication, onset of seizure freedom and to assess safety and tolerability.
Leucine-Rich Glioma Inactivated 1 Autoimmune Encephalitis
DRUG: Rozanolixizumab|DRUG: Placebo
Number of Seizure Free Study Participants at the End of the Treatment, Seizure freedom was defined as a minimum of 28 consecutive days of no seizures of any type during the treatment and maintained until the end of the treatment (Week 25)., From Baseline until the end of the Treatment (Week 25)
Change From Baseline in Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) Total Scale Index Score at the End of the Treatment, The Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) consists of 12 subtests that contribute to 5 age-based domain index scores (immediate memory, visuospatial/constructional, language, attention, delayed memory) that were aggregated for a total scale index score. All index scores have an age-based mean of 100, with a standard deviation (SD) of 15. The total scale score was calculated by taking the mean of the sum of the five index scores. Total possible scale index scores range from 40-135. Higher scores reflect better neurocognitive performance. The total scale index score is the score typically used to reflect global neurocognitive status. Baseline of RBANS is defined as the screening (Visit 1, Week -1) value., From Baseline to Week 5, 13, 21 and 25|Percentage of Participants With a Favorable Outcome in the Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) During the Treatment, Percentage of participants with a favorable outcome in mRS during treatment, where favorable outcome defined as no worsening for participants with Baseline mRS score of ≤1 or improvement of ≥1 point for participants with Baseline mRS score of ≥2. The mRS is commonly used scale for measuring degree of disability or dependence in daily activities of people who suffered a stroke or other causes of neurological disability. The scale ranges from 0 (perfect health) to 6 (death).

0-No symptoms at all

1. No significant disability despite symptoms; able to carry out all usual activities
2. Slight disability; unable to carry out all previous activities, but able to look after own affairs without assistance
3. Moderate disability; requiring some help, but able to walk without assistance
4. Moderately severe disability; unable to walk and attend to own bodily needs without assistance
5. Severe disability; bedridden, incontinent and requiring constant nursing care and attention
6. Dead, From Baseline until the end of the Treatment (Week 25)|Number of Participants Who Required Rescue Medication Due to an Absence or Loss of Clinical Benefit During the Treatment, Study participants who required rescue medication due to an absence or loss of clinical benefit were discontinued blinded treatment and completed the assessments for the early discontinuation visit., From Baseline until the end of the Treatment (Week 25)|Time to First Occurrence of Seizure Freedom During the Treatment, The time to first occurrence of seizure freedom was defined by the number of days after randomization to the first day of the first 28 consecutive days without seizures during the treatment. Time to first occurrence of 28 consecutive days of seizure freedom (days) during the treatment was calculated as date of first day of occurrence of 28 consecutive days of seizure freedom - Date of Randomization + 1., From Baseline until the end of the Treatment (Week 25)|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of investigational medicinal product (IMP), whether or not considered related to the IMP. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of IMP, whether or not related to the IMP. A TEAE was defined as an AE starting on or after the time of first administration of IMP or any unresolved event already present before the first administration of IMP that worsens in intensity following exposure to treatment up to the end of the Treatment and including the 8-week (56 days) Safety-Follow Up (SFU)., From Baseline until the End of Study (Week 32)
The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy of rozanolixizumab as measured by seizure freedom, change in cognitive function, use of rescue medication, onset of seizure freedom and to assess safety and tolerability.