TheraSphere for the Treatment of Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
TheraSphere is a medical device containing yttrium-90 (Y-90) a radioactive material that has been used to treat liver tumors. When Y-90 is put into very tiny glass beads (TheraSphere), it can be injected into the liver through a blood vessel. This allows a large local dose of radiation to be delivered to the tumor with less risk of toxic effects from radiation to other parts of the body or to healthy liver tissue.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
RADIATION: TheraSphere
Response to Treatment, Diagnostic imaging studies for assessment of tumor response will be performed according to usual standard of care as established by the referring oncologist. The principal clinician will be able to get a preliminary evaluation of tumor response in patients who return for subsequent treatment, as part of the imaging studies required for repeat safety screening of patients., Through 24 months post-treatment
Safety, Evaluate toxicities and adverse experiences associated with TheraSphere treatment, Through 24 months post-treatment or death|Survival Time, Evaluate survival time from the first treatment. The disease status, survival and safety status of all patients who receive TheraSphere treatment will be evaluated annually until death or 2 years post-treatment. In general, follow-up will be performed by the principal clinician. In the event of patient death, the date and cause of death will be recorded in the medical record (if possible)., Through 24 months post-treatment or death
Surgical resection of the affected portion of the liver offers the best chance for disease-free survival in patients with hepatoma (HCC). Unfortunately, most hepatoma patients present with disease that is not amenable to resection (multifocal disease) or have other medical contraindications to surgery (limited hepatic reserve related to advanced cirrhosis or chronic hepatitis). Fewer than 15%1 of hepatoma patients are suitable surgical candidates.

The objective of treatment with TheraSphere is to selectively administer a potentially lethal dose of radioactive material to neoplastic tissue in the liver of patients with HCC. Regional therapies for HCC may have several advantages over systemically administered treatments. Irradiating a cancer prior to treatment with regional chemotherapy may be more effective than either therapeutic modality alone. TheraSphere may also be of value as a 'bridging' treatment for HCC patients awaiting a donor organ for liver transplantation.