Zevalin-BEAM/BEAC With Autologous Stem Cell Support as Consolidation in First Line Treatment of Mantle Cell Lymphoma
The purpose of the study is to determine if outcome for patients with mantle cell lymphoma is improved by adding radioimmunotherapy to high-dose regimen before auto-transplant in patients who are not in CR after induction therapy.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: 90Y-ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin)
Time to treatment failure (TTF) for PR/CRu patients receiving Zevalin-BEAM/BEAC, 3 years
Safety, Whole study|TTF for CR patients receiving BEAM/BEAC, 3 year|Overall survival, 5 year|Time to progression, 3 year|Response rates, 6 months|Value of PET, 6 months|Molecular response rates, 6 months|Molecular response and progression-free survival after Rituximab for molecular relapse, 5 years|Microarray gene expression analysis, 5 years
Mantle cell lymphoma is considered to have the worst outcome of all non-Hodgkins lymphomas. Since 1997, the Nordic Lymphoma Group has conducted phase II studies in order to improve the results for this lymphoma subtype. The first study included high-dose therapy with autologous stem cell support in the first line of treatment. The results showed the importance of a high quality response to pre-transplant induction treatment, and that CHOP-based regimen alone did not achieve this. Thus, the second trial was designed to improve remissions by including Rituximab and high-dose Ara-C. Results now show that a high rate of molecular remission in the bone marrow was achieved, and the 3-year FFS was improved in comparison to the first study (80% vs 24%). Furthermore, patient who had a molecular relapse (t(11;14) or IgV-gene) were treated with 4 doses of Rituximab and many converted back to be PCR negative.

The present and thus third phase II study aims to improve the high-dose regimen by adding Zevalin radioimmunotherapy in patients who are not in CR prior to transplant. Data from the last trial show that patients not in CR at this point have a worse outcome (3 year FFS of 63%, vs 85% for CR patients). Monitoring for molecular relapse in the bone marrow will be done, and patients who become PCR positive will be treated with Rituximab in order to evaluate the value of this strategy.