Trimodality Therapy With/Out Durvalumab to Treat Patients With Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects durvalumab has on bladder cancer, combined with treatment after completion of surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab
Disease-free survival, defined as the time from the randomization to the time of the first event that is either recurrent (local or distant) bladder cancer, a new primary bladder cancer or death from any cause, 5 years
Non-muscle invasive bladder cancer recurrence rate, 5 years|Loco-regional control rate between study arms at the 12 week visit, defined as proportion of patients with a confirmed locoregional complete response at 3 months post randomization, 5 years|Patterns of disease recurrence between study arms, The two treatment arms will be compared using the log-rank test stratified by ECOG Performance Status (0, 1 vs. 2+), Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (Yes/No), whole bladder versus partial bladder versus bladder plus regional lymph nodes RT field, and disease stage (T2 vs T3/4). A table will be presented summarizing the patterns of disease recurrence by treatment arms, 5 years|Compare overall and bladder intact disease-free survival between study arms, 5 years|Metastasis-free survival between study arms, 5 years|Number and severity of adverse events between study arms, 5 years|Quality of Life between treatment arms using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Bladder Cancer (FACT-BL) questionnaire, It consists of 39 questions, of which 12 are specific to bladder cancer. The questionnaire consists of 5 subscales: physical well-being (PWB), social/family well-being (SWB), emotional well-being (EWB), functional well-being (FWB), and a final subscale focusing specifically on bladder cancer., 5 years|Cost-effectiveness between study arms, Estimate an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio reported as a difference in cost per Disease free survival-year gained of durvalumab vs. surveillance. analyses will focus on the incremental cost-effectiveness of durvalumab from a government payer perspective, over a disease-free survival time horizon by prospectively collecting economic and resource utilization information during the clinical trial., 5 years|Cost-utility between study arms, A partitioned-survival model (Markov model) will be developed using data obtained from the trial. Different parametric models will be evaluated to fit data from the trial in order to evaluate the incremental cost-utility over a 3-, 5- and 10-y horizon., 5 years
This study is looking at whether a type of immunotherapy drug called durvalumab can be safely administered after initial treatment received by a patient. Durvalumab has been tested in many different types of cancers. Durvalumab works by allowing the immune system to detect cancer and reactivate the immune response. This may help to slow down the growth of cancer or may cause cancer cells to die. It is unclear if the addition of durvalumab is beneficial in patients with bladder cancer who have completed surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy.