Palbociclib With Cisplatin or Carboplatin in Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of palbociclib with cisplatin or carboplatin in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment. Palbociclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving palbociclib with cisplatin or carboplatin may help stop tumor growth in patients with advanced solid tumors.
Solid Neoplasm|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IVA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IVB Pancreatic Cancer|Sarcoma|Colorectal Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer|Cancer of Unknown Primary|Bladder Cancer|Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Palbociclib
Incidence of adverse events according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Study completion, an average of 2 years|Incidence of dose limiting toxicities defined as grade 3 or higher toxicity, Up to 4 weeks|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) as the highest doses of palbociclib and cisplatin or palbociclib and carboplatin, Study completion, an average of 2 years
Overall response rate (complete response + partial response) assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria, Will be summarized and presented along with 95% exact confidence intervals., Up to 3 years|Pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics of carboplatin including maximum concentration (Cmax), Within-subject and between-cohort comparisons of Cmax will be performed using Wilcoxon (non-parametric) test., Up to 4 weeks|Pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics of cisplatin including maximum concentration (Cmax), Within-subject and between-cohort comparisons of Cmax will be performed using Wilcoxon (non-parametric) test., Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of palbociclib when administered along with cisplatin or carboplatin.

II. Establish the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the tested combinations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of cisplatin, carboplatin.

II. Obtain preliminary evidence of anti-tumor efficacy of the tested combination regimens.

III. Conduct PK/pharmacodynamics (PD) correlative analyses using palbociclib trough concentration and cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) inhibition read-outs in tumor and surrogate samples collected on course 1 day 22 (C1D22).

IV. Assess potential association between tissue-based biomarkers and efficacy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and palbociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 2-22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and palbociclib PO QD on days 2-22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 4 weeks.