Phase II Study of PD-1 Inhibitor Combined With Apatinib and Mitotane in the Treatment of Advanced Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare aggressive malignant tumor. According to the literature, the 5-year survival rate of ACC is 12%-47%. For patients with advanced ACC, mitotane alone or combined with traditional chemotherapy was the first-line standard treatment, but its progression-free survival was only about 1 year. The efficacy of mitotane monotherapy is approximately 10% to 30%. FIRM-ACT trial reported an objective response rate (ORR) of 23.2% for etoposide, doxorubicin, cisplatin, and mitotane (EDP-M) chemotherapy regimen. Our phase II study found that PD-1 inhibitor camrelizumab and apatinib showed impressive clinical data in the second-line treatment of relapsed and metastatic ACC patients. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-1 inhibitor camrelizumab combined with apatinib and mitotane in advanced ACC, and to explore a new treatment strategy for patients with advanced ACC.
Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma|Adrenal Cortical Cancer|Adrenal Cancer
DRUG: Camrelizumab|DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: mitotane
objective response rate, The rate of complete response and partial response., up to 24 months
disease-free survival, The time from the administration of the first dose to first disease progression or death., up to 60 months|progression-free survival, The time from the commencement of therapy to the first evidence of disease progression or death., up to 60 months|incidence of adverse events, Graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., up to 60 months
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare aggressive malignant tumor. According to the literature, the 5-year survival rate of ACC is 12%-47%. For patients with advanced ACC, mitotane alone or combined with traditional chemotherapy was the first-line standard treatment, but its progression-free survival was only about 1 year. The efficacy of mitotane monotherapy is approximately 10% to 30%. FIRM-ACT trial reported an objective response rate (ORR) of 23.2% for etoposide, doxorubicin, cisplatin, and mitotane (EDP-M) chemotherapy regimen. Our phase II study found that PD-1 inhibitor camrelizumab and apatinib showed impressive clinical data in the second-line treatment of relapsed and metastatic ACC patients. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-1 inhibitor camrelizumab combined with apatinib and mitotane in advanced ACC, and to explore a new treatment strategy for patients with advanced ACC.