Topical Curcumin for HPV Related Cervical Disease
The purpose of this study is to see if curcumin can suppress HPV infection in women with low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL) disease or treated high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) disease. This study plans to explore the effect of curcumin as a potential medical treatment in HIV-uninfected and infected women with mild precancerous lesions of the cervix or recently treated high-grade precancerous lesions at risk for persistent HPV infection. About 200 women with low-grade precancerous lesions of the cervix or recently treated high-grade precancerous lesions will be enrolled to either insert 2000 mg of curcumin capsules in their vagina once a week or placebo after undergoing colposcopy or loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP). They will have a repeat visit in 6 months where they will undergo a Pap smear and HPV test to determine if there are higher rates of HPV clearance after curcumin administration. If HPV is present or the Pap smear is abnormal, patients will then undergo colposcopic examination to evaluate cervical histology.
Neoplasm Cervix
DRUG: Curcumin C3 Complex|DRUG: Placebo
HPV Clearance, HPV clearance, assessed as the number of participants with undetectable high-risk HPV mRNA levels in the standard monolayer Pap test (ThinPrep), at 6 months will be compared between the curcumin and placebo study arms., Month 6
Disease Recurrence, Disease recurrence will be assessed either cytologic or histologic abnormality at 6 months. Rates of disease recurrence will be compared between study arms in HIV-uninfected and infected women., Month 6
Participant Discontinuation, The treatment will be considered tolerable if 25% or fewer of participants discontinue the study early., Month 6
Cervical cancer is the third most common cancer worldwide. The causative agent responsible for cervical cancer is the persistent infection with oncogenic Human Papillomavirus (HPV). Rates of cervical cancer and HPV infection are increased particularly in HIV-infected women due to immunosuppression with cervical cancer categorized as an AIDS-defining diagnosis. Despite the promise of HPV vaccine in the prevention of cervical cancer, the widespread availability of this vaccine is limited due to cost and accessibility. Therefore, prevention strategies to reduce the risk of cervical cancer after HPV exposure entail treatment at the premalignant state, including low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL) and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), along with the eradication of HPV infection. There is a desperate need for an inexpensive, non-invasive alternative method to treat these premalignant cervical lesions and potentially suppress HPV infection.

Curcumin, an extract from turmeric, a popular culinary spice, has been used in traditional Indian medicine for its anti-inflammatory and anti-infectious properties. Recent studies have shown the potential effect of curcumin to reduce tumors and precancerous lesions in animal and human cancer cells. It is postulated that curcumin achieves its effect on cancer cells by modulating different cellular pathways as well as altering HPV effect on tissue cells.

The purpose of this study is to see if curcumin can suppress HPV infection in women with LSIL disease or treated HSIL disease. The researchers plan to explore the effect of curcumin as a potential medical treatment in HIV-uninfected and infected women with mild precancerous lesions of the cervix or recently treated high-grade precancerous lesions at risk for persistent HPV infection. About 200 women with low-grade precancerous lesions of the cervix or recently treated high-grade precancerous lesions will be enrolled to either insert 2000 mg of curcumin capsules in their vagina once a week or placebo after undergoing colposcopy or LEEP. They will have a repeat visit in 6 months where they will undergo a Pap smear and HPV test to determine if there are higher rates of HPV clearance after curcumin administration. If HPV is present or the Pap smear is abnormal, patients will then undergo colposcopic examination to evaluate cervical histology.