The Risk of Postoperative Wound Complications Following the Use of Negative Pressure Wound Therapy in Patients Undergoing Mastectomy
To evaluate the risk of postoperative wound complications following the use of Avelle negative pressure wound therapy in patients undergoing mastectomy and flap fixation, which might serve as a basis for a randomized controlled trial
Breast Cancer|Wound Complication|Wound Infection|Wound Dehiscence|Wound Necrosis
DEVICE: Negative pressure wound therapy
Number of patients with post-operative wound complications, Number of patients with post-operative wound complications defined as follows:

1. Surgical site infection (SSI) is defined as redness, pain, heat or swelling at the site of the incision or by the drainage of pus. Infection rate will be measured by A) the need for antibiotics, B) seroma aspiration due to infection or C) surgical drainage during the first three postoperative months.
2. Wound necrosis. Defined as a wound with necrotic tissue that consists of an accumulation of dead cells, tissue and cellular debris and often requires debridement.
3. Wound dehiscence or breakdown defined as a wound that ruptures along a surgical incision and the edges of the wound no longer align., During the first three postoperative months
Number of unplanned visits to the ER or breast cancer clinic, Number of unplanned visits to the ER or breast cancer clinic. Planned visits are standard follow-up outpatient clinic visits which are defined preoperatively. Unplanned visits are defined as any visit to the outpatient clinic which is necessary due to an adverse event., During the first three postoperative months|Number of patients with clinically significant seroma, Number of patients with clinically significant seroma. This is defined as:

1. Wound healing is at risk due to seroma (wound break down, seroma leakage, necrosis)
2. There is discomfort or pain caused by large amounts of seroma, characterised by tenseness of the skin.
3. There is contaminated/ infected seroma and aspiration is necessary to treat infection. All patients that undergo seroma aspiration due to infection will also be treated with a one week course of Augmentin 625 mg 3 times daily., During the first three postoperative months
Rationale:

Patients and breast cancer surgeons are frequently confronted with complications after mastectomy. These complications are manifold and mainly consist of: surgical site infections, seroma, wound dehiscence and wound necrosis. These complications are caused by numerous variables and therefore a multifactorial approach is required. Due to extensive research over the years, insight has been gained in how to reduce the rate of surgical site infections and wound healing problems. For example, pre-operatively and intra-operatively the complication rate can partly be influenced by optimizing intrinsic patient factors before surgery and using prophylactic antibiotics (1). There is however room for improvement in the postoperative phase. Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) has proven to be useful in reducing wound complications in all sorts of wounds. Limited evidence has been published on NPWT after breast cancer surgery and the effect of such in reducing wound complications.

This is a pilot study to evaluate the effect of negative pressure wound therapy in reducing postoperative wound complications after mastectomy, which might serve as a basis for a randomized controlled trial..

Objective:

To evaluate the risk of postoperative wound complications following the use of Avelle negative pressure wound therapy in patients undergoing mastectomy and flap fixation, which might serve as a basis for a randomized controlled trial

Study design:

A prospective cohort will be compared to a historical control group. Fifty consecutive patients will undergo mastectomy with flap fixation using tissue glue and skin sutures, closed suction drainage AND Avelle negative pressure wound therapy.

These results will be compared to the results of a historical control group consisting of 112 patients who have undergone mastectomy with flap fixation using tissue glue and sutures and closed suction drainage and in whom negative wound pressure therapy was omitted.

Follow-up will be conducted for three months post mastectomy.

Study population:

Female patients \> 18 years diagnosed with invasive breast cancer or DCIS ( ductal carcinoma in situ) with an indication to perform mastectomy.

Intervention (if applicable):

Application of Avelle negative pressure wound therapy after standard mastectomy with flap fixation and closed suction drainage.

Main study parameters/endpoints:

Patients with postoperative wound complications during the first three postoperative months.

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness:

Patients will be informed about the study before inclusion in the outpatient clinic. Informed consent will be obtained in the outpatient clinic a week after patients were initially informed. Postoperative check-ups will be done more frequently. Standard postoperative check-ups are planned at one week and three months. Additional study postoperative check-up will be performed at six weeks. Therefore, patients will be required to undergo one additional check-up. During out patients' visits, wound complication will be evaluated. Application of Avelle negative pressure wound therapy is expected to reduce wound complications and thereby benefit the post mastectomy wound healing process. The only potential risk for the patient is that the wound therapy would be ineffective or that the patient could develop an allergic reaction to the product. The latter is also a known risk of standard wound dressings.