Couple-focused Intervention for Sun Protection
The goal of this pilot study is to develop and test a couple-based intervention to increase sun protection practices. First, the investigators will develop the intervention website, Sun Safe Partners online. Next, the investigators will gather feedback and preferences for content in a small sample of couples who do not regularly engage in sun protection practices. The investigators will also gather preliminary information regarding the impact of the couple-based intervention.
Skin Cancer Prevention
BEHAVIORAL: Sun Safe Partners Online|BEHAVIORAL: Generic Online Sun Safety Information intervention
Sun Protection Behaviors, Impact of Sun Safe Partners Online vs Generic Online intervention on Sun protection behavior measures. The Sun Habits survey asked participants to rate their frequency of 5 sun protection behaviors (sunscreen, hat, shirt with sleeves, long pants, and sunglasses) on warm sunny days (1=never to 5=always)., Baseline to 1 month FU survey|Sun Exposure, Sun Exposure: The Sun Habits Survey asked participants to rate the duration of outdoor time during peak hours on weekends and weekdays over the past summer months, 1=30 min or less, and 8=more than 6 hours. Self-report measures of time outdoors have s, Baseline to 1 month FU survey
Perceived Risk of Skin cancer, Three items assessed the perceived risk of skin cancer (sample item: "If I don't protect myself from the sun, I would feel vulnerable to getting skin cancer in my lifetime"). Items were rated on Likert-type response scales, ranging from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree), Baseline to 1 month fu survey|Sun Protection benefits, Nine item scale assessessing sun protection benefits (sample item: "Regularly wearing sunscreen when in the sun would reduce my chances of getting skin cancer"). Scale utilizes likert items on 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree) scale., Baseline to 1 month fu survey|Barriers to Sunscreen, 9 item scale measuring sunscreen barriers (sample item: "For me, using sunscreen when I am outside on a warm sunny day is not part of my daily routine"). Scale utilizes likert items on 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree) scale., Baseline to 1 month fu survey|Barriers to sun protective clothing, 7 item scale measuring sunscreen barriers (sample item: ""For me, using sunscreen when I am outside on a warm sunny day is not part of my daily routine""). Scale utilizes likert items on 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree) scale., Baseline to 1 month fu survey|Self-efficacy for sun protection, 9 item scale assessing confidence in performing sun protection behaviors. Sample item: "Are participants confident that they can use sunscreen on every part of their body that is not covered by clothing?" Scale utilizes likert items from 1 (not at all confident) to 5 (very confident)., Baseline to 1 month FU survey
Aim 1: To develop and evaluate the feasibility of a couple-based sun protection intervention.

Aim 2: To examine the impact of the couple-based sun protection intervention on sun protection practices, individual attitudes, relationship perspective on sun protection, and couples' discussion with each other and their supportive communications about sun protection.

Aim 3: To develop and refine a SunSafe Partners online intervention. This process includes refining existing intervention content drawn from the first phase of this pilot research as well as formative and usability studies to obtain user-generated feedback on additional content and the approach.

Aim 4: To gather pilot data on participation in and evaluations of the Sun Safe partner's intervention from Aim 3.

Arm 1: Web-based intervention called Sun Safe Partners Online

Arm 2: Generic Online Sun Safety Information intervention- 4 links emailed to participants