A Risk Stratified Sequential Treatment With Rituximab, Brentuximab Vedotin and Bendamustine (RBvB)
This is an open label, risk-stratified, sequential treatment, phase 2 study of newly diagnosed post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders with positive CD20 and CD30 expression. It includes an induction phase with rituximab and brentuximab vedotin (RBv), followed by a treatment phase with RBv or RBv in combination with bendamustine (RBvB) based on response to induction.

The primary end point is treatment efficacy measured as the overall response rate (ORR) and progression free survival (PFS).
PTLD|Lymphoid Tumor|Hematopoietic/Lymphoid Cancer|Plasmacytic Hyperplasia PTLD|Infectious Mononucleosis|Florid Follicular Hyperplasia PTLD|Polymorphic PTLD|Monomorphic PTLD|Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma Type PTLD
DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|DRUG: Bendamustine
Overall response rate (ORR) (complete + partial response rate), Overall response rate (ORR) (complete + partial response rate) of the combination of rituximab, brentuximab vedotin +/-bendamustine in patients., Up to 84 days of treatment (4 cycles of treatment)|Progression free survival (PFS) rate, Progression free survival (PFS) of the combination of rituximab, brentuximab vedotin +/-bendamustine in patients., Up to 84 days of treatment (4 cycles of treatment)
ORR at the end of the induction phase, ORR at the end of the induction phase with rituximab and brentuximab vedotin (RBv) in patients, Up to 126 days of treatment (6 cycles of treatment)|Duration of response (DOR), duration of response (DOR) of the combination of rituximab, brentuximab vedotin +/-bendamustine in patients with newly diagnosed polymorphic and monomorphic CD20+ and CD 30+ PTLD., Up to 84 days of treatment (4 cycles of treatment)|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) of the combination of rituximab, brentuximab vedotin +/-bendamustine in patients with newly diagnosed polymorphic and monomorphic CD20+ and CD 30+ PTLD, 3 years
Post-Transplant Lymphoproliferative Disorders (PTLD) are defined by the revised 2017 edition of the WHO Classification of Tumours of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues as "lymphoid or plasmacytic proliferations that develop as a consequence of immunosuppression in a recipient of a solid organ, bone marrow or stem cell allograft". Within this definition 4 distinct categories exist, including: (1) Non-destructive PTLDs (plasmacytic hyperplasia, infectious mononucleosis, and florid follicular hyperplasia) (2) Polymorphic PTLD; (3) Monomorphic PTLD and (4) Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma type PTLD.

The incidence of PTLD varies between different transplanted organs. Across all transplants monomorphic PTLD is the most common accounting for 75% of all cases. Lymphoma derived of B- cell origin account for the majority of cases (70%), while T-cell neoplasms represent a small minority (5%). Within monomorphic PTLD 50% of cases demonstrate association with the Epstein Barr Virus (EBV). Polymorphic PTLD accounts for 15-20% of all PTLD cases with the majority demonstrating EBV involvement. Early lesions account for 5% of PTLD and are all uniformly associated with EBV as are all the cases of Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma type PTLD.

The current understanding of the pathogenesis of PTLD is incomplete. Despite concerted efforts, the investigators are unable to predict who will develop PTLD and do not understand why only 1 - 2% of all transplant recipients develop these disorders.