A New Tool for Assessing Fatigue in Individuals With Advanced Cancer
Fatigue is a common problem in advanced cancer and palliative care. The development of tools to measure fatigue, however, has been slowed by their inability to distinguish between fatigue and other related symptoms, such as tiredness. Our work suggests that these distinctions are important because they serve as markers for stressors associated with advancing disease. We have developed a tool that we believe will distinguish between these two states as well as exhaustion. In this study we will conduct some initial tests of this tool in preparation for its use as an outcome indicator in future studies.
Neoplasms
OTHER: ACI instrument
ACI score, Adaptive Capacity Index Score, day 1
Based on a series of qualitative studies, our group is developing a new rapid fatigue assessment screening tool (rFAST) for use with individuals who have advanced cancer and are receiving care in either an active treatment or palliative setting.

Hypotheses:

1. The three tools (tiredness, fatigue, and exhaustion) in the rFAST are each defined by the same six dimensions: decline in stamina, decline in cognition, decline in sleep quality, diminished social network, and increased emotional reactivity
2. The five subscales of the tiredness, fatigue, and exhaustion scales are internally consistent.
3. Tiredness, fatigue, and exhaustion are distinct states that are manifested by unique patterns of scores on their 6 subscales
4. The mean POMS-Vsf scores of individuals who meet the definition of fatigue will be lower than the mean POMS-Vsf scores of individuals who meet the definition of tiredness and higher than the mean POMS-Vsf scores of individuals who meet the definition of exhaustion.

Objectives

1. To examine the factor structure of the tiredness, fatigue, and exhaustion scales of the rFAST.
2. To examine the internal consistency of the 5 subscales within the tired, fatigue, and exhaustion scales.
3. To compare actual rFAST scale scores to hypothesized scale profiles for tiredness, fatigue, and exhaustion.