Chemotherapy, Radiation Therapy, and Umbilical Cord Blood Transplantation in Treating Patients With Hematologic Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage cancer cells. Umbilical cord blood transplantation may allow doctors to give higher doses of chemotherapy or radiation therapy and kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and umbilical cord blood transplantation in treating patients with hematologic cancer.
Graft Versus Host Disease|Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
BIOLOGICAL: anti-thymocyte globulin|BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: busulfan|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: methylprednisolone|PROCEDURE: bone marrow ablation with stem cell support|PROCEDURE: umbilical cord blood transplantation|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Overall Response Rate, Continuous complete remission (for patients in complete remission before treatment) or induced complete remission (for patients not in complete remission before treatment), day +100 after Cord Blood Transplant
Progression-free Survival, time to disease progression or death due to any cause, 1 year
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety, efficacy, and toxicity of using cord blood as a source for stem cell transplantation in patients with hematologic malignancies.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo autologous bone marrow harvesting or peripheral stem cell collection prior to transplant regimen, unless the patient has acute leukemia in relapse, aplastic anemia, or myelodysplastic syndrome. Arm I: Patients eligible to undergo total body irradiation (TBI) first receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -5 and -4, then undergo TBI twice a day on days -3 to -1. Patients also receive antithymocyte globulin (ATG) IV over 10 hours on days -3 to -1. Cord blood is infused on day 0. Arm II: Patients not eligible to receive TBI receive oral busulfan every 6 hours on days -7 to -4 for a total of 16 doses. Cyclophosphamide, ATG, and cord blood are then administered as in arm I. All patients receive cyclosporine on days -2 to 180, methylprednisolone on days 5-180, and filgrastim (G-CSF) from day 1. Patients are followed weekly until day 180 and then monthly for 2 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients (10 patients per arm) will be accrued for this study within 4 years.