Partially Blind Study to Evaluate Immunogenicity & Safety of GSK Bio's HPV Vaccine 580299 in Healthy Women Aged 9-25 Yrs
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) infection has been established as a necessary cause of cervical cancer. GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals has developed an HPV vaccine (580299) which targets the 2 most common oncogenic HPV types (HPV-16 and HPV-18), found in approximately 70% of all cervical cancers. In previous trials this vaccine has been found to be efficacious in the prevention of incident and persistent HPV-16/18 infections and associated cytological abnormalities and cervical dysplasia. In this partially-blind study, GSK Biologicals will evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the HPV vaccine using an alternative schedule and an alternative dosing when administered in healthy young females aged 9 to 25 years, as compared to the standard HPV vaccine. The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007. The protocol posting has been updated following a protocol amendment.
Infections, Papillomavirus
BIOLOGICAL: Cervarix|DRUG: Placebo
Titers of Anti-Papillomavirus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papillomavirus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed in Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per milliliter (EL.U/mL)., One month after vaccination with the last dose of the Cervarix vaccine (Cervarix 1/Placebo Group: Month 3; Other groups: Month 7).|Number of Subjects With Report of Any, and Grade 3 Solicited Local Symptoms, Assessed solicited local symptoms were pain, redness and swelling. Any = occurrence of the solicited local symptom irrespective of intensity grade. Grade 3 pain = pain that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 redness/swelling = redness/swelling larger than (\>) 50 millimeters (mm)., Within 7 days (Day 0-6) after vaccination.|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Solicited General Symptoms, Assessed solicited general symptoms were arthralgia, fatigue, fever (defined as axillary temperature equal or above (≥) 37.5 degrees Celsius (°C), gastrointestinal symptoms, which included nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and/or abdominal pain, headache, myalgia, rash and urticaria. Grade 3 symptoms = symptoms that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 fever = axillary temperature ≥ 39 °C. Grade 3 urticaria = urticaria distributed on at least 4 body areas. Related symptom = symptom assessed by the investigator to be causally related to vaccination., Within 7 days (Day 0-6) after vaccination.
Titers of Anti-Papillomavirus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papillomavirus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies ., Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed in Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per milliliter (EL.U/mL). The analysis was performed on the subjects who were administered a 2-dose vaccination schedule., At Month 3, 1 month after the second dose of vaccine or placebo|Titers of Anti-Papillomavirus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papillomavirus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed in Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per milliliter (EL.U/mL). Groups were stratified into 3 age strata: 9-14, 15-19 and 20-25 years of age at the time of first vaccination. The 15-19 years age stratum in the group receiving the Cervarix vaccine on a 3-dose vaccination schedule was considered an active comparator., At Month 7, 1 month after the last dose of vaccine or placebo.|Titers of Anti-Papillomavirus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papillomavirus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed in Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per milliliter (EL.U/mL)., At Month 12, at Month 18, at Month 24, at Month 36, and at Month 48 during the safety follow-up phase.|Titers of Anti-Papillomavirus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papillomavirus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed in Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per milliliter (EL.U/mL)., At Month 7, 1 month after the last dose of vaccine or placebo.|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents BAS results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range.This outcome presents CREA results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents EOS results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents Hct results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents ALT results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents LYM results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents MON results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents NEU results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents RBC results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents WBC results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Clinically Relevant Abnormalities in Biochemical and Haematological Laboratory Parameters Assessed., Assessed parameters were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), basophils (BAS), creatinine (CREA), eosinophils (EOS), haematocritis (Hct), lymphocytes (LYM), monocytes (MON), neutrophils (NEU), platelets (PLA), red blood cells (RBC) and white blood cells (WBC). Subjects were categorized according to their results at pre-vaccination at Month 0 (PRE) which were normal, above normal or below the normal range. Per parameter and range, it was assessed whether laboratory values of the subjects were normal, above normal or below the normal range. This outcome presents PLA results., At Month 7 (M7)|Number of Seroconverted Subjects Against Human Papillomavirus 16 (HPV-16) and Human Papillomavirus 18 (HPV-18), Seroconversion was defined as the appearance of antibodies (i.e.titers greater than or equal to (≥) cut-off value) in the serum of subjects seronegative before vaccination. Assay cut-off was defined as ≥ 8 ELISA units per milliliter (EL.U/mL) for HPV-16, and 7 EL.U/mL for HPV-18. Seronegative subjects are subjects who had an antibody concentration below cut-off value. Cut-off values were 8 EL.U/mL for antibody concentrations against HPV-16, and 7 EL.U/mL for antibody concentrations against HPV-18., At Month 12, at Month 18, at Month 24, at Month 36, and at Month 48 during the safety follow-up phase.|Titers of Anti-Papillomavirus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papillomavirus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed in Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per milliliter (EL.U/mL). The assay cut-off for Month 60 was defined as ≥ 19 ELISA units per milliliter (EL.U/mL)., At Month 60 of the safety follow-up phase|Number of Seroconverted Subjects Against Human Papillomavirus 16 (HPV-16) and Human Papillomavirus 18 (HPV-18), Seroconversion was defined as the appearance of antibodies (i.e. titers greater than or equal to (≥) cut-off value) in the serum of subjects seronegative before vaccination. Assay cut-off was defined as ≥ 19 ELISA units per milliliter (EL.U/mL). Seronegative subjects are subjects who had an antibody concentration below cut-off value., At Month 60 of the safety follow-up phase|Number of Subjects With Pregnancy Outcomes., Pregnancy outcomes were ectopic pregnancy, elective termination with no apparent congenital anomaly (ACA), elective termination with congenital anomaly (CA), lost to follow up, pregnancy ongoing, spontaneous abortion with no ACA and live infant with no ACA., From Month 0 to Month 48.|Number of Subjects With Pregnancy Outcomes., Pregnancy outcomes were ectopic pregnancy, elective termination with no apparent congenital anomaly (ACA), elective termination with congenital anomaly (CA), lost to follow up, pregnancy ongoing, spontaneous abortion with no ACA and live infant with no ACA., Throughout the study period, from Month 0 to Month 60.|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs)., An unsolicited adverse event (AE) is any adverse event (i.e. any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject, temporally associated with use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product) reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study and any solicited symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms. Grade 3 = an event that prevented normal activity. Related = an event assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination., Within 30 days (Day 0-29) after vaccination.|Number of Subjects With Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs)., MSCs were defined as: AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that were not (1) related to common diseases or (2) routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or SAEs that were not related to common diseases. The following did not require reporting as long as they were not considered SAEs and occurred more than 30 days after each vaccination: upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervicovaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities, injury, visits for routine physical examination or visits for vaccination., From Month 0 to Month 7.|Number of Subjects With Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs)., MSCs were defined as: AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that were not (1) related to common diseases or (2) routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or SAEs that were not related to common diseases. The following did not require reporting as long as they were not considered SAEs and occurred more than 30 days after each vaccination: upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervicovaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities, injury, visits for routine physical examination or visits for vaccination., From Month 0 to Month 48.|Number of Subjects With Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs)., MSCs were defined as: AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that were not (1) related to common diseases or (2) routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or SAEs that were not related to common diseases. The following did not require reporting as long as they were not considered SAEs and occurred more than 30 days after each vaccination: upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervicovaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities, injury, visits for routine physical examination or visits for vaccination., Throughout the study period, from Month 0 to Month 60.|Number of Subjects With New Onset of Autoimmune Diseases (NOADs), NOADs include conditions such as autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, or allergies., From Month 0 to Month 7.|Number of Subjects With New Onset of Autoimune Diseases (NOADs), NOADs include conditions such as autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, or allergies., From Month 0 to Month 48.|Number of Subjects With New Onset of Autoimmune Diseases (NOADs), NOADs include conditions such as autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, or allergies., Throughout the study period, from Month 0 to Month 60.|Number of Subjects With New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs), NOCDs include conditions such as autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, or allergies., From Month 0 to Month 7.|Number of Subjects With New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs), NOCDs include conditions such as autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, or allergies., From Month 0 to Month 48.|Number of Subjects With New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs), NOCDs include conditions such as autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, or allergies., Throughout the study period, from Month 0 to Month 60.|Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)., SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity, or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject., From Month 0 to Month 7.|Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)., SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject., From Month 0 to Month 48.|Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject., Throughout the study period, from Month 0 to Month 60.
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) infection has been established as a necessary cause of cervical cancer. GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals has developed an HPV vaccine (580299) which targets the 2 most common oncogenic HPV types (HPV-16 and HPV-18), found in approximately 70% of all cervical cancers. In previous trials this vaccine has been found to be efficacious in the prevention of incident and persistent HPV-16/18 infections and associated cytological abnormalities and cervical dysplasia. In this partially-blind study, GSK Biologicals will evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the HPV vaccine using an alternative schedule and an alternative dosing when administered in healthy young females aged 9 to 25 years, as compared to the standard HPV vaccine. The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007. The protocol posting has been updated following a protocol amendment.