A Study Combining the Peposertib (M3814) Pill With Standard Chemotherapy in Patients With Ovarian Cancer With an Expansion in High Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer and Low Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of peposertib when given together with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride in treating patients with high or low grade ovarian cancer that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent). Peposertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving peposertib and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride may work better in treating patients with ovarian cancer compared to pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride alone.
Endometrial High Grade Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Carcinosarcoma|Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|FIGO Grade 1 Endometrial Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|FIGO Grade 2 Endometrial Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Platinum-Sensitive Ovarian Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Carcinosarcoma|Primary Peritoneal High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Low Grade Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinosarcoma|Recurrent Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Low Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Low Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Peposertib
Incidence of adverse events, The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 will be utilized for adverse event reporting., Up to 3 years
Pharmacokinetics (PK) parameters of nedisertib, Individual PK parameters will be estimated for maximum of concentration, area under the curve, T1/2, apparent clearance/oral bioavailability, and apparent volume using non-compartmental methods. The PK variables will be tabulated and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) calculated for each dose level. Pharmacokinetic parameters will be reported descriptively for exploratory comparison with historical data. Samples from the expansion phase may also be analyzed for M3814 for the purpose of population-PK analyses., Up to 3 years
Tumor response, Tumor response will be defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 and refers to the best overall response occurring., Within the first 10 months of treatment|Duration of response, From response documentation until progression of disease, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., From the beginning of the treatment until the progression date, death date, or the last radiological assessment without progressive disease, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of peposertib (M3814) in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride (PLD) and determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination in women with recurrent ovarian cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of peposertib (M3814) when given in combination with PLD.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To correlate response to treatment (as defined by response rate and progression free survival) with PLD exposure (in area under the curve \[AUC\]) and PLD associated toxicities in women with recurrent high grade serous and low grade serous ovarian cancer treated in the expansion cohorts.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of peposertib followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive peposertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21, days 1-28, or days 1-7 (depending on dose level) and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during screening and every 8 weeks throughout the study and after 6 months of study treatment, every 12 weeks. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) during screening and every 6 months. Starting in cycle 13, patients undergo ECHO or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan every 2 cycles. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.