Elastography and Treatment of Lymphoma
To determine accuracy of elastography in assessment of superficial lymph nodes response to treatment in cases of lymphoma.
Elastography|Lymphoma
To determine accuracy of elastography in assessment of superficial lymph nodes response to treatment in cases of lymphoma., Sonoelastography is a new technique that depends on the elastic properties of soft tissues, with the idea of malignant lesions being stiffer than benign or normal tissue. It may have a dependable role in evaluation of therapeutic response in patients with lymphoma and can be used for follow up, the same way it has been used in different parts of the body, such as the breast, and thyroid. To the best of our knowledge, there are few studies concerning the role of elastography in the field of lymphoma disease., Average three years
Lymphomas are a heterogeneous group of malignancies that arise from the clonal proliferation of lymphocytes. It represents approximately 5% of malignancies. Overall survival is estimated to be 72%. (1)

Lymphomas are broadly classified into Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) (10%) and Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) (90%).

HL is further classified into classical and non-classical types and NHL into B-cell, T-cell and natural killer (NK) cell types. Diagnosis of lymphoma is confirmed by histopathology (FNAC, True-cut or excisional biopsy).(2) The standard treatment of lymphoma is chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

The modalities used for staging and follow up of lymphoma are:

* Computed Tomography (CT) chest, abdomen and pelvis.
* Positron Emission Tomography (PET/CT).
* Whole body Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).(3)

Sonoelastography is a new technique that depends on the elastic properties of soft tissues, with the idea of malignant lesions being stiffer than benign or normal tissue. It may have a dependable role in evaluation of therapeutic response in patients with lymphoma and can be used for follow up, the same way it has been used in different parts of the body, such as the breast, and thyroid. To the best of our knowledge, there are few studies concerning the role of elastography in the field of lymphoma disease.(4)