Patients' Preferences About Rescheduling Colonoscopies Delayed Due to COVID-19: Cross Sectional Study
The study is a cross-sectional survey study targeting patients aged 45-75 who had their screening or surveillance colonoscopy postponed or delayed due to the COVID pandemic. Study staff will survey a random subsample of patients to assess anxiety, COVID risk tolerance, cancer worry, willingness to screen and barriers to screening colonoscopy, and preference for colonoscopy and alternative colon cancer screening options.

Eligible patients will be sent a survey packet in the mail that will include a cover letter, an information sheet describing the study, an incentive, and the survey. The cover letter will include information for participants to opt-out if they desire. Patients will be asked to complete the survey and return it back to study staff. Consent is implied with return of the survey.

For the study, staff plan to invite 300 patients and expect to receive 195 completed surveys. Analyses will examine whether COVID-19 has changed patients' interest in colon cancer screening and the strength of patients' preferences for colonoscopy and other approaches to colon cancer screening. It will then examine factors associated with positive and negative views on rescheduling colonoscopies such as anxiety, worry, and risk perceptions.
Colon Cancer
Interest in colon cancer screening, Item with 5-point response assessing whether COVID-19 has increased, decreased or not changed interest in colon cancer screening, at start of study--between one week and 2 months after start of study
Preference for stool testing, Item with 5-point response (definitely want to definitely do not want) measuring interest in having a stool test for colon cancer, at start of study--between one week and 2 months after start of study|Preference for postponing colonoscopy for one year, Item with 5-point response (definitely want to definitely do not want) measuring interest in postponing colonoscopy for one year, at start of study--between one week and 2 months after start of study|Worry about delay, Item with 5 point response (extremely worried to not at all worried) assessing worry about the delay of the colonoscopy on their colon cancer risk, at start of study--between one week and 2 months after start of study|Risk perception on COVID-19, Item with 5-point response (very high to very low) assessing patients' perception about risk of getting COVID-19 from having a colonoscopy, at start of study--between one week and 2 months after start of study
The study is a cross-sectional survey study targeting patients aged 45-75 who had their screening or surveillance colonoscopy postponed or delayed due to the COVID pandemic. Staff will survey a random subsample of patients to assess anxiety, COVID risk tolerance, cancer worry, willingness to screen and barriers to screening colonoscopy, and preference for colonoscopy and alternative colon cancer screening options.

Study staff will work with the gastroenterology department to identify patients whose colonoscopy has been delayed due to COVID-19 and who meet the eligibility criteria. A random sample of about 300 eligible patients will be selected for the survey study.

Eligible patients will be sent a survey packet in the mail that will include a cover letter, an information sheet describing the study, an incentive, and the survey. The cover letter will include information for participants to opt-out if they desire. Patients will be asked to complete the survey and return it back to study staff. Patients will also be able to complete the survey online via a RedCap link. Consent is implied with return of the completed survey. Staff will make up to three reminder phone calls and will send a reminder packet to non responders.

The study staff will invite 300 patients and expect to receive about 195 completed surveys.

Analyses will first examine whether there are differences between responders and non responders. Then, the analysis will examine descriptive statistics exploring patients' interest in colon cancer screening, strength of preference for switching to stool based testing or postponing colonoscopy for a year. The analyses will explore patients' perspective towards colonoscopy in the coming months and factors associated with positive or negative perceptions of colonoscopy such as anxiety, cancer worry, COVID worry and risk perceptions. The relationships between these factors will be examined using chi-square analysis (for categorical data) and correlations (for continuous data). Models will be used to explore factors associated with different preferences for screening.