mFOLFOXIRI+Bev vs. mFOLFOX6+Bev for RAS Mutant Unresectable Colorectal Liver-limited Metastases
Colorectal cancer patients with initially unresectable liver-only metastases may be cured after downsizing of metastases by conversion therapy. However, the optimal regimen of conversion therapy for RAS mutant patients has not been defined.

In this study colorectal cancer patients with initially unresectable liver-only metastases, as prospectively confirmed by a local multidisciplinary team (MDT) according to predefined criteria, will be tested for RAS and BRAF tumor mutation status. Patients with RAS mutant and BRAF wild type will be randomised between modified FOLFOXIRI (mFOLFOXIRI) plus bevacizumab and modified FOLFOX6 (mFOLFOX6) plus bevacizumab. Patient imaging will be reviewed for resectability by MDT, consisting of at least one radiologist and three liver surgeons every assessment. MDT review will be performed prior to randomization as well as during treatment, as described in the protocol.
Colorectal Carcinoma|Liver Metastases
DRUG: mFOLFOXIRI regimen|DRUG: mFOLFOX regimen|DRUG: Bevacizumab
conversion resection rate, R0 resection rate upon conversion treatment with chemotherapy plus bevacizumab, up to 6 months
Overall survival (OS), from the first day of assigned treatment to death or last known to be alive, up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), from the first day of assigned treatment to progression or death whichever comes first, up to 2 years|Toxicity (AE), Patients will be evaluated for Adverse Events at the start of each treatment cycle according to CTCAE version 5.0, up to 6 months|postoperative complication, Patients will be evaluated for surgical morbidity during 1 month. Postoperative morbidity will be scored according 'Clavien-Dindo Grade'., After surgery during one month|overall response, Response according to RECIST 1.1, up to 6 months|proportion of no evidence of disease, Response according to RECIST 1.1, up to 6 months|Best deepness of response, The maximum tumor shrinkage rates by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) throughout the treatments, up to 6 months|Early tumor shrinkage, The rates of tumor shrinkage by RECIST at 8 weeks, at 8 weeks
Patients will be stratified for primary tumor location (right-sided or left sided), numbers of liver metastases (\<5 or ≥5) and primary tumor resected or unresected.

Patients with RAS mutated primary tumors will be randomized between mFOLFOXIRI plus bevacizumab (Bevacizumab 5 mg/kg in 15-30 minutes i.v., followed by irinotecan 165 mg/m\^2 i.v. in 60 minutes, followed by oxaliplatin 85 mg/m\^2 i.v. together with leucovorin 400 mg/m\^2 i.v. in 120 minutes, followed by continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil 2400 mg/m\^2 in 46 hours, every 2 weeks) or mFOLFOX6 plus bevacizumab (Bevacizumab 5 mg/kg in 15-30 minutes i.v., followed by oxaliplatin 85 mg/m\^2 i.v. together with leucovorin 400 mg/m\^2 i.v. in 120 minutes, followed by bolus 5FU 400 mg/m\^2, all on day 1, followed by continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil 2400 mg/m\^2 in 46 hours, every 2 weeks).

Patients will be evaluated every 8 weeks by MRI or CT scan for disease status. The assigned systemic treatment should be continued for at least 6 months or earlier in case of resectability, progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity, or patient refusal. If after 6 months MDT concludes that the patient is still not resectable, it is highly unlikely that resectability will be achieved at all. Therefore the chemotherapy regimen may be reconsidered after 6 months of treatment. These patients will continue with bevacizumab plus fluoropyrimidine until progression or unacceptable toxicity.

In patients who will become resectable and undergo secondary surgery of liver metastases, the total duration of preoperative and postoperative treatment together should be 6 months. However, in these patients mFOLFOXIRI should not be continued after surgery and replaced by mFOLFOX6. Bevacizumab will continued after surgery for both groups.