Guided Imagery & Music in Cancer
This is an RCT pilot study to explore the potential effects of the Guided Imagery \& Music method for women with breast or gynecologic cancer, during active treatment. The study explores the potential impact in quality of life parameters such as mood, fatigue, and hope.
Cancer, Breast|Cancer, Metastatic|Cancer Ovaries|Cancer Uterus Cervix
BEHAVIORAL: the Guided Imagery and Music method|BEHAVIORAL: standard care and verbal counselling
Profiles of Mood States (POMS) Brief version (adapted), Brief version adapted in Greek. A 30-item scale designed to assess six different moods namely tension, anger, vigor, fatigue, depression, confusion. It requires to indicate mood state over the last week, with a single word, each item ranging from 0(not at all) to 4 (extremely). The questionnaire is a sum of its 6 sub scales (each addressing the aforementioned moods), with a total score from 0 to 120. Lower scores indicate better mood states., Baseline and up to 12 weeks (post-intervention)
Herth Hope Index, A 12-item Likert-format instrument assessing current levels of hope from 1(strongly disagree) to 4 (strongly agree). It consists of three sub scales, examining interconnectedness, temporality and spirituality, and positiveness or expectancy. A higher score of the sum or the 3 sub scales indicates a higher hope level with scores ranging from 12 to 48., Baseline and up to 12 weeks (post-intervention)|Cancer-related Fatigue Scale (CFS), An instrument consisting of 15 items that assess physical, affective, and cognitive dimensions of fatigue at present moment, with Likert scales ranging from 1 to 5. the physical sub scale consists of 7 items, the affective sub scale consists of 4 items, and the cognitive sub scale consists of 3 items and the total of all 3 sub scales indicate that greater scores correspond to greater fatigue levels., Baseline and up to 12 weeks (post-intervention)|Visual Analogue Scale for Hope (VAS-H), VAS is a single, frequent measurement to address the current levels of hope. Its s based on a 100cm horizontal line from 1cm (hopeless) to 100cm (hopeful), obtained 6 times throughout the completion of intervention (up to 12 weeks)|Visual Analogue Scale for Fatigue (VAS-F), VAS is a single, frequent measurement to address the current levels of fatigue., Obtained 6 times throughout the completion of intervention (up to 12 weeks)
Guided Imagery and Music is a music-assisted psychotherapy method which has been used as a complementary, supportive psychosocial therapy in cancer care. However, its effects have never been explored during the period of active chemotherapy or radiotherapy treatment in various cancer populations, and especially gynecologic and breast cancer. This pilot study is an effort to explore the feasibility of the method to increase quality of life in this population by possibly reducing side-effects of treatment such as fatigue, improving mood, and building resilience as expressed through levels of hope.