Quality of Life Among Testicular Cancer Survivors
Testicular Cancer is the most prevalent malignancy among men between 20 and 34 years of age, with incidence rates rising in western countries including Israel. Cure rate of testicular cancer exceeds 90% with modern treatments. Thus issues such as quality of life (QoL), coping, effects on couple relationships, cognitive function, cognitive orientation and hormonal function become increasingly important. This study aims to assess all these issues using validated, reproducible questionnaires and hormonal plasma levels, and compare them between testicular cancer survivors and controls.
Testicular Neoplasms|Spermatic Cord Torsion|Varicocele|Testicular Hydrocele
OTHER: Questionnaires|OTHER: Hormonal Function measurement
Quality of life (QLQ), as measured by the QLQ-TC26 (Testicular Cancer 26 items) questionnaire., 2-10 years from diagnosis
Hormonal function, as measured by follicular stimulating hormone (FSH) & free androgen index, 2-10 years from diagnosis|cognitive orientation score, 2-10 years from diagnosis|multidimensional coping score, 2-10 years from diagnosis|cognitive function as measured by the meaning test, 2-10 years from diagnosis|Partner's Quality of life, as measured by the multidimensional inventory of QOL for adults questionnaire, 2-10 years from diagnosis|Partner's Coping mechanism score, as measured by the Multidimensional Coping Inventory, 2-10 years from diagnosis
The study will be conducted in RMC, Beilinson and Golda. Eligible male patient list will be drawn from the Rabin Medical Center (RMC) operation rooms' data system.

Patients will be contacted by their treating urologists over the phone or during follow-up visits and invited to take part in the research which will be conducted at RMC. The first stage of the study will include a validation of the EORTC QLQ-TC26 questionnaire in Hebrew.

Patients and partners / spouses will sign informed-consent forms and fill out questionnaires during their visit, and blood samples will be drawn on the day of questionnaire completion or no longer than 1 month from it. Spouses will be given the choice of arriving with the patient and filling-in their questionnaires at RMC, or having them mailed to their homes. Research assistants will provide assistance with the questionnaires.

Normal controls will be recruited among Tel Aviv University students, 'Achva' College students and RMS staff and asked to come to RMC for blood tests. Control subjects will be asked to answer the same cancer-related questionnaires as the patients, as fully as possible, unless the questions are irrelevant to them.

The anticipated recruitment period will be approximately 36 months. Financial incentives: a compensation of 150 NIS will be offered to healthy participants coming to RMC for blood tests under this study.

Duration of research participation: 1 or 2 encounters (the second for missing data or missing blood samples, and in the first 30 patients - for TC26 questionnaire re-validation by the EORTC requirements), during no longer than 1 month for each participant.

Measurements will be compared across the patient and 2 control groups and their correlation to hormonal function assessed.