Basiliximab #2: In-Vivo Activated T-Cell Depletion to Prevent Graft-Versus_Host Disease (GVHD) After Nonmyeloablative Allotransplantation for the Treatment of Blood Cancer
The purpose of this study is to compare the effects (good and bad) of the medication basiliximab in combination with cyclosporine (investigational therapy) for the prevention of a complication of bone marrow transplantation known as graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). GVHD is a complication in which the cells of the transplanted bone marrow react against organs and tissues.
Acute Myelogenous Leukemia|Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplasia|Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Hodgkin's Disease|Multiple Myeloma|Myelofibrosis|Anemia, Aplastic|Hemoglobinuria, Paroxysmal
DRUG: Basiliximab
Grade 3-4 Acute GVHD Rate, The percent of patients where a patient experienced a Grade 3 or 4 acute GVHD, Transplant (Day 0) up to 1 year
Time to Neutrophil Engraftment, Time to neutrophil engraftment will be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. The time to engraftment of neutrophils is defined as the time from day 0 to the date of the first of three consecutive days after transplantation during which the absolute neutrophils count (ANC) is at least 0.5 x109/l. Patients who did not have neutrophil engraftment before death will be censored at the date of death. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Transplant (Day 0) up to 1 year|Time to Platelet Engraftment, Time to platelet engraftment will be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. The time to engraftment of platelets is defined as the time from day 0 to the first of seven consecutive days after transplantation during which the platelet count is at least 20 x109/l without transfusion support. Patients who did not have platelet engraftment before death will be censored at the date of death. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Transplant (Day 0) up to 1 year
This study is for patients with a blood condition or myelodysplasia (bone marrow disease) which has either not responded to treatment or is not treatable by conventional/routine medical treatments. Bone marrow transplantation is a medical treatment that involves giving high doses of chemotherapy followed by the transplantation of the blood-forming and immune cells from a relative or from a "matched" unrelated person through the National Marrow Donor Program, in an attempt to cure disease in the recipient (the person receiving the donated cells). Nonmyeloablative (bone-marrow preservation) bone marrow transplantation is a relatively new technique in which lower than usual doses of chemotherapy are given before transplantation, in hopes of reducing adverse side effects of the chemotherapy in transplant patients. Nonmyeloablative bone marrow transplantation has several advantages which doctors have determined are beneficial for this condition.

This research is being done because the complication of graft-versus-host disease can be bad for a person and there is no completely safe and effective way to prevent this complication. We know that cyclosporine helps but would like to know if the addition of basiliximab, given with cyclosporine, will decrease the incidence and/or severity of graft-versus-host disease after a transplant known as nonmyeloablative or "mini" transplant.