Early Phase Study of Kesonotide in Participants With Solid Tumours
This clinical trial is an adaptive study of a novel vimentin inhibitor in cancers.

It is an open label, multicentre, single ascending dose level in phase I and cohort exploration in phase II.

Primary objective is to evaluate safety and tolerability of kesonotide as a monotherapy in participants with advanced/metastatic solid cancers.

Secondary objective is to characterise the pharmacokinetics of kesonotide. Phase I study will enrol 20-32 participants and Phase II approximately 80 participants.
Prostate Cancers|Breast Cancer|Lung Cancers|Ovarian Cancer|Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM)|Pancreas Cancer|Skin Cancer
DRUG: A novel hGIIA-Vimentin Inhibitor|DRUG: Dose expansion
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of kesonotide as a monotherapy in participants with advanced/metastatic solid cancers., Incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs), Cycle 1 (21 days)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of kesonotide as a monotherapy in participants with advanced/metastatic solid cancers., Treatment emergent adverse effects (TEAEs), Cycle 1 (21 days)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of kesonotide as a monotherapy in participants with advanced/metastatic solid cancers., Incidence and nature of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs)., Cycle 1 (21 days)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of kesonotide as a monotherapy in participants with advanced/metastatic solid cancers., Changes in vital sign measurements (Hear rate in beats per minute, blood pressure in systolic and diastolic mm Hg), Cycle 1 (21 days)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of kesonotide as a monotherapy in participants with advanced/metastatic solid cancers., Clinical safety laboratory parameters (abnormal haematology, clinical chemistry and coagulation blood tests; pregnancy test, as per CTCAE v5.0 classification, Cycle 1 (21 days)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of kesonotide as a monotherapy in participants with advanced/metastatic solid cancers., Electrocardiogram (ECG) parameters (Heart Rate, PR Interval, P wave, QRS Complex, T wave, ST Segment, QT Interval), Cycle 1 (21 days)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of kesonotide as a monotherapy in participants with advanced/metastatic solid cancers., Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status findings., Cycle 1 (21 days)
This clinical trial is an adaptive phase I/II study of kesonotide, a novel hGIIA-vimentin inhibitor in participants with solid tumours.

This is a multicentre, open-label Phase I/II clinical trial. Phase I part of the study is a classic 3+3 dose escalation to identify the Maximum Tolerated Dose, Recommended Phase 2 Dose and Optimal Biological Dose.

In the Phase II study, participants will be given one of the two recommended dose levels. This may be as monotherapy or in combination with standard of care.

The study treatment will be a 21-day treatment Cycle (once every 3 weeks) and kesonotide will be orally administered. Study treatment will continue until disease progression, loss of clinical benefit, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up or another discontinuation criterion.

This trial will utilise an adaptive design which permits treatment arm modification or early stopping for efficacy or futility.