Effect of an Acute Bout of Exercise on Smoking Satisfaction
Female and male smokers will complete questionnaires and smoking behavior will be examined. After abstaining from smoking for approximately 18 hours, they will be randomized to a moderate intensity exercise groups or passive sitting group. Smoking satisfaction and smoking behavior will be assessed following treatment.

The hypotheses detailed below are specific to the randomization of participants into the following 2 groups:

1. Moderate exercise (Experimental condition; MEG)
2. Passive sitting (Attention control condition; PSG)

Hypothesis 1: A bout of moderate intensity exercise will be associated with decreased smoking satisfaction after a temporary period of abstinence compared to a control condition.

Hypothesis 2: Smoking topographic measures will mediate the relationship between a bout of moderate intensity exercise and smoking satisfaction.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Moderate Exercise Group|BEHAVIORAL: Passive Sitting Group
Smoking satisfaction, Smoking satisfaction will be assessed using the 12-item modified version of the Cigarette Evaluation Questionnaire (mCEQ; Cappelleri, Bushmakin, Baker, Merikle, Olufade \& Gilbert, 2007)., One week
Smoking topography, Smoking topography will be assessed using the Clinical Research Support System (CReSS) Pocket, a computer-based, battery-powered, hand-held unit by Plowshare Technologies. The CReSS Pocket has an orifice flow meter mouthpiece, and a pressure drop related to the flow rate that is produced when a puff is taken. From the flow rate, the CReSS derives puff count (number of puffs per cigarette), puff volume (the volume of carbon monoxide taken in during each puff), puff duration (length of time for each puff), inter-puff interval (amount of time between puffs), and time to first puff., One week
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Canadians (Canadian Cancer Society (CCS), 2010). Cigarette smoking is responsible for 85% of these cases (CCS, 2007). Exercise has been shown to be an effective adjunct to pharmacological cessation strategies (Ussher, Taylor, \& Faulkner, 2008). A recent systematic review concluded that a single bout of low to moderate intensity exercise can help regulate cravings, withdrawal symptoms and negative affect associated with quitting (Taylor, Ussher, \& Faulkner, 2007).

Smoking satisfaction is an immediately reinforcing effect of nicotine. Smoking satisfaction may outweigh the temporally distant adverse health risks of smoking (Cappelleri, Bushmakin, Baker, Merikle, Olufade, \& Gilbert, 2007). Varenicline, an alpha 4-beta-2 nAChR partial agonist, mimics the effect of nicotine by reducing cravings and withdrawal symptoms (Coe et al., 2005). A 12-week treatment period of varenicline has been shown to reduce smoking satisfaction (Jorenby et al., 2006). However, the effect of acute exercise on smoking satisfaction is not yet known.

Smoking topography is a key facet of smoking behaviour. Smoking behaviour can be subjectively or objectively measured by quantifying puff volume, maximum puff velocity, inter-puff interval, puff duration, number of puffs per cigarette and time to smoke a single cigarette. Smoking topography can estimate exposure to carcinogenic toxins present in cigarette smoking (Djordjevic, Hoffman, \& Hoffman, 1997). Evidence exists to support that exercise modifies smoking topography (Katomeri \& Taylor 2006; Mikhail, 1983; Reeser, 1983; Zacny \& Stitzer, 1985).