Efficacy of Acupuncture in Radiotherapy-induced Dysphagia in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer
Purpose:

Rationale: Acupuncture is a therapy for physical activity disorders secondary to nervous diseases, and it may have therapeutic effects on dysphagia caused by radiation therapy.

Purpose: This randomized trial aims to investigate whether acupuncture may alleviate radiation-induced dysphagia in patients with head and neck cancer. The effect was compared with outcomes in patients without receiving acupuncture.
Acupuncture
PROCEDURE: acupuncture
The change of Videofluoroscopic Dysphagia Scale (VDS) from baseline to week 4., The change of Videofluoroscopic Dysphagia Scale (VDS) from baseline to week 4. VDS, according to result of Video Fluoroscopy Swallowing Study (VFSS), used as an objective and quantifiable predictor of recovery of the swallowing function. A videofluoroscopic dysphagia scale (VDS) with a sum of 100 was made according to the odds ratios of prognostic factors. The validity of the scale was evaluated by using a receiver operating characteristic curve. The VDS was compiled using the following 14 items: lip closure, bolus formation, mastication, apraxia, tongue-to-palate contact, premature bolus loss, oral transit time, triggering of pharyngeal swallow, vallecular residue, laryngeal elevation, pyriform sinus residue, coating of pharyngeal wall, pharyngeal transit time, and aspiration. At a scale cutoff value of 47. The higher the VDS score, the worse the swallowing function., Assessed at baseline and week 4 during acupuncture treatment.
The change of Videofluoroscopic Dysphagia Scale (VDS) from baseline to week 16., The change of Videofluoroscopic Dysphagia Scale (VDS) from baseline to week 16. VDS, according to result of Video Fluoroscopy Swallowing Study (VFSS), used as an objective and quantifiable predictor of recovery of the swallowing function. A videofluoroscopic dysphagia scale (VDS) with a sum of 100 was made according to the odds ratios of prognostic factors. The validity of the scale was evaluated by using a receiver operating characteristic curve. The VDS was compiled using the following 14 items: lip closure, bolus formation, mastication, apraxia, tongue-to-palate contact, premature bolus loss, oral transit time, triggering of pharyngeal swallow, vallecular residue, laryngeal elevation, pyriform sinus residue, coating of pharyngeal wall, pharyngeal transit time, and aspiration. At a scale cutoff value of 47. The higher the VDS score, the worse the swallowing function., Assessed at baseline and 12 weeks post acupuncture treatment.|The change of rosenbek Penetration-Aspiration Scale scores, opening of upper esophageal sphincter(UES) and excursion of hyoid bone from baseline to week 4 and week 16., The rosenbek Penetration-Aspiration Scale(PAS) scores, opening of upper esophageal sphincter(UES) and excursion of hyoid bone will be assessed according to the VFSS to objectively evaluate the swallowing function. Penetration deﬁned as passage of the bolus content into the laryngeal vestibule above the vocal cords. When food crossed the vocal cords and entered the airways, it was considered aspiration. Records were taken of the moment aspiration occurred (before onset of pharyngeal swallow, during pharyngeal contraction, or after swallowing). Consideration was also given to the appearance or not of cough during aspiration. Silent aspiration was deﬁned as the entry of food below the level of the true vocal cords, without cough or any outward sign of difﬁculty. The PAS score with a total of 8, and \>2 is considered to be abnormal. The higher the PAS score, the worse the swallowing function., Assessed at baseline, week 4 during acupuncture treatment and 12 weeks post acupuncture treatment.|The incidence of aspiration pneumonia change from baseline to week 4 and week 16., The incidence of aspiration pneumonia change from baseline to week 4 and week 16., Assessed at baseline, week 4 during acupuncture treatment and 12 weeks post acupuncture treatment.|The change of nutritional status from baseline to week 4 and week 16., The change of nutritional status from baseline to week 4 and week 16. The nutritioanl status include the weight, BMI, albumin., Assessed at baseline, week 4 during acupuncture treatment and 12 weeks post acupuncture treatment.|The percentage of necessary of nasogastric feeding and gastrostomy from baseline to week 16., The percentage of necessary of nasogastric feeding and gastrostomy from baseline to week 16., Assessed at baseline and 12 weeks post acupuncture treatment.|The change of Quality of Life (QOL) scores from baseline to week 4 and week 16., The change of Quality of Life (QOL) scores from baseline to week 4 and week 16. The WHOQOL-BREF instrument comprises 26 items, which measures the following broad domains: physical health, psychological health, social relationships, and environment. The WHOQOL-BREF (Field Trial Version) produces a quality of life profile. It is possible to derive four domain scores. The four domain scores denote an individual's perception of quality of life in each particular domain. Domain scores are scaled in a positive direction (i.e. higher scores denote higher quality of life). The mean score of items within each domain is used to calculate the domain score. Mean scores are then multiplied by 4 in order to make domain scores comparable with the scores used in the WHOQOL-100., Assessed at baseline, week 4 during acupuncture treatment and 12 weeks post acupuncture treatment.
OBJECTIVE

Primary:

To determine the therapeutic efficacy of acupuncture on radiotherapy-induced dysphagia in patients with head and neck cancer.

Secondary:

1. To determine whether acupuncture can improve swallow function in these patients.
2. To determine what extent acupuncture can improve the complications of dysphagia of these patients, including the incidence of aspiration pneumonia, malnutrition.
3. To determine what extent this traditional Chinese therapy can improve quality of life of these patients.
4. To evaluate the safety of acupuncture in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive acupuncture for 30 minutes per day for up to 20 sessions (over 4 weeks). These patients also received corticosteroid for 4 weeks, methylprednisolone 80mg ivdrip. for 3 days, 60mg ivdrip. for 3 days, 40mg ivdrip. for 3 days, 30mg po. for 7 days, 20mg po. for 7 days, 10mg po. for 5 days and maintain. Patients undergo VFSS before, at end of therapy (week 4) and 3 months (week 16) after therapy. Swallowing function, outcomes of dysphagia, including incidence of aspiration pneumonia, nutritional status change, and QOL change are assessed at baseline, week 4 and week 16.

Arm Ⅱ: Patients receive corticosteroid only, and the use of corticosteroid is the same with Arm I. Patients undergo VFSS before, at end of therapy (week 4) and 3 months (week 16) after therapy. Swallowing function, outcomes of dysphagia, including incidence of aspiration pneumonia, nutritional status change, and QOL change are assessed at baseline, week 4 and week 16.