A Study of LY2606368 (Prexasertib) in Patients With Solid Tumors With Replicative Stress or Homologous Repair Deficiency
This research study is studying a checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK1) inhibitor as a possible treatment for advanced solid tumors that harbor genetic alterations in the homologous repair (HR) pathway, genetic alterations that indicate replication stress, or with CCNE1 amplification.
Advanced Cancers
DRUG: LY2606368
Progression-Free Rate at 4 Month, Progression-Free Rate defines as the percentage of participants progression-free at 4 months in all arms, by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Progression-free rate will be estimated as binomial proportion and overall survival and progression-free survival estimates and curves will be generated using the Kaplan-Meier method., at 4 month
Incidence of Grade 4 Treatment-Related Toxicity, All grade 4 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEvE as reported on case report forms were counted. Incidence is the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 4 AE of any type during the time of observation., Assessed cycle 1 at day 1, 8, 15 and 22, and cycle 2 at day 1 and 15, from time of first dose and up to day 30 post-treatment. Median treatment duration for this study cohort was 55 day (range 6 - 539 days).|Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Median treatment duration for this study cohort was 55 day (range 6 - 539 days).|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Participants were followed long-term for survival months from the end of treatment until death or lost to follow-up. Median (range) follow-up was 133 days (15-862 days) in this study cohort.
This is an open label, phase II, two-arm study exploring the anti-tumor activity of the CHK1 inhibitor prexasertib (LY2606368) in patients with advanced solid tumors exhibiting one of the following:

1. Replicative stress, including MYC amplification, CCNE1 amplification, Rb loss, or an FBXW7 mutation
2. An HR deficiency, including tumors with genomic or somatic mutations of BRCA1, BRCA2, PALB2, RAD51C, RAD51D, ATR, ATM, CHK2, or the Fanconi anemia pathway genes
3. A CCNE1 amplification