Whole Body Vibration for the Improvement of Health and Functioning in Participants With Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy
This clinical trial studies how well whole body vibration works in improving the health and functioning of participants with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy is a condition caused by exposure to chemotherapy drugs that may involve numbness/tingling and/or pain in the hands and feet, which can have adverse effects on daily life. Whole body vibration may cause weight loss and improve mobility and pain levels in cancer survivors who report symptoms of peripheral neuropathy.
Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Whole Body Vibration
Accrual, The number of participants enrolled during the recruitment period., Up to 12-weeks|Adherence, Adherence = % of sessions attended and compliance = % of each session completed., Up to 12-weeks|Compliance, Compliance = % of each session completed., Up to 12-weeks|Adverse events, An in-house survey will ask about adverse events (e.g., bone pain, nausea) that occur during the intervention. The number of discrete moderate and severe adverse events will be summed as a single variable., Weekly up to 12-weeks
Objective physical function, Measured by the Physical Performance Battery (PPB) to determine a person's ability to perform daily tasks independently. The PPB consists of 3 timed tests: 5 repeated chair stands, standing balance, and gait speed over 4 meters. Each test is scored 0 (unable) to 4 (completes without difficulty), based on quartiles of performance, then scores are summed. The possible range of scores is 0-12., 0, 12 weeks|Functional mobility, Functional mobility will be measured by the Timed Up and Go (TUG) test which measures the time that it takes a person to rise from a chair, walk 7 m, turn around and return and sit in the chair., 0, 12 weeks|Functional balance-sway velocity, Functional balance will be measured by postural sway which evaluates how well a person can maintain their equilibrium during quiet standing. Will conduct a standard 30-second postural sway test to measure the sway velocity (m/s) during quiet standing with feet together and eyes closed using lightweight, inertial wireless sensors worn on the trunk., 0, 12 weeks|Functional balance-sway area, Functional balance will be measured by postural sway which evaluates how well a person can maintain their equilibrium during quiet standing. Will conduct a standard 30-second postural sway test to measure the sway area (m2/s3) of sway during quiet standing with feet together and eyes closed using lightweight, inertial wireless sensors worn on the trunk., 0, 12 weeks|Functional balance-sway amount, Functional balance will be measured by postural sway which evaluates how well a person can maintain their equilibrium during quiet standing. Will conduct a standard 30-second postural sway test to measure the amount (m/s2) of sway during quiet standing with feet together and eyes closed using lightweight, inertial wireless sensors worn on the trunk., 0, 12 weeks|Symptoms of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, Chronic changes in symptoms will be assessed at 0 and 12 weeks using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Gynecologic Oncology Group Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-Ntx). The questionnaire consists of the 27 item FACT-G, plus 11 items that specifically measure chemotherapy-induced neuropathy symptoms and concerns. Higher scores indicate worse symptoms., 0, 12 weeks|Fatigue Visual Analog Scale, Fatigue overall will be measured both before and after each whole body vibration session using a visual analog scale to identify any acute symptom relief from training. The scale ranges from 0 (no fatigue) to 10 (worst fatigue)., Before and after every whole body vibration session, up to 2 times per day, 7 days per week, for 12 weeks|Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) fatigue scale, Chronic changes in fatigue will be assessed using the PROMIS Fatigue Scale. This instrument includes 8 items rated on a 5 point scale from "not at all" to "very much". Higher scores indicate worse fatigue., 0, 12 weeks|Pain Visual Analog Scale, Pain in the feet will be assessed both before and after each session using a visual analog scale to identify any acute symptom relief from training. The scale ranges from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain)., Before and after every whole body vibration session, up to 2 times per day, 7 days per week, for 12 weeks|Brief Pain Inventory, Chronic changes in pain will be assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). The instrument has 2 subscales: pain severity and pain interference. Severity is determined by the average of 4 items rated from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as bad as you can imagine). Pain interference is determined by the average of 7 items rated from 0 (does not interfere) to 10 (completely interferes)., 0, 12 weeks|Body mass index, Body mass index will be calculated as kg/m2., 0, 12 weeks|Exercise readiness, Exercise readiness will be assessed using the stage of change for exercise questionnaire. This is a categorical instrument with 5 options that indicate a person's readiness to engage in regular physical activity. Options that suggest engagement in more regular exercise are better., 1, 12 weeks|Perceived physical function, Perceived physical function will be measured by self-report using the Late-Life Function and Disability Instrument (LLFDI)., 0, 12 weeks|Gait, The number of meters that participants can walk in 6-minutes will be recorded., 0, 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the feasibility and safety of whole body vibration (WBV) in adult cancer survivors with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN).

II. Determine the effect of WBV training on physical functioning in adult cancer survivors with CIPN.

III. Explore the effect of WBV training on symptom relief (neuropathy symptoms, pain, fatigue) and readiness to exercise in adult cancer survivors with CIPN.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I (WBV): Participants complete two 10-minute WBV sessions per day, 7 days per week for 12 weeks.

GROUP II (USUAL CARE \[UC\]): Participants receive usual care and keep their same physical activity or dietary habits over 12 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 12 weeks.