Addition of PD-L1 Antibody MEDI4736 to a Taxane-anthracycline Chemotherapy in Triple Negative Breast Cancer
To date no targeted agents are available to treat TNBC. Therefore chemotherapy is the only treatment option. TNBC often has a high amount of tumour infiltrating lymphocytes. Stimulating the immune cells of TNBC might therefore be an option for these patients to increase the pathological complete response. pCR is highly correlated with outcome in TNBC.

Therefore the addition of a checkpoint inhibitor in addition to chemotherapy might be an additional option for these patients.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: MEDI4736 (Anti PD-L1)|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: nab-Paclitaxel|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
pathological complete response (pCR= ypT0 ypN0), To compare the pathological complete response (pCR= ypT0 ypN0) rates of neoadjuvant treatment of sequential, nab-Paclitaxel followed by EC +/- the PD-L1 antibody MEDI4736 in patients with early triple negative breast cancer., 22 weeks
pCR rates per arm, To assess the pCR rates per arm separately for the stratified subpopulations., 22 weeks|Rates of ypT0/is ypN0, To determine the response rates of the breast tumor and axillary nodes based on physical examination and imaging tests (sonography, mammography, or MRI) after treatment in different arms., 22 weeks|Rates of ypT0/is ypN0/+, To determine the response rates of the breast tumor and axillary nodes based on physical examination and imaging tests (sonography, mammography, or MRI) after treatment in different arms., 22 weeks|Rates of ypT(any) ypN0, To determine the response rates of the breast tumor and axillary nodes based on physical examination and imaging tests (sonography, mammography, or MRI) after treatment in different arms., 22 weeks|Rates of ypT0 ypN0/+, To determine the response rates of the breast tumor and axillary nodes based on physical examination and imaging tests (sonography, mammography, or MRI) after treatment in different arms., 22 weeks|Clinical response, To assess clinical response rate after taxane in both groups., 22 weeks|Breast conservation rate, To determine the breast conservation rate after each treatment., 22 weeks|Toxicity and compliance as measured by number of participants with treatment-related, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events CTCAE v4.0, 22 weeks|Molecular markers and gene expression, To examine and compare pre-specified molecular markers and gene expression signatures such as tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, PD-1, PD-L1, Ki-67, etc. on core biopsies before chemotherapy, after the window phase and surgical tissue after end of chemotherapy (in %), 22 weeks|Survival, To determine loco-regional invasive recurrence free survival (LRRFS), distant-disease-free survival (DDFS), invasive disease-free survival (IDFS), event free survival (EFS per FDA definition) and overall survival (OS) in different arms and according to stratified subpopulations (in months), 22 weeks
To date no targeted agents are available to treat TNBC. Therefore chemotherapy is the only treatment option. TNBC often has a high amount of tumour infiltrating lymphocytes. Stimulating the immune cells of TNBC might therefore be an option for these patients to increase the pathological complete response. pCR is highly correlated with outcome in TNBC.

Therefore the addition of a checkpoint inhibitor in addition to chemotherapy might be an additional option for these patients.

The primary objective therefore is to compare the pathological complete response (pCR= ypT0 ypN0) rates of neoadjuvant treatment of sequential, nab-Paclitaxel followed by EC +/- the PD-L1 antibody MEDI4736 in patients with early triple negative breast cancer.