Niraparib and Dostarlimab for Patients With MMR-D/MSI-H Colorectal Cancers
The second line of therapy for patients with MSI-H CRC who experience disease progression on anti-PD1 based therapies is not well defined and there is an unmet need for research for patients with anti-PD1 refractory MSI-H CRC. This study will examine the combination of niraparib and dostarlimab for a synergistic antitumor effect for patients with MSI-H CRC.
MMR-D/MSI-H Colorectal Cancers
DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Dostarlimab
Objective response rate (ORR), Percentage of evaluable patients that experience an objective response (Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR)), per RECISIT v1.1. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 12 months
Adverse Events Related to Treatment, Rate of Adverse Events (AEs) related to the niraparib and dostarlimab combination per CTCAE v5.0, Up to 12 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Median time from first response to treatment until documented disease progression by RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause. Per RECISIT v1.1, Progressive Disease: ≥20%increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 36 months|Duration of Response (DoR), Time from first documented response to disease progression by RECIST v1.1 or death in patients who achieve complete or partial response., Up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time from assignment to treatment arm until death due to any cause, Up to 36 months
In this single-arm phase II study, the clinical effectiveness of niraparib in combination with dostarlimab will be investigated for patients with MSI-H colorectal cancer who had disease progression on anti-PD1-based therapy. This study aims to leverage MRE11 deficiency and other HR pathway alterations by using Niraparib and also aims to create potential synergetic effect between dostarlimab with niraparib combination to induce clinically meaningful antitumor benefit. Patients with advanced stage MSI-H CRC who progressed on first line anti-PD1 +/- anti-CTLA4 based therapy will be eligible for this study.