Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy Findings in Patients With Breast Cancer
To compare the kinetics and efficacy of two functionally different diagnostic agents, Lymphoseek (CD206 receptor targeted) and 99mTc-Sulfur Colloid (SC) (Sulfur Colloid non-specific mapping agent) in intraoperative lymphatic mapping (ILM) and Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy (SLNB).
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Lymphoseek|DRUG: Sulfur Colloid
Injection Site Clearance for Lymphoseek and 99mTc-Sulfur Colloid (SC)., The rate of injection site clearance is the time from radiotracer injection to peak SLN radioactive level. Injection clearance rates will be determined by planar SPECT imaging and by SPECT/CT. Subjects will undergo standard sequential planar imaging at 30 to 60 seconds intervals until the sentinel lymph node is seen. Once a sentinel node is located, a SPECT/CT will be performed for higher resolution imaging in transaxial, coronal, and sagittal planes., 2 hours|Sentinel Lymph Node Uptake Rate, SLN uptake rates will be determined by planar SPECT (single-photon emission computerized tomography) imaging and by SPECT/CT (CT-computed tomography). Gamma counts will be obtained at the injection site by standard sequential planar imaging at 30 to 60 seconds intervals until the sentinel lymph node is seen. Once a sentinel node is located, a SPECT/CT will be performed for higher resolution imaging in transaxial, coronal, and sagittal planes. Figures showing the percent of peak activity in the node versus time will be constructed for each radiopharmaceutical. The average uptake rate for each radiopharmaceutical will be computed and the following test will be conducted using a two-sample t-test at a two-sided α=0.05 (one-sided α=0.025) level of significance: H0 (null hypothesis): µLS ≤ µSC vs. HA (alternative hypothesis): µLS \> µSC, (µLS is the average SLN uptake rate of Lymphoseek) (µSC is the average SLN uptake rate of 99mTc Sulfur Colloid)., 2 hours
Number of Intraoperatively Detected Sentinel Lymph Nodes (SLNs) Identified, To compare the number of intraoperatively detected SLNs identified by Lymphoseek and 99mTc-SC on an agent cohort basis, 24 hours|Ratio of Intraoperative Gamma Counts, To compare differences in the ratio of intraoperative counts for Lymphoseek vs 99mTc-SC for the hottest harvested axillary Sentinel Lymph Node (SLN) relative to the primary intradermal injection site., 24 hours|Patient Pain Tolerance, To compare patient pain tolerance (i.e., patient's perceived level of discomfort) at the injection site for Lymphoseek vs 99mTc-SC using Wong-Baker pain rating scale of 0-10, where the higher the score, the higher the pain level., 24 hours|Pathologic Assessment of the Excised Lymph Node(s), To compare pathologic assessment of the excised lymph node(s) to confirm the presence/absence of tumor metastases for Lymphoseek vs 99mTc-SC., 24 hours
Single center, blinded, randomized, parallel-group, comparative study of Lymphoseek and 99mTc-SC in the preoperative and intraoperative detection of lymph nodes in subjects with known breast cancer. All subjects will receive a single dose of 50 μg Lymphoseek radiolabeled with 0.5 millicurie (mCi) Tc 99m or 0.5 mCi of 99mTc-SC. Subjects may also receive up to 1 mL of vital blue dye (VBD) as a companion ILM agent. All radio-labeled agents will be administered in a single intradermal injection.