Azacitidine and Enasidenib in Treating Patients With IDH2-Mutant Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well azacitidine and enasidenib work in treating patients with IDH2-mutant myelodysplastic syndrome. Azacitidine and enasidenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Blasts 20-30 Percent of Bone Marrow Nucleated Cells|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|IDH2 Gene Mutation|Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Excess Blasts|Recurrent High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Refractory High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Enasidenib|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Incidence of adverse events, Will use the Bayesian method by Thall, Simon and Estey for toxicity monitoring. For purpose of toxicity monitoring, toxicity is defined as any grade 3 or higher treatment related-toxicities by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events criteria., Up to 3 years|Overall response rate, Defined as complete response (CR), partial response, and marrow CR assessed by International Working Group criteria. Will be estimated along with the 90% credible interval., Up to 3 years
Event-free survival (EFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the probabilities of EFS. Log-rank tests will be used to compare among subgroups of patients in terms of EFS., Up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the probabilities of OS. Log-rank tests will be used to compare among subgroups of patients in terms of OS., Up to 3 years|Anti-tumor activity, Will be summarized graphically and with descriptive statistics., Up to 3 years|Pharmadynamics (PDn) markers, PDn markers will be summarized graphically and with descriptive statistics., Up to 3 years|Drug exposure levels, Will be summarized graphically and with descriptive statistics., Up to 3 years
Biomarkers analysis, The association between molecular and cellular markers and overall response and/or resistance will be assessed through logistic regression analyses. Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to assess the marker change over time., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of enasidenib alone, and enasidenib in combination with azacitidine (AZA), for patients with isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) mutated myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

II. To assess the efficacy of the combination of enasidenib + azacitidine in hypomethylating agent (HMA) naive subjects with IDH2-mutated MDS, and to assess the efficacy of enasidenib single-agent in subjects with IDH2-mutated MDS who are relapsed/refractory to HMA therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate molecular and cellular markers that may be predictive of antitumor activity and/or resistance including evaluation of IDH2 variant allele fraction (VAF) levels during treatment and presence of co-occurring mutations.

II. To assess overall survival, event-free survival and duration of response of enasidenib alone, and enasidenib in combination with azacitidine.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess changes in cellular differentiation and changes in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation profiles in IDH2-mutated MDS treated with enasidenib alone and with enasidenib + azacitidine.

II. To evaluate quality of life (QOL) using an MDS-specific measure.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients who are HMA-naive receive enasidenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and azacitidine intravenously (IV) oveer 30-60 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients relapsed and/or refractory to HMA therapy receive enasidenib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.