Implementing Acupuncture and Chinese Herbal Medicine Into Palliative Care
In this clinical trial we want to investigate the clinical benefit of a complementary therapy using therapeutical modalities of the traditional chinese medicine in patients suffering from advanced cancer.
Advanced Cancer|Lung Cancer|Breast Cancer|Colo-rectal Cancer|Pancreas Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma|Quality of Life|Symptoms and Signs
OTHER: Treatment modalities of Traditional Chinese Medicine (Acupuncture, Chinese herbal medicine, Tunia, Chinese dietetics)|OTHER: Standard care
Change from baseline in FACT-G at week 4, FACT-G ((Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General) is a validated multi-dimensional quality of life (QoL) questionnaire. It consists of 26 items and addresses four dimensions of QoL, including physical wellbeing (PWB), functional wellbeing (FWB), emotional wellbeing (EWB), and social wellbeing (SWB). The scoring system is a five-point Likert scale assessing the QoL of the past seven days. The FACT-G total score has a range of 0-108, whereas higher scores indicate a higher QoL., Baseline and week 4
Change from baseline in FACT-G at week 8, FACT-G is a validated multi-dimensional quality of life questionnaire. It consists of 26 items and addresses four dimensions of QoL, including physical wellbeing (PWB), functional wellbeing (FWB), emotional wellbeing (EWB), and social wellbeing (SWB). The scoring system is a five-point Likert scale assessing the QoL of the past seven days. The FACT-G total score has a range of 0-108, whereas higher scores indicate a higher QoL., Baseline and week 8|Change from baseline in PHQ-9 at week 4 and 8, The PHQ-9 (Patient Health Questionnaire) aims at depressive disorders in medically ill populations. It is a 9-item diagnostic tool based upon the DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders IV) criteria for major depressive disorder. The PHQ-9 score has a range of 0-27, whereas a score above 10 indicates major depression,

This questionnaire will also be completed by a close caregiver (family or friend)., Baseline and week 4 and 8|Change of symptom burden, assessed by ESAS-R, The ESAS-R (Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale revised) was established specifically for palliative care patients and is a nine-item patient-rated symptom visual analog scale. Each item is rated by a numerical rating scale (0-10), whereas higher numbers indicate a more severe symptom experience. The total score of all symptoms represents the total symptom-burden, whereas a higher score indicates a higher total symptom-burden., Baseline and weekly until week 8|Change in use of Pro re nata medication (P.R.N.M.), assessed by Pro re nata medication diary, To assess the use of pro re nata medication, the participants will document their usage in a diary. P.R.N.M. may be antiemetics, analgetics, tranquilizers or any other drug used for acute symptom relieve., Daily from baseline to week 8|Change from baseline in FAMCARE-2 at week 4 and 8, To evaluate the satisfaction of advanced cancer care in family or friends caregivers, the family satisfaction with end-of-life care two questionnaire (FAMCARE-2) will be used. It is a 17-item assessment tool using a Likert scale (score: 0-68), including subscales for information giving, physical patient care, psychosocial care, and availability of care. A high score on the FAMCARE-2 is associated with a high satisfaction with the palliative care service.

This questionnaire will only be completed by a close caregiver (family or friend)., Baseline and week 4 and 8
Change from baseline in Performance Scales at week 4 and 8, The Karnofsky Performance Scale describes a patient's ability to perform daily activities without restrictions due to disease through to death on a scale of 100 to 0, in steps of 10. Additionally, the ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) Performance Scale, which is a six-grade scale that assesses the level of functioning in terms of self-care, activity, and physical ability, will be assessed., Baseline and week 4 and 8|Number of consultations of the mobile palliative care team, Throughout the course of the study, the number of consultations of the mobile palliative care team will be documented and compared between the two groups., From baseline to week 8|Number of hospital referrals, Throughout the course of the study, hospital referrals will be documented and compared between the two groups., From baseline to week 8|Length of hospitalizations, Throughout the course of the study, the length of hospitalizations will be documented and compared between the two groups., From baseline to week 8|Overall survival, All deaths throughout the course of the study will be documented to calculate the overall survival., From baseline to week 8.
After giving informed consent, the participants will be randomized into two groups (1:1). Both groups will receive standard care while one group will additionally be assigned to a practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) who will deliver a individual treatment according to the needs of the participant (pragmatic approach).

Outcome measures will be monitored over the course of eight weeks.