Preoperative Chemoradiotherapy and MK-3475 for Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (ACTS-29)
In this study, participants with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma will receive preoperative chemoradiotherapy with paclitaxel,carboplatin and pembrolizumab then undergo surgery. The primary study hypothesis is that adding pembrolizumab will increase complete pathologic response rate at surgery.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: MK-3475(pembrolizumab)
Complete Pathologic Response Rate, The primary endpoint of phase II study is to assess complete pathologic response rate. Definition of complete pathologic response is "no cancer cell, including lympho nodes" which corresponds with tumor regression score 0. Definition of pathologic response is as follows. Tumor regression score Grade 0 and 1 will be defined as "responder" and 2 and 3 will be considered as "non-responders", Up to 3 years
Disease Free Survival, Disease free survival is defined from the time of surgery to initial replace or death., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined from the time of enrollment to death or last follow-up date., Up to 3 years|Pathologic Response Rate, Pathologic response rate is defined as tumor regression score. A score of '0' means 'No cancer cell, including lymph nodes'. A score of '1' means 'Single cells or small groups of cancer cells'. A score of '2' means 'Residual cancer cells outgrown by fibrosis'. A score of '3' means 'Minimum or no treatment effect'., Up to 3 years|Safety According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.03, Grade 3-4 adverse events occurring during the neoadjuvant period (no death), Up to 3 years|Event Free Survival, Event free survival is defined from the time of enrollment to 'event' included disease recurrence., Up to 3 years
In this study, participants with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma will receive preoperative chemoradiotherapy with paclitaxel,carboplatin and pembrolizumab then undergo surgery. The primary study hypothesis is that adding pembrolizumab will increase complete pathologic response rate at surgery.