Immunotherapy With or Without SBRT in Patients With Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase III trial studies immunotherapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy to see how well it works compared with immunotherapy alone after first-line systemic therapy (therapy that goes throughout the body) in treating patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Stereotactic body radiation therapy uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. This method can kill tumor cells with fewer doses over a shorter period and cause less damage to normal tissue. Giving immunotherapy with stereotactic body radiation therapy may work better than immunotherapy alone in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Metastatic Lung Cancer|Stage IV Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Progression-free survival (PFS) after completion of first line standard of care systemic therapy, Will be determined using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Will compare unadjusted median PFS between the 2 arms using a log-rank test. Will also use a proportional hazards model to compare progression-free survival between the two groups, adjusting for key covariates such as age, performance (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) status, response to initial systemic therapy versus (vs) stable disease, the presence or absence of brain metastases, PD-L1 \[programmed death-ligand \] expression (\< 1% vs \> 50%), tumor histology (adenocarcinoma vs non-adenocarcinoma), and number of disease sites treated (1-3 sites vs 4-6 sites)., Up to 5 years
Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as the duration from the start of first line standard of care systemic therapy to the date of death or date of last contact; those lost to follow-up will be censored and will be reported with an exact 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|Time of Progression, In patients not receiving radiation, the investigators will assess progression at their known sites of disease prior to beginning first line systemic chemotherapy., Baseline up to 5 years|Rate of Failure, Investigators will assess the rate of failures inside and outside of radiation treatment., Baseline up to 5 years|Number of Participants with New Sites of Disease, Investigators will assess the development of new sites of disease during or after immunotherapy, Baseline up to 5 years|Incidence of Adverse Events, All safety measures, including acute and late toxicity, will be reported using descriptive statistics (mean, median, standard deviation, proportions, and 95% confidence intervals). This will include calculating frequency/risk of adverse events by treatment site. Potential toxicities reported would include pneumonitis, esophagitis, chest wall pain, dermatologic toxicity, renal dysfunction, gastrointestinal toxicity including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, hepatotoxicity, and abdominal pain. These toxicities would be assessed according to site of irradiation by the treating physician and graded as per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare progression-free survival of patients randomized to radiation and consolidative immunotherapy against those receiving consolidative immunotherapy alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate overall survival in all patients and will compare overall survival of those randomized to radiation and consolidative immunotherapy against those receiving consolidative immunotherapy alone.

II. In patients receiving radiation, to describe the rate of in-field local control and rate of out-of-field disease progression with serial imaging.

III. In patients not receiving radiation, describe progression at known sites of disease after first line systemic therapy and rate of development of new metastases with serial imaging.

IV. To evaluate toxicity associated with radiation followed by consolidative immunotherapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo 3-10 treatments of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). Patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 3-4 weeks for 1 year at the discretion of the treating physician.

ARM II: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 3-4 weeks for 1 year at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for the next 2 years, and then annually for 2 years.