Near-infrared Image Guided Surgery in Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
There is a need for better visualization of resection margins and detection of small tumor deposits during surgery for pancreatic cancer. Optical molecular imaging of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma associated biomarkers is a promising technique to accommodate this need. The biomarker Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF-A) is overexpressed in pancreatic cancer tissue versus normal tissue and has proven to be a valid target for molecular imaging. VEGF-A can be targeted by the monoclonal antibody bevacizumab. Monoclonal antibodies can be labeled by the near-infrared (NIR) fluorescent dye IRDye800CW (800CW). The investigators hypothesize that bevacizumab-800CW accumulates in VEGF expressing cancer, enabling pancreatic cancer visualization using a NIR intraoperative camera system. In this pilot intervention study the investigators will determine the optimal dosage of bevacizumab-800CW (4,5 10, 25 or 50mg) to detect pancreatic cancer tissue intraoperatively.
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab-800CW
Tracer accumulation in tumor tissue vs normal pancreatic tissue assessed by intraoperatively and ex vivo measuring of the mean fluorescent intensity, Mean Fluorescent Intensity (MFI) measured in tumor tissue compared to normal pancreatic tissue at macroscopic and microscopic level, up to 6 months|Finding optimal dose of Bevacizumab-800CW for intraoperative imaging of pancreatic cancer measured by calculating Target to Background ratios (TBR), TBR of each dose group assessed by intraoperative imaging as well as ex vivo imaging, 3 days after tracer injection
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events, Up to 4 weeks after tracer injection
There is a need for better visualization of resection margins and detection of small tumor deposits during surgery for pancreatic cancer. Optical molecular imaging of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma associated biomarkers is a promising technique to accommodate this need. The biomarker Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF-A) is overexpressed in pancreatic cancer tissue versus normal tissue and has proven to be a valid target for molecular imaging. VEGF-A can be targeted by the monoclonal antibody bevacizumab. Monoclonal antibodies can be labeled by the near-infrared (NIR) fluorescent dye IRDye800CW (800CW). The investigators hypothesize that bevacizumab-800CW accumulates in VEGF expressing cancer, enabling pancreatic cancer visualization using a NIR intraoperative camera system. In this pilot intervention study the investigators will determine the optimal dosage of bevacizumab-800CW (4,5 10, 25 or 50mg) to detect pancreatic cancer tissue intraoperatively.