Busulfan and Etoposide Followed by Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant and Low-Dose Aldesleukin in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well giving busulfan and etoposide followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) and low-dose aldesleukin works in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as busulfan and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. A PBSCT may be able to replace blood-forming cells that were destroyed by chemotherapy. This may allow more chemotherapy to be given so that more cancer cells are killed. Aldesleukin may stimulate the white blood cells to kill cancer cells. Giving busulfan and etoposide together followed by PBSCT and aldesleukin may be an effective treatment for AML.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: busulfan|DRUG: etoposide|BIOLOGICAL: aldesleukin|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Overall Survival of Patients on Busulfan and Etoposide Followed by Stem Cell Rescue and Aldesleukin, Estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier., From date of transplant to date of death from any cause, assessed up to 178 months|Toxicity Associated With High-dose Busulfan and Etoposide Followed by Stem Cell Rescue, Toxicity is defined as any grade 3 or grade 4 toxicity per the Bearman toxicity grading criteria following Busulfan and Etoposide high-dose chemotherapy, stem cell transplant, and the inability to recover sufficiently by day 100 to start IL-2 therapy., Day -7 of transplant to 100 days post transplant|Toxicity Associated With Aldesleukin Treatment After Stem Cell Rescue, Toxicity during IL-2 therapy of any of the following per NCI Common Toxicity version 3: grade 2, 3, 4, or 5 CNS (except grade 0-3 malaise, fatigue, anxiety and depression) toxicity; grade 3, 4, or 5 non-CNS or non-hematologic toxicity; any grade 4 or 5 hematologic toxicity., IL-2 administration to one month after completion of IL-2 treatment
Proportion of Patients Who Relapsed Associated With the Regimen, From date of transplant to date of death from any cause, assessed up to 178 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity and overall survival of high dose Bu (busulfan)/VP-16 (etoposide) followed by post-transplant low-dose interleukin (IL)-2 (aldesleukin) in patients with AML.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the rate of relapse associated with this regimen.

OUTLINE:

PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients receive busulfan intravenously (IV) over 2 hours or orally (PO) every 6 hours on days -7 to -4 and etoposide IV on day -3.

STEM CELL INFUSION: Patients undergo autologous or syngeneic PBSC rescue on day 0.

POST-TRANSPLANT ALDESLEUKIN THERAPY: Beginning 30-100 days after transplant, patients receive low-dose aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) daily for 12 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.