Loratadine for the Reduction of G-CSF Induced Bone Pain in Patients With Multiple Myeloma Undergoing Stem Cell Mobilization
This early phase I trial studies how well loratadine works in reducing granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) induced bone pain in patients with multiple myeloma who are undergoing stem cell mobilization. Loratadine is an antihistamine that may help to reduce or control bone pain during the process of stem cell collection in patients with multiple myeloma.
Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Loratadine|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in mean pain level for each group following therapy, Pain severity will be measured at baseline and following treatment using a 10-point scale, with higher numbers indicating greater degrees of pain. Will compare the difference in mean pain level for each group following therapy., Baseline up to 5 days after completion of stem cell mobilization
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of the second-generation antihistamine, loratadine, as prophylaxis for filgrastim (i.e., Neupogen, Zarxio) induced bone pain during stem cell mobilization in multiple myeloma patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the frequency and quantity of supportive analgesic medications needed in addition to loratadine or placebo for filgrastim induced bone pain.

II. To identify risk factors associated with developing filgrastim induced bone pain.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Beginning 5 days before the first dose of standard of care filgrastim, patients receive loratadine orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment continues until 5 days after completion of stem cell mobilization in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Beginning 5 days before the first dose of standard of care filgrastim, patients receive placebo PO QD. Treatment continues until 5 days after completion of stem cell mobilization in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.