Cost Effectiveness Analysis for Induction of Ovulation in the Polycystic Ovary Syndrome by Letrozole Versus Clomiphene Citrate
To evaluate cost effectiveness of Letrozole versus clomiphene citrate (CC) in induction of ovulation in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome.
Infertility
DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Clomiphine Citrate
Ovulation detection by Trans-vaginal ultrasound in day 12 of menstrual cycle, ovulation monitoring by Trans-vaginal ultrasound (Medison SonoACEX6 Soul Korea 2012 ) for mature GF in each group., Three months
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common cause of infertility that affects 4% - 8% of reproductive-age females (Priya,M.R,2019).

Diagnosis of PCOS is very important for proper management. In literature, Rotterdam criteria are widely used for diagnosis and focus on polycystic ovarian morphology on ultrasound,a history of ovulatory disorders (oligo-anovulation), and clinical/biochemical signs of hyperandrogenism requiring two of three features after exclusion of other endocrinopathies (Wang,R,2017).

Although the syndrome is a complex reproductive-metabolic disorder, the hypothalamic-pituitary axis has been the target of first-line ovulation-induction therapy. Clomiphene citrate, a selective estrogen-receptor modulator that antagonizes the negative feedback of estrogen at the hypothalamus with a consequent increase in ovarian stimulation by endogenous gonadotropin, has been used for this indication for decades (Legro RS,2007).

Clomiphene citrate (CC) is still holding its place for ovulation induction being simple, safe, cheap and effective (Garg, N,2019).

However, clomiphene-resistance, i.e., failure to ovulate after receiving 150 mg/day for at least three cycles for five days per cycle affects 15% - 40% of patients with PCOS (Salaheldin,A.M,2016).

Aromatase inhibitors, which block estrogen synthesis, directly affect hypothalamic- pituitary-ovarian function and theoretically might increase pregnancy rates (Casper RF,2006).

Many tissues including the ovary (in premenopausal women), fat, muscle, breast and liver contain aromatase enzyme which controls the ï¬nal step in estrogen synthesis, It is responsible for aromatization of androstenedione and testosterone into estrone and estradiol, respectively. This process can be inhibited by administration of a third-generation aromatase inhibitor such as letrozole by \>99% (Haynesa,B.P,2003).

Letrozole has become the first line drug for induction of ovulation in PCOS patients (Teede, H.J,2018).