JNJ-40346527 in Treating Participants With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well edicotinib (JNJ-40346527) works in treating participants with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back or does not respond to treatment. JNJ-40346527 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Edicotinib|OTHER: Pharmacokinetic Study
Best Objective Response Rate, An objective response is defined as achievement of a PR or any type of CR (CR, CRm, CRc, CRi) during a participant's first 2 cycles of study drug. Each participant's best disease response designation (amended from the IWG criteria specified by Cheson, 2003 JCO) during the first 2 cycles will be used when computing the best objective response rate. This rate will be reported alongside an exact confidence interval for each arm separately., first 2 cycles of study drug
Incidence of Treatment-related and Non-treatment Related Adverse Events Per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0, The overall incidence of treatment-related and non-treatment-related toxicity (including serious and non-serious AEs). See the Adverse Event module of the Results section for a tabular summary of each toxicity event and associated system organ class., Start of study drug until 30 days after the last dose of study drug (while the participant remains on-study), which amounted to an average of 31 days for the 3 enrolled participants|Duration of Response, For participants that achieve at least a partial response (PR), the length of time between start date of this response and progression., achievement of >=PR through end of study|Event-free Survival, Defined for all patients of a trial; measured from the date of entry into a study to the date of relapse from PR or CR or CRi, progression, or death from any cause; patients not known to have any of these events are censored on the date they were last examined. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate event-free survival., study enrollment until last on-study disease assessment|Overall Survival, Defined for all patients of a trial; measured from the date of entry into a study to the date of death from any cause; patients not known to have died at end of study are censored on the date they were last known to be alive. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate overall survival., From study enrollment until end of participant follow-up (i.e., death or last contact), with the protocol specifying that "[p]articipants will be followed … until death"
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

Evaluate preliminary efficacy of JNJ-40346527 in participants with relapsed/refractory AML.

I. Best objective response rate (\> PR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

Assess safety and survival associated with JNJ-40346527 to treat participants with relapsed/refractory AML. Assess the duration of disease response associated with JNJ-40346527.

I. Overall incidence of treatment-related and non-treatment related toxicity. II. Duration of response. III. 12-month event-free survival. IV. 12-month overall survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of JNJ-40346527 and effective inhibition of CSF-1R in marrow aspirates using plasma inhibitory assays, with established CSF-1R-sensitive cell lines.

II. Identify the effect of JNJ-40346527 on leukemia cells and the immune microenvironment.

III. Identify and quantify the specific subpopulation of cells that express CSF-1R in participants and correlate these with clinical response to JNJ-40346527.

IV. Analyze the frequency of mutations using genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from leukemia participants to determine if there is a genetic signature that predicts response to JNJ-40346527.

V. Using ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq), identify an expression signature in CSF-1R+ cells that predicts patient response.

VI. Evaluate the effect of JNJ-40346527 on immune cell populations (cytotoxic T cells, etc.) and phospho-signaling proteins by mass cytometry (CyTOF) analysis in pre- and post-treatment samples in order to identify biomarkers that predict patient response and prioritize potential combination strategies for future clinical trials.

VII. Determine how leukemia cells change in response to CSF-1R inhibition by assessing cells collected pre- and post-treatment using an ex vivo sensitivity to a panel of small molecule inhibitors to determine what new drug sensitivities may emerge in AML cells after CSF-1R inhibition.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive JNJ-40346527 orally (PO) twice a day (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up within 2 weeks, at 4-6 weeks until death or minimum of 12 months.