Predictive Assays In Cervix Cancer
The experiments outlined in this proposal will compare a number of currently available techniques for assessing hypoxia and interstitial fluid pressures in patients with cervix cancer. The aim of these experiments is to establish the relationship of the clinically relevant outcome measures of tumour control and survival following radiation therapy with these biological characteristics of carcinoma of the cervix relevant to tumour hypoxia. These characteristics will be assessed in patients undergoing treatment using techniques which have reached an appropriate level of development for clinical evaluation and aim to determine the best technique for determining these parameters of the tumour microenvironment. A number of novel strategies directed at the microenvironment are undergoing or soon will be undergoing clinical evaluation and selection of appropriate patients for these trials is of great importance.
Cervical Cancer
OTHER: Tumour Biopsies and Blood Sampling
To understand the mechanisms by which hypoxia and IFP influence disease progression, and response to radiotherapy, chemotherapy and other novel biologically-targeted therapies in patients with cervix cancer., 3 months during the first two years, every 4-6 months during years 3 to 5 and yearly thereafter.
To determine if tissue biomarkers of hypoxia are independent prognostic factors for relapse and survival in patients with cervix cancer., 3 months during the first two years, every 4-6 months during years 3 to 5 and yearly thereafter.|To determine if plasma biomarkers of hypoxia are independent prognostic factors for relapse and survival in patients with cervix cancer., 3 months during the first two years, every 4-6 months during years 3 to 5 and yearly thereafter.|To assess the heterogeneity of tissue biomarkers of hypoxia in multiple biopsies from cervix cancers., 3 months during the first two years, every 4-6 months during years 3 to 5 and yearly thereafter.
The experiments outlined in this proposal will compare a number of currently available techniques for assessing hypoxia and interstitial fluid pressures in patients with cervix cancer. The aim of these experiments is to establish the relationship of the clinically relevant outcome measures of tumour control and survival following radiation therapy with these biological characteristics of carcinoma of the cervix relevant to tumour hypoxia. These characteristics will be assessed in patients undergoing treatment using techniques which have reached an appropriate level of development for clinical evaluation and aim to determine the best technique for determining these parameters of the tumour microenvironment. A number of novel strategies directed at the microenvironment are undergoing or soon will be undergoing clinical evaluation and selection of appropriate patients for these trials is of great importance.