Plasma miRNAs Predict Radiosensitivity of Different Fractionation Regimes in Palliative Radiotherapy for Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer：Multicenter Controlled Study.(RadmiR-01)
Lung cancer is a malignant tumor that causes the highest morbidity and mortality, and the main pathological type is non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Most of them present with advanced stage at diagnosis. Radiotherapy is an important treatment strategy for advanced non-small cell lung cancer. However patients have different responses to radiotherapy due to individual differences, thus there is still lacking of sensitive markers to predict treatment response at present. Using bioinformatics to process the data and small sample clinical trial, our previous study found 5 plasma miRNAs were related to radiosensitivity. The design is controlled clinical trial. According to the size of lung lesions, the investigators divided the patients into hyperfractionated radiotherapy group（50Gy/11F/2W) with lesion ≤5cm in diameter and conventional fractionated radiotherapy group（60Gy/30F/6W）with lesion \>5cm in diameter.
Advanced Nsclc
RADIATION: radiotherapy
Objective Response Rate（ORR）, up to two and a half years
Correlation between the expression level of miRNAs and the ORR., up to two and a half years|Progression free survival（PFS）, up to two and a half years|side effects of radiation, up to two and a half years
Lung cancer is a malignant tumor that causes the highest morbidity and mortality, and the main pathological type is non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Most of them present with advanced stage at diagnosis. Radiotherapy is an important treatment strategy for advanced non-small cell lung cancer. However patients have different responses to radiotherapy due to individual differences, thus there is still lacking of sensitive markers to predict treatment response at present. Using bioinformatics to process the data and small sample clinical trial, our previous study found 5 plasma miRNAs were related to radiosensitivity. The design is controlled clinical trial. According to the size of lung lesions, the investigators divided the patients into hyperfractionated radiotherapy group（50Gy/11F/2W) with lesion ≤5cm in diameter and conventional fractionated radiotherapy group（60Gy/30F/6W）with lesion \>5cm in diameter.