64Cu DOTA-Trastuzumab PET/CT in Studying Patients With Gastric Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies copper Cu 64 (64Cu) tetra-azacyclododecanetetra-acetic acid (DOTA)-trastuzumab positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) in studying patients with gastric, or stomach cancer. Diagnostic procedures, such as copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab PET/CT, may help doctors study the characteristics of tumors and choose the best treatment.
Adenocarcinoma of the Gastroesophageal Junction|Diffuse Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Intestinal Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Mixed Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Recurrent Gastric Cancer|Stage IA Gastric Cancer|Stage IB Gastric Cancer|Stage IIA Gastric Cancer|Stage IIB Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIA Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIB Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIC Gastric Cancer|Stage IV Gastric Cancer
RADIATION: copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab|DEVICE: positron emission tomography|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography
Number of HER2 Negative, Positive, or Equivocal Participants With Either Negative or Positive Tumor Readings, The reading of the 64CuDOTA-trastuzumab-PET imaging of the study subjects were performed by two radiologists, one who read the first scan and the second nuclear radiologist read the remaining seven scans. To eliminate potential bias, the second nuclear radiologist was blinded to the HER2 status of the tumors as well as the location of the tumor until radiolabeled uptake was measured. XD (version 3.6; Miranda Medical) was used for image analysis.Tumor visualized as "hot" relative to adjacent tissue reported per radiologist as negative, positive, equivocal or unknown., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare tumor uptake of 64Cu-DOTA-trastuzumab (copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab) in gastric cancer patients with pathologic evaluation of tumor human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)/neu expression.

II. To compare copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab-PET-CT scan with standard radiographic imaging for staging patients with gastric cancer.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 and then undergo PET/CT scan on days 2 or 3.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 15 days and periodically for up to 6 months.