The Effect of Arm Exercises on Arm Oedema After Breast Cancer Surgery
In order to prevent lymphedema after breast surgery, patients are advised to know the risk factors for lymphedema and to avoid situations that may cause lymphedema, to perform active and passive arm exercises, to evaluate the affected area for lymphedema, to perform self-care and this should be under the self-management of the patients. Investigators think that this study will have a positive effect on the literature since there are no studies on risk scoring, the combined use of training and exercises to strengthen self-care skills in preventing the development of breast cancer-associated lymphedema. From this point of view, the study was planned as a randomized controlled experiment to examine the effects of preoperative lymphedema scoring and postoperative progressive upper extremity exercises on upper extremity function and self-care in women with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer Female|Breast Cancer Lymphedema
OTHER: exercise and training
arm circumference measurement, Change from baseline in arm circumference at 1 month. Arm circumference measurement:An increase of 1 cm or more in the circumference of the affected arm compared to the healthy side and an increase of 2 cm or more for late detection of lymphedema indicates the presence of lymphedema., 1st month|arm circumference measurement, Change from baseline in arm circumference at 2 month. Arm circumference measurement: An increase of 1 cm or more in the circumference of the affected arm compared to the healthy side and an increase of 2 cm or more for late detection of lymphedema indicates the presence of lymphedema., 2nd month|arm circumference measurement, Change from baseline in arm circumference at 3 month. Arm circumference measurement: An increase of 1 cm or more in the circumference of the affected arm compared to the healthy side and an increase of 2 cm or more for late detection of lymphedema indicates the presence of lymphedema., 3nd month|lymphedema symptom, Change from baseline in the number of lymphedema symptoms according to the 'Symptom Warning Model For Lymphedema' at 1-month. 'Symptom Warning Model For Lymphedema':The model consists of 17 symptoms and Yes/No response components. Patients with less than 15% of 17 symptoms are defined as low risk, 15-49% at medium risk, and patients with more than 50% symptoms are defined as high risk., 1rd month|lymphedema symptom, Change from baseline in the number of lymphedema symptoms according to the 'Symptom Warning Model For Lymphedema' at 2-month. 'Symptom Warning Model For Lymphedema':The model consists of 17 symptoms and Yes/No response components. Patients with less than 15% of 17 symptoms are defined as low risk, 15-49% at medium risk, and patients with more than 50% symptoms are defined as high risk., 2rd month|lymphedema symptom, Change from baseline in the number of lymphedema symptoms according to the 'Symptom Warning Model For Lymphedema' at 3-month. 'Symptom Warning Model For Lymphedema':The model consists of 17 symptoms and Yes/No response components. Patients with less than 15% of 17 symptoms are defined as low risk, 15-49% at medium risk, and patients with more than 50% symptoms are defined as high risk., 3rd month|self-care, The number of participants with a high self-care score according to the 'Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema Self-Care Scale'. 'Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema Self-Care Scale': The lowest 31, the highest 124 points are taken from the scale. Higher scores indicate better self-care., 3rd month
In order to prevent lymphedema after breast surgery, patients are advised to know the risk factors for lymphedema and to avoid situations that may cause lymphedema, to perform active and passive arm exercises, to evaluate the affected area for lymphedema, to perform self-care and this should be under the self-management of the patients. Investigators think that this study will have a positive effect on the literature since there are no studies on risk scoring, the combined use of training and exercises to strengthen self-care skills in preventing the development of breast cancer-associated lymphedema. From this point of view, the study was planned as a randomized controlled experiment to examine the effects of preoperative lymphedema scoring and postoperative progressive upper extremity exercises on upper extremity function and self-care in women with breast cancer.