Endoscopic Surgery in the Treatment of Soft Tissue Sarcoma in Nasal and Paranasal Sinus
Soft tissue sarcoma (STS) refers to a group of malignant tumors derived from non-epithelial extraosseous tissues, mainly from the mesoderm, partly from the neuroectoderm, including muscle, fat, fibrous tissue, blood vessels and peripheral nerves . STS is divided into 12 major categories based on tissue origin. According to different morphologies and biological behaviors, there are more than 50 subtypes. The most common subtypes include: undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma (UPS), liposarcoma (LPS), leiomyosarcoma (LMS), synovial sarcoma ( SS). The most common soft tissue sarcoma in children and adolescents is rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS). Soft tissue sarcoma is a group of highly heterogeneous tumors, which are characterized by local invasiveness, invasive or destructive growth, local recurrence and distant metastasis.

The pathological features of STS that occur in the nasal cavity and sinuses are similar to other parts of the body. However, because it can affect important structures such as the orbit, optic nerve, skull base bone, dura mater, cranial nerve and even brain tissue, the diseased site is deep, the anatomical structure is complex, the treatment is difficult, the range of surgical resection is limited, and the surgical margin Negative is difficult to guarantee, and related treatments may have obvious complications, which affect the survival and prognosis of patients.

Surgical treatment is the most important and most likely effective treatment for STS. With the development of endoscopic skull base anatomy and surgical techniques, the safety and effectiveness of endoscopic sinus surgery for the treatment of nasal cavity and sinus tumors have been fully confirmed, and it has become the main surgical method for nasal cavity and sinus STS. This is also the theoretical and practical basis for the feasibility of this research.

The study intends to conduct a single-arm, prospective, observational study of endoscopic sinus surgery for the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses to explore the therapeutic effect and complications of endoscopic surgery for the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, and explore its relationship with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The model of comprehensive treatment between.
Sarcoma,Soft Tissue|Nasal Cavity Cancer|Paranasal Sinus Cancer|Surgery
PROCEDURE: endoscopic surgery
overall survival, From the day of enrollment to death for any reason, From date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first，through study completion,up to 5 years.
Local recurrence-free survival, The time from enrollment to local recurrence or death for any reason, From date of first treatment until the date of local recurrence or the date of death from any cause,through study completion,up to 5 years.|quality of life, The Chinese version of EORTC QLQ C30 questionnaire (V3.0), within 1 year after surgery
The study intends to conduct a single-arm, prospective, observational study of endoscopic sinus surgery for the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses to explore the therapeutic effect and complications of endoscopic surgery for the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, and explore its relationship with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The model of comprehensive treatment between.This study is divided into a screening period, a treatment period, and a follow-up period. All subjects need to sign an informed consent form before screening, perform relevant blood tests, imaging examinations, and compare the inclusion and exclusion criteria to select suitable patients to enter the treatment period. The follow-up period is 5 years.