Trial of Eribulin in Patients Who Do Not Achieve Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) Following Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
The investigators propose to evaluate eribulin as adjuvant therapy in breast cancer patients who have residual invasive disease in breast or lymph node tissue following standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery regimen. Three cohorts of patients will be evaluated separately based on tumor type: triple-negative, hormone-receptor-positive/HER2-negative, and HER2-positive breast cancers.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Eribulin|DRUG: Trastuzumab
Percentage of Patients With a 2 Year Disease-Free Survival (DFS) as a Measure of Efficacy, The percentage of patients that are without evidence of disease recurrence at the 2 year timepoint, as measured from date of first protocol treatment date to first documented disease progression date or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 2 years
Number of Patients Who Completed Eribulin Therapy as an Assessment of Treatment Feasibility, Examines the feasibility of administering 6 cycles (21 days per cycle) of eribulin without toxicity or disease worsening following standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery., up to 18 weeks|The Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety, A treatment-related adverse event or serious adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant which was considered to have a relationship with the study drug (suspected to be possibly or probably related to the study drug per the Investigator's assessment). Adverse events and serious adverse events will be assessed according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) V4.03., Weekly during each 21 day cycle and for 30 days after completion of protocol-specific treatment. After that patients were followed every 3 months for up to 2 years.
This is a non-randomized, open-label trial to evaluate 6 cycles of eribulin in female patients with invasive breast cancer who do not achieve pathologic complete response (pCR) after treatment with a standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery regimen. Patients will be randomized into three cohorts according to tumor-type: triple-negative (Cohort A), hormone-receptor-positive/HER2-negative (Cohort B), and HER2-positive (Cohort C) tumors. Patients will receive eribulin for 6 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days). Patients with HER2-positive tumors will also receive trastuzumab. Patients in all cohorts will be allowed to receive locoregional radiotherapy and/or adjuvant hormonal therapy per institutional guidelines.