Using a mHealth App to Improve Quality-of-Life Outcomes in Black Prostate Cancer Survivors
The goal of this clinical trial is to ensure that the mobile health application for Black patients with prostate cancer (either actively undergoing treatment or survivors) is usable and acceptable to patients, get feedback about how to improve the app and assess its usefulness in examining their quality of life.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Surveys for Quality of Life|BEHAVIORAL: Surveys and mHealth App access
Overall Quality of Life (QoL) assessment in Black men with prostate cancer, The proportion of patients in the intervention arm reporting increased QoL using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P) survey.

FACT-P has five subscales:

1. Physical Well-Being- Evaluate symptoms like pain and energy.
2. Social/Family Well-Being- Measures support and communication satisfaction.
3. Emotional Well-Being- Assesses sadness, anxiety, coping, and hope.
4. Functional Well-Being- Measures daily activities, contentment, and enjoyment.
5. Prostate Cancer Subscale- Addresses symptoms like sexual function, pain, and urinary issues.

Higher scores indicating better QoL overall. FACT-P captures physical, social, emotional, functional, and prostate-specific well-being to measure comprehensive patient outcomes., 12 months
The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness of a culturally appropriate and specific mobile app for ethnically diverse Black men with prostate cancer (either those actively undergoing treatment or survivors) to empower them to be active participants in their care. This app will provide 1) relevant information/education about prostate cancer-specific to Black men; 2) symptoms monitoring - allowing participants to report difficulties and prompting providers to respond to concerns; and 3) testimonials from other patients with shared experiences.

All participants will be asked to complete surveys online when they start and then again at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. A subset of randomized participants will be provided access to this app, which they will be asked to use at home for 12 months. The app users will answer daily surveys about their symptoms and activities as well as weekly mood assessments for 3 months. At the end of the 12 months, interviews will be conducted to receive feedback regarding the app.