Bendamustine and Rituximab for the Treatment of Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma
Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma (SMZL) is a well-defined low-grade B-cell lymphoma,considered as a rare neoplasm accounting for about 2% of all non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and represents for most cases of otherwise unclassifiable chronic lymphoid B-cell cluster of differentiation antigen 5 (CD5)-lymphoproliferative disorders. SMZL is characterized by an almost exclusive involvement of the spleen and bone marrow and in about 25% of cases the disease pursues an aggressive course and most patients die of lymphoma progression within 3-4 years.

Retrospective studies have indicated that purine analogous achieved very high response rates in both naïve and pre-treated patients. Moreover, the introduction of the anti-cluster of differentiation antigen 20 (CD20) humanized antibody rituximab, either used alone or in combination with chemotherapy has been reported to be very effective in producing a rapid clearance of neoplastic cells.
Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Bendamustine and Rituximab
Complete Response Rate (CRR), Percentage of patients with complete response. Complete response to be assessed by means of CT-scan, Immunophenotype in blood and bone marrow (PET-scan optional) Complete response (CR) requires the disappearance of all evidence of disease

1. Regression to normal size on CT of organomegaly (splenomegaly, hepatomegaly and lymphoadenopathies)
2. Normalization of the blood counts (Hb \>12 g/dl; platelets \>100.000/mm3; neutrophils \>1.500/mm3 and no evidence of circulating clonal B-cells)
3. No evidence or minor (\<5%) BM infiltration detected by immunohistochemistry, At the end of treatment (After 24 weeks of treatment)
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of patients with complete and partial response. Partial response (PR) requires regression of 50% or greater in the measurable disease manifestations and no new sites of disease.

This should include: resolution or decrease in spleen size, improvement on cytopenias and resolution or decrease in lymphadenopathy if present. Bone Marrow should show a decrease in the level of lymphoid infiltration and improvement of the haemopoietic reserve, At the end of treatment (After 24 weeks of treatment)|3-year Progression Free Survival (PFS), Percentage of patients free from disease progression after 3 years from study entry.

Progression is defined as reappearance of cytopenia or lymphoma relapse/ progression with enlarged lymph node(s) or spleen if present, histologic transformation or death as a result of any cause., 3 years after study entry|3-years Duration of Response (DOR), Percentage of responding patients after 3 years from study entry. DOR is defined for all patients who achieved a response (CR and PR), 3 years from study entry|3-years Event Free Survival (EFS), Percentage of patients free from events after 3 years from study entry. Events are defined as any treatment failure including disease progression, or discontinuation of treatment for any cause (eg, disease progression, toxicity, patient preference, initiation of new treatment without documented progression, or death)., 3 years after study entry|3-years Overall Survival Rate, Percentage of patients alive after 3 years from study entry, 3 years after treatment start|5 Years Progression Free Survival (PFS) -, Percentage of patients free from disease progression after 5 years from treatment start. Progression is defined as reappearance of cytopenia or lymphoma relapse/ progression with enlarged lymph node(s) or spleen if present, histologic transformation or death as a result of any cause., Five years after study entry|5 Years Overall Survival (OS), Percentage of patients alive after 5 years from study entry, Five years after study entry
Prospective, multicenter, open-label, phase II study, designed to determine efficacy and safety of a Chemo-immunotherapy with the combination of bendamustine + rituximab in patients with splenic marginal zone lymphoma.

Study Population: previously untreated (except for splenectomy and/or antiviral therapy for Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infection) and symptomatic Splenic Marginal Zone patients.

Objectives: evaluation of the efficacy and the safety of R-Bendamustine in symptomatic Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma patients.

Primary Objective: efficacy of R-Bendamustine measured by Complete Response rate. Complete response rate defined as regression to normal size on CT of organomegaly (spleen, liver, lymph nodes); normalization of the blood counts and no evidence of circulating clonal cells, and no evidence or minor (≤ 5%) Bone Marrow (BM) infiltration detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

Treatment: The R-Bendamustine regimen consisted of 28-day cycle. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) after 3 cycles received only one more cycle of R-Bendamustine, while those achieving a partial response (PR) received 3 additional cycles of R-Bendamustine; if less than PR patients were withdrawn from the study