Cancer Prevention and Care Among Aged
This research represents a pioneering effort to design a brief, cost effective and readily transportable program that will enable disadvantaged elders to become more effective participants in their health care.

The intervention is expected to result in trained elders becoming more knowledgeable health care partners. Trained patients will be prepared for appointments and will engage their primary care physicians in active dialogue regarding cancer prevention and screening.

Based on self-advocacy, these patients are expected to receive better preventive care and report greater satisfaction with care. Program participation can subsequently contribute to general health improvements and minimize health disparities.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Speak Up|BEHAVIORAL: Get connected
Perception of Physician Quality Scale, Perception of Physician Quality Scale(Lee \& Kasper, 1998) will be used to measure patient satisfaction with physician care (p. 21). Questions include satisfaction with physician visits and satisfaction with physician knowledge of respondent's medical problems. This scale has been utilized with elderly populations (e.g. Burton et al. 2002) and has been found to be a valid and reliable (Cronbach's alpha greater than .8) measure of patient satisfaction (Lee \& Kasper, 1998)., one year
Cancer Screening Recommendations, Physicians would make more recommendations for cancer prevention and screening, one year
In a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 400 older adults, the investigators will assess the efficacy of the "Speak Up" intervention (N=200) relative to an attention control group "Connect" program (N=200), aimed at enhancing social and civic engagement. Participants will now obtain resource materials that include decision aids and diary logs to bring to visits with doctors. The investigators will implement "Speak Up" and "Connect" programs in two unique study populations: 1) participants in the ongoing NCI study and 2) older adults attending senior center programs sponsored by Area Agencies on Aging (AAAs). Participants will be assessed prior to the intervention and 2 month, and 12 months post intervention. The investigators will have an observation window of 12 months to determine whether and when the older adult obtained screening. The selection of a shorter follow-up time frame will help reduce attrition.