Disulfiram in Recurrent Glioblastoma
Disulfiram (Antabuse®) is a well-tolerated, cheap, generic drug that has been in use since the 1950s to treat alcoholism. There is now an increasing amount of independent preclinical data to support disulfiram as an anticancer agent. The potency of disulfiram as an anticancer agent seems strengthened by copper.

The investigators aim is to investigate disulfiram and copper-supplement as add-on treatment in glioblastoma patients with recurrence receiving alkylating chemotherapy.
Glioma|Glioblastoma
DRUG: Disulfiram|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Copper|DRUG: Alkylating Agents
Survival 6 mo, Proportion of alive participants at 6 months
Progression free survival, Using RANO criteria applied by local investigators, Proportion without progression at 6 and 12 months|Survival 12 and 24 mo, Proportion of alive participants at 12 and 24 months|Median overall survival, Using Kaplan Meier plots and log-rank test, Median overall survival assessed at 6 months and 24 months after last included participant|Health related quality of life, EuroQol 5D (generic), Assessed at baseline and month 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24|Volumetric tumor assessment, Tumor volumes are assessed using semi-automatic segmentation, Baseline and first follow-up scan being scheduled at 3 months post-inclusion|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Cumulative burden at 6 and 24 months, Assessed month 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, but analyzed as cumulative burden at 6 and 24 months
Disulfiram (Antabuse®) is a well-tolerated, cheap, generic drug that has been in use since the 1950s to treat alcoholism. There is now an increasing amount of independent preclinical data to support disulfiram as an anticancer agent. The potency of disulfiram as an anticancer agent seems strengthened by copper. There is now anecdotal clinical evidence of disulfiram as an anticancer agent. So far no clinical studies have been published in glioma patients, but two small, uncontrolled studies are planned according to clinicaltrials.gov. with search 1st November 2015.

The investigators aim to investigate disulfiram and copper-supplement as add-on treatment in glioblastoma patients with recurrence receiving alkylating chemotherapy. The study will be performed as a multicenter RCT including patients in Norway and Sweden. This will serve as a proof-of concept study.

The primary end-point is survival at 6 months