Evaluation of Immunologic Response Following COVID-19 Vaccination in Children, Adolescents, and Young Adults With Cancer
This study evaluates immunologic response following COVID-19 vaccination in children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer. Vaccines work by stimulating the body's immune cells to respond against a specific disease. The immune response produces protection from that disease. Effects from cancer and from treatments for cancer can reduce the body's natural disease fighting ability (called immunity). Factors such as vaccine type, timing of vaccine dosing related to treatment for cancer and number of vaccine doses or "boosts" (extra vaccine shots) may strengthen or diminish the body's protective immune response. This study may help researchers learn more about how the body's immune system responds to the COVID-19 vaccine when the vaccination is given during or after cancer treatment.
COVID-19 Infection|Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Survey Administration
Seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2-specific protective antibodies, Will report the proportion of patients with a serologic response to a protocol-approved COVID-19 vaccine, captured using a test for SARS-CoV-2-specific antibodies via immunoassay, and will report a corresponding 95% confidence interval., 24 months following initial vaccination with a protocol-approved COVID-19 vaccine
Durability of immune response at 6 months, The proportion of patients with an immune response (seropositivity) at 6, 12 and 18 months after the initial dose will be calculated along with a corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 6, 12 and 18 months after each dose|Post-vaccination symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections, The proportion of patients with a post-vaccination symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection will be calculated along with a corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years after initial dose
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Characterize the immunologic response following severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-coronavirus (CoV)-2 vaccination in children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer who are currently receiving or who recently completed treatment with immunosuppressive therapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the rate of post-vaccination symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections. II. Assess the durability of immune response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccine over 2 years.

III. Describe the longer-term impacts of vaccine immune response including subsequent COVID-19-related serious illness.

IV. To help guide future vaccine dosing and timing, at each SARS-CoV-2 vaccine dose administration determine the degree of:

IVa. Lymphopenia (absolute lymphocyte count cells/mm\^3); IVb. Helper T-cell suppression (CD4 count); IVc. B-cell suppression (CD19 count). V. Provide a mechanism for data collection and banking of biospecimens for use in research regarding immune response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive COVID-19 vaccine per standard of care. Patients also complete a survey at 1 month and undergo collection of blood samples at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. Patients may complete an additional survey at 1 month after each vaccine boost and undergo collection of blood samples before each vaccine boost, 1 month after each vaccine boost, and at the time of COVID-19 infection.