Physical Activity in Rectal Cancer Survivors
The goal of this clinical trial is to test a telehealth-based personalized physical activity intervention in adult patients diagnosed with Stage I-III rectal cancer. The main question it aims to answer are how to better understand the experiences of rectal cancer survivors who are coping with bowel dysfunction and how physical activity can improve their quality of life.

Participants will be asked to:

1. Complete surveys to assess bowel function and quality of life
2. Participate in 12 Telehealth Sessions (one session a week) to discuss and review bowel dysfunction
3. Perform daily physical activity
Rectal Cancer|Rectosigmoid Cancer
OTHER: Physical Activity|OTHER: Survey|BEHAVIORAL: Telehealth Lifestyle Coaching
Feasibility of Physical Activity Intervention, Administer and determine the feasibility of a PA intervention. We will administer a telehealth physical activity intervention to 20 RC survivors (10 males and 10 females, at least 10 of which will be racial and/or ethnic minorities) over 12 weeks. Feasibility of the intervention will be measured by the percentage of participants who agree to participate of the total approached as well as completion of the intervention which will be defined as completion of ≥80% of the intervention (telehealth calls)., From enrollment to the end of treatment at 12 weeks.
Acceptability and Participant Satisfaction with Physical Activity Intervention, Using qualitative methods, evaluate the acceptability of and satisfaction with the intervention as reported by survivors. After completion of the intervention or decision to discontinue participation, we will administer a semi-structured exit interview to evaluate the acceptability of the intervention., From enrollment to the end of treatment after 12 weeks.|Evaluation using Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Bowel Function Instrument Scale to describe the change in total bowel symptom score in the pilot cohort from minimum score of 13 to maximum score of 65, where the higher score is the better outcome., Using the Memorial Sloan Kettering bowel function instrument administered pre-post PA intervention, describe the change in total bowel symptom score in the pilot cohort., At 0 weeks, 3 weeks, and 6 months after completion of the initial intervention.
The goal of this clinical trial is to administer and determine the feasibility of a personalized physical activity intervention for rectal cancer survivors. Structured physical activity interventions will be administered over a three-month period. An exit interview will be conducted at the completion of this time period.