Cost of Cancer Risk Management in Women at Elevated Genetic Risk for Ovarian Cancer Who Participated on GOG-0199
This research trial collects information about types of treatment and the cost of these procedures in women with elevated genetic risk for ovarian cancer who participated on the Gynecology Oncology Group (GOG)-0199 trial. Gathering information about women at elevated genetic risk for ovarian cancer may help doctors learn more about risk reduction procedures and the cost of these procedures.
Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome|Ovarian Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Evaluation of Cancer Risk Factors|OTHER: Medical Chart Review|OTHER: Study of Socioeconomic and Demographic Variables
Cost-effectiveness of RRSO versus OCS, Incidence and stage at diagnosis of ovarian, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancers in the OCS arm and in the RRSO arm will be collected. This information will be obtained from the CANCER UPDATE FORM (CA-0199) and the Ovarian Surgery Form (C-0199). Summary of the number and timing of screening serum tests, pelvic ultrasound, and surgery procedures will be used to calculate costs, and will be incorporated into the model of Markov stage that corresponds to the study timepoint at which these studies were performed., 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the cost-effectiveness, defined as cost per quality-adjusted life-year saved, of risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy (RRSO) versus ovarian cancer screening (OCS) for women at elevated genetic risk of ovarian cancer over a five-year period, using data from GOG-0199 to model survival.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the cost-effectiveness, defined as cost per quality-adjusted life-year saved, of RRSO versus OCS for women at elevated genetic risk of ovarian cancer over a lifetime, using stage-specific cohorts and population-based data to model long-term survival. (Exploratory) II. To use value of information (VOI) methodology to set future research priorities aimed at developing evidence-based approaches to the management of women who are at elevated genetic risk of ovarian cancer. (Exploratory)

OUTLINE:

Outcome data, such as incidence and stage at diagnosis of ovarian, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancers; number and timing of screening and serum tests performed; number and timing of pelvic ultrasounds performed; surgical procedures performed; cancer-specific and overall survival (if available); and the incidence, type, and grade of significant adverse events, are collected from the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG)-0199 records and analyzed. Cost of each medical intervention is also estimated.