First Line Therapy of Advanced Stage Follicular Lymphoma in Patients < 60 Years Not Eligible fo Standard Immunochemotherapy and in All Patients ≥ 60 Years
The objective of this study is to test the efficacy and toxicity of a combined OBINUTUZUMAB/bendamustine therapy or single agent OBINUTUZUMAB in younger (\< 60 years) medically non-fit, 'compromised' patients and in all older patients (≥ 60 years). For the assessment of the antilymphoma activity the overall response rate (ORR)" will be applied as primary endpoint.

Overall response is defined as complete or partial response after 19 - 21 weeks.
Indolent Non-hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Obinutuzumab|DRUG: Bendamustine
ORR, Overall response is defined as complete or partial response at the end of the initial treatment phase (after 19-21 weeks)., week 19 to 21
Event free survival, EFS, Response in accordance with the 2007 Revised Response Criteria for the time from the day of randomization to the date of first documented disease progression, death by any cause, or institution of a new anti-lymphoma treatment., through study completion, up to 5 years|CR, Rate of patients who has a complete response (CR) at the end of induction randomization, End of Induction of each patient, week 19 - 21|TTF, The time to treatment failure will be measured from the day of randomization to the date of failure of initial treatment (no response) or first documented disease progression or death by any cause., Through study completion, up to 5 years|PFS, progression-free survival will be measured from the day of randomization to the date of first documented disease progression or death by any cause., Through study completion, up to 5 years|RD, Duration of remission will be measured for responding patients from the end of initial treatment to the date of first documented disease progression or death by any cause., week 19 up to 5,5 years follow up|Time to next anti-lymphoma treatment, will be measured from the date of randomization to the date of first documented start of a new chemotherapy, radiotherapy or immunotherapy., Through study completion, up to 6.5 years|Overall Survival, will be determined from the date of randomization to the date of death irrespective of cause., Through study completion, up to 5 years|Number of SAEs, Therapy-related toxicities according to the NCI-CTC-criteria will be compared for both treatment arms during the initial treatment and the consolidation treatment period., Through study completion, up to 5 years|Frequency of Hospitalization, The days of hospitalisation will be compared for both treatment arms during the initial treatment, the consolidation treatment period and the first two years after the end of consolidation., Through study completion, up to 3 years (per patient)|Duration of Hospitalization, The duration of hospitalisation will be compared for both treatment arms during the initial treatment, the consolidation treatment period and the first two years after the end of consolidation., Through study completion, up to 3 years (per patient)|Supportive Care, The number of blood transfusions, the application of growth factors and the days of treatment with i.v. antibiotics will be compared for both treatment arms, Through study completion, up to 5 years|Incidence of secondary transformation to aggressive lymphoma, Incidence of secondary transformation to aggressive lymphoma, Through study completion, up to 5 years|Number of AEs, Incidence of secondary malignancies, Through study completion, up to 5 years|Number of participants that had completed the therapy regularly (including: Total cumulative dose of obinutuzumab and bendamustine, number of cycles, duration of treatment), Through study completion, up to 5 years|QoL, Quality of Life Analysis scale measurements using the QLQ-C30 questionnaires are collected over time and will be compared for patients receiving OBINUTUZUMAB single agent versus OBINUTUZUMAB plus bendamustine., Through study completion, up to 5 years|Comorbidity assessment will be performed by using the Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (=IADL), With the Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (=IADL) the functional status) will be analysed (=instrument to assess independent living skills) The instrument is most useful for identifying how a person is functioning at the present time and for identifying improvement or deterioration over time. There are 8 domains of function measured with the Lawton IADL scale. Historically, women were scored on all 8 areas of function; men were not scored in the domains of food preparation, housekeeping, laundering. However, current recommendations are to assess all domains for both genders. Persons are scored according to their highest level of functioning in that category. A summary score ranges from 0 (low function, dependent) to 8 (high function, independent)., Through study completion, up to 6.5 years|Comorbidity assessment will be performed by using the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale for Geriatrics (CIRS-G), This can be used to measure the burden of current and chronic illnesses in the older adult.This scoring system measures the chronic medical illness ("morbidity") burden while taking into consideration the severity of chronic diseases in 14 items representing individual body systems.

The general rules for severity rating are:

0→No problem affecting that system.

1. Current mild problem or past significant problem.
2. Moderate disability or morbidity and/or requires first line therapy.
3. Severe problem and/or constant and significant disability and/or hard to control chronic problems.
4. Extremely severe problem and/or immediate treatment required and/or organ failure and/or severe functional impairment., Through study completion, up to 5 years|Comorbidity assessment will be performed by using the G 8 (=geriatric) 8 screening score, The G8 screening tool was developed to separate fit older cancer patients who were able to receive standard treatment from those that should undergo a geriatric assessment to guide tailoring of therapy. The assessment includes (instrumental) activities of daily living, cognition, mood, nutritional status, mobility, polypharmacy and social support. G8 is an independent predictor of mortality within the first year after inclusion (hazard ratio 3.93; 95 % confidence interval 1.67-9.22, p \< 0.001). The G-8 Score is a screening tool containing 8 questions. The total G-8 score lies between 0 and 17. A higher score indicates a better health status., Through study completion, up to 5 years
Study design:

This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter phase II trial with a parallel-group design of two groups.

Randomization and Interventions:

Randomization between Obinutuzumab single agent treatment versus Obinutuzumab plus Bendamustine followed by Obinutuzumab

Treatment plans:

Arm A: Obinutuzumab single agent Obinutuzumab flat dose of 1000 mg on Day 1 of each of four 28 -day cycles and on Days 8 and 15 of Cycle 1

If at least 'stable disease':

Obinutuzumab flat dose of 1000 mg at weeks 21, 29, 37 and 45 Arm B: Obinutuzumab plus Bendamustine Obinutuzumab flat dose of 1000 mg on Day 1 of each of four 28 -day cycles and on Days 8 and 15 of Cycle 1 plus Bendamustine 70 mg/m2 iv d1+2 of each of four 28 -day cycles

If at least 'stable disease':

Obinutuzumab flat dose of 1000 mg at weeks 21, 29, 37 and 45

The project attempts to establish an evidence based treatment strategy for medically non-fit advanced stage FL-patients who are not eligible for standard therapeutic immunochemotherapy approaches to improve their long term perspectives.

It will furthermore provide a prospectively generated data set which will link performance in the assessment scores IADL, G8 and CIRS-G to medical fitness as judged by the treating physician. The generated data will allow using geriatric and functional tests to define medical fitness and to provide a more solid basis for future studies.