Replacing Invasive Cystoscopy With Urine Testing for Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer Surveillance
The purpose of this research is to determine whether bladder cancer monitoring can be improved by replacing some cystoscopy procedures with urine testing. Specifically, this study examines whether there are any differences in urinary symptoms, discomfort, number of invasive procedures, anxiety, complications, cancer recurrence or cancer progression when some cystoscopy procedures are replaced with urine testing.
Non-muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer
PROCEDURE: Cystoscopy|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Bladder EpiCheck urine test|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Xpert Bladder Cancer Monitor urine test
Quality of Life Questionnaire-Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer 24 (EORTC QLQ-NMIBC24), Measuring change from baseline. Score range: 0-100. Lower score indicates higher quality of life., Assessed at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.
This is a multi-site randomized phase 2 trial including 240 patients with early-stage bladder cancer, in which patients will be randomized 1:1:1 to programmatic surveillance with the Xpert bladder cancer urine test, the Bladder EpiCheck urine test, or frequent cystoscopy. The primary outcome will be urinary quality of life measured 1 to 3 days after surveillance.

This study will have three groups, also called "arms": (1) Frequent Cystoscopy Arm, (2) Xpert Urine Test Arm, and (3) Epicheck Urine Test Arm. The aim of Frequent Cystoscopy is to detect any cancer that might have come back within the bladder by frequently inspecting the bladder. Those in the cystoscopy arm will have a cystoscopy procedure at specified time points for two years. The goal of the Xpert Urine Test arm is to detect any cancer that might have come back within the bladder, while decreasing the number of invasive cystoscopy procedures. Those in the Xpert arm will have a Xpert urine test and a check-up with a medical doctor at 6 months and 18 months, and have a cystoscopy procedure at 12 months and 24 months. The aim of the EpiCheck Urine Test arm is to detect any cancer that might have come back within the bladder, while decreasing the number of invasive cystoscopy procedures. Those in the EpiCheck Urine Test arm will have an Epicheck urine test and a check-up with a medical doctor at 6 months and 18 months and will have a cystoscopy procedure at 12 months and 24 months. The study performance period is 24 months.