The Response to Intralesional IL-2 and/or BCG Treatment for Cutaneous Metastatic Melanoma
The investigators aim to include 100 local participants over the next 5 years in a two-stage sequential randomized interventional study of intralesional Interleukin-2 (IL-2) and Bacillus Calmette Guerin (BCG) to assess the utility of treating cutaneous metastatic melanoma (CMM).
Cutaneous Metastatic Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Interleukin-2|BIOLOGICAL: Combination therapy Interleukin-2 and Bacillus Calmette Guerin
Number of CMM participants that respond to IL-2 compared to the number of participants that respond to IL-2 and BCG., The primary outcome measure is the achievement of a superior response rate in patients receiving combination IL-2/BCG treatment compared to patients receiving IL-2 alone. Patient response to treatment will be monitored and patients will be categorized as 1) complete responders, 2) partial responders or 3) stable disease. Data will be analyzed by one-way ANOVA to compare proportion outcomes amongst treatment and response groups., 5 years
Number of patients that respond to the addition of BCG in stage two compared to the number of patients respond to continued IL-2 treatment., The achievement of a superior response rate in patients that partially respond or do not respond to single agent IL-2 in stage one, with the addition of BCG treatment in stage two. Patient response to treatment will be monitored and patients will be categorized as 1) complete responders, 2) partial responders or 3) stable disease. Data will be analyzed by one-way ANOVA to compare proportion outcomes amongst treatment and response groups., 5 years|Assessment of overall survival in stage one treatment, Complete responders to stage-one treatments will be assessed to determine if there is a difference in overall survival between participants that continue treatment compared to participants that discontinue treatment. Data will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier methods and compared using Log-rank tests., 5 years|Assessment of overall survival in stage two treatment, Response groups following stage-two treatments will be assessed to determine if there is a difference in overall survival amongst response groups. Data will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier methods and compared using Log-rank tests., 5 years|Assessment of Disease Progression Within Stage of Disease: Number of stable and/or new metastasis, All patients will be followed every 3 months for 2 years and then biannual assessments for years 3-5 after the initial intervention to assess the number of stable or new lesions amongst treatment response groups. Number (integer value) of new metastases will be recorded as a part of this assessment. Data will be compared using a one-way ANOVA. Post-Hoc analysis will be conducted when needed., 5 years|Assessment of Metastasis, Assessment of Metastasis - All patients will be followed every 3 months for 2 years and then biannual assessments for years 3-5 after the initial intervention to assess change in lesion size according to iRECIST guidelines. Lesions will be measured in mm in 2 dimensions as part of this assessment. Data will be compared using a one-way ANOVA. Post-Hoc analysis will be conducted when needed., 5 years
In the first stage of the study, all consenting CMM patients will be randomized and will receive 4 treatments of either intralesional IL-2 or intralesional IL-2 and BCG. We hypothesize that patients with MM (stage 3C or 4a with a minimum of 4 lesions) that receive combination therapy (IL-2/BCG) in the first stage of treatment will have a higher complete response (iCR) rate compared to IL-2 therapy alone.

Response to stage-one treatment will be monitored and patient response to treatment will be determined and reported according to Immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (iRECIST) guidelines. Based on response to stage-one treatment, patients will be placed into a response group before entering stage two. For stage two of the trial, patients will be randomized again, and placed into a treatment group; Il-2, IL-2 and BCG, BCG, or Discontinue Treatment. Response to treatment will be monitored and patient response to treatment will be determined and reported according to iRECIST guidelines.

All patients will have lesions biopsied following standard surgical practice techniques and will provide urine and blood for analysis. Tissue samples will be assessed for immune system activity and transcriptome analysis, and urine and blood will be assessed for immune cell populations and markers. All patients will be followed for 5 years post treatment, and patient disease and survival status will be recorded according to iRECIST.