Clinical Study on the Treatment of Recurrent Glioblastoma With Anlotinib
Anlotinib is a novel small molecule multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor that can inhibit tumor angiogenesis and inhibit tumor cell growth. We performed second-generation gene sequencing on pathological specimens and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with recurrent glioblastoma.If patients have a genetic mutation （VEGFR，Kit，PDGFR，FGFR）and meet other eligibility criteria, they will be treated with antroinib. The initial observation targets were progression-free survival and adverse reactions. The secondary objective was overal survival.
Recurrent Glioblastoma
DRUG: Anlotinib
Progress free survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from first dose of study treatment until the first date of either objective disease progression or death due to any cause., each 42 days up to PD or death(up to 24 months)
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time until death due to any cause., From randomization until death (up to 24 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1.prior to progression or any further therapy., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Defined as the proportion of patients with a documented complete response, partial response, and stable disease (CR + PR + SD) based on RECIST 1.1., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|Quality of Life score (QoL), use EORTC QLQ-C30(version 3) questionnaire to evaluate the quality of life., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)
INCLUSION CRITERIA:

1. Histologically confirmed World Health Organization (WHO) Grade IV glioblastoma.;
2. Radiographic evidence of tumour progression or recurrence;
3. The second-generation gene sequencing on pathological specimens and cerebrospinal fluid show at least one genetic mutation of the four genes (VEGFR，Kit，PDGFR，FGFR);
4. ≥ 18 years of age;
5. Karnofsky performance status (KPS) ≥ 70;
6. Corticosteroid dose must be stable or decreasing for at least 5 days prior to the scan.
7. a new baseline scan is required 1.7 Measurable disease as per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria;
8. Estimated survival of at least 3 months;
9. signed informed consent form;
10. Hgb \> 9 gm; absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \> 1500/μl; platelets \> 100,000; Creatinine \< 1.5 times the upper limit of laboratory normal value; Bilirubin \< 2 times the upper limit of laboratory normal value; serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT) or serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) \< 3 times the upper limit of laboratory normal value;

EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Subjects with newly diagnosed GBM
2. Pregnant women or nursing mothers cannot participate in the study. Women of childbearing age must have a negative pregnancy test within 72 hours prior to study entry. Women of childbearing potential must practice medically approved contraceptive precautions;
3. Abnormal hematological results at inclusion with: Neutrophils \< 1,500/mm3; Blood-platelets \< 100,000/mm3
4. Severe or chronic renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance ≤ 30 ml/min);
5. Patient unable to follow procedures, visits, examinations described in the study;
6. Any usual formal indication against imaging examinations (important claustrophobia, pacemaker);