A Clinical Study of MIL93 in Solid Tumors.
MIL93 is a recombinant humanized anti-Claudin 18.2 (CLDN18.2) IgG1 monoclonal antibody. This is an open label Phase I study to evaluate safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of MIL93 in Advanced or Metastatic solid tumors.
Advanced Malignancies
DRUG: Recombinant Humanized Monoclonal Antibody MIL93
Percentage of Participants with Adverse Events, Percentage of Participants with AEs and SAEs assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0., up to 1year after enrollment
Pharmacokinetics:AUC, The area under the curve (AUC) of serum concentration of the drug after the administration, up to 1year after enrollment|Pharmacokinetics: Cmax, Maximum concentration(Cmax) of the drug after administration, up to 1year after enrollment|Objective response rate (ORR), To evaluate preliminary anti-tumor activity of MIL93 in subjects with advanced malignancies.ORR includes complete remission(CR) and partial remission(PR) assessed by RECIST v1.1 criteria., up to 1year after enrollment|Duration of response (DoR), DOR is defined as the time from the initial response (CR or PR) to the time of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first., up to 1year after enrollment|Progression free survival (PFS), Defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to disease progression or death, whichever occurs first., up to 1year after enrollment|Immunogenicity, Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADA) will be tested and percentage of ADA positive patients will be calculated to evaluate immunogenicity of MIL93., up to 1year after enrollment
This study is composed of two stages:Part I is mono-therapy dose escalation and dose expansion study, and Part II is the study of combination therapy.

The dose escalation study will be conducted using Part I for testing optimal doses at 0.3,1, 3, 10, 20, 30 mg/kg every 3 weeks (Q3W). An accelerated titration followed by traditional 3+3 design will be used in this study with a 21-day dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) observation period. Based on the data of dose escalation study, determine whether to carry out dose escalation at frequency of every 2 weeks(Q2W) and how many cohorts will be added in dose expansion study.

Based on the data of Part I, one or two doses will be conducted in the study of combination therapy. The study of PART II is composed of two cohorts. Cohort 1:Subjects with untreated CLDN18.2 positive gastric/gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma(G/GEJAC) will be treated with MIL93 and standard first-line chemotherapy.Cohort 2:Subjects with untreated CLDN18.2 positive pancreatic cancer will be treated with MIL93 and standard first-line chemotherapy.