Intravenous Chemotherapy or Oral Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Stage III-IV HIV-Associated Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This randomized phase II trial studies how well intravenous (IV) chemotherapy or oral chemotherapy works in treating patients with previously untreated stage III-IV human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, prednisone, lomustine, etoposide, and procarbazine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells
AIDS-related Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|AIDS-related Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|AIDS-related Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|AIDS-related Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|AIDS-related Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|AIDS-related Peripheral/Systemic Lymphoma|AIDS-related Small Noncleaved Cell Lymphoma|Stage III AIDS-related Lymphoma|Stage IV AIDS-related Lymphoma
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: lomustine|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: procarbazine hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Overall Survival, Proportion of participants who survived 2 years, Up to 24 months|Overall Response Rate, Overall response is complete or partial response as defined by response definitions of the 2014 International Conference on Malignant Lymphoma Imaging Working Group (i.e. Lugano classification). Complete response is the disappearance of all lesions with no new lesions detected. Partial response is \>=50% decrease in the sum of the perpendicular diameters of up to 6 target measurable nodes and extranodal sites and no new sites of disease., Up to 24 months|Progression-free Survival, Proportion of participants who survived without disease progression at 2 years, Up to 24 months|Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event, Number of participants who experienced an adverse event, Up to 24 months|Number of Patients Who Complete Treatment, Number of patients who complete chemotherapy treatment., Up to 18 weeks|Proportion of Patients Who Are Adherent to Antiretroviral Therapy, Number of patients who did not miss any of their doses of antiretroviral therapy, Up to 24 months|Proportion of Patients Who Are Adherent to Chemotherapy, Patients who did not miss any doses of chemotherapy, Up to 18 weeks|Change in Absolute CD4 Count From Baseline to Post-treatment, Change in absolute CD4 count from baseline to post-treatment (visit 6), From baseline to 18 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the efficacy of standard cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and prednisone (CHOP) and an oral chemotherapy regimen for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related (AR)-non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in sub-Saharan Africa with respect to overall survival (OS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the objectives response rate (ORR) of persons randomized to CHOP and oral chemotherapy.

II. To compare the progression free survival (PFS) of persons randomized to CHOP and oral chemotherapy.

III. To compare the safety and tolerance of persons randomized to CHOP and oral chemotherapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the rates of completion of therapy of persons randomized to CHOP and oral chemotherapy.

II. To describe adherence to chemotherapy of persons randomized to CHOP and oral chemotherapy.

III. To describe adherence to antiretroviral therapy of persons randomized to CHOP and oral chemotherapy.

IV. To describe the effects of therapy on HIV control, as measured by cluster of differentiation (CD)4 counts and HIV viral load.

V. To investigate correlates of survival.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive CHOP chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on day 1, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1, vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive lomustine PO once daily (QD) on day 1 (courses 1 and 3 only), etoposide PO QD on days 1-3, cyclophosphamide PO QD on days 22-26, and procarbazine hydrochloride PO QD on days 22-26. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.