Efficacy Study of Ifabond in Breast Cancer Surgery
A randomized prospective simple-blind interventional study evaluating the efficacy of the synthetic adhesive solution "Ifabond", in patients undergoing breast cancer surgery. The main objective of this study is to determine if the application of Ifabond, in addition to the conventional method of breast surgery, reduces the postoperative seroma formation. The secondary objective is to assess quality of life immediately after surgery, and the need for needle aspiration of the axilla, when using Ifabond.
Breast Cancer|Lymphocele
DEVICE: IFABOND (TM)
Change in seroma formation, The volume of drain at Day 3 (or 7 in case of axillary lymph node dissection) post surgery will be documented, then patients will have an ultrasound exam at day 15 and day 30 (+or- 2 days) to measure seroma., Day 3 (or 7 in case of axillary lymph node dissection), day15 and day 30 post surgery
Change in discomfort alleged by the patient, Patients will be asked if they feel any discomfort in relation to seroma formation at Day 3 (or 7 in case of axillary lymph node dissection),day15 and day 30 (-or- 2 days) post surgery., day 3 (or 7), day 15 and day 30
Change in the number of needle aspiration required, The number of needle aspiration required at day 15 and day30 (-or- 2 days) post surgery will be documented., day 15 and day 30
Breast cancer patients will be selected at their preoperative visit with the surgeon, who will inform them about the study and answer their questions.

Patients who consent to participate will be randomized to one of two arms:

1. Arm A: Applying Ifabond
2. Arm B: Without Ifabond

Patients will be stratified according to these two criteria:

1. Axillary Lymph Node Dissection planned (ALND)
2. Body Mass Index (BMI)

The following parameters will be measured:

* ECOG status and Blood Pressure at day 3(day 7 in case of ALND), day 15 and day 30 post surgery
* Volume of drainage at day 3 and at (day 7 in case of ALND)post surgery
* Discomfort alleged by the patient at day 3(day 7 in case of ALND), day 15 and day 30 post surgery
* Lymphocele volume measured by ultrasound at day 15 and day 30 post surgery
* If the volume is ≥ 100cc, a needle aspiration will be performed, and the volume of aspirate will be documented.
* Adverse events and concomitant medications will be collected throughout the study until 30 days after the last ultrasound.