PLX3397, Radiation Therapy, and Antihormone Therapy in Treating Patients With Intermediate- or High-Risk Prostate Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor PLX3397 (PLX3397) when given together with radiation therapy and antihormone therapy in treating patients with prostate cancer that is at intermediate or high risk of spreading. Multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor PLX3397 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth, and may also help the radiation therapy work better. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Androgens can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Antihormone therapy, such as leuprolide acetate, goserelin acetate, or degarelix, may lessen the amount of androgens made by the body. Giving multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor PLX3397 with radiation therapy and antihormone therapy may be a better treatment for prostate cancer.
Stage I Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Antiandrogen Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Multitargeted Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor PLX3397|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Grade of specific types of toxicity, Frequency distributions will be generated by dose level, and overall., Up to 30 days after end of study treatment|MTD of multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor PLX3397, determined according to incidence of DLT, 4 months
Change in metabolic syndrome parameters, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the 7 metabolic syndrome parameters), and changes in them. These statistics will be calculated only for patients treated at the MTD, where the correlatives are measured, and will be generated for all 12 MTD patients combined, and separately by MTD randomization arm., Baseline to month 7|Change in PSA levels, PSA levels (and their change) will be tabulated for individual patients, regardless of dose level. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize PSA, and changes in it. Serial PSA levels will be displayed using spaghetti plots, and changes in PSA using waterfall plots., Baseline to up to month 7|Change TAM levels as measured by immunohistochemistry, Frequency distributions will be generated for patients treated at the MTD. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize all markers, and changes in them., Baseline to month 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To conduct a phase I, dose escalation trial with a primary objective of establishing the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the dose limiting toxicity (DLT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effects of radiation therapy (RT), androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), and PLX3397 (at its MTD) on tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in the prostate biopsy after treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor PLX3397.

Patients receive multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor PLX3397 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 6 months, undergo radiation therapy for 2 months daily (Monday-Friday) beginning at month 3, and undergo ADT with leuprolide acetate, goserelin acetate, or degarelix injections in any month.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 20-30 days and then every 12 weeks thereafter.