Phase I-II Study of Vorinostat, Paclitaxel, and Bevacizumab in Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat when given together with paclitaxel and bevacizumab and to see how well they work in treating patients with metastatic breast cancer and/or breast cancer that has recurred in the chest wall and cannot be removed by surgery. Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some find tumor cells and kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Others interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving vorinostat together with paclitaxel and bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.
Male Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: vorinostat|DRUG: paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab
Recommended Phase II Dose as Assessed by NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0 (Phase I), Dose-limiting toxcities (DLT) were defined as grade 3-4 febrile neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and non-hemtological toxicity attributed to therapy (nausea, vomiting and diarrhea would be considered dose limiting only if not adequately controlled with therapy). Any toxicity occurring during cycle 1 that resulted in dose reduction of vorinostat or paclitaxel or failure to complete all protocol specificed doses in the first cycle was also considered a DLT, 28 days|Objective Response Rate (CR + PR), Estimated and a 95% confidence interval will be estimated via binomial proportions. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) for target lesions and assessed by CT scan: Complete response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR+PR., Up to 12 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS),, Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formulae., From first treatment day until objective or symptomatic progression, assessed up to 12 months|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formulae. Time to treatment failure was not reported for this study., Time from the first treatment day until disease progression or discontinuation of treatment due to toxicity, assessed up to 12 months|Overall Survival(OS), Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formulae., Time from first treatment day until death, assessed up to 12 months
PRiMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase II dose of oral suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (vorinostat) in combination with weekly paclitaxel and bevacizumab in patients with chest wall recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. (Phase I) II. To determine the efficacy (response rate, response duration, time to disease progression, time to treatment failure, and overall survival) and toxicity of oral suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (vorinostat) in combination with weekly paclitaxel and bevacizumab in patients with chest wall recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether in vivo treatment with vorinostat induces a) acetylation of proteins including histone H3 and H4, b) ubiquitylation of proteins, and c) the levels of p21 and p27 levels in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pre treatment vs. cycle 1 day 2 after 3 VORINOSTAT doses but prior to paclitaxel.

II. To determine whether in vivo treatment with vorinostat induces a) acetylation of proteins including histone H3 and H4, ubiquitylation of proteins, and c) the levels of Bim, Bak, tBID, p21 and p27 levels, as well as down regulate Bcl-2, Bcl-xL and survivin in chest wall recurrent or metastatic breast cancer cells (pre treatment vs. cycle 1 day 2 after 3 vorinostat doses but prior to paclitaxel).

III. To determine whether in the primary breast cancer (and metastatic cancer if available) pretreatment levels of Her-2, Estrogen Receptor (ER)-alpha, Progesterone Receptor (PR), p21, p27, p-AKT, p-ERK1/2, HDAC1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 10 and SIRT2 levels predict for the response to treatment with VORINOSTAT plus paclitaxel.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, multicenter, dose-escalation study of vorinostat (SAHA) followed by a phase II, open-label study.

Phase I: Patients receive oral SAHA twice daily on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17, paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 2, 9, and 16, and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 2 and 16. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. The recommended phase II dose is defined as one dose level below the MTD.

Phase II: Patients receive SAHA at the recommended phase II dose and paclitaxel and bevacizumab as in phase I.