Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Anti-PD1 or Combinations for Locoregionally Advanced Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to determine if neoadjuvant (treatment before surgery) immunotherapy treatment based on tumor biomarkers results in better participant outcomes. Immunotherapy is the treatment of disease by using a person's own immune system.

This study is divided into 2 sub-studies/parts designated Part 1 and Part 2 that will enroll in sequence starting with Part 1 followed by Part 2.
Melanoma Stage III|Melanoma Stage IV|Advanced Melanoma|Melanoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Nivolumab + Relatlimab|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Pathologic Major Response (pMR), The pathologic response rate will be measured by evaluation of the residual viable tumor (RVT).

Pathologic Major Response (pMR) is defined as near complete response (pCR) measured as ≤10% RVT + complete response (pCR) measured as 0% RVT., Up to 36 Months
Preoperative Radiologic Response Rate, The Preoperative Radiologic Response Rate will be measured utilizing RECIST v.1.1., Up to 8 Weeks|Complete Pathologic Response Rate (pCR), The pathologic response rate will be measured by evaluation of the residual viable tumor (RVT).

Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) is defined as 0% RVT., Up to 36 Months|Partial Pathologic Response Rate (pPR), The pathologic response rate will be measured by evaluation of the residual viable tumor (RVT).

Pathologic Partial Response (pPR) is defined as 10-50% RVT., Up to 36 Months|Non-Response Pathologic Response Rate (pNR), The pathologic response rate will be measured by evaluation of the residual viable tumor (RVT).

Pathologic Non-Response (pNR) is defined as 50-100% RVT., Up to 36 Months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) will be measured from the date of start of treatment to the investigator-determined date of progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 36 Months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) will be measured from the initial date of study registration/randomization to the recorded date of death., Up to 36 Months
The purpose of this study is to determine if neoadjuvant (treatment before surgery) immunotherapy treatment based on tumor biomarkers results in better participant outcomes. Immunotherapy is the treatment of disease by using a person's own immune system.

This study is divided into 2 sub-studies/parts designated Part 1 and Part 2 that will enroll in sequence starting with Part 1 followed by Part 2.