Gemcitabine Plus Ascorbate for Sarcoma in Adults
This study will enroll patients who have a diagnosis of locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcoma (except gastrointestinal stromal tumors and Kaposi's sarcoma) from any site.
Sarcoma|Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Unresectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Metastatic Bone Tumor|Bone Sarcoma
DRUG: Ascorbate|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Tumor Response, From first day of treatment to documented disease progression as described by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Results are provided in nominal categories (CR, PR, SD, PD) as per RECIST., Every 2 months for first 6 months, then every 3 months up to 2 years post treatment
Progression Free Survival, Time from start of therapy (day 1, cycle 1) to documented disease progression or death due to any cause. Progression will be defined using the RECIST 1.1 guidelines. Results are provided in nominal categories (CR, PR, SD, PD) as per RECIST., Every 2 months for first 6 months, then every 3 months up to 2 years post treatment|Overall Survival, Time from start of therapy (day 1, cycle 1) to death., Every 2 months for first 6 months, then every 3 months up to 2 years post treatment|Incidence of Adverse Events (AE) Per CTCAE 4.03, Categorize and quantify adverse events from start of therapy (day 1, cycle 1) to end of study per (CTCAE) version 4.03., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
This study will enroll male and female patients 18 years old or older who have a diagnosis of locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcoma (except GIST and Kaposi's) from any site. A minimum of 1 prior chemotherapy regimen, including adjuvant and neo-adjuvant therapy for the treatment of sarcoma, must have been given. Patients eligible for an anthracycline should have received a prior anthracycline containing regimen. Patients who decline or are not eligible for anthracycline treatment may be considered for this protocol as a first line treatment. Patients with a diagnosis of liposarcoma should also have received eribulin.

During screening, subjects will receive a test dose (15g) of ascorbate. If the test dose results in any toxicity \>/= CTCAE grade 3 or a significant medical event in the opinion of the principal investigator, the patient will be considered a screen failure.

Subjects who pass screening will then receive ascorbate, 75g, on Days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15 and 16 of a 28-day cycle. Gemcitabine will be administered on Days 1, 8 and 15, after the infusion of ascorbate. Concomitant treatment will continue for at least 6 cycles. Patients whose disease has not progressed while receiving gemcitabine and ascorbate and who are tolerating therapy may continue either single agent gemcitabine or concomitant treatment beyond 6 cycles at the discretion of the investigator. Treatment will be terminated with progression of disease. Disease will be assessed by CT of the chest, abdomen and pelvis or MRI of the lesion every 2 cycles for progression.