Evaluate the Safety and Tolerability of JCXH-212 Monotherapy and Combined With Toripalimab in the Treatment of Malignant Solid Tumors
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of JCXH-212 monotherapy and combined with Toripalimab in patients with malignant solid tumors; to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and to evaluate the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of JCXH-212 monotherapy and combined with Toripalimab.
Malignant Solid Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: JCXH-212 Injection
dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Tolerability and safety analysis: determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and determine the escalation of the relevant dose. Incidence of DLTs was summarized overall and by dose level based on the DLT Analysis Set (DLTS)., Up to 21 days after first dose every subject|analysis of primary efficacy indicators, Efficacy analysis: In the study, correlation analysis will be performed between the main efficacy indicators and dose regimen in each dose group., At the end of the time 3-6 months after last subject last dose
exploratory analysis of changes in peripheral blood neoantigen-specific T cell responses before and after administration, Exploratory analysis: focus on describing changes in peripheral blood neoantigen-specific T cell responses before and after administration and the possible association or predictive role of such changes with treatment outcome, The day of administration of the last subject
This study uses 3+3 clinical design. About 12-24 patients with solid tumor malignancies are expected to be enrolled in this study.

For JCXH-212 monotherapy, 2 dose groups are set for dose escalation (100μg, 200μg). Doses were administered every 21 days, with a DLT observation period of 21 days after the first dose. After completion of DLT assessment, the investigator decided whether to continue the treatment after the end of DLT assessment based on the subject 's tolerance and the safety profile of the dose group. Subjects may continue to receive dosing if the investigator determines that the subject is benefiting from continued treatment. No more than 8 total doses of JCXH-212 will be administered.

For JCXH-212 combined with Toripalimab, 2 dose groups are set for dose escalation (100μg, 200μg of JCXH-212). JCXH-212 will be administered every 6 weeks, with a DLT observation period of 21 days after the first dose. Toripalimab (240mg per dose) will be administrated every 3 weeks. After completion of DLT assessment, the investigator decided whether to continue the treatment after the end of DLT assessment based on the subject 's tolerance and the safety profile of the dose group. Subjects may continue to receive JCXH-212 if the investigator determines that the subject is benefiting from continued treatment. No more than 8 total doses of JCXH-212 will be administered.