Aminolevulinic Acid in Visualizing a Tumor During Surgery in Patients With Glioblastoma Multiforme
The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and performance of an investigational agent, known as 5-ALA or Gliolan (aminolevulinic acid), that many be useful to a surgeon for visualizing a tumor during surgery. It is also being studied to determine if there are differences in what Gliolan shows a surgeon compared to intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
DRUG: aminolevulinic acid|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Change in Volume of Residual Enhancing Tumor, as Determined by Intraoperative Volume MRI at a Single Time Point Without and With Gadolinium, Following Maximal Resection With Use of Aminolevulinic Acid, Volume of enhancing tumor (initial and residual) will be determined by use of a softwarebased volumetric analysis method. Intra- and post-op definitions of residual tumor volume need to be adjusted for the presence of T1 hyperintensity due to signal from blood and blood products (as determined on pre-gadolinium volume study)., Day 1|Comparison Between the Volume of Resected Tissue (Defined as the Volume of the Resection Cavity) and the Pre-operative Enhancing Tumor Volume, Volume of enhancing tumor (initial and residual) will be determined by use of a software-based volumetric analysis method. Intra- and post-op definitions of residual tumor volume need to be adjusted for the presence of T1 hyperintensity due to signal from blood and blood products (as determined on pre-gadolinium volume study)., Up to day 1
Time to Disease Progression (TTP), Determined by Review of MRIs Performed Post Operatively as Clinically Indicated, Evaluated With Use of the New International Criteria Proposed by the Response in NeuroOncology (RANO) Committee, From the date of surgery with aminolevulinic acid to the date of progression, assessed up to 1 year|Overall Survival, by Periodic Follow up Review of the Patient Charts and by Correlation With the Social Security Death Index, From the date of surgery with aminolevulinic acid to the date of death, assessed up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the volume of residual enhancing tumor after a 5-ALA guided resection of a glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).

II. Determine the volume of tissue removed compared to the measured enhancing tumor evaluated on a pre-operative MRI.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the time to tumor progression. II. Evaluate the overall survival.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive aminolevulinic acid orally (PO) 2-4 hours before surgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 weeks.