A Phase 2 Trial for Men With Metastatic Prostatic Adenocarcinoma
This study seeks to estimate the occurrence of adverse events related to the study treatment (Cryosurgical freezing and Intratumoral Combination Immunotherapy), as well as determine the potential efficacy.
Metastatic Prostatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Opdivo Injectable Product|DRUG: Yervoy Injectable Product|DRUG: Cytoxan|PROCEDURE: Cryosurgical freezing (cryosurgery)
Primary endpoint: PSA decline, Primary Endpoint: Efficacy of cryosurgical freezing and intratumoral combination immunotherapy as determined by the proportion of patients achieving serum PSA decline from baseline of at least 50%., baseline to 8 weeks after end of treatment (approximately 6 months)
Efficacy of cryosurgical freezing and intratumoral combination immunotherapy iRECIST criteria, Efficacy of cryosurgical freezing and intratumoral combination immunotherapy as determined by iRECIST criteria. Overall response rate as determined by PCWG3 using iRECIST radiographic response., baseline to 8 weeks after end of treatment (approximately 6 months)
Efficacy of cryosurgical freezing and intratumoral combination immunotherapy RECIST 1.1 Criteria, Efficacy of cryosurgical freezing and intratumoral combination immunotherapy as determined by RECIST1.1 criteria. Overall response rate as determined by PCWG3 using RECIST1.1 radiographic response., baseline to 8 weeks after end of treatment (approximately 6 months); quarterly up to one year; and thereafter biannually for up to 2 more years.|Radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS), Radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS) rPFS as determined by PCWG3 with both RECISTS1.1 and iRECIST criteria., baseline to 8 weeks after end of treatment (approximately 6 months); quarterly up to one year; and thereafter biannually for up to 2 more years.|Best overall response of confirmed PR or CR by independent radiology review, Best overall response of confirmed PR or CR by independent radiology review, From signing of Informed Consent form, approximately every 4 weeks for the first 3 months; quarterly up to one year; and thereafter biannually for up to 2 more years.|Time to Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) progression (TTPP), Time to Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) progression (TTPP) Time to PSA progression is measured from the date of first study treatment until the date of PSA progression according to PCWG3 criteria., Baseline up to 8 weeks after last treatment; quarterly up to one year; and thereafter annually for up to 2 more years.|Overall survival, Overall survival: Number and percent of participants that are alive., 3 years|Incidence of AEs/SAEs, Incidence of AEs/SAEs: An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study treatment without regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE is an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity. Incidence was defined as the number of participants who experienced an adverse event within their period of participation in this study. Incidence of adverse events will be assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE)., baseline to 8 weeks after the last treatment; quarterly up to one year; and thereafter biannually for up to 2 more years.|Severity of AEs/SAEs, Severity of AEs/SAEs, baseline through 8 weeks after the last treatment; quarterly up to one year; and thereafter biannually for up to 2 more years.|Duration of AEs/SAEs, Duration of AEs/SAEs, baseline through 8 weeks after the last treatment; quarterly up to one year; and thereafter biannually for up to 2 more years.
Cryosurgical freezing will release intact antigens to prime the immune system. The study treatment immunotherapeutic drugs (PD-1 inhibitor monoclonal antibody nivolumab and anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody ipilimumab, and cyclophosphamide) will then be sequentially injected directly into the cancer immediately following cryosurgical freezing. Oral low-dose cyclophosphamide will also be administered subsequently. It is speculated that neoantigens released from the cryoablated necrotic cancer will be available in the vicinity of the cryosurgical freezing field immediately following the procedure. Immature dendritic cells attracted to the injection site will internalize neoantigens to become activated to recognize cancer-specific antigenic proteins. The activated dendritic cells will recruit killer T-cells to the injection site to attack cancer cells, and then migrate through the lymphatic system to sites of metastases, targeting cancer-specific neoantigens and recruiting more killer T-lymphocytes to destroy other cancer cells harboring the precise antigenic epitopes (abscopal (bystander) effect). In this way, dendritic cells are capable of initiating cell-mediated systemic immune response in combination with cytotoxic killer T-cells. Regulatory T lymphocytes, which have been implicated in dampening or halting cell-mediated, antigen-specific immune responses, will be selectively depleted by anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibodies and low-dose cyclophosphamide. Intratumoral injection of the immunotherapeutic medications assists in stimulating and harnessing the local and systemic immune response. Oral cyclophosphamide prolongs the immune response. Using this combination of therapies, referred to as AbscopalRx1001, it is thought that a clinically significant systemic anti-cancer immune response might be elicited. Intratumoral injection of drugs will likely offer fewer side effects than systemic therapy.