Testing of the Addition of a New Anti-cancer Drug, Molibresib, to Chemotherapy Treatment (Etoposide and Cisplatin) for Patients With NUT Carcinoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of molibresib when given together with chemotherapy (etoposide and cisplatin) and how well they work for the treatment of NUT cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Molibresib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the proteins needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as etoposide and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Adding molibresib to chemotherapy (etoposide and cisplatin), may work better in treating patients with NUT cancer compared to the usual approach.
Metastatic NUT Carcinoma|Unresectable NUT Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Etoposide Phosphate|DRUG: Molibresib|DRUG: Molibresib Besylate
Incidence of adverse events (Phase I), Assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (V.) 5.0 criteria., Up to 21 days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) (Phase I), The MTD will be the highest dose level at which 0/3 or 1/6 subjects experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies, percentages for discrete variables, and presented by dose group, as appropriate., Up to 21 days|Overall response rate (ORR) (Phase II), Radiological response will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria and will be graded as CR, PR, SD and PD. Point estimates and exact binomial 90% confidence intervals will be provided., Up to 2 years
Overall response rate (ORR) (Phase I, Phase II, and Non-BRD4 Exploratory Cohort), Radiological response will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and will be graded as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD). Point estimates and exact binomial 90% confidence intervals will be provided., Up to 2 years|Duration of response (DoR) rates (Phase I, Phase II, and Non-BRD4 Exploratory Cohort), The method of Kaplan and Meier will be used to estimate duration of response in those that achieve PR or CR., From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 2 years|Progression free survival (Phase I, Phase II, and Non-BRD4 Exploratory Cohort), From study enrollment until the identification of disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS) rates (Phase I, Phase II, and Non-BRD4 Exploratory Cohort), The method of Kaplan and Meier will be used to estimate overall survival in all patients., Up to 2 years|Pharmacodynamic parameters (Phase I, Phase II, and Non-Thoracic, Non-BRD4 Exploratory Cohort), Will be compared to those in pre-treatment biopsies using paired statistics such as the Wilcoxon signed-rank test., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of molibresib besylate (molibresib \[GSK525762C\]) with etoposide phosphate (etoposide) and cisplatin (EP) in patients with NUT carcinoma (NC). (Phase I) II. Evaluate the overall objective response rate (ORR) of the triplet combination in participants utilizing Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the preliminary progression-free survival (PFS) rate, ORR, duration of response (DoR), and overall survival (OS) rate of the triplet combination in participants utilizing RECIST version 1.1 criteria. (Phase I) II. Determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of the triplet combination. (Phase I) III. Determine the PFS, DoR, and OS rates of the triplet in participants with NC using RECIST version 1.1 criteria. (Phase II) IV. Confirm the safety and tolerability of the regimen in this patient population. (Phase II) V. Evaluate the preliminary PFS rate, ORR, DoR, and the OS rate of GSK525762C monotherapy in a small exploratory cohort of patients with non-thoracic origin, non-BRD4-NUT NC. (Phase II) VI. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory cohort) VII. Explore potential biomarker indicators of response and resistance in tumor tissue samples. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory cohort)

VIII. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES) and messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq), in order to:

VIIIa. Identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers beyond any genomic alteration by which treatment may be assigned. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory cohort) VIIIb. Identify resistance mechanisms using genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)- and RNA-based assessment platforms. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory cohort) IX. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current and future research. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory cohort) X. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory cohort)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of molibresib besylate followed by a phase II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

PHASE I AND II COHORT: Patients receive molibresib besylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 (may switch to days 1-21 after completion of etoposide and cisplatin cycles). Patients also receive etoposide phosphate intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1-3 and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-4. Treatments repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of cycle 4, patients may receive etoposide phosphate and cisplatin for up to 8 cycles total in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity at the investigator's discretion.

Non-BRD4 EXPLORATORY COHORT: Patients receive molibresib besylate PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who experience disease progression may receive molibresib besylate, etoposide phosphate and cisplatin as in Phase I and II Cohort at the discretion of the principal investigator.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 4 weeks for up to 2 years.