Exercise in Improving Health and Quality of Life in Breast Cancer Survivors
This randomized pilot trial studies how well exercise works in improving health and quality of life in breast cancer survivors. Participating in an exercise program to maintain physical activity may help to improve health and quality of life in breast cancer survivors.
Invasive Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Best Practice|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention (home walking program and resistance training)|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention (home-based Zumba program and resistance training)|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention (HIIT program and resistance training)|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DEVICE: Monitoring Device|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Proportion of randomized patients who are still on study at the end of the 12 week intervention, The feasibility outcomes will be assessed by a multivariable logistic regression model for the relative odds of remaining on the study (ref: not). Each of the active treatment arms will be compared to the control. The model will be supported by the randomized patient set, counting patients who withdraw from the study as feasibility failures. No variable selection steps will be taken; inferences will be based on the estimates and 95% confidence intervals from the full model. Optimism adjusted odds ratio estimates will also be reported, to better inform design of future studies., At 12 weeks
Adherence rate in each of the active intervention arms, Will be defined as the proportion of patients on study after 12 weeks who complete ≥ 80% of the intervention activities. One-sided 90% Jeffrey's confidence limits will define a plausible lower limit on the range of values for true (unobserved) feasibility rate for each arm., Up to 12 weeks
Cardiovascular fitness, Will determine how it's affected by a 12 week exercise intervention and how it differs by type of intervention program., At baseline and 12 weeks|Body composition, Will determine how it's affected by a 12 week exercise intervention and how it differs by type of intervention program., At baseline and 12 weeks|Quality of life, Will determine how it's affected by a 12 week exercise intervention and how it differs by type of intervention program. Will be assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy, Breast (FACTB+4)., At baseline and 12 weeks|Cognitive function, Will determine how it's affected by a 12 week exercise intervention and how it differs by type of intervention program., At baseline and 12 weeks|Stress and immune function biomarkers, Will determine how it's affected by a 12 week exercise intervention and how it differs by type of intervention program., At baseline and 12 weeks|Mitochondrial function, Will determine how it's affected by a 12 week exercise intervention and how it differs by type of intervention program., At baseline and 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the feasibility of conducting a 12-week preference option randomized exercise intervention program in breast cancer survivors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the adherence rate of each of the four 12-week intervention programs by breast cancer survivors in a randomized treatment arm and a patient preference arm.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized into 1 of 5 arms.

ARM I: Participants wear Fitbit, receive home-based DVD containing instructions to warm-up and cool-down, and walk 10000 steps per day over 12 weeks in order to achieve the 150 minutes per week of moderate intensity exercise. Participants also undergo resistance training by watching the illustration video and completing 6 total blocks of 2-week per block exercise using the Thera-BandR exercise bands.

ARM II: Participants wear Fitbit and receive a XBOX system and the video game to strive for at least 3 50-minute medium or high intensity classes per week over 12 weeks. Participants may also take 20-minute classes or a mixture of 50- and 20-minute classes to meet the target. Participants undergo resistance training as in Arm I.

ARM III: Participants wear Fitbit and attend supervised High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) exercise sessions 3 days per week over 12 weeks. Participants undergo resistance training as in Arm I.

ARM IV: Participants wear Fitbit and attend supervised moderate intensity walking sessions weekly for 50-60 each over 12 weeks. Participants undergo resistance training as in Arm I.

ARM V: Participants wear Fitbit and continue their usual physical activity over 12 weeks.

After completion of study intervention, participants are followed up at 2 weeks and 1 month.