Nab-paclitaxel and Carboplatin Followed by Response-Based Local Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or IV HPV-Related Oropharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial studies nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) and carboplatin followed by response-based local therapy in treating patients with stage III or IV human papillomavirus (HPV)-related oropharyngeal cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, carboplatin, hydroxyurea, fluorouracil, paclitaxel, and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. Giving nab-paclitaxel and carboplatin before chemoradiation may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of chemotherapy and radiation therapy needed. Assigning chemotherapy and radiation therapy based on response (response-based therapy) and giving patients who are responding well lower doses of treatment may help reduce the occurrence of side effects.
Human Papilloma Virus Infection|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx
DRUG: paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation|DRUG: carboplatin|RADIATION: radiation therapy|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: hydroxyurea|DRUG: cisplatin|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Evaluated Using RECIST Version (v) 1.1, If all patients are followed for two years, the PFS rate and confidence interval will be determined based on the exact binomial distribution. Otherwise, PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and a (large-sample) one-sided 90% confidence interval will be derived for the PFS rate at two years to test the non-inferiority hypothesis. Median PFS will be estimated as described in Brookmeyer and Crowley., Time from enrollment until disease progression or death from any cause, assessed at 2 years
Rate of Pathologic Complete Response (PCR) on Post Treatment Biopsy/Surgery, Evaluated Using RECIST v1.1, Pathologic response rates will be determined and 95% confidence intervals obtained using the exact binomial distribution., Up to 8 weeks after completion of CRT|Clinical Complete Response by Computerized Tomography (CT) & Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Only, Clinical response rates will be determined and 95% confidence intervals obtained using the exact binomial distribution., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival rate, From the date of registration to the date of death or date of last patient contact if censored, assessed up to 5 years|Cancer-specific Survival, Overall Cancer-specific survival rate. Patients dying from non-cancer related causes will be censored at the time of death., Up to 5 years|Rates of Acute Toxicity, Determined by Incidence of Mucositis, Xerostomia, Anorexia, Weight Loss, Dermatitis and G-tube Placement, Toxicity rates will be summarized by type of toxicity, grade, and attribution. The incidence of acute (mucositis, xerostomia, anorexia, weight loss, dermatitis and G-tube placement) toxicities will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals. Toxicity criteria of the Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) and the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) will be used to determine grades. General CTC grade definitions: 0 = No adverse event or within normal limits; 1 = Mild adverse event; 2 = Moderate adverse event; 3 = Severe and undesirable adverse event; 4 = Life-threatening or disabling adverse event; 5 = Death related to adverse event. For Mucous, 3 = Confluent fibrinous, mucositis / may include severe pain requiring narcotic; 4 = Ulceration, hemorrhage or necrosis. For neutropenia, 3 = Neutrophils 0.5 - \< 1.0; 4 = Neutrophils \< 0.5 or sepsis., Up to 5 years|Rates of Late Toxicity, Determined by Incidence of Xerostomia, Dental Decay, Osteroradionecrosis, G-tube Dependency, Tracheostomy Placement and Dysphagia, Toxicity rates will be summarized by type of toxicity, grade, and attribution. The incidence of late-term (xerostomia, dental decay, osteroradionecrosis, G-tube dependency, speech abnormalities, tracheostomy placement and dysphagia) toxicities will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 5 years
Histologic Appearance of Post-induction Tumor Tissue, Results of pathology/histologic review of post induction biopsy specimens will be descriptive and summarize in tabular format., Up to 3 months post-treatment|Histologic Appearance of Post-CRT Tumor Tissue, Results of pathology/histologic review of post induction biopsy specimens will be descriptive and summarize in tabular format., Up to 3 months post-treatment|Changes in Reactive T Cells, Changes in reactive T cells over time will be assessed using mixed effects models and simple paired t-tests., Baseline to up to 2 months after radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Clinical complete response rate (nab-paclitaxel based induction, compared to European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition \[EPIC\] induction \[paclitaxel based\]).

II. Response rate (nab-paclitaxel based induction, compared to EPIC induction \[paclitaxel based\]).

III. Proportion of patients with \>= 50% shrinkage by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) (nab-paclitaxel based induction, compared to EPIC induction, paclitaxel based).

IV. Toxicity (nab-paclitaxel based induction, compared to EPIC induction \[paclitaxel based\]).

V. To assess swallowing function and speech at 6 months (mos) and 12 mos post therapy.

VI. To determine the rates of late toxicity with chemoradiation following surgery as determined by xerostomia, dental decay, osteroradionecrosis, G-tube dependency, tracheostomy placement and dysphagia.

VII. 2-year overall survival (OS) in patients treated on the Low-Risk, Intermediate-Risk Arm, and High-Risk Arms.

VIII. 2-year PFS in patients treated on the Low-Risk, Intermediate-Risk Arm, and High-Risk Arms - early and late toxicities.

IX. Evaluate need for post radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy (RT/CRT) surgery on low- and intermediate-risk arms based on response from induction chemotherapy.

X. Evaluate in a descriptive manner the role of transoral robotic surgery (TORS) resection/lymph node dissection (LND) when integrated into a de-escalation trial.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate pathologic/histologic appearance of tumor after induction chemotherapy and after CRT.

II. Translational research on blood and tissue samples. III. To profile tumors genetically and immunologically in order to assess in a descriptive manner genetic or immunological features characteristic of clinical behavior.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: All patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are then assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups based on response to induction chemotherapy.

GROUP A (LOW-DOSE ARM): Patients undergo radiation therapy once daily for 5 weeks.

GROUP B (INTERMEDIATE-DOSE ARM): Patients receive hydroxyurea orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 0-5, fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-5, and paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive low-dose radiation therapy BID on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP C (STANDARD-DOSE ARM): Patients receive hydroxyurea PO BID on days 0-5, fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-5, and paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive standard-dose radiation therapy BID on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.\*

\*NOTE: At the discretion of the principal investigator (PI), patients may receive cisplatin IV over 1-3 hours every 3 weeks during radiation therapy instead of paclitaxel and undergo daily radiation therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 2 years.