Glofitamab With Pirtobrutinib for Relapsed or Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial tests the safety and effectiveness of glofitamab given in combination with pirtobrutinib in treating patients with mantle cell lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Glofitamab and obinutuzumab are monoclonal antibodies that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Obinutuzumab may also reduce the risk of immune-related conditions from treatment. Pirtobrutinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of the protein that signals cancer cells to multiply. Giving glofitamab in combination with pirtobrutinib may be safe, tolerable and/or effective in treating patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: Glofitamab|DRUG: Pirtobrutinib|PROCEDURE: Tumor Imaging|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DEVICE: ClonoSeq Assay|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy
Percentage of participants with high grade, treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs), The severity of the toxicities will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0. AEs and clinically significant laboratory abnormalities meeting grade 3 4 or 5 will be summarized by maximum intensity and relationship to study drug., Up to 2 cycles (a cycle is 21 days)|Proportion of participants with Complete Response (CR), CR will be defined as the proportion of treated participants who experience a CR per Lugano criteria among evaluable participants. The Lugano classification recommends the Deauville five-point scale for reporting response by FDG PET-CT: (1) no uptake or no residual uptake (when used interim) (2) slight uptake, but below blood pool (mediastinum) (3) uptake above mediastinal, but below or equal to uptake in the liver (4) uptake slightly to moderately higher than liver (5) markedly increased uptake or any new lesion (on response evaluation)., Up to 2 years
Median Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time that elapses between initiation of trial therapy and the earlier of the day of first documented disease progression or death from any cause. Progression is defined by Lugano criteria of (1) new or increased adenopathy; an individual node must be abnormal with: (a) longest transverse diameter (LDi) \>1.5 cm AND (2) splenic volume increase (3) new or larger non-measured lesions (4) recurrent previously resolved lesions (5) new extranodal lesion \>1 cm in any axis (new lesions \<1 cm in any axis are included if these are "unequivocally attributable" to lymphoma) (6) a new node \>1.5 cm in any axis . PFS will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS will be defined as the time that elapses between the initiation of trial therapy and the date of death from any cause for all evaluable participants. OS will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), OR will be defined as the proportion of treated patients who experience an objective response (CR or partial response (PR) per Lugano criteria) among evaluable patients., Up to 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be defined as the time that elapses between the day of first documented response to trial therapy (CR or PR, whichever is first recorded) and subsequent disease progression., Up to 2 years|Proportion of participants with complete response without measurable disease (CRMRD), CRMRD will be defined as the achievement of =\< 1 x 10-6 malignant cells in peripheral blood, as assessed by ClonoSEQ assay in a participant who meets all other criteria for CR., At cycle 13, day 1 (a cycle is 21 days)|Median Time to CRMRD, Time to CRMRD will calculate the time that elapses between the initiation of trial therapy and the day of first documented CRMRD and summarized using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Median Treatment-free interval, Treatment-free interval will be defined as the time that elapses from CRMRD status to the time of recurrence and summarized using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the safety and tolerability of the combination of glofitamab and pirtobrutinib in the first six patients enrolled.

II. To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of glofitamab and pirtobrutinib in patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) as measured by complete response rate.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of glofitamab and pirtobrutinib in patients with relapsed or refractory MCL as measured by progression-free survival and overall survival.

II. To characterize the magnitude and duration of anti-tumor activity by objective response rate and duration of response.

III. To characterize the safety and tolerability of the combination of glofitamab and pirtobrutinib.

IV. To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of glofitamab and pirtobrutinib in patients with relapsed or refractory MCL as measured by complete response without measurable disease (CRMRD-) rate.

V. To evaluate the time-to-complete response without measurable residual disease (CRMRD-).

VI. To evaluate the treatment-free interval among patients who discontinue treatment following CRMRD- status.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore associations between baseline tumor characteristics including genetic (e.g. mutations in BTK) and immune profiles (e.g. expression of co-inhibitory receptors and T cell phenotypes) and outcomes in patients administered the combination of glofitamab and pirtobrutinib.

II. To explore the effects of the combination of glofitamab and pirtobrutinib on pharmacodynamic markers relating to drug mechanism (e.g. emergence of clones with mutations conferring resistance to the study combination).

III. To estimate the quality of life of participants during therapy with glofitamab and pirtobrutinib.

IV. To explore time-to-CRMRD- during therapy with glofitamab and pirtobrutinib.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 2 of cycle 1 for a total of 2 doses. Patients receive glofitamab IV on days 8 and 15 of cycle 1 and day 1 of remaining cycles. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive pirtobrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) at screening, after every 4 cycles through cycle 13 and then after every 6 cycles. Patients additionally undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) at screening, a bone marrow biopsy and aspiration at cycle 13 and blood sample collection at screening and throughout study. Additionally, patients may undergo a tissue biopsy at relapse or progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years from the start of treatment.