The Optimization of Antiemetic Regimen for C-RINV in LA-HNSCCs
This study sought to investigate the efficacy and safety of a three-drug combination antiemetic regimen of olanzapine combined with aprepitant and palonosetron for the prevention of chemoradiotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Nausea|Vomiting|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Radiotherapy Side Effect
DRUG: Olanzapine
Nausea-free response rate, The percentage of patients with no nausea (Visual Analogue Scale score 0) during concurrent chemotherapy., Up to 6.5 weeks
Emesis-free response rate, The percentage of patients with no emetic episodes during concurrent chemotherapy., Up to 6.5 weeks|Complete response rate, The percentage of patients with no emetic episodes and no use of rescue medication during concurrent chemotherapy., Up to 6.5 weeks|Complete protection rate, The percentage of patients with no emetic episodes, no use of rescue medication and significant nausea (Visual Analogue Scale score ≤25【0-100mm】), Up to 6.5 weeks|The rate of no significant nausea, The percentage of patients with no significant nausea (Visual Analogue Scale score ≤25【0-100mm】), Up to 6.5 weeks
Intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) combined with high-dose cisplatin is the standard treatment for locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Previous clinical studies of concurrent chemoradiotherapy have shown that the incidence of nausea and vomiting after treatment with 5-HT3RA and dexamethasone is about 40%. Nausea and vomiting seriously affect the patient's treatment tolerance and quality of life. In our previous prospective phase 2 study (NCT03572829), the triple antiemetic regimen of NK-1R antagonist (aprepitant), dexamethasone and ondansetron was firstly used in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma who received concurrent chemoradiotherapy. the primary endpoint-complete response rate was 86%, and the incidence of no vomiting was 88.4%, which was better than the data previously reported in the literatures. The incidence of no nausea was only 60.5%, and the hiccup caused by dexamethasone was as high as 16%. And with the confirmation of the efficacy of immunotherapy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, the use of dexamethasone may reduce immunotherapy. Therefore, it is necessary to further optimize the antiemetic regimen. In recent years, a number of randomized studies have confirmed that the addition of olanzapine can reduce the incidence of nausea and increase the complete response rate of high emetic chemotherapy. Other randomized studies have shown that in patients with malignant tumors (including head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and esophageal cancer) receiving concurrent chemoradiotherapy, the NK-1R antagonist was changed to olanzapine on the basis of the original triple regimen, which significantly redeced the incidence of nausea.

Therefore, on the basis of previous studies, this study intends to conduct a prospective, single-arm phase II study to explore the efficacy and safety of olanzapine combined with aprepitant and palonosetron in the prevention of nausea and vomiting in patients with locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma receiving IMRT and concurrent chemotherapy..