Does Treatment of Androgen Excess Using Spironolactone Improve Ovulatory Rates in Girls With Androgen Excess?
Adolescent girls with androgen excess have a higher rate of irregular periods and decreased ovulation rates compared to normal girls, and are considered at-risk for developing polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). This pilot study will look at whether giving spironolactone might improve ovulation rates in girls with androgen excess, ages 13-19. If this is true, spironolactone treatment to young girls might prevent PCOS from developing and avoid future infertility.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Puberty Disorders|Ovulation Disorder
DRUG: Spironolactone
Ovulation Rate Changes, Ovulation rate during and after spironolactone compared to before medication. Ovulation will be counted based on salivary progesterone levels. The rate of ovulation will be defined as the number of ovulatory cycles per 100 days of follow-up., Rates of ovulation during weeks 17-32 (on medication) and weeks 33-48 (after medication) compared to weeks 1-16 (baseline, prior to medication)
Menstrual Regularity Changes, Menstrual length during and after spironolactone compared to before medication. Changes in menstrual regularity will be assessed using inter-menstrual interval (IMI), IMI for weeks 1-16 (before medication, baseline), weeks 17-32 (on medication), and weeks 33-52 (after medication)|Acne, Changes in acne before vs. after spironolactone treatment assessed using the Global Acne Grading System, weeks 16 and 32|Hirsutism, Changes in hirsutism before vs. after spironolactone assessed using a modified Ferriman-Gallwey scoring system, weeks 16 and 32
This is a non-randomized, clinical pilot study testing whether 16 weeks of spironolactone improves ovulation rates in post-menarcheal girls with androgen excess. The investigators will recruit girls ages 13-19 with clinical or biochemical androgen excess (defined as hirsutism and/or elevated Tanner stage-specific free testosterone concentrations) who are 4 to 6 years post-menarche. Girls will keep a menstrual diary and collect twice weekly saliva samples for progesterone and estradiol for 16 weeks before and for 16 weeks during spironolactone (if ≤ 60 kg, 50 mg twice daily; if \> 60 kg, 100 mg twice daily \[1.7-3.3 mg/kg/24 hr\]) use. Girls will be asked to continue to collect saliva twice weekly for progesterone and estradiol testing for an additional 16 weeks after discontinuation of spironolactone and to continue menstrual diaries off of study medication for 12 additional months to assess persistence of any spironolactone effect. Ovulation events will be counted per 100 days based on definitive rises in salivary progesterone. The primary outcome will be changes in ovulation rate during spironolactone use compared to baseline. Changes in menstrual regularity via inter-menstrual interval will also be assessed as a secondary outcome of spironolactone administration. Another secondary outcome will be changes in acne and/or hirsutism.