Evidence-informed Choice for Women Participating in Mammography Screening
Study objectives: to evaluate the effects of information about benefits and risks of mammography screening on participants in terms of knowledge, attitude, rates of uptake, fear of cancer, anxiety, and conflict decision. Study hypothesis: information about benefit and risks of mammography screening increases the women´s knowledge of it; allows women to make an informed decision on whether to stop or continue the screening program, changing the actual participation rate; anxiety and fear are not increased. Design: randomized controlled clinical trial with non-pharmacological intervention. Subjects and setting of study: women referred to mammography screening in the District Bay of Cádiz-La Janda. Interventions: random assignment of women in two arms according to the information provided. Control arm is the standard information; it consists of receiving information normally provided to women attending the screening program for breast cancer. Intervention arm is the experimental information and consists of receiving accurate verbal and written information about the benefits and real risks of mammography screening programs by a physician investigator. Determinations: knowledge, attitude, rates of uptake, fear of cancer, anxiety, and conflict decision.
Early Detection of Cancer
OTHER: Information
Change from baseline in knowledge of women participating in the screening program, The primary outcome measure is the level of knowledge obtained in a specific questionnaire, in which there are 7 questions, of which 3 are quantitative with no assumptions and are scored with 2 points. There are also 4 qualitative questions that have 3 assumptions which are scored with 1 point. The maximum score is 10 and minimum 0. It is considered that a woman has made a choice based on adequate knowledge if she gets a score of 6 or more., Before randomization (baseline) and one month later
Attitudes, intention to participate, fear and anxiety of women participating in the screening program, The investigators will investigate whether the attitudes of women towards mammography screening are positive or negative. They will respond to 4 questions that are scored from 0 to 6. To know their decision whether to participate in mammography screening they will answer "I am determined to participate" "I am determined not to participate" and "I am undecided". Effective participation will be investigated 2 years later. The level of anxiety and fear of cancer will be measured by "Hospital Anxiety and depression" scale., Before randomization (baseline) and one month later. Two years later, women will be called to the follow-up mammography. At this time the real choice taken by woman will be investigated
Study objectives: to evaluate the effects of information about benefits and risks of mammography screening on participants in terms of knowledge, attitude, rates of uptake, fear of cancer, anxiety, and conflict decision. Study hypothesis: information about benefit and risks of mammography screening increases the women´s knowledge of it; allows women to make an informed decision on whether to stop or continue the screening program, changing the actual participation rate; anxiety and fear are not increased. Design: randomized controlled clinical trial with non-pharmacological intervention. Subjects and setting of study: women referred to mammography screening in the District Bay of Cádiz-La Janda. Interventions: random assignment of women in two arms according to the information provided. Control arm is the standard information; it consists of receiving information normally provided to women attending the screening program for breast cancer. Intervention arm is the experimental information and consists of receiving accurate verbal and written information about the benefits and real risks of mammography screening programs by a physician investigator. Determinations: knowledge, attitude, rates of uptake, fear of cancer, anxiety, and conflict decision.