Trial Comparing 19 and 25G Needles for Fine Needle Aspiration (FNA) of Solid Pancreatic Mass Lesions Greater Than 35mm
This study will test two different needles for performing a biopsy of the pancreas during endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) procedures. Patients who are asked to participate in this study have a growth in the pancreas measuring greater than 35mm that needs a biopsy so that a diagnosis can be made. The biopsy can be performed using either a 19 or 25-Gauge needle. The purpose of this study is to compare which of the two needles is better for performing biopsies of the pancreas on masses that are greater than 35mm.
Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: biopsy with 19 gauge needle|PROCEDURE: biopsy with 25 gauge needle
Number of passes, The use of a 19G FNA needle reduces the number of passes required to establish a diagnosis in pancreatic tumors that are greater than 35mm in size. This translates to less sedation, faster patient recovery, better safety and time efficiency., Up to 12 months
Rate of Complication, To compare the rate of complications associated with the 19G and 25G needles when sampling pancreatic tumors greater than 35mm in size.

Also, the rate of needle dysfunction will be compared. Needle dysfunction is defined as, the need to use more than one needle per pancreatic tumor in an individual patient., Up to 12 months
Endoscopic Ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) can be performed using the 25, 22 or 19 gauge (G) needles. Randomized trials have shown that all three needles are safe and perform equally well. However, in a retrospective study, the diagnostic sensitivity of EUS-FNA for pancreatic masses that measured more than 35mm was less compared to smaller size masses. This is because larger size tumors have more necrosis and it is difficult to identify cancer cells in them to make a diagnosis. Therefore, more biopsies must be performed in larger size tumors to establish a diagnosis. In previous studies it has been shown that the larger 19G needles procure larger and better quality tissue. Therefore, our hypothesis is that, when a larger 19G needle is used to FNA tumors more than 35mm, a diagnosis can be achieved with fewer passes.