Additional Chemotherapy for EGFRm Patients with the Continued Presence of Plasma CtDNA EGFRm At Week 3 After Start of Osimertinib 1st-line Treatment (PACE-LUNG)
PACE is a prospective multicenter single-arm investigator-initiated phase II trial that examines the value of a treatment escalation strategy by the addition of platinum-based doublet chemotherapy to osimertinib in patients with treatment-naïve NSCLC harboring L858R or del19 EGFR mutation who are suspected to have poor response upon single-agent TKI treatment.
NSCLC Stage IIIB|NSCLC Stage IV
DRUG: Osimertinib|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Progression Free Survival (PFS1), Progression Free Survival using investigator assessments according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST 1.1) defined as number of months from first dose of chemotherapy until last follow-up, PD, death or withdrawal of consent., 2 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS0), Progression Free Survival using investigator assessments according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST 1.1) defined as number of months from first dose of osimertinib until last follow-up, PD, death or withdrawal of consent., for a minimum of 24 months from inclusion|Overall Survival (OS1), OS1 Survival will be calculated from the first dose of chemotherapy until the date of death from any cause. If no event is observed (e.g. lost to follow-up) OS is censored at the day of last subject contact., for a minimum of 24 months from inclusion|Overall Survival (OS0), OS0 Survival will be calculated from the date of start of osimertinib until the date of death from any cause. If no event is observed (e.g. lost to follow-up) OS is censored at the day of last subject contact., for a minimum of 24 months from inclusion|Incidence of treatment related Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Frequency and severity of Adverse Events, grading according to CTCAE V5.0, up to 16 weeks from start of study treatment|Measurement of Quality of Life with PRO-CTCAE. questionnaire, Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) minimum value: not at all (1); maximum value: severe (5); higher scores mean a worse outcome, up to 16 weeks from start of study treatment|Measurement of Quality of Life with EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) minimum value: not at all (1); maximum value: very much (4); higher scores mean a worse outcome, up to 16 weeks from start of study treatment
Hypothesize, that in patients with on-label osimertinib 1st-line treatment of stage IIIB or IV NSCLC, a biomarker-driven escalation of osimertinib therapy with a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen will effectively enhance PFS and subsequently OS. Lack of EGFRm clearance after an osimertinib treatment period of 3 weeks as assessed by liquid biopsy will be used to predict sub-optimal response. In these patients, treatment will be escalated after approx. 7 weeks of on-label osimertinib monotherapy by adding up to 4 cycles of a combination regimen of pemetrexed and cisplatin or carboplatin. Patients with complete EGFR plasma clearance will continue to receive standard of care osimertinib and will not be eligible for the study. Primary outcome measure will be PFS, which will be compared to historical data on TKI monotherapy from persistent EGFR shedder from the FLAURA trial.