Comparison of Open Laparoscopic and Robotic Surgery in Gastric Cancer Resection.
Gastric cancer is a common gastrointestinal tumor, and surgical operation is still the main method of gastric cancer treatment. Reported for the first time since 1994, the laparoscopic gastric cancer radical prostatectomy, laparoscopic technique is widely applied in the field of gastrointestinal surgery, has gradually replaced the traditional open operation as the main mode of surgical treatment for gastric cancer. Although laparoscopy has many advantages, there are still disadvantages, such as the discomfort of the physician, the reverse operation, and the ease of shaking, which hinder the application of laparoscopy. In recent years, the Da Vinci robot assisted gastric resection has become a new way to treat gastric cancer. Compared with the traditional laparoscopy and laparotomy, the operation of the robot is more precise and flexible, with obvious advantages of minimally invasive and good application value and prospect. The aim of the study is to compare value (outcomes/costs) of surgery in patients with Gastric Cancer by 3 approaches: open, laparoscopic, and robotic.First of all, the investigators will collect 500 cases of Gastric Cancer patients, randomly assigned for the open, laparoscopic, and robotic group. Secondly, to analyzing the demographic data,basic treatment and follow-up data, including the operation time, blood loss, the number of cut edge positive, the distances of cut edge away from the tumor edge, the cases of anastomotic fistula bleeding, stenosis, average such confinement, the meal time, cost of treatment, tumor recurrence rate, the presence of residual stomach, upset stomach and frequency, reflux esophagitis, bile reflux gastritis and other indicators.
Stomach Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: laparotomy|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic|PROCEDURE: Robotic
Tumor recurrence rate, 2 years|cost of treatment, 2 years
the operation time, one hour-six hours
the all number of postoperative complications（ frequency,reflux esophagitis and bile reflux gastritis）, 2 years
Gastric cancer is a common gastrointestinal tumor, and surgical operation is still the main method of gastric cancer treatment. Reported for the first time since 1994, the laparoscopic gastric cancer radical prostatectomy, laparoscopic technique is widely applied in the field of gastrointestinal surgery, has gradually replaced the traditional open operation as the main mode of surgical treatment for gastric cancer. Although laparoscopy has many advantages, there are still disadvantages, such as the discomfort of the physician, the reverse operation, and the ease of shaking, which hinder the application of laparoscopy. In recent years, the Da Vinci robot assisted gastric resection has become a new way to treat gastric cancer. Compared with the traditional laparoscopy and laparotomy, the operation of the robot is more precise and flexible, with obvious advantages of minimally invasive and good application value and prospect. The aim of the study is to compare value (outcomes/costs) of surgery in patients with Gastric Cancer by 3 approaches: open, laparoscopic, and robotic.First of all, the investigators will collect 500 cases of Gastric Cancer patients, randomly assigned for the open, laparoscopic, and robotic group. Secondly, to analyzing the demographic data,basic treatment and follow-up data, including the operation time, blood loss, the number of cut edge positive, the distances of cut edge away from the tumor edge, the cases of anastomotic fistula bleeding, stenosis, average such confinement, the meal time, cost of treatment, tumor recurrence rate, the presence of residual stomach, upset stomach and frequency, reflux esophagitis, bile reflux gastritis and other indicators.