Thalidomide in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Carcinosarcoma of the Uterus
This phase II trial is studying how well thalidomide works in treating patients with carcinosarcoma of the uterus that has come back or that does not go to remission (decrease or disappear but may still be in the body) despite treatment. Thalidomide may stop the growth of cancer by stopping blood flow to the tumor.
Recurrent Uterine Corpus Sarcoma|Uterine Carcinosarcoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Thalidomide
Progression-free Survival (PFS) > 6 Months, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle for 6 months|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Effects as Assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) v2.0, Each cycle during treatment and 30 days after the last treatment (average 4 months)
Progression Free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle until progression or death, up to 5 years.|Tumor Response, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., For those patients whose disease can be evaluated by physical examination, response was assessed prior to each 28-day cycle. CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle. (average = 4 months)|Overall Survival, The observed length of life from entry into the study to death or the date of last contact., From study entry to death or last contact, up to 5 years.|Initial Performance Status, Performance status 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction.

Performance status 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of light or sedentary nature, e.g., light housework, office work.

Performance status 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all selfcare but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours., baseline|Initial Histologic Grade, G3 - Predominantly solid or entirely undifferentiated carcinoma. Not graded - tumor grade not reported., Baseline
Serum and Plasma Concentrations of VEGF and bFGF With PFS, Up to 5 years|Serum and Plasma Concentrations of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) and bFGF, Up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES: Primary I. Determine the antitumor cytostatic activity of thalidomide, as measured by the probability of progression-free survival (PFS) for at least 6 months, in patients with recurrent or persistent uterine carcinosarcoma.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this drug in these patients.

Secondary I. Determine the partial and complete response rates in patients treated with this drug.

II. Determine the duration of PFS and overall survival of patients treated with this drug.

III. Determine the effect of this drug on initial performance status and histological grade in these patients.

IV. Correlate serum and plasma biomarkers, including vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor, with clinical outcome (i.e., PFS) in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral thalidomide once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 19-51 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.