Clinical Trial to Investigate Safety, Tolerability and MTD for SCO-101 in Combination With Gemcitabine and Nab-paclitaxel in Inoperable Pancreatic Cancer Patients.
An open-label dose escalating phase Ib study of SCO-101 in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. The primary objectives are to establish the safety profile and the MTD of SCO-101 when combined with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. The starting dose of SCO-101 is 150 mg and the dose may be increased to a maximum of 350 mg.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Locally Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Inoperable Disease|Localized Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: SCO-101|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel
Safety and Tolerability, Safety and tolerability by assessing the number, frequency, and severity of adverse events (AEs) collected from the time of first treatment until four weeks after end of treatment to evaluate safety of SCO-101 in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel determined according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE v.5.0)., Through study completion, assessed up to 100 months|Maximum Tolerated Dose, To determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of SCO-101 in combination with gemcitabine and nab-Paclitaxel by assessment of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) to SCO-101., At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
Objective Response Rate, defined as CR and PR using the RECIST v. 1.1, Tumor assessment is performed every two treatment cycles (2 months), assessed up to 100 months.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), defined as the number of patients obtaining CR, PR, or SD \> 16 weeks according to RECIST v.1.1., From benefit (CR, PR or SD > 16 weeks) to progression, assessed up to 100 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), defined as time in months from the date of first study treatment with SCO-101 to the date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first., From first dosing to progression, assessed up to 100 months|Overall Survival, defined as time in months from the date of first study treatment to the date of death, through study completion, assessed up to 100 months|Pharmacokinetic profile, Pharmacokinetic profile of SCO-101 alone and in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, during the first 14 treatment days in the first treatment cycle.
Novel predictive biomarker feasibility, assessment of biomarkers from blood and tumor, assessed from first administration to end of treatment, assessed up to 100 months.
The study is an open-label dose escalating phase Ib study of SCO-101 in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. The primary objective is to establish the safety, tolerability and MTD of SCO-101 when combined with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. Secondary objectives are efficacy and to establish PK parameters of SCO-101. The target indication is patients with inoperal pancreatic cancer who are to be treated with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. The study is designed as a standard 3+3 dose escalation study with increasing doses of SCO-101 and a fixed dose (standard regimen) of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. An interim report will be prepared once the last patient in the MTD cohort has completed one treatment cycle. Patients will continue treatment until disease progression to evaluate secondary objectives. One treatment Cycle is 28 days. The starting dose of SCO-101 is 150 mg 6 daily dosing in a bi-weekly schedule) and may be increased to a maximum of 350 mg (5 cohorts with 50 mg increments). A total of up to 18 patients are anticipated if dose escalation to the 5th cohort. Gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel is administered according to local standard recommendations once weekly for three weeks followed by one weeks treatment holiday (dosing on day 6, day 13 and day 20). Patients may continue treatment until treatment progression.