Poly ICLC, Radiation, and Romidepsin for Advanced Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma
This study evaluates the safety and tolerability of the addition of immunostimulatory therapy consisting of focal radiation with or without the Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonist Poly ICLC in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) receiving concurrent therapy with the histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACI) Romidepsin.
Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Romidepsin|DRUG: Poly ICLC|RADIATION: Focal lesional radiation
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Adverse events and dose-limiting toxicities will be graded using National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) 4.0., 21 days
Overall response rate, Defined as the percentage of patients who achieve complete response or partial response. The response is evaluated based on Modified Severity weighted Assessment Tool (MSWAT) criteria., Up to 12 months|Median progression-free survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from study entry to the first documented of tumor progression ot death due to any cause whichever comes first., up to 12 months|Median overall survival, Overall survival is described as the time from study entry to the date of death due to any cause., up to 12 months
Histone deacetylase inhibitors in epigenetic therapy are one of the most active anti-tumor agents in patients with relapsed and refractory CTCL despite their suppressive effects on T cell function, yet the overall response rate and response duration with these agents remains suboptimal. Immune stimulatory agents may be the ideal therapy to combine with HDACI. To date, no one has evaluated whether the abscopal effect of radiation with and without the additional immune stimulation of a TLR-3 agonist can augmented the efficacy of anti-tumor directed epigenetic therapy in mycosis fungoides (MF) patients. The investigators hypothesize that a combined modality immuno-chemotherapy may be highly effective in patients with advanced MF.

This is a phase I study. It involves two arms of patients (A and B) who will be treated following a standard 3+ 3 design. Patients on Arm A are the ones who are initiating HDACI therapy, and patients on Arm B are the ones with stable disease or partial response with HDACI treatment. Both groups receive HDACI, plus at level 1, focal lesional radiation; at level 2, radiation in combination with Poly ICLC. Each arm will be evaluated and escalated independently.