Clinical Study on the Effect of Brucea Javanica Oil Emulsion Injection on the Survival of Patients With Advanced Colorectal Cancer Who Failed to Receive Multi-line Treatment
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Brucea javanica oil emulsion injection in patients with advanced colorectal cancer who failed to undergo multi-line treatment
Colorectal Cancer|Chinese Herbal Medicine|Progression-free Survival|Quality of Life
OTHER: Brucea javanica oil emulsion injection|OTHER: The best supportive treatment
PFS, Progression Free Survival, Randomization until disease progression, death, or 12 months after randomized enrollment, whichever occurs first.]
ORR, Objective Response Rate, Every two cycles(each cycle is 28 days) until disease progression, death, or 12 months after randomized enrollment, whichever occurs first.|quality of life, equlity of life assessed by the MDASI \[followed by its scale information in the Description\]"), Before and after each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) of treatment, assessed up to 12 months after randomized enrollment, equlity of life assessed by the MDASI. The higher the score, the worse the quality of life.|quality of life, equlity of life assessed by the EORTC QLQ-C30 \[followed by its scale information in the Description\]"), Before and after each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) of treatment, assessed up to 12 months after randomized enrollment, equlity of life assessed by the EORTC QLQ-C30. The higher the score, the worse the quality of life.
this study included a prospective, multicenter, randomized controlled clinical trial.

About 60 patients will be recruited in the randomized clinical trial. Participants will be randomly divided into experimental group (n=30) and control group (n=30). The patients in the experimental group will receive Brucea javanica oil emulsion injection combined with the best supportive treatment, based on the NCCN best palliative treatment guidelines (2022. V1). The patients in the control group received the best supportive treatment based on the NCCN's best palliative treatment guidelines (2022. V1). The primary end point was PFS (progression-free survival). The research protocol was approved by the relevant ethics committee. The research was conducted in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration and good clinical practice guidelines. The patient has written informed consent to participate in the trial.