Interventional Study to Evaluate the Combination of Palbociclib + Sunitinib as a Treatment for Advanced Solid Tumors
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if a combination of Palbociclib and Sunitinib is safe and effective in various solid tumors.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Is the drugs combination safe for the participants?
* Is the drug combination effective in all solid malignancies? It is a single arm study, phase 1b/2, dose escalation and expansion, to determine the safety, tolerability and initial efficacy of this combination.

Participants will:

* Take the drugs combination every day for 5 executive days, and 2 days of, in a 28 days cycle, for up to a year.
* Visit the clinic once every 2 weeks for checkups and tests
Solid Tumors Refractory to Standard Therapy
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Sunitinib
Primary safety analysis, To evaluate the incidence and severity of treatment related adverse events of the Palbociclib and Sunitinib combination using CTCAE v5.0 in all indications, To be assessed every Disease Monitoring and Safety Board, Every 4 months.|Primary efficacy analysis, To determine the percentage of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD) and Progression of Disease (PD) via RECIST criteria, based on the results of the imaging studies. Imaging studies will be carried out at Screening and every two months after treatment initiation., Through study completion, estimated 18 months.
Response rate, To determine the response rate (sum of Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) for all patients with all indications, Through study completion, estimated 18 months.|Time to progression, To determine the Time-To-Progression (TTP) for all patients with all indications, Through study completion, estimated 18 months.|Progression free survival, To determine the Progression-Free Survival (PFS) for all patients with all indications, Through study completion, estimated 18 months.|Quality of life by EORTC validated questionnaires in all indications, and disease specific indications, To assess the Quality of Life (QoL) via disease-specific questionnaires for all patients with all indications, Through study completion, estimated 18 months.
Based on the observed in vivo synergistic effects of the Palbociclib and Sunitinib combination on human tumor growth in the PDX models, and the expectation that major pharmacodynamic interactions are not expected, the Investigator initiated a Phase 1b/2 study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and initial efficacy of Palbociclib + Sunitinib oral kinase inhibitor combination as a treatment for advanced solid tumors.

The study population will include 20-100 patients with documented Stage IV, incurable/refractory metastatic solid tumors of the following types whom have failed at least one standard course of therapy: (1) Gastric adenocarcinoma, (2) Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal cancer (FIGO classification), (3) Breast cancer, (4) NSCLC, (5) Colorectal cancer, (6) Cholangiocarcinoma, (7) Pancreatic cancer and (8) Carcinosarcoma, any tissue origin.

(9) High grade Neuroendocrine Carcinoma, from any tissue origin. (10) Sarcoma, all histological types. (11) Any other solid tumor.

All patients will be administered 25 mg S:75 mg P, both once daily for 5 consecutive days and 2 days off schedule for the first week and then the dose can be escalated to 37.5 mg S:75 mg P, Both once daily for 5 consecutive days and 2 days off schedule per week. From the second week onwards, dose can be escalated to 37.5 mg S:75 mg P, Both once daily for 7 consecutive days, per physician discretion. Sunitinib dose will be evaluated in each clinic visit, dose can be adjusted to alternately 37.5mg/25mg or be reduced to 25 mg daily, by patient tolerance and adverse events.

Both drugs will be administered by mouth, taken together with food