Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Non-Metastatic Extracranial Ewing Sarcoma
This trial examined the outcome benefit to patients of adding a new chemotherapy drug combination to the established treatment approach for patients with extracranial Ewing sarcoma, that had not spread from the primary site to other places in the body. The trial randomly assigned patients at the time of study entry to receive established standard treatment with the following 5-drugs: vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide and etoposide. The outcome for patients receiving the standard 5-drug combination was compared to the outcome for patients who received the same 5-drugs with an additional drug, topotecan hydrochloride delivered in a novel combination with vincristine sulfate and cyclophosphamide.
Localized Extraskeletal Ewing Sarcoma|Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor of Bone|Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor of Soft Tissues
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexrazoxane|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ifosfamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Topotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Event-Free Survival, Estimated 5-year EFS where EFS is calculated as the time from study enrollment to disease progression, disease relapse, occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm, death from any cause or last follow-up whichever occurs first. Kaplan-Meier method is used for estimation. Patients without an event are censored at last contact., 5 years after enrollment
Overall Survival, Time from study enrollment to death or last patient contact., 5 years after enrollment|Histological Response, in Terms of Event Free Survival After Local Control in Patients Who Received Local Control Therapy, Percent of viable tumor in the resected tumor specimen after the patient receives 2 cycles of induction chemotherapy. Patients will be classified into groups according to: (1) good risk - less than 10% viable tumor in the resection specimen; and (2) standard risk - 10% or more viable tumor in the resection specimen. Patients who receive radiation therapy to the primary tumor prior to tumor resection or whose tumor is resected prior to the start of systemic therapy are not evaluable for this outcome measure., At the end of INDUCTION THERAPY (84 days)|SUVmax as Determined by Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Determined Response at Enrollment, Patients will be classified into two groups according to SUVmax as: (1) study population median or greater; and (2) less than the study population median., At study enrollment|SUVmax as Determined by Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Determined Response After Induction, Patients will be classified into two groups according to SUVmax as: (1) study population median or greater; and (2) less than the study population median. Patients who receive radiation therapy to the primary tumor prior to the completion of 2 cycles of induction or who do not receive 2 cycles of induction chemotherapy are not evaluable for this outcome measure., At the end of INDUCTION THERAPY (84 days)|Tumor Volume in Milliliters (ml) at Enrollment, Patients will be classified into two groups: (1) tumor volume 200 ml or greater and (2) tumor volume less than 200 ml., At study enrollment|Radiological Response of Soft Tissue Component of Mass by Radiological Evaluation at the End of Induction Chemotherapy, Patients will be classified into two groups: (1) complete resolution of soft tissue mass; and (2) soft tissue mass present after induction chemotherapy. Patients who receive radiation therapy to the primary tumor prior to the completion of 2 cycles of induction, who do not receive 2 cycles of induction chemotherapy or who do not have soft tissue involvement detected at enrollment or at any time prior to the end of induction chemotherapy are not evaluable for this outcome measure., At the end of INDUCTION THERAPY (84 days)|Type of Local Control Modality Used for Removal of Primary Tumor Site at Any Time up to the End of the First 6 Cycles of Consolidation Chemotherapy, Patients will be categorized into the following groups: (1) surgery as the local control modality; (2) radiation therapy as the local control modality; (3) surgery and radiation therapy as the local control modality; and (4) no local control modality administered to the primary tumor site. Patients who do not complete induction chemotherapy will not be evaluable for this outcome measure., 126 days after enrollment|Occurrence of Grade 2 or Higher Musculoskeletal Event (ME), or Surgery Required to Treat a Complication of Local Therapy, Any National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 ME of grade 2 or greater or ME of any grade where surgery is required to treat a complication of local therapy. Patients who do not complete induction chemotherapy or do not have any local control modality administered to the primary tumor site will not be evaluable for this outcome measure., 132 days after enrollment|Presence of Tumor at the Margin of Resection for Patients Who Have Surgery as the Only Local Control Modality, Patients will be categorized into the following groups: (1) tumor present at the margin of resection; and (2) no tumor present at the margin of resection. Patients who are not classified as having surgery as the only local control modality will not be evaluable for this outcome measure., 126 days after enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

l. Test the effect of the combination of vincristine (vincristine sulfate), cyclophosphamide, and topotecan (topotecan hydrochloride) (VTC) added to the standard 5-drug interval-compressed chemotherapy backbone on event-free and overall survival of children and young adults with Ewing sarcoma.

CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate initial volumetric tumor size as a prognostic factor for event free survival (EFS) in patients with localized Ewing tumors.

II. To evaluate histologic response as a prognostic factor for EFS in patients with localized Ewing tumors.

III. To continue evaluation of biologic markers both as related to prognosis and as eventual therapeutic targets via encouraging concurrent enrollment on a Ewing sarcoma specimen-collection study.

IV. To evaluate imaging response by fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) as a prognostic factor for EFS.

V. To evaluate the effects of the type of local therapy on EFS and overall survival.

VI. To evaluate the effect of local surgical margins in conjunction with histologic response on EFS in patients with localized Ewing tumors.

VII. To evaluate the effect of local therapy modality (surgery, radiotherapy, or a combination) as well as the type of surgical reconstruction on musculoskeletal complications.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) on day 1 in weeks 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, and 10; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes (or as per institutional policies up to 60-minutes) on days 1 and 2 and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 in weeks 1, 5, and 9; and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour and etoposide IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5 in weeks 3, 7, and 11.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV on day 1 in weeks 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 17, 18, 21, and 22; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 2 in weeks 1 and 9; cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 in weeks 1, 7, 9, 13, 17, and 21; and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour and etoposide IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5 in weeks 3, 5, 11, 15, and 19. Patients received Dexrazoxane with doxorubicin hydrochloride in weeks 1 and 9.

ARM B:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV on day 1 in weeks 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11 and 12; topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 in weeks 1 and 9; cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-5 in weeks 1 and 9, and over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of weeks 5 and 11; ifosfamide and etoposide as in arm A; and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 2 in weeks 5 and 11.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV on day 1 in weeks 1, 2, 7-10, 13-16, 19, and 20; topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 in weeks 1, 7, and 15; cyclophosphamide IV over 15-60 minutes on days 1-5 in weeks 1, 7, and 15, and over 30-60 minutes on day 1 in weeks 9, 13, and 19; ifosfamide IV over 1 hour and etoposide IV over 1- 2 hours on days 1-5 in weeks 3, 5, 11, 17, and 21; and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 2 in weeks 9,13, and 19. Patients received Dexrazoxane with doxorubicin hydrochloride in weeks 13 and 19.

Patients could undergo surgery alone after recovery from week 12 chemotherapy if the primary tumor could be completely resected with negative margins and with reasonable functional result. Patients with inadequate margins after surgery were to receive radiotherapy in addition. Patients with lesions in surgically difficult sites such as the spine, skull, and periacetabular pelvis, patients with a poor response to induction chemotherapy, or those patients in whom surgery would result in unacceptable functional results were recommended to receive radiation and not surgery. Radiotherapy was to be administered during weeks 1-7 of consolidation therapy or after recovery from surgery for patients with positive margins. Patients who received planned pre-operative radiation and had positive surgical margins were to receive additional radiotherapy.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years and then every 6 months for 2 years.