Phase I Study of a Dendritic Cell Vaccine for Patients With Either Newly Diagnosed or Recurrent Glioblastoma
The purpose of this study is to test the safety and effects of a special type of a cancer vaccine called a 'dendritic cell vaccine' in patients with either newly diagnosed or recurrent glioblastoma. The goal of this dendritic cell vaccine is to activate a patient's own immune system against their tumor. This study utilizes a patient's own immune-stimulating dendritic cells that are isolated in a procedure called leukapheresis. In a laboratory, these dendritic cells are treated in a way that is designed to promote an immune response against cancer stem cells. Then the dendritic cells are injected under the skin in a series of vaccinations, with the goal of activating an immune response against cancer stem cells in the tumor.

To qualify for this study, patients must have very little to no residual tumor visible on a recent MRI. In addition to the vaccines, patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma will receive standard temozolomide chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Patients with recurrent glioblastoma will not receive any treatment other than the vaccines as long as they are participating in this study, unless they were previously treated with bevacizumab, in which case they will be allowed to continue receiving bevacizumab.
Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme|Glioma|Astrocytoma|Brain Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic cell vaccination, in addition to standard temozolomide chemotherapy and involved field radiation therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic cell vaccination, with optional bevacizumab treatment for patients previously treated with bevacizumab
Assess safety and tolerability according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAEs) Version 4.03, 1 year|Assess the number of serious adverse events, 1 year|Assess treatment-related toxicities, We will assess possible vaccine-related adverse effects, including but not limited to cerebral edema, autoimmune reactions, and allergic reactions., 1 year
Evaluate Overall Survival (OS) and Progression-Free Survival (PFS), 2 years|Evaluate health-related quality of life parameters, 2 years|Assess the overall response rate, defined as the percentage of patients showing either partial response or complete response, in patients with subtotal resection, 2 years|Evaluate immune response by assessing cytotoxic T cell activity in vitro pre- vs post-vaccination, 2 years|Assess tumor stem cell antigen expression, 2 years
This phase I study for patients with either newly diagnosed or recurrent glioblastoma with minimal residual tumor utilizes a dendritic cell vaccine consisting of autologous dendritic cells that have been pulsed with a lysate derived from an allogeneic glioblastoma stem-like cell line cultured under neurosphere-forming conditions.

Patients will receive a series of four vaccines given weekly during the Induction phase, followed by vaccinations every 8 weeks during the Maintenance phase for as long as patients remain on the study or until the vaccine supply is depleted. In addition to the investigative treatment, patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma will receive standard temozolomide chemotherapy and radiation treatment, with the Induction phase beginning at the conclusion of radiation. Patients with recurrent glioblastoma will not receive treatment other than the investigative treatment, unless they were previously treated with bevacizumab, in which case they will be allowed to continue receiving bevacizumab.