Study of ISU104, Targeting ERBB3 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
A phase I, open-label, dose-finding study to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of ISU104, a human monoclonal antibody targeting erbB3 in patients with advanced solid tumors.
Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: ISU104|DRUG: Cetuximab
Determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose Dependent on Reports of Dose-limiting Toxicities, Determination of MTD is dependent upon number of cohorts and patients required, From date of first dose to 4 weeks after administration.
Toxicity Evaluation, To determine the occurrence of Adverse Events (AEs), through the study completion, an average of 1 year|Determine Immunogenicity of ISU104, To measure the level of Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA) and/or Neutralizing Antibody (NAb) of ISU104, through the study completion, an average of 1 year|Determine the Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of ISU104, To measure the Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of ISU104, up to 12 weeks|Determine the Area Under the Curve (AUC) of ISU104, To measure the Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of ISU104, up to 12 weeks|Explore Overall Response Rate (ORR) of ISU104 or ISU104+Cetuximab, To determine the number of patients reporting an objective response using RECIST v 1.1 where a Partial Response (PR) is defined as \>30% decrease in tumor burden from baseline and a Complete Response (CR) is defined as complete disappearance from tumor burden from baseline, up to progression, an average 6 months|Explore Disease Control Rate (DCR) of ISU104 or ISU104+Cetuximab, To determine the number of patients reporting an objective response using RECIST v 1.1 where a Partial Response (PR) is defined as \>30% decrease in tumor burden from baseline, a Complete Response (CR) is defined as complete disappearance from tumor burden from baseline, and Stable Disease (SD) is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for Partial Response nor sufficient increase to qualify for Partial Response (defined as \>20% decrease in tumor burden from baseline), up to progression, an average 6 months|Explore Progression-Free Survival (PFS) of ISU104 or ISU104+Cetuximab, To measure the length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse, up to progression, an average 6 months
\[Part 1 Dose-escalation\]

This study ams to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of ISU104 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

Primary objective To determine recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of ISU104 based on the results of its safety and tolerability in patients with advanced solid tumors.

Secondary objectives

1. To evaluate pharmacokinetics (PK) of ISU104 in patients with advanced solid tumors.
2. To evaluate efficacy of ISU104 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

Exploratory purpose To identify the expression of explorable multiple tumor biomarkers and to analyze the relationship between biomarkers and antitumor activity of ISU104.

\[Part 2 dose-expansion\] The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of ISU104 in patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC (except for nasopharyngeal cancer), when administered intravenously ISU104 alone or ISU104 in combination with cetuximab.

Primary objective To determine RP2D of ISU104 based on results of its safety and tolerability in patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC (except for nasopharyngeal cancer), when administered intravenously ISU104 only or ISU104 in combination with cetuximab.

Secondary objectives

1. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of ISU104 in patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC (except for nasopharyngeal cancer), when administered intravenously ISU104 only or ISU104 in combination with cetuximab.
2. To evaluate the efficacy of ISU104 in patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC (except for nasopharyngeal cancer), when administered intravenously ISU104 only or ISU104 in combination with cetuximab.

Exploratory purpose To explore a variety of detectable tumor biomarkers and evaluate the relationship between these biomarkers and antitumor activity of ISU104.