A Study Comparing Haploidentical Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantations (HSCTs) From Young Non-first-degree and Older First-degree Donors in Hematological Malignancies
An open, multi-center, randomized trial comparing haploidentical HSCTs from young non-first-degree and older first-degree donors in hematological malignancies
Leukemia
DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Me-CCNU|DRUG: Rabbit antithymocyte globulin|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic HSCT|DRUG: Cyclosporin A|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|DRUG: MTX
Cumulative incidence of transplant-related nonrelapse mortality (NRM), All patients will be tracked from Day 0 to date of first objective disease progression, death from any cause, or last patient evaluation. Patients who have not progressed or died will be censored at the last date they were assessed and deemed free of relapse or progression., 2 years
Overall survival (OS), All patients will be tracked from Day 0 to date of first objective disease progression, death from any cause, or last patient evaluation. Patients who have not progressed or died will be censored at the last date they were assessed and deemed free of relapse or progression., 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), All patients will be tracked from Day 0 to date of first objective disease progression, death from any cause, or last patient evaluation. Patients who have not progressed or died will be censored at the last date they were assessed and deemed free of relapse or progression., 2 years|Cumulative incidence of disease relapse or progression, All patients will be tracked from Day 0 to date of first objective disease progression, death from any cause, or last patient evaluation. Patients who have not progressed or died will be censored at the last date they were assessed and deemed free of relapse or progression., 2 years|GVHD-free, relapse-free survival (GRFS), All patients will be tracked from Day 0 to date of first objective disease progression, death from any cause, or last patient evaluation. Patients who have not progressed or died will be censored at the last date they were assessed and deemed free of relapse or progression.

GRFS is defined as survival with no evidence of relapse/progression, grade III to IV aGVHD, and systemic therapy-requiring cGVHD., 2 years|Cumulative incidence of acute grade II-IV GVHD, Date of symptom onset, maximum clinical grade, and dates and types of treatment will be recorded. Dates of symptom onset of grade II or higher acute GVHD and grade III-IV acute GVHD will be recorded., 180 days|Cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD, Date of symptom onset, maximum clinical grade, and dates and types of treatment will be recorded. Dates of symptom onset of chronic GVHD and severe chronic GVHD will be recorded., 2 years
This is an open, multi-center, randomized trial comparing the clinical outcomes of haploidentical HSCTs from young non-first-degree and older first-degree donors in hematological malignancies. This study is indicated for patients with hematological malignancies including acute leukemias and MDS who are eligible to haploidentical HSCTs. 2 groups of patients will be enrolled with 88 in each group. The clinical criteria including survival, relapse, transplantation-related mortality will be monitored.