Nutrition Therapy in Improving Immune System in Patients With Bladder Cancer That Can Be Removed by Surgery
This phase III trial studies how well nutrition therapy works in improving immune system in patients with bladder cancer that can be removed by surgery. Improving nutrition before and after surgery may reduce the infections and other problems that sometimes occur after surgery.
Bladder Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutritional Intervention|OTHER: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Post-operative Complications, A post-operative complication is defined as a binary indicator variable indicating whether the patient experienced any complication (any/none; Clavien-Dindo grades I-V). The primary analysis will be based on a multivariable logistic regression under intent-totreat among all randomized patients, irrespective of their eligibility status, adjusting for the specified stratification factors: a. Diversion type (neobladder versus \[vs.\] ileal conduit); b. Prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy (any vs. none); and c. Nutrition status (well nourished vs. moderate malnutrition). A Fisher's exact test will also be conducted to establish whether the results are sensitive to model assumptions. A single interim analysis for efficacy will be conducted when 50% of patients achieve their endpoint at the alpha=0.005 level. Accordingly, the final analysis will be conducted at the alpha=0.045 level. A separate analysis among all eligible randomized patients will also be conducted., Up to 30 days post surgery
Post-Op Complications, This outcome measure will be reported by 9/28/2025|Infections, This outcome measure will be reported by 9/28/2025|Skeletal Muscle Wasting, This outcome measure will be reported by 9/28/2025|High Grade Post-Op Complications, This outcome measure will be reported by 9/28/2025|Readmission Rates, This outcome measure will be reported by 9/28/2025|Quality of Life, This outcome measure will be reported by 9/28/2025|Disease Free Survival, This outcome measure will be reported by 9/28/2025
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the impact of consuming perioperative specialized immune-modulating drinks (SIM, Impact Advanced Recovery, Nestle) to oral nutrition supplement control drinks (ONS, Oral Nutrition Control, Nestle) on post-operative complications (any versus \[vs.\] none) within 30 days after scheduled radical cystectomy (RC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS reduces late-phase post-operative complications within 90 days after scheduled RC.

II. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS reduces infections. III. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS reduces skeletal muscle wasting. IV. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS reduces high grade post-operative complications.

V. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS reduces readmission rates. VI. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS improves quality of life. VII. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS improves disease-free survival after surgery and overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact of SIM use on the expansion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells.

II. To assess the impact of SIM use on pro-inflammatory cytokines and neutrophil: lymphocyte ratios.

III. To assess the impact of SIM use on post-operative arginine deficiency and amino acid metabolism.

IV. To explore the association of dietary intake variables (nutrition status, calories, protein, and immune-enhancing factors) and study outcomes.

TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the microbiome of the gut in patients undergoing radical cystectomy and urinary diversion prior to initiation of immunonutrition or a nutrition control.

II. To define the microbiome change in patients undergoing radical cystectomy and urinary diversion after they have received blinded immunonutrition or control nutritional supplement.

III. To correlate cancer treatments, postoperative complications (specifically infections) and nutritional status with microbiome composition.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive SIM orally (PO) thrice daily (TID) on days -5 to -1 and 1-5. Patients undergo standard of care surgery on day 0.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO TID on days -5 to -1 and 1-5. Patients undergo standard of care surgery on day 0.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 2, 30, and 90 days, and at 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, and 36 months after surgery.