Advanced Renal Cell Cancer Combination ImmunoThErapy Clinical Trial
This study is a randomized, open label, multicenter Phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of botensilimab (a novel Fc enhanced Tree depleting anti-CTLA4) and balstilimab (a novel anti-PD1) relative to ipilimumab and nivolumab in treatment naïve patients with metastatic ccRCC. The study will plan to enroll 120 eligible patients randomized in a 2:1 fashion to Arm A and Arm B. Patients in all IMDC Risk Groups are included. This study utilizes a Simon's two stage design which is described in the protocol. Patients randomized to Arm A will receive botensilimab in combination with balstilimab. Patients randomized to Arm B will receive ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab. Study treatment on both arms will continue until toxicity, disease progression or a maximum of 96 total weeks (12 weeks induction, 84 weeks maintenance).
Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Botensilimab|DRUG: Balstilimab|DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab
Determine the objective response rate (ORR) of botensilimab + balstilimab in patients with treatment naïve metastatic ccRCC relative to the ORR of patients treated with ipilimumab + nivolumab., ORR is defined as the proportion of the subjects in the analysis population who have a CR or PR per RECIST 1.1., 5 years
Determine Duration of response (DOR) for patients who have a CR or PR, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 until disease progression based on RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 5 years|Determine the 12- & 24-month landmark progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 5 years|Determine treatment free survival (TFS), TFS will be assessed based on the area between two time to event KM curves. 1. time from study treatment initiation to study treatment discontinuation (last dose + dosing interval). 2. Time from study initiation to initiation of subsequent systemic anti-cancer treatment or death. Time on or off treatment with Grade 3 or greater treatment related toxicities per CTCAE v5 will be determined as the area between study initiation and toxicity start and study initiation and Grade 3 toxicity ending., 5 years|Determine the safety of botensilimab + balstilimab relative to ipilimumab + nivolumab, AEs and SAEs graded per NCI CTCAE v5.0 criteria, 5 years
This study is a randomized, open label, multicenter Phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of botensilimab (a novel Fc enhanced Tree depleting anti-CTLA4) and balstilimab (a novel anti-PD1) relative to ipilimumab and nivolumab in treatment naïve patients with metastatic ccRCC. The study will plan to enroll 120 eligible patients randomized in a 2:1 fashion to Arm A and Arm B. Patients in all IMDC Risk Groups are included. This study utilizes a Simon's two stage design which is described in the protocol. Patients randomized to Arm A will receive botensilimab in combination with balstilimab. Patients randomized to Arm B will receive ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab. Study treatment on both arms will continue until toxicity, disease progression or a maximum of 96 total weeks (12 weeks induction, 84 weeks maintenance).