A Ketogenic Diet as a Complementary Treatment on Patients With High-grade Gliomas and Brain Metastases
The survival interval of patients with gliomas ranges between 12 to 15 months. Recent findings revealed that dietary interventions to reduce glucose and glycolytic pathways could have a therapeutic effect. Ketosis can be an effective therapy to extend the survival of patients with gliomas.
Brain|Cancer
OTHER: CKD
Overall survival, Participants will be followed from date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months.
Changes in brain tumor size, MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) will be used to measure changes in tumor size (cm\^2), 2 years, Baseline, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months|Time to progression, 2 years|Assessment of Quality of life using FACT-BR (version 4) survey, 50-item FACT-Br (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Brain) is a self-report and interview when applicable questionnaire used to assess quality of life, which includes domains such as Physical Well-Being, Social/Family Well-Being, Emotional Well-Being, Functional Well-Being, Brain Cancer Subscale. Each of them is rated based on the Likert scale from 1 to 5., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months|Functional impairment will be assessed with the Karnofsky Performance Scale, The scoring is assigned by a health professional based on the hierarchical scale: 100=normal, no evidence of disease, while 10=death. Intermediate or decimal scores can be assigned., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months
Gliomas are invasive and aggressive tumors, which derive from glial or stem cells, and after neoplastic transformation, acquire glial cell characteristics. Treatment of high-grade gliomas includes measures to relieve symptoms and eliminate or control the tumor. Surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy are the most common options. Recent findings revealed that dietary interventions to reduce glucose and glycolytic pathways could have a therapeutic effect. CKD is a restrictive therapeutic diet consisting of a 4:1 ratio of fat-to-CHO and protein. Fat provides up to 90% of the caloric intake, while overall CHO intake is less than 50 g/day. CKD reducing blood glucose levels and increasing ketone body levels stimulates biochemical changes to achieve systemic ketosis. Though, evidence for CKD in clinical practice is still limited. This study focuses on the classic ketogenic diet (CKD), adjusted for each patient's energy needs by dieticians to achieve ketosis. The primary outcome is to assess the efficacy of CKD to extend the survival of patients with high-grade gliomas and brain metastases. Historical controls will be used to compare the outcome measurements.