Serum Bovine Immunoglobulin Protein Isolate in Improving Quality of Life and Post-Operative Recovery in Patients With Gynecological Cancer After Undergoing Surgery
This randomized pilot phase II trial studies how well serum bovine immunoglobulin protein isolate works in improving quality of life and post-operative recovery in patients with cancer of the female reproductive tract after undergoing surgery. Serum bovine immunoglobulin may help provide nutrition to patients who are not able to eat or digest ordinary food. This may improve the quality of life of patients with gynecological cancer and help them recover more quickly from surgery.
Female Reproductive Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: serum-derived bovine immunoglobulin protein isolate|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Time-to-QOL Improvement Defined as Any Increase in the QOL Score Measured Using the Total Score of the 14-item Postoperative Quality of Life (PQL) Tool, For this endpoint, the total QOL score could range from 1 to 140 (0 being the worst and 140 being the best). The primary analysis will be a comparison of oral SBI vs. placebo using a two-sided log-rank test between the 2 Kaplan-Meier curves.the total score of the 14-item Postoperative Quality of Life (PQL) tool \[15\] will be used, where the total score could range from 0 to 140 (0 being the worst and 140 being the best). These scores will be converted to the percentage scale, where a score of 140 will be converted to 100 and a score of 0 will remain as 0. This QOL will be measured weekly for the entire 12 week length of the study and at the end of the intervention. QOL improvement will be defined as at least a 10 point increase in the QOL score from baseline, on the percentage scale., up to 25 months
Overall Adverse Event Rates for Grade 2 or Higher Adverse Events, Graded According to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns, this data is reported in the adverse events section of this report. Below is the number of patients that experienced an adverse event greater than or equal to 2., up to 25 months|Surgical Complication Rates, Compared between the 2 arms using Chi-Square or Fisher's Exact tests., Up to 1 month post-surgery|Intervention Compliance Assessed Using the Compliance Questionnaire, The frequency and percentage for each Compliance Questionnaire category will be summarized descriptively by cycle and by intervention arm. In addition, cycle by cycle compliance data will be compared between the 2 arms using a Chi-square test., up to 25 months|Change in QOL Measured Using the 14-item PQL Tool, Uniscale, and the Previously-validated Symptom Distress Scale, All 14 of the individual items from the PQL tool, along with the 4 additional items after the PQL questions will be analyzed and compared between the 2 intervention arms. Differences between post-randomization and baseline QOL scores will be analyzed and compared between the 2 arms using a Wilcoxon Rank-sum test. Also, other graphical and statistical methods will be used to compare the QOL between the 2 arms over time. For this endpoint, the total QOL score could range from 1 to 140 (0 being the worst and 140 being the best). These scores will be converted to the percentage scale, where a score of 140 will be converted to 100 and a score of 0 will remain as 0. This QOL will be measured weekly for the entire 12 week length of the study and at the end of the intervention. QOL improvement will be defined as at least a 10 point increase in the QOL score from baseline, on the percentage scale., up to 25 months|Change in QOL in Patients Who do Not Start Intervention or Discontinue Early, Measured Using the 14-item PQL Tool, Uniscale, and the Previously-validated Symptom Distress Scale, Analysis will be descriptive in nature to see if these patients have a poorer QOL than patients who stay on study., Baseline up to 25 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the time-to-quality of life (QOL) improvement from baseline in postoperative gynecological cancer patients who are receiving oral serum bovine immunoglobulin (SBI) vs. placebo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the surgical complication rates between oral SBI vs. placebo up to 1 month post-surgery (safety endpoint).

II. To compare the QOL, as derived from the previously-validated Symptom Distress Scale, the Postoperative Quality of Life questionnaire (PQL), and the uniscale (overall QOL item) between patients receiving oral SBI vs. placebo.

III. To compare the grade 2 or worse adverse event rates for patients receiving oral SBI vs. placebo.

IV. To characterize the adverse event profile of oral SBI in postoperative gynecological cancer patients (safety endpoint).

V. To compare supplement adherence between patients receiving oral SBI vs. placebo.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore whether candidate biomarkers are modified with SBI versus placebo.

II. As part of ongoing research, to bank leftover blood samples for future studies.

III. To explore quality of life during postoperative recovery after gynecologic surgery, regardless of whether or not patients take the study intervention/placebo or discontinue intervention/placebo early.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive SBI orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-28.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks.