Integrating Tobacco Treatment Into Cancer Care: A Randomized Controlled Comparative Effectiveness Trial
There are currently over 11 million cancer survivors in the U.S. and survival rates are increasing. Unfortunately, 10-30% of cancer patients are current smokers at the time of diagnosis, and many of these patients have elevated socioeconomic, medical, and psychosocial vulnerabilities. Documented risks associated with continued smoking following cancer diagnosis include decreased survival time; increased complications from surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy; and increased risk of second primary tumors. U.S. Department of Health \& Human Services Public Health Service evidence-based tobacco treatment guidelines exist but have not been integrated into the cancer setting. This is a tremendous missed opportunity to address a modifiable risk factor. In recognition of this treatment gap, the National Cancer Institute (NCI) sponsored a conference in 2009 to address how to increase the readiness and capacity for delivery of tobacco treatment in Cancer Centers. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) recommends identification, advice, and counseling of all smokers by their second oncology visit as a core quality indicator; however, currently only half of patients report being asked about tobacco use.

Specific Aim: To conduct a randomized controlled comparative effectiveness trial of two strategies to promote smoking cessation in suspected or newly diagnosed cancer patients.

Study Design: A multi-site randomized controlled comparative effectiveness trial will enroll 295 current smokers with suspected or newly diagnosed melanoma, lymphoma, thoracic, breast, genitourinary, gastrointestinal, head and neck, or gynecologic cancer. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive Intensive Counseling (IC) or "Standard Care" (SC). Both groups will receive an initial motivational counseling session and 3 weekly follow-up counseling sessions with a tobacco treatment counselor, conducted in-person or by telephone. The IC arm has the option to also receive:

* Smoking Cessation Medication: Up to a 12-week supply of FDA approved smoking cessation medication (Varenicline, bupropion, or combination NRT) at no cost to the participant.
* Extended Counseling: An additional 4 biweekly and 3 monthly proactive counseling sessions with a tobacco treatment counselor (total of 11 counseling contacts).

All participants will complete 1 baseline and 2 follow-up surveys, at 3 and 6 months. Self-reported abstinence will be biochemically confirmed at 3 and 6 months.
Smoking Cessation
BEHAVIORAL: Standard Care (SC)|BEHAVIORAL: Intensive Counseling (IC)
Number of Participants With Biochemically Verified 7-day Point Prevalence Tobacco Abstinence at 6 Months, Number of participants with 7-day point-prevalence tobacco abstinence at 6-month follow-up, assessed by biochemically confirmed saliva cotinine (\<15 ng/ml76, 82) or \<10 ppm expired air carbon monoxide (CO) for participants concurrently using NRT, 6 months
Number of Participants With Biochemically Verified 7-day Point Prevalence Tobacco Abstinence at 3 Months, Number of participants with7 -day point-prevalence tobacco abstinence at 3-month follow-up, assessed by biochemically confirmed saliva cotinine (\<15 ng/ml76, 82) or \<10 ppm expired air carbon monoxide (CO) for participants concurrently using NRT, 3 months|Number of Participants With Continuous Tobacco Abstinence, Number of Participants with Continuous tobacco abstinence (between quit and follow-up) at 3 \& 6 months, 3 months to 6 months|Number of Participants With Sustained Tobacco Abstinence, Number of Participants with Biochemically confirmed repeated point prevalence abstinence at 3 \& 6 months, 6 months|Number of Participants With Self-reported 7-day Point Prevalence., Number of Participants with Self-reported smoking abstinence of at least 7 days, 6 months|The Number of IT Participants Who Used Smoking Cessation Pharmacotherapy, The number of IT participants who used 1) smoking cessation pharmacotherapy (Y/N dispensed) 2) smoking cessation counseling (Y/N), 3) 1-2 4-week refills, 4) took 1-3 monthly booster sessions., Treatment Initiation to 6 month follow-up|The Number of IT Participants Who Used Smoking Cessation Counseling, The number of intervention participants who used smoking cessation counseling during the study (Y/N), Treatment Initiation to 6 Month Follow-up|The Number of IT Participants Who Took 1-2 4-week Refills, The number of intervention participants who took 1-2 4-week refills of smoking cessation medication, Treatment Initiation to 6 Month Follow-up|The Number of IT Participants Who Took 1-3 Monthly Booster Sessions, The number of IT participants who took 1-3 monthly booster sessions of smoking cessation counseling, Treatment Initiation to 6 Month Follow-up|Cost-effectiveness, The cost of the standard of care treatment and the cost of the intensive treatment., 6 months
Specific Aims

Aim 1: To compare the effectiveness of two tobacco treatments that are integrated into cancer care in producing tobacco abstinence at 6 months.

Aim 2: To explore: a) mechanisms through which treatment promotes abstinence; b) subpopulations in which abstinence is promoted; and c) which aspects of treatment promote abstinence.

Aim 3: To compare the incremental cost effectiveness (cost per quit) of two tobacco treatments.

Exploratory Aim: To identify the percentage and associated characteristics of smokers who 1) enroll in tobacco treatment and 2) adhere to tobacco treatment.