MK2206 and Erlotinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Who Have Progressed After Previous Response to Erlotinib Hydrochloride Therapy
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well Akt inhibitor MK2206 (MK2206) and erlotinib hydrochloride works in treating patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer who have progressed after previous response to erlotinib hydrochloride therapy. MK2206 and erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adenosquamous Lung Carcinoma|Bronchioloalveolar Carcinoma|Large Cell Lung Carcinoma|Lung Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: Akt Inhibitor MK2206|DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Disease-control Rate, Disease-control rate defined as response rate + stable disease at 12 weeks. Stable disease must have been achieved for 12 weeks or longer. Response evaluated per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progression, as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for disease progression., At 12 weeks|Objective Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response = CR + PR, Up to 2 years
Median Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 2 years|Toxicity of Akt Inhibitor MK2206 Plus Erlotinib Hydrochloride, Toxicities of Grade 3 or higher Attributed to Akt inhibitor MK2206 plus erlotinib hydrochloride, graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Time Frame: Up to 2 years|Median Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Event defined as death due to any cause., Up to 2 Years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy (with the primary endpoint of disease control at 12 weeks) and tolerability of the combination of MK2206 plus erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) in previously erlotinib-treated patients with recurrent or progressive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors are either epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutated or EGFR wild-type.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine progression-free survival of previously erlotinib-treated patients with NSCLC who are treated with MK2206 plus erlotinib. II. To determine the overall survival of previously erlotinib-treated patients with NSCLC who are treated with MK2206 plus erlotinib.

III. To assess the toxicity experienced by previously erlotinib-treated patients with NSCLC treated with MK2206 plus erlotinib. IV. To perform correlative analysis of tumor biomarkers to assess, in a preliminary manner, the association between tumor mutations and/or abnormalities and clinical outcome of previously erlotinib-treated patients with NSCLC treated with MK2206 plus erlotinib.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) every other day (QOD) of a 28-day course, and erlotinib hydrochloride PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for one year and then annually thereafter.