Zoledronic Acid in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer, Metastatic Prostate Cancer, or Multiple Myeloma With Bone Involvement
This randomized phase III trial studies two different schedules of zoledronic acid to compare how well they work in reducing bone-related complications in patients with breast cancer, prostate cancer, or multiple myeloma that has spread to other places in the body and have bone involvement. Bone-related complications are a major cause of morbidity in patients with metastatic prostate cancer, breast cancer, and multiple myeloma. Zoledronic acid may stop the growth of cancer cells in the bone and may help relieve some of the symptoms caused by bone metastases. It is not yet known whether giving zoledronic acid more or less frequently is more effective in treating patients with metastatic cancer that has spread to the bone.
Breast Adenocarcinoma|DS Stage I Plasma Cell Myeloma|DS Stage II Plasma Cell Myeloma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm to the Bone|Pain|Musculoskeletal Complication|Urinary Complications
DRUG: zoledronic acid
Percentage of Participants With at Least One Skeletal-related Event (SRE) Within 2 Years After Randomization, To determine whether every-12-week therapy with zoledronic acid is not inferior to every-4-week therapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or multiple myeloma involving bone, as measured by the proportion of patients who would have experienced at least one skeletal related event within 24 months after randomization., 2 years
Average Pain Intensity Score as Assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Questionnaire, To compare pain scores (Brief Pain Inventory) of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing. The change scores were evaluated in a general linear model with repeated measures for treatment effect and the time trend with patient-specific characteristics being adjusted for the mean interference score. Specifically the difference in score change per 4 weeks for Arm I using Arm II as the reference is reported. The score of the BPI questionnaire ranges from 0 being no pain to 10 being the most pain. The average score is reported for each arm below., from baseline up to 2 years|Average ECOG Performance Status, To compare functional status (ECOG performance status) of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing. The change scores were evaluated in a general linear model with repeated measures for treatment effect and the time trend with patient-specific characteristics being adjusted. Specifically the difference in score change per 4 weeks for Arm I using Arm II as the reference is reported. ECOG performance status is a measurement of a patients disability ranging from 0, fully active and able to carry out all pre disease performance without restriction, to 5, dead. The average performance status is reported below by arm., from baseline up to 2 years|Incidence of Osteonecrosis of the Jaw, To compare the incidence of osteonecrosis of the jaw in patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing. The percentage of participants with osteonecrosis is reported here., from baseline up to 2 years|Incidence of Renal Dysfunction, To compare the incidence of renal dysfunction of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing. The percentage of patients with renal dysfunction, defined as grade 3 or grade 4 increased creatinine (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0), will be reported here., from baseline up to 2 years|Skeletal Morbidity Rate, To compare the skeletal morbidity rate, defined as the number of skeletal-related events per year, of patients receiving every 12 week dosing to those receiving every 4 week dosing., from baseline up to 2 years|Bone Turnover Assessed by Serum C-telopeptide (CTX) Levels (Breast Cancer), To compare the suppression of serum markers of bone resorption of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing. The number of patients with high \& low CTX values by arm will be reported here., from baseline up to 2 years|Proportion of Patients Having at Least One SRE Within 24 Months After Randomization for the Subgroups of Patients With Breast Cancer, To determine whether every 12 week therapy with zoledronic acid is not inferior to every-4-week therapy for patients with breast cancer, as measured by the proportion who experience at least one skeletal related event within 24 months after randomization., from baseline up to 24 months|Proportion of Patients Having at Least One SRE Within 24 Months After Randomization for the Subgroups of Patients With Prostate Cancer, To determine whether every 12 week therapy with zoledronic acid is not inferior to every-4-week therapy for patients with prostate cancer, as measured by the proportion who experience at least one skeletal related event within 24 months after randomization., from baseline up to 24 months|Proportion of Patients Having at Least One SRE Within 24 Months After Randomization for the Subgroups of Patients With Multiple Myeloma, To determine whether every 12 week therapy with zoledronic acid is not inferior to every-4-week therapy for patients with multiple myeloma, as measured by the proportion who experience at least one skeletal related event within 24 months after randomization., from baseline up to 24 months|Bone Turnover Assessed by Serum C-telopeptide (CTX) Levels (Prostate Cancer), To compare the suppression of serum markers of bone resorption of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing. The number of patients with high \& low CTX values by arm will be reported here., from baseline up to 24 months|Bone Turnover Assessed by Serum C-telopeptide (CTX) Levels (Multiple Myeloma), To compare the suppression of serum markers of bone resorption of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing. The number of patients with high \& low CTX values by arm will be reported here., from baseline up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether every-12-week therapy with zoledronic acid is not inferior to every-4-week therapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or multiple myeloma involving bone, as measured by the proportion who experience at least one skeletal related event within 24 months after randomization.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare pain scores (Brief Pain Inventory) of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

II. To compare the functional status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group \[ECOG\] performance status) of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

III. To compare the incidence of osteonecrosis of the jaw in patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

IV. To compare the incidence of renal dysfunction in patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

V. To compare the skeletal morbidity rate of these patients, defined as the number of skeletal-related events per year, of patients receiving every 12 week dosing to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

VI. To compare the suppression of serum markers of bone resorption of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

VII. To determine whether every 12 week therapy with zoledronic acid is not inferior to every-4-week therapy for each subgroup of patients with either breast cancer, prostate cancer, or multiple myeloma, as measured by the proportion who experience at least one skeletal related event within 24 months after randomization.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive zoledronic acid intravenously (IV) over at least 15 minutes every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive zoledronic acid IV over at least 15 minutes every 12 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 weeks for 2 years from registration.