Phase I Trial of Vandetanib Combined With 131I-mIBG to Treat Patients With Advanced Phaeochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
The phase I trial aims to determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of vandetanib in combination with standard radiation therapy, 131I-mIBG, in patients with advanced phaeochromocytoma (phaeo) and paraganglioma (PG) by assessing the safety and tolerability of the combination treatment.
Phaeochromocytoma|Paraganglioma
DRUG: Vandetanib|RADIATION: 131I-mIBG
Occurrence of Dose Limiting Toxicity, Detailed adverse event monitoring will be conducted according to CTCAE v4.03. Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as any adverse event or laboratory abnormality detailed in the trial protocol, that is considered to be highly probable or probable trial treatment related and commencing anytime during the DLT evaluation period (from start of cycle 1 to cycle 1 week 12). Adverse Events include: Haematological, Clinical Chemistry, Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, Skin., From start of cycle 1 to end of cycle 1 (each cycle = 12 weeks)
Objective response, Response will be assessed according to RECIST v1.1. Confirmation of complete or partial response is not required. Stable disease will be considered the best response only is a second assessment has been carried out which confirmed stable disease at least 4 weeks after trial entry. Assessment will be determined using CT scans and 123I-mIBG scans performed at baseline, then every 3 months after start of treatment until disease progression (up to 3 years from registration), Determined using imaging scans performed at baseline (registration), then every 3 months after start of treatment until disease progression up to 3 years from date of registration|Occurrence and Severity of Adverse Events, Will include all grade 1-5 adverse events., From date of registration until 30 days after completion of trial treatment (vandetanib and/or 131I-mIBG)|Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival will be calculated from the date of trial entry to the date of documented disease progression, or death from any cause. Where progression is suspected and subsequently confirmed by scans, the date of documented suspected progression will be used., From date of registration to date of documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 years from date of registration
VIBRaNT is a registered phase I trial in patients with locally advanced or metastatic phaeochromocytoma or paraganglioma, not amenable to surgical resection.

Patients will receive vandetanib (an inhibitor of VEGF, EGFR and RET tyrosine kinase) in combination with standard radiation therapy Iodine-131 labelled Meta-iodobenzylguanidine (131I-mIBG).

Vandetanib and 131I-mIBG will be given in 12-weekly cycles: 131I-miBG will be given on day 1 of each cycle and vandetanib will started on day 1 of each cycle and continue to be taken once every day. The phase I trial aims to determine with recommended phase II dose of vandetanib (either 100, 200 or 300 mg once daily) - the dose of vandetanib that patients will receive will depend on the dose under investigation at the time of patient registration.

The vandetanib dose will be determined by the Modified Continual Reassessment Method (mCRM) - a toxicity model which described the probability of a toxicity occurring at each dose level, which is based on clinical judgement and any available toxicity data.