Stress Management Intervention for Mothers of Children With Cancer
To explore maternal biological (activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis) and behavioral (smoking, sleep behavior, exercise and alcohol use) pathways of intervention-related decreases in inflammation. Hypothesis: The intervention group will show decreased levels of cortisol and improved health behaviors from pre- to post-intervention when compared with the control group. We will also explore whether intervention-related changes in these parameters predict symptoms of illness. Exploratory Aim 2. To explore psychological pathways of intervention-related decreases in distress among mothers, including the perception of social support and the use of behavioral coping strategies that are components of the intervention. Hypothesis: Increases in perceived social support and use of active behavioral coping strategies will be associated with intervention-related decreases in symptoms of depression, anxiety and psychological stress.
Stress|Depression
BEHAVIORAL: Stress management
change in Maternal depression is being assessed, the Beck Depression Inventory ( BDI), the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) and other measures assessing maternal depression will be used, maternal depression, baseline, 2 weeks post intervention, 6 months post intervention
To explore maternal biological (activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis) and behavioral (smoking, sleep behavior, exercise and alcohol use) pathways of intervention-related decreases in inflammation. Hypothesis: The intervention group will show decreased levels of cortisol and improved health behaviors from pre- to post-intervention when compared with the control group. We will also explore whether intervention-related changes in these parameters predict symptoms of illness. Exploratory Aim 2. To explore psychological pathways of intervention-related decreases in distress among mothers, including the perception of social support and the use of behavioral coping strategies that are components of the intervention. Hypothesis: Increases in perceived social support and use of active behavioral coping strategies will be associated with intervention-related decreases in symptoms of depression, anxiety and psychological stress.