Pralatrexate and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Stage IV Esophageal or Gastroesophageal Cancer Who Have Failed Platinum-Based Therapy
RATIONALE: Pralatrexate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving pralatrexate together with docetaxel may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving pralatrexate together with docetaxel works in treating patients with stage IV esophageal or gastroesophageal cancer who have failed platinum-based therapy.
Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus|Adenocarcinomas of the Gastroesophageal Junction|Recurrent Esophageal Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Esophagus|Stage IV Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: pralatrexate|DRUG: docetaxel|RADIATION: fludeoxyglucose F 18|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography
Overall Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Approximately three years
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Approximately three years|Overall Survival (OS), OS was determined from the date of start of therapy to death frm any cause., Approximately five years|Correlation of FDG PET Response With Response Rate, Radiological assessment of tumor response was performed by computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) every four cycles of therapy and responses were measured according to RECIST and PERCIST criteria., Approximately three years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall response rate CR \& PR(Complete Response + Partial Response)as assessed by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors v 1.1) of the combination of pralatrexate and docetaxel in patients with advanced esophageal and gastroesophageal carcinomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluation of progression free survival and overall survival. II. Correlation of FDG(fludeoxyglucose)PET(positron emission tomography)response defined as a 35% reduction in SUV(standard uptake value)during the early course of chemotherapy to progression free and overall survival in addition to radiographic response as measured by RECIST v 1.1 criteria on CT imaging.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pralatrexate IV over 3-5 minutes and docetaxel IV on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.