Intralesional HPV Vaccine for Condylomata
This study will investigate whether injecting genital warts with small quantities of the Gardasil 9 vaccine has an effect on the warts.
Human Papilloma Virus|Warts|Warts, Genital|Condyloma|Condylomata Acuminata
BIOLOGICAL: nonavalent human papillomavirus vaccine
Change in wart number between Week 0 (baseline) and Week 12, Number of warts in genital area, as counted by study personnel at study visits. Genital area is defined as (1) suprapubic (2) left inguinal (3) right inguinal (4) vulvar (5) perineal (6) perianal in anatomic females, and as (1) suprapubic (2) left inguinal (3) right inguinal (4) dorsal penile (5) ventral penile and scrotal (6) perineal (7) perianal in anatomic males. Warts will be counted by study personnel at in-person evaluations at week 0, week 4 and week 12., to be measured at baseline (week 0) and Week 12.|Change in wart number between Week 0 (baseline) and Week 4, Number of warts in genital area, as counted by study personnel at study visits. Genital area is defined as (1) suprapubic (2) left inguinal (3) right inguinal (4) vulvar (5) perineal (6) perianal in anatomic females, and as (1) suprapubic (2) left inguinal (3) right inguinal (4) dorsal penile (5) ventral penile and scrotal (6) perineal (7) perianal in anatomic males. Warts will be counted by study personnel at in-person evaluations at week 0, week 4 and week 12., to be measured at baseline (week 0) and Week 12.|Change in mean size of genital condyloma between Week 0 (baseline) and Week 4, Mean size of warts in genital area, as measured by study personnel at study visits. Genital area is defined as (1) suprapubic (2) left inguinal (3) right inguinal (4) vulvar (5) perineal (6) perianal in anatomic females, and as (1) suprapubic (2) left inguinal (3) right inguinal (4) dorsal penile (5) ventral penile and scrotal (6) perineal (7) perianal in anatomic males. Warts will be counted by study personnel at in-person evaluations at week 0, week 4 and week 12., to be measured at baseline (week 0) and Week 4|Change in mean size of genital condyloma between Week 0 (baseline) and Week 12, Mean size of warts in genital area, as measured by study personnel at study visits. Genital area is defined as (1) suprapubic (2) left inguinal (3) right inguinal (4) vulvar (5) perineal (6) perianal in anatomic females, and as (1) suprapubic (2) left inguinal (3) right inguinal (4) dorsal penile (5) ventral penile and scrotal (6) perineal (7) perianal in anatomic males. Warts will be counted by study personnel at in-person evaluations at week 0, week 4 and week 12., to be measured at baseline (week 0) and Week 4.
Change in score of Specific Questionnaire for Condylomata Acuminata (CECA), Established tool to measure quality of life with respect to condyloma. Will be administered at baseline and week 12 by study personnel. It comprises 10 items and 2 dimensions. The emotional dimension includes 6 items and the sexual activity dimension includes 4 items. The questions refer to the past 7 days. The higher the score the better the quality of life. The global scoring range was 10-50, ranging from 6 to 30 in the emotional dimensions and from 4 to 20 in the sexual activity dimension., to be measured at baseline (week 0) and week 12|Change in score of Dermatology quality of life index (DLQI), Established tool to measure quality of life with any dermatologic disease. Will be administered at baseline and week 12 by study personnel. Consists of 10 questions scored from 0-3. The DLQI is calculated by adding the score of each question, resulting in a maximum of 30 and a minimum of 0. The higher the score, the more quality of life is impaired., to be measured at baseline (week 0) and week 12
This is a prospective, open-label, proof-of-concept research study to assess the effectiveness of intralesional nonavalent in the treatment of patients with genital condylomata. The study will be conducted at Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital. The planned intervention is to provide 10 subjects with at least 3 genital condylomata with intralesional nonavalent human papillomavirus vaccine (Gardasil 9) at 0 and 4 weeks. Then, the study subjects will be followed for a further 8 weeks to monitor for change in wart size and wart number.