Psilocybin in Cancer Pain Study
The overall objective of this study is to assess the feasibility, safety and preliminary efficacy of psilocybin-assisted therapy to alleviate opioid-refractory pain in patients with advanced-cancer.

The name of the study intervention used in this research study is:

Psilocybin (a tryptamine derivative)
Opioid-Related Disorders|Pain Management|Pain Management and Care|Advanced Cancer|Advanced Cancers
DRUG: Psilocybin
Feasibility of Psilocybin-Assisted Therapy, Feasibility of intervention is defined as at least 60% of recruited participants will complete treatment and all assessments., 3 weeks|Acceptability of Psilocybin-Assisted Therapy, Acceptability is defined as \>= 70% of participants will evaluate favorably (agree or strongly agree) acceptability on the Reactions to Research Participation Questionnaire Revised (RRPQ V6b), a 23-item measure scored on a 5-point Likert scale., 3 weeks
Change in Pain Intensity Score from Baseline, Pain intensity score is evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)-short, and change will be calculated between the score at baseline and at assessment at week 3 post dosing. Pain intensity score ranges from 0-10, while a larger number represents worse feelings., 3 weeks|Change in Pain Interference Score from Baseline, Pain interference score is evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)-short, and change will be calculated between the score at baseline and at assessment at week 3 post dosing. Pain interference score ranges from 0-10, while a larger number represents worse feelings., 3 weeks|Change in Pain Catastrophizing Score from Baseline, Pain catastrophizing is measured by the Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS), which consists of 13 items describing different thoughts and feelings associated with catastrophizing response-style. Answers are graded on a 5-point scale with endpoints (0) not at all to (4) all the time., 3 weeks|Change in Oral Morphine Equivalent (OME) from Baseline, OME would be obtained from participant's Electronic Medical Record and/or directly from participants based on CDC Oral Morphine Milligram Equivalent Conversion table., 3 weeks
This study is a phase 2 open label, single center, concurrent mixed-methods trial to assess the feasibility of a novel palliative-care informed psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy regimen to alleviate opioid-refractory pain in patients with advanced-cancer. Psilocybin works on the serotonin system in the brain which is linked to the regulation of mood, motivation and impulse control.

Psilocybin is an "Investigational" drug, meaning that the study drug has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a treatment for any disease. However, investigators have permission from the FDA to use this drug in this research study.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, an electrocardiogram, blood tests, and the study intervention includes preparation, evaluations, one psilocybin session and follow up visits.

Participants will be followed for up to 12 weeks (approximately 3 months) after receiving the study treatment.

It is expected that about 15 people will take part in this research study.

Filament Health is supporting this research study by providing the study investigational medication, psilocybin.

Cy Biopharma and Pancreatic Cancer North America are supporting this research study by providing funding.