68Ga-HX01 PET in Healthy Volunteers and Malignant Tumors Patients
Angiogenesis is essential in tumor growth, proliferation, progression, and metastasis. Overexpression of aminopeptidase N (APN/CD13) and/or integrin αvβ3 in endothelial and tumor cells is an essential marker of tumor-associated angiogenesis. It is highly expressed in malignant tissues such as ovarian and pancreatic cancer but less expressed in normal tissues. Therefore, CD13 and αvβ3 are important targets for diagnosis and efficacy assessment in ovarian and pancreatic cancer. Single receptor targeting probes have many disadvantages, such as relatively low binding affinity, short tumor retention time, and low tumor uptake. RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp) and NGR (Asp-Gly-Arg) are recognized peptide sequences targeting CD13 or αvβ3. PET imaging with 68Ga-HX01, a radionuclide 68Ga labeled peptide isomer formed from RGD and NGR, can be helpful for targeted diagnosis and efficacy assessment of malignant tumors.

This project proposes to use 68Ga-HX01 PET imaging in the diagnosis and staging of malignant tumors, i.e., ovarian and pancreatic cancer, and to compare the diagnostic efficacy of 68Ga-HX01 with the pathology gold standard. And this study was conducted to compensate for the lack of value of 18F-FDG PET imaging for the diagnosis and staging of malignant tumors by comparing 68Ga-HX01 with the commonly used 18F-FDG PET imaging.
Malignant Neoplasm
DRUG: 68Ga-HX01
Visual and standardized uptake values assessment of lesions and biodistribution, At least two experienced nuclear medicine physicians will conduct a visual analysis using consensus reading. The standardized uptake value (SUV) of tumor and organs will be measured after a semiquantitative analysis is conducted for each case. The SUV ranges from 0 to infinity, and a higher score means a higher uptake of 68Ga-HX01 by the tumor, which implies a greater threat of the tumor being malignant or higher stage., 1 year
Radioactivity in the blood and urine samples, Blood samples were collected at 25 minutes, 55 minutes and 115 minutes after injection of the imaging agent, and urine specimens were collected at 28 minutes, 58 minutes and 118 minutes after injection to measure the radioactivity in the blood samples and urine., 1 year|Adverse events collection, Adverse events after the injection and scanning of healthy volunteers and patients will be followed up and assessed., 1 year|Concentration of tumor markers (e.g., carcinoembryonic antigen, CA125, CA199) in participants' blood, Concentrations of blood tumor markers (e.g., CA125, CA199, CEA) measured on the date closest to the participant's examination will be collected. A higher blood tumor marker concentration means a higher threat or stage of tumor malignancy., 1 year|Count of red blood cells, white blood cells, hemoglobin and platelets; mean corpuscular volume (MCV), hematocrit, Count of red blood cells, white blood cells, hemoglobin and platelets; mean corpuscular volume (MCV), hematocrit measured on the date closest to the participant's examination will be collected. Abnormal changes (increase or decrease) in the above indicators may imply that the patient is threatened by the disease, which needs to be evaluated in conjunction with the patient's medical history and clinical manifestations., 1 year|Concentration of alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), albumin and total protein in participants' blood, Concentrations of blood alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), albumin and total protein measured on the date closest to the participant's examination will be collected. Higher concentrations of the above indicators mean that the patient's liver function is more impaired., 1 year|Glomerular filtration rate (GFR), This test is a measure of how well the kidneys are removing wastes and excess fluid from the blood. It is calculated from the serum creatinine level using age and gender. As kidney function decreases, the GFR level decreases., 1 year|Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN), As kidney function decreases, the BUN level rises., 1 year
Malignant tumors are a prevalent cause of death in human diseases that pose a grave threat to human health. The prognosis can be considerably improved by early diagnosis and therapy. Nevertheless, the pathophysiology of various types of tumors varies, and the diagnosis and treatment of tumors continue to provide challenges.

Angiogenesis is essential in tumor growth, proliferation, progression, and metastasis. Overexpression of aminopeptidase N (APN/CD13) and/or integrin αvβ3 in endothelial and tumor cells is an essential marker of tumor-associated angiogenesis. It is highly expressed in malignant tissues such as ovarian and pancreatic cancer but less expressed in normal tissues. Therefore, CD13 and αvβ3 are important targets for diagnosis and efficacy assessment in ovarian and pancreatic cancer. Single receptor targeting probes have many disadvantages, such as relatively low binding affinity, short tumor retention time, and low tumor uptake. RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp) and NGR (Asp-Gly-Arg) are recognized peptide sequences targeting CD13 or αvβ3. PET imaging with 68Ga-HX01, a radionuclide 68Ga labeled peptide isomer formed from RGD and NGR, can be helpful for targeted diagnosis and efficacy assessment of malignant tumors.

This project proposes to use 68Ga-HX01 PET imaging in the diagnosis and staging of malignant tumors, i.e., ovarian and pancreatic cancer, and to compare the diagnostic efficacy of 68Ga-HX01 with the pathology gold standard. And this study was conducted to compensate for the lack of value of 18F-FDG PET imaging for the diagnosis and staging of malignant tumors by comparing 68Ga-HX01 with the commonly used 18F-FDG PET imaging.