Outreach for Patients That Are Newly Eligible for Colorectal Cancer Screening
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether patient outreach is effective at increasing compliance with preventative screenings for those patients who, based on national quality standards, have become newly eligible for screening measures. We hypothesize that educational outreach may increase completion rates.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Letter Only|BEHAVIORAL: Letter and Educational DVD
Completion of CRC Screening, What would have been reported as this Outcome Measure is the number of participants who completed screening. We planned to review electronic health records of participants 6 months post randomization to look for either: (1) note in free text MD note documenting receipt of one form of colorectal cancer (CRC) screening during study period or (2)lab results from fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, or colonoscopy. Screening completion equaled presence of a lab result or physician note in chart. No patient charts were reviewed due to low accrual., 6 months from initial contact
The Secondary Outcome for the Study is the Time to Screening Completion., This Outcome Measure would have reported the length of time, measured in days, that occurred between the date of randomization and the completed screening date. We planned to review the electronic health records of participants 6 months post randomization to look for either: (1)note in free text MD note documenting receipt of one form of CRC screening during study period or (2)lab results from fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, or colonoscopy. Screening completion equaled presence of a lab result or physician note in chart. No patient charts were reviewed due to low accrual., 6 months after randomization
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether patient outreach is effective at increasing compliance with preventative screenings for those patients who, based on national quality standards, have become newly eligible for screening measures. We hypothesize that educational outreach may increase completion rates.