Surgery Without Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy Compared With Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy for Rectal Cancer With Negative Circumferential Resection Margin Based on MRI Assessment, a Perspective Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial
For now, neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is routinely performed for T3N1-2M0 rectal cancer. However, there are lots of complications following neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, such as Wound-related complications, anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stenosis, sexual dysfunction, testicular or ovary failure. Patients undergoing resection for rectal cancer had low rates of local recurrence and long disease-free survival regardless of whether an APR, CAA or low AR was performed. The main purpose of preoperative radiotherapy is to lower the local recurrence. For the T3N1-2M0 rectal cancer with negative circumferential resection margin based on MRI assessment, we suppose might not necessary to receive neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, for operation can achieve the negative circumferential resection margin.
Circumferential Resection Margin|Intraoperative Perforation of Rectum|Local Recurrence of Malignant Tumor of Rectum|Disease-free Survival|Overal Survival
OTHER: neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy
circumferential resection margin, one week after operation|introperative perforation, During the operation
local recurrece, 3 years after operation|overal survival, 3 years after operation|disease-free survival, 3 years after operation|complications, 30 days after operation
For now, neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is routinely performed for T3N1-2M0 rectal cancer. However, there are lots of complications following neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, such as Wound-related complications, anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stenosis, sexual dysfunction, testicular or ovary failure. Patients undergoing resection for rectal cancer had low rates of local recurrence and long disease-free survival regardless of whether an APR, CAA or low AR was performed. The main purpose of preoperative radiotherapy is to lower the local recurrence. For the T3N1-2M0 rectal cancer with negative circumferential resection margin based on MRI assessment, we suppose might not necessary to receive neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, for operation can achieve the negative circumferential resection margin.