A Master Protocol to Evaluate the Long-Term Safety of (LY3527727) Pirtobrutinib
The master protocol study J2N-MC-JZNY provides a framework to enable the evaluation of the long-term safety and efficacy of pirtobrutinib after completion of clinical studies evaluating pirtobrutinib. The clinical studies that will feed into this master protocol are referred to as originator studies. The master protocol will govern individual study-specific appendices (ISAs) that will represent participants from the individual, completed originator studies. These participants will have the opportunity to enter this study and continue to receive treatment or continue follow-up visits. Overall, the master protocol and the individual ISAs, when combined, define the investigations for this study.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Pirtobrutinib
Percentage of Participants with a Grade ≥3 treatment-emergent AEs, Time from the Date of the First Dose of Study Intervention (Study Day 1) through 30 Days (+ 7-day window) After the Date of the Last Dose of Study Intervention or The First Date Starting a New Anticancer Therapy, whichever is Earlier
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from enrollment from the originator study until death from any cause, Time from Enrollment from the Originator Study until Death from Any Cause (Up to 93 Months)
The master protocol study J2N-MC-JZNY provides a framework to enable the evaluation of the long-term safety and efficacy of pirtobrutinib after completion of clinical studies evaluating pirtobrutinib. The clinical studies that will feed into this master protocol are referred to as originator studies. The master protocol will govern individual study-specific appendices (ISAs) that will represent participants from the individual, completed originator studies. These participants will have the opportunity to enter this study and continue to receive treatment or continue follow-up visits. Overall, the master protocol and the individual ISAs, when combined, define the investigations for this study.