Corneal Toxicity in Patients Treated by Belantamab Mafodotin
Belantamab Mafodotin is the first antibody conjugate targeting B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). It is used in multiple myeloma refractory to an immunomodulatory drug or proteasome inhibitor and refractory and/or intolerant to an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody.

It has been found that the immunotherapy causes corneal side effects, Microcyst-like Epithelial Changes (MECs). They are round-shaped corneal inclusions that migrate from the peripheral cornea to the center, causing blurry vision, dryness and refractive shifts depending on their location and density.
Myeloma Multiple
OTHER: Collection of datas
Keratopathy and Visual Acuity (KVA) scale, This scale is defined by 4 values : G1, G2, G3 and G4 (the best value is G1)

The severity grade of microcyst-like epithelial changes (MECs) is rated using the Keratopathy and Visual Acuity (KVA) scale after slit lamp examination.

The aim is to show a correlation between refractive shift and severity grade of microcyst-like epithelial changes (MECs), Months: 24|Refraction (no unit), The refraction is measured in spheric equivalent (SEQ) with an automated refractometer

The aim is to show a correlation between refractive shift and severity grade of microcyst-like epithelial changes (MECs), Months: 24
Monoyer scale, The score is from 10/10 (best visual acuity) to 1/10 (worth visual acuity) Correlation between visual acuity and severity grade of microcyst-like epithelial changes (MECs), Months: 24|Parinaud scale, The score is from 10/10 (best visual acuity) to 1/10 (worth visual acuity) Correlation between visual acuity and severity grade of microcyst-like epithelial changes (MECs), Months: 24|Keratometry (diopter = 1/m), Keratometry is measured in diopter using an autorefractometer or a topograph. This device measures the curvature of the anterior corneal surface based on the power of a reflecting surface. It does this by measuring the size of an image reflected from 2 paracentral points and utilizes doubling prisms to stabilize the image enabling more accurate focusing.

Correlation between keratometry and severity grade of microcyst-like epithelial changes (MECs), Months: 24|Epithelial pachymetry (µm), Epithelial pachymetry is measured in micrometer (µm) using a topograph

Correlation between epithelial pachymetry and severity grade of microcyst-like epithelial changes (MECs), Months: 24
This study aims at analysing the refractive shifts caused by Microcyst-like Epithelial Changes (MECs) and whether it can be used to monitor patients and facilitate their follow up.

Constitution of a French multicenter cohort.