Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer After Undergoing Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of stereotactic body radiation therapy in treating patients with prostate cancer after undergoing surgery. Stereotactic body radiation therapy may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage I Prostate Cancer|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer|Stage III Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: stereotactic body radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD, defined as the highest dose tested in which fewer than 33% of patients experienced dose limiting toxicity, graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose level., 90 days
Incidence of acute toxicities observed at each dose level graded according to the NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose level., Up to 90 days|Incidence of late toxicities observed at each dose level graded according to the NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose level., Up to 3 years|Biochemical progression-free survival, Estimated using Kaplan-Meier. 95% confidence intervals should be provided., Up to 3 years|Prospective quality-of-life data related to bowel, urinary, and sexual health using the numerical scores generated from the patient questionnaires, Quality of life questionnaires include the International Prostate Symptom Scale (IPSS), sexual health inventory for men (SHIM), and Merrick rectal function scale., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) with an upper limit of 45 Gray (Gy) in 5 fractions, in the delivery of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to the prostate fossa.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess acute and late toxicities from treatment.

II. To assess biochemical progression-free survival.

III. To collect prospective quality-of-life data related to bowel, urinary, and sexual health.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive 5 fractions of SBRT over 1.5 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 days and then periodically for 3 years.