A Randomized Study of Safety and Efficacy of Pazopanib and Gemcitabine in Persistent or Relapsed Ovarian Cancer
Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of gynecologic cancer deaths, and the fifth most common cause of cancer deaths in women. While approximately 75% of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer will respond to first-line chemotherapy with platinum and paclitaxel, most patients with advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer will experience disease recurrence. Pazopanib is a novel agent has recently been approved for the treatment of subjects with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and preclinical studies suggest it may be effective in other cancers such as ovarian cancer. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to test the efficacy and safety of a novel agent, pazopanib, as an adjunct to a standard treatment, gemcitabine, for recurrent or persistent ovarian cancer. This is an open label study in which subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receive 4 cycles of either gemcitabine, or gemcitabine with pazopanib. Gemcitabine will be administered as an IV infusion weekly on days 1 and 8 of a 21 day cycle. Subjects randomized to receive pazopanib will take 800 mg daily during the 21 day cycle. All subjects will be monitored for toxicity and other indicators of safety (labs, physical exams, vitals) at intervals throughout the treatment cycles. Subjects will be followed for up to 5 years following the conclusion of treatment to evaluate efficacy. The primary endpoints of the study are progression free survival and overall survival, which will be assessed at three years.
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: pazopanib
Progression-free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of recurrence/progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 3 years
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse events will be evaluated using CTCAE criteria from the start of study treatment until 30 days following the last dose of study treatment, 30 days after last dose
Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of gynecologic cancer deaths, and the fifth most common cause of cancer deaths in women. While approximately 75% of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer will respond to first-line chemotherapy with platinum and paclitaxel, most patients with advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer will experience disease recurrence. Pazopanib is a novel agent has recently been approved for the treatment of subjects with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and preclinical studies suggest it may be effective in other cancers such as ovarian cancer. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to test the efficacy and safety of a novel agent, pazopanib, as an adjunct to a standard treatment, gemcitabine, for recurrent or persistent ovarian cancer. This is an open label study in which subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receive 4 cycles of either gemcitabine, or gemcitabine with pazopanib. Gemcitabine will be administered as an IV infusion weekly on days 1 and 8 of a 21 day cycle. Subjects randomized to receive pazopanib will take 800 mg daily during the 21 day cycle. All subjects will be monitored for toxicity and other indicators of safety (labs, physical exams, vitals) at intervals throughout the treatment cycles. Subjects will be followed for up to 5 years following the conclusion of treatment to evaluate efficacy. The primary endpoints of the study are progression free survival and overall survival, which will be assessed at three years.