Desmopressin (DDAVP) in Patients With Colorectal Cancer and Rectal Bleeding
The objective of this study is to find the maximum tolerated dose and preliminary efficacy of desmopressin as an haemostatic agent, when is administered to patients with colorectal cancer and rectal bleeding, before specific oncologic treatment with surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy.
Colorectal Cancer|Rectal Bleeding
DRUG: Desmopressin
Presence or absence of grade 3 or 4 adverse events related to the study drug, in a maximum of 2 out of 6 patients assessed in each dose level., A total of 6 groups with 3 patients each, with different dose ranges and dosing schedules will be assessed.

The number of patients in each group with grade 3 or 4 adverse events, including clinical or analytical findings, will be determined in order to stablish the maximum tolerated dose., Up to one week after the administration of the first dose
Number of patients with grade 3 or 4 local adverse events, Once the maximum tolerated dose is determined, other 12 patients will be assessed to evaluate safety and tolerability of the study drug when administered as monotherapy., Up to one week after the administration of the first dose|Number of patients with grade 3 or 4 systemic adverse events, Once the maximum tolerated dose is determined, other 12 patients will be assessed to evaluate safety and tolerability of the study drug when administered as monotherapy., Up to one week after the administration of the first dose|Number of withdrawn from treatment, Up to one week after the administration of the first dose|Number of patients with partial or complete response in clinical endpoints, Clinical endpoints such us rectal bleeding, mucorrhea, evacuatory attempts and rectal pain will be assessed before and after treatment with the study drug.

Response will be classified as complete or partial response., Up to one week after the administration of the first dose
Colorectal cancer is the third cause of cancer in men and women, according to data recently published in the United Sates, and the third cause of death in the same population. Ninety percent (90%) of patients have symptoms at the time of diagnosis, being rectal bleeding the most frequent one (50% of cases). Bleeding, mainly mild or moderate, has no specific treatment, and during the staging of the disease, can not be controlled.

Desmopressin, a synthetic analogue of vasopressin, is a selective agonist of the receptor V2 of vasopressin, inducing, among others, an haemostatic effect. Interestingly, the expression of this receptor has been described in human gastrointestinal tract, including colon and rectum and in colorectal tumors. Moreover, desmopressin has shown a significant antitumor activity in preclinical murine models of colorectal cancer.

This is a dose finding study, to investigate a new indication of desmopressin as an haemostatic agent in patients with colorectal cancer with mild to moderate rectal bleeding.