A Multicentre, Single-arm, Open-label Safety Study of Lenalidomide Plus Dexamethasone in Previously Treated Subjects With Multiple Myeloma
This is a multi-centre, single-arm treatment study combining lenalidomide plus high dose dexamethasone.

Subjects who qualify for participation will receive lenalidomide plus high dose dexamethasone in 4 week cycles. Subjects will be seen every 2 weeks for the first 3 cycles of therapy and then every 4 weeks after the third cycle until disease progression is documented, study drug is discontinued for any reason or lenalidomide becomes commercially available for this indication. Assessments of safety and quality of life are performed during the study.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall Incidence of Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), by Severity, Seriousness, and Relationship to Treatment, Counts of study participants who had treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) defined as any reported AE that started on or after the first day of study drug dosing. A participant with multiple occurrences of an adverse event within a category is counted only once in that category.

National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE version 3.0) was used by investigators to assess TEAEs. Severity scale ranges from 0 (none) to 5 (death). Grade 3=severe AE; Grade 4=life threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5=death., up to 123 weeks
Participants With Adverse Events of Special Interest: Peripheral Neuropathy, Number of participants with at least one peripheral neuropathy treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE), and number of participants reporting AEs coded to preferred terms that comprise the search terms for peripheral neuropathy in MedDRA version 9.0 are listed. A participant with multiple occurrences of a TEAE was counted only once for that category., up to 124 weeks|Time to First Peripheral Neuropathy Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), Time between first dose and when a TEAE for peripheral neuropathy was reported. The mean is the univariate mean without adjusting for censoring. The treatment duration was used for censored participants., up to 124 weeks|Participants With Adverse Events of Special Interest: Venous Thromboembolic Events, Number of participants with at least one venous thromboembolic treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE), and number of participants reporting AEs coded to preferred terms that comprise the search terms for venous thromboembolic events in MedDRA version 9.0 are listed. A participant with multiple occurrences of a TEAE was counted only once for that category., up to 124 weeks|Time to First Venous Thromboembolic Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), Time between first dose and when a TEAE for venous thromboembolic event was reported. The mean is the univariate mean without adjusting for censoring. The treatment duration was used for censored participants., up to 124 weeks|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Physical Functioning Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. EORTC QLQ-C30 includes functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status, symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and other (dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score=better level of physical functioning., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Role Functioning Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score=better level of role functioning., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Emotional Functioning Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score = better level of emotional functioning., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Cognitive Functioning Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score = better level of cognitive functioning., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Social Functioning Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score = better level of social functioning., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Fatigue Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the fatigue scale = higher level of symptomatology/problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Pain Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the pain scale = higher level of symptomatology/problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Nausea/Vomiting Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the nausea/vomiting scale = higher level of symptomatology/problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Constipation Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the constipation scale = higher level of symptomatology/problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Diarrhea Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the diarrhea scale = higher level of symptomatology/problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Insomnia Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the insomnia scale = higher level of symptomatology/problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Dyspnoea Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the dyspnoea scale = higher level of symptomatology/problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Appetite Loss Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the appetite loss scale = higher level of symptomatology/problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Financial Problems Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a problem scale like the financial problems scale = higher level of financial problems., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Quality of Life Scale, EORTQ QLC-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score = better quality of life., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Multiple Myeloma (EORTC QLQ-MY20) Disease Symptoms Scale, EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a validated questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in patients with multiple myeloma. EORTC QLQ-MY20 includes four scales: disease symptoms, treatment side-effects, future perspective, and body image. Questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for the disease symptoms scale = higher level of symptomatology., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Multiple Myeloma (EORTC QLQ-MY20) Side Effects Scale, EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a validated questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in patients with multiple myeloma. Questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for the side effects scale = higher level of symptomatology., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Multiple Myeloma (EORTC QLQ-MY20) Future Perspective Scale, EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a validated questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in patients with multiple myeloma. Questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale. For the future perspective scale, higher score = better perspective of the future., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24|Change From Baseline to Week 24 in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Patients With Multiple Myeloma (EORTC QLQ-MY20) Body Image Scale, EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a validated questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in patients with multiple myeloma. Questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale. For the body image scale, higher scores = better body image., Baseline (Day 0), Week 24
This is a multi-centre, single-arm treatment study combining lenalidomide plus high dose dexamethasone.

Subjects who qualify for participation will receive lenalidomide plus high dose dexamethasone in 4 week cycles. Subjects will be seen every 2 weeks for the first 3 cycles of therapy and then every 4 weeks after the third cycle until disease progression is documented, study drug is discontinued for any reason or lenalidomide becomes commercially available for this indication. Assessments of safety and quality of life are performed during the study.