Trial of XELOX Followed by Radiation Combined With Carboplatin and RAD001 for Esophageal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to test the drug RAD001 in combination with another chemotherapy drug, Carboplatin, as well as radiation therapy in the treatment of esophageal cancer. Because RAD001 has not been used in this combination before, it is not clear which dose will be best when used in combination.

The standard of care for patients who have esophageal cancer that has not moved to other areas of the body (non-metastatic) includes a combination of chemotherapy, radiation therapy and possibly surgery. If the patient chooses to participate in this study, the patient will receive chemotherapy and radiation therapy. The patient will possibly also have surgery to have the cancer removed. This decision will be made by the treating physicians. All of the chemotherapy the patient will receive on the study is considered standard chemotherapy for esophagus cancer. The investigators do not know as of yet if the drug called RAD001 will help improve the treatment for patients with this disease. RAD001 is a pill that has been used in many other types of cancer and has been proven to be effective in other cancers such as kidney cancer.
Esophageal Cancer|Neoplasms, Esophageal
DRUG: RAD001|DRUG: XELOX|DRUG: Carboplatin|RADIATION: Radiation
Phase I portion to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of RAD001 in combination with radiation, within one month after surgery
Rate of surgical pathologic complete remission (pCR) (absence of evidence of cancer after surgery), within one month from surgery
Esophageal cancer is the sixth most common cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Recent medical advances have led to small improvements in survival, but the overall rate of survival remains low, making new treatment approaches necessary.

Chemotherapy drugs and radiation therapy are often both used in treating esophageal cancer. The combination of oxaliplatin and capecitabine (XELOX) is a commonly used chemotherapy combination. Sometimes chemotherapy is given as an "induction" therapy, before the radiation is given.

The drug RAD001 is a targeted drug that acts specifically on a protein inside cells (called mTOR), which is important for cancer development. The combination of RAD001 and radiation therapy has been shown to improve anti-cancer effects.

This study will look for the ideal dose of RAD001 when given in combination with radiation therapy after induction chemotherapy with XELOX, and test the anticancer effects of this treatment approach in patients with esophageal cancer.