Gamma-secretase/Notch Signalling Pathway Inhibitor RO4929097 in Treating Patients With Advanced, Metastatic, or Recurrent Triple Negative Invasive Breast Cancer
This phase II clinical trial studies how well gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097 works in treating patients with advanced, metastatic, or recurrent triple negative invasive breast cancer. Gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Estrogen Receptor-negative Breast Cancer|HER2-negative Breast Cancer|Male Breast Cancer|Progesterone Receptor-negative Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer|Triple-negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Overall Response Rate Using RECIST, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., From start of treatment until disease progression or removal from treatment.|Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Computed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from start of study treatment to the date of first progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed at 6 months
Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Computed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from start of study treatment to the date of first progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed at 3 months|Duration of Radiologic Response, The duration of radiologic response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented., From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented.|Overall Survival, Computed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Within the protocol defined follow-up period.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the antitumour activity of RO4929097 in recurrent and/or metastatic triple negative breast cancer through co-primary endpoints of overall response rate (ORR) using RECIST and 6-month progression-free survival rate (PFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the antitumour activity of RO4929097 through secondary endpoints including: duration of radiologic response, progression-free and overall survival rates within the protocol defined follow-up period.

II. To assess the safety and tolerability of single agent RO4929097 in breast cancer.

III. To explore expression of Notch biomarkers in triple negative breast cancer and potential interaction with RO4929097 response and toxicity.

IV. To evaluate the downstream effects of RO4929097 in advanced triple negative breast cancer.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097 orally (PO) once daily on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.