Gemcitabine and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Metastatic Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine and docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving gemcitabine together with docetaxel works in treating patients with metastatic prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride
Objective PSA Response Rate (Number of Patients With a PSA Response), Decline from a baseline value by ≥ 50% or normalization of PSA (\< 0.03) confirmed by a second measurement at least 1 week or more weeks later. Patients must not demonstrate clinical or radiographic evidence of disease progression during this time period. The date of response will be defined as the first date at which the PSA declined from baseline by ≥ 50% or normalized., every 4 weeks|Number of Patients With Measurable Soft Tissue Disease Will be Assessed Per Solid Tumor Response Criteria (RECIST)., Patients who have a response of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) by RECIST criteria. To be assigned a status of PR or CR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments that should be performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response are first met. In the case of SD, patients who do not meet the criteria for response or progressive disease for at least 90 days will be categorized as stable disease., at 4 weeks after treatment completion
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the objective response rate and toxicity in patients with androgen-independent metastatic prostate cancer treated with gemcitabine hydrochloride and docetaxel.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 followed by docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 8. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 36 patients will be accrued for this study.