Gemcitabine Hydrochloride With or Without Erlotinib Hydrochloride Followed by the Same Chemotherapy Regimen With or Without Radiation Therapy and Capecitabine or Fluorouracil in Treating Patients With Pancreatic Cancer That Has Been Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II-R/III trial studies gemcitabine hydrochloride with or without erlotinib hydrochloride followed by the same chemotherapy regimen with or without radiation therapy and capecitabine or fluorouracil in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that was removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride, capecitabine, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving chemotherapy together with or without erlotinib hydrochloride and/or radiation therapy after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery. It is not yet known whether chemotherapy is more effective when given with or without erlotinib hydrochloride and/or radiation therapy in treating pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Intraductal Papillary-Mucinous Neoplasm|Stage I Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
RADIATION: 3-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Chemotherapy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Overall Survival (Percentage of Participants Alive) [Phase II], Overall survival is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Survival time is measured from step 1 randomization to date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Analysis was to occur after 200 deaths were reported., From step 1 randomization (gemcitabine vs. gemcitabine/erlotinib) to death or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at the time of the phase II analysis was 6.2 years.|Overall Survival (Percentage of Participants Alive) [Phase III], Overall survival (OS) is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Survival time is measured from step 2 randomization to date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Analysis was to occur at the earlier of 316 reported deaths or when all patients have five years potential follow-up from step 2 randomization., From step 2 randomization (chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy followed by chemoradiation) to the date of death or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of the phase III analysis was 12.8 years, measured from step 2 randomization.
Disease-free Survival (Percentage of Participants Alive Without Disease) [Phase II], Disease-free survival is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease-free survival time is measured from step 1 randomization to the first date of local or regional disease, distant metastases, second primary tumor, death due to any cause, or last known follow-up (censored). Analysis was to occur after 200 deaths were reported., From step1 randomization (gemcitabine vs. gemcitabine/erlotinib) to disease event, death, or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at the time of the phase II analysis was 6.2 years.|Disease-free Survival (Percentage of Participants Alive Without Disease) [Phase III], Disease-free survival is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease-free survival time is measured from step 2 randomization to the first date of local or regional disease, distant metastases, second primary tumor, death due to any cause, or last known follow-up (censored). Analysis was to occur at the earlier of 316 reported deaths or when all participants have five years potential follow-up from second step randomization., From step 2 randomization (chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy followed by chemoradiation) to disease event, death, or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of the phase III analysis was 12.8 years, measured from step 2 randomization.|Number of Participants by Highest Grade Adverse Event Reported (Phase II), Assessed according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 which grades adverse event severity from 1=mild to 5=death. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure; see Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data., From step 1 randomization (gemcitabine vs. gemcitabine/erlotinib) to death or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at the time of the phase II analysis was 6.2 years.|Number of Participants by Highest Grade Adverse Event Reported (Phase III), Assessed according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 which grades adverse event severity from 1=mild to 5=death., From step 2 randomization (chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy followed by chemoradiation) to death or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of the phase III analysis was 12.8 years, measured from step 2 randomization.|Frequency of Objective Criteria of Resectability as Measured by Preoperative Imaging, Baseline|Overall Survival by Baseline Fatigue Group, Overall survival is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Survival time is measured from step 1 randomization to date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Baseline fatigue is measured by Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACT-F) questionnaire which has a range of 0 to 52 with a higher score indicating less fatigue. Patients with low fatigue at baseline (FACIT-F score \> 30) will be compared to patients with high fatigue at baseline (FACIT-F scores ≤ 30). The analysis population is all enrolled eligible participants who consented to the quality of life study component and who have baseline FACT-F data., From enrollment to death or last follow-up.
Determination of National Institutes of Health (NIH) Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue and Overall Survival, Baseline PROMIS Fatigue scores will be analyzed to determine if there is a cut point (adjusting for multiple comparisons) that correlates with overall survival using the log-rank statistic. The analysis population is all enrolled eligible participants who consented to the quality of life study component and who have baseline PROMIS data., From enrollment to death or last follow-up.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the addition of erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) to gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) adjuvant chemotherapy shows a signal for improved survival as compared to gemcitabine alone following R0 or R1 resection of head of pancreas adenocarcinoma (including adenocarcinoma of the head, neck, and uncinate process). (Phase II-R) II. To determine whether the use of concurrent fluoropyrimidine and radiotherapy following adjuvant gemcitabine based chemotherapy or non-gemcitabine based chemotherapy such as modified fluorouracil-leucovorin-irinotecan-oxaliplatin regimen (FOLFIRINOX) further enhances survival for such patients who are without evidence of progressive disease after 5 months of adjuvant chemotherapy. (Phase III)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate disease-free survival of adjuvant chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy and concurrent fluoropyrimidine for patients with resected head of pancreas adenocarcinoma who are disease free after 5 months of adjuvant chemotherapy.

II. To evaluate disease-free survival of standard adjuvant gemcitabine chemotherapy with and without erlotinib for patients with resected head of pancreas adenocarcinoma.

III. To evaluate adverse events with and without erlotinib for patients with resected head of pancreas adenocarcinoma.

IV. To evaluate adverse events of adjuvant chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and concurrent fluoropyrimidine for patients with resected head of pancreas adenocarcinoma who are disease free after adjuvant chemotherapy.

V. To evaluate preoperative cross-sectional imaging of the primary head of pancreas adenocarcinoma in order to determine the frequency with which objective criteria of resectability are present.

VI. To determine if patients reporting low baseline fatigue, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-Fatigue, predicts survival and to explore correlations between baseline fatigue, as measured by Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS), and survival.

OUTLINE: Patients without disease progression after treatment in arm I or II are randomized to 1 of 2 additional treatment arms (arm III or IV).

ARM I: Patients receive either gemcitabine hydrochloride or allowable combination chemotherapy per standard of care for 5 months.

ARM II (closed to accrual 4/2/14): Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes once a week for 3 weeks then off 1 week and erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Patients receive the same treatment as in arm I for 1 month.

ARM IV: Patients receive the same treatment as in arm I for 1 month. Beginning within 7-21 days after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo radiotherapy (3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy) 5 days per week for 5.5 weeks (28 fractions). During radiotherapy, patients receive either capecitabine PO twice daily (BID) 5 days per week or fluorouracil IV continuously for 5.5 weeks or until radiotherapy is completed.

Patients undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and/or x-ray imaging throughout the trial. Patients also undergo blood sample collection during screening and follow-up and undergo tissue sample collection at baseline.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 4 years, then yearly.