Low-Dose or High-Dose Lenalidomide in Treating Younger Patients With Recurrent, Refractory, or Progressive Pilocytic Astrocytoma or Optic Pathway Glioma
This randomized phase II trial studies how well low-dose lenalidomide works compared with high-dose lenalidomide in treating younger patients with juvenile pilocytic astrocytomas or optic nerve pathway gliomas that have come back (recurrent), have not responded to treatment (refractory), or are growing, spreading, or getting worse (progressive). Lenalidomide is classified as an immunomodulatory drug as it boosts the immune system. It has other potential anti-tumor effects, for example, it may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether low-dose lenalidomide is more or less effective than high-dose lenalidomide in treating patients with juvenile pilocytic astrocytomas or optic nerve pathway gliomas.
Neurofibromatosis Type 1|Recurrent Childhood Pilocytic Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Visual Pathway Glioma
DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Number of Patients Who Demonstrate Complete or Partial Response, Number of patients who demonstrate a complete or partial response as defined below:

Complete Response - Complete disappearance of all known disease for at least 4 weeks;

Partial Response - A reduction of at least 50% in the size of all measurable tumor as quantitated by the sum of the products of the largest diameters of measurable lesions when compared with that measurement at the time of study enrollment and maintained for at least 4 weeks., 26 cycles of chemotherapy - up to 3 years after enrollment|Number of Patients Who Demonstrate Early Progression, Number of patients with disease progression during the first six months of protocol therapy. Disease progression is defined as ≥ 25% increase in the sum of the products of the largest diameters of the measurable lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions when compared with the measurements of lesions at the time of enrollment., Up to 180 days after enrollment
Event-free Survival [EFS], Estimated 3-year EFS where EFS is calculated as the time from study enrollment to disease progression, disease relapse, occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm, death from any cause or last follow-up whichever occurs first. Kaplan-Meier method is used for estimation. Patients without an event are censored at last contact., Up to 3 years after study enrollment|Overall Survival [OS], Estimated 3-year overall survival is calculated as the time from study enrollment to death from any cause or last follow-up whichever occurs first. Kaplan-Meier method is used for estimation. Patients alive at last contact are censored at that time., Up to 3 years after study enrollment|Number of Patients With Toxic Events After 2 Dose Reductions, Number of patients who have an additional significant toxicity coded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0 after experiencing two dose reductions from their assigned treatment dose., While receiving protocol therapy up to 3 years after study enrollment|Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Lenalidomide, Concentration of lenalidomide obtained from any day between day 5 and 21 of the first cycle of chemotherapy in nanograms per mL., Between days 5-21 of course 1 and each dose reduction|Magnetic Resonance Imaging Sequence, Response categories (complete response, partial response, stable disease, and progression) will be determined from the following three standard magnetic resonance sequences, T2-weighted, fluid attenuated inversion recovery, T1-weighted post-contrast. Percent agreement between the sequences will be estimated as the number of follow-up scans in which the corresponding sequence agreed divided by the total number of follow-up scans., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate in children with recurrent, refractory, or progressive juvenile pilocytic astrocytomas and optic pathway gliomas who are treated with Regimen A low-dose (20 mg/m\^2/dose) or Regimen B high-dose (115 mg/m\^2/dose) lenalidomide.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the event-free survival (EFS) (based on standard two-dimensional tumor measurements, determined by each institution) of children with recurrent, refractory, or progressive juvenile pilocytic astrocytomas and optic pathway gliomas who are treated with lenalidomide.

II. To compare response categories and EFS across the 3 magnetic resonance (MR) sequences (T2-weighted, fluid attenuated inversion recovery \[FLAIR\], T1-weighted post-contrast).

III. To correlate steady-state pharmacokinetics of lenalidomide (1 sample obtained between days 5-21) with objective response and EFS.

IV. To evaluate toxicities of long-term lenalidomide use.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I (Regimen A): Patients receive low-dose lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (Regimen B): Patients receive high-dose lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually for approximately 3 years.