Combined Tretinoin and Arsenic Trioxide for Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia Followed by Risk-Adapted Postremission Therapy
The purpose of this study is to find what effects, good and/or bad, treatment with two drugs has on leukemia. The first medicine is tretinoin (also called all-trans retinoic acid, ATRA, or Vesanoid). It is an approved medicine that causes the leukemia cells in APL to mature. It is related to vitamin A. The second is arsenic trioxide (Trisenox). It is an approved medicine for APL that comes back after earlier treatment.

APL is most often treated with tretinoin and standard chemotherapy drugs. These chemotherapy drugs can cause infection and bleeding. They can also damage the heart and normal bone marrow cells. This can lead to a second leukemia years later.

In this study, the investigators are using tretinoin and arsenic trioxide together. Both drugs work to treat APL. They have been used together in only a limited number of people. The investigators want to use these drugs together to reduce the amount of standard chemotherapy and decrease side effects. The patient will receive standard chemotherapy with a drug called idarubicin only if they have a higher chance of the leukemia coming back or a higher risk of side effects.
Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Tretinoin and Arsenic Trioxide
To Determine the Rate of Molecular Remission, after induction with combined tretinoin and ATO (along with idarubicin in patients with high-risk disease or who develop leukocytosis) in APL., 4 years
Participants Who Experienced a Complete Remission, after induction with tretinoin and ATO (with idarubicin in patients with high-risk disease or who develop leukocytosis)., 4 years|To Determine the Proportion of Patients in Molecular Remission, after each course of postremission therapy., 4 years|To Determine the Disease-free and Event-free Survival of Patients, treated with this program., 4 years|To Determine the Toxicity of This Treatment Program, including the early death rate (within 30 days), the incidence of APL differentiation syndrome, the number and length of hospitalizations, the incidence of secondary myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)/acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and the effects of treatment on left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) Frequencies of toxicities based on the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 will be tabulated., 4 years|To Characterize the Differentiation of APL Cells During Treatment, with combined tretinoin and ATO using serial immunophenotyping studies of peripheral blood, 4 years|Explore the in Vivo Induction of Telomerase-dependent Cell Death, by ATRA (Tretinoin) and ATO (Arsenic Trioxide). Bone marrow samples will be analyzed at baseline and at the time of clinical CR for telomerase activity, telomere length and TERT expression, 4 years
Induction will consist of tretinoin 45 mg/m2 po daily (rounded up to the nearest 10mg) in two divided doses (25 mg/m2 in patients \<20 years of age) for 35 days and ATO 0.15 mg/kg IV daily for 35 doses given 5-7 days per week. The drugs will then be discontinued, and the patient will be followed until a clinical complete remission is achieved. Idarubicin 12 mg/m2 IV for 4 doses will be added during induction on day 2 if the presenting WBC is \>10,000/μl, or if the WBC increases to 5,000/μl on day 5, 10,000/μl on day 10, or 15,000/μl on day 15, because of the increased risk of the APL differentiation syndrome and relapse in these patients. Dexamethasone 10 mg twice daily with be given on days 1-14 of induction as prophylaxis for the APL differentiation syndrome. All patients will then receive four courses of consolidation with tretinoin 45 mg/m2 po daily (rounded up to the nearest 10mg) (25 mg/m2 in patients \<20 years of age) for 15 days and ATO 0.15 mg/kg IV for 25 doses.

Patients with high-risk disease or who received Idarubicin during Induction may receive intrathecal cytarabine as CNS prophylaxis given by the treating physician during consolidation, at the discretion of the site PI. High-risk patients will also receive maintenance therapy with additional courses of tretinoin and ATO every 3 months for 2 years. Each maintenance course will consist of tretinoin 45 mg/m2 po daily (25 mg/m2 in patients \<20 years of age) for 15 days and ATO 0.15 mg/kg IV for 10 doses. Disease status will be monitored with serial analyses of peripheral blood samples using RT-PCR for PML-RARα mRNA. Patients will be followed until relapse, death, loss to follow-up, or removal from study.

Induction therapy can be given as an inpatient or outpatient. Consolidation and maintenance treatments will be given as an outpatient. Consolidation may also be given at the patient's local institution. Intrathecal cytarabine treatments will be administered as an outpatient.