Laparoscopic Surgery or Standard Surgery in Treating Patients With Endometrial Cancer or Cancer of the Uterus
This randomized phase III trial is studying laparoscopic surgery to see how well it works compared to standard surgery in treating patients with endometrial cancer or cancer of the uterus. Laparoscopic surgery is a less invasive type of surgery for cancer of the uterus and may have fewer side effects and improve recovery. It is not known whether laparoscopic surgery is more effective than standard surgery in treating endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Adenocarcinoma|Stage I Uterine Corpus Cancer|Stage I Uterine Sarcoma|Stage II Uterine Corpus Cancer|Stage II Uterine Sarcoma
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Surgery|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Duration of disease-free interval, The usual logrank test or a proportional hazards model will be used to assess the equality of the hazard rates between the surgical procedures., Up to 5 years|Frequency of aborting LAVH in order to perform an TAH/BSO, Up to 5 years|Frequency of major surgical complications, graded according to the NCI CTC and classified as either less than grade 2 or grade 2 or worse, Up to 5 years|Length of hospitalization following surgery, A proportional odds model will be used to estimate the treatment difference while adjusting for potential confounding factors., From the date of surgery to the date of discharge, assessed up to 5 years|Self assessed quality of life scores as measured by FACT-G, Physical Function Subscale from the MOS SF-36, Wisconsin Brief Pain Inventory, Fear of Relapse/Recurrence scale, and Personal Appearance scale, Up to 6 months
OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the incidence of surgical complications, peri-operative morbidity, and mortality in patients with stage I or IIa, grade I-III endometrial cancer or uterine cancer undergoing surgical staging through laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy vs total abdominal hysterectomy.

II. Compare the length of hospital stay after surgery in patients receiving these treatments.

III. Compare the quality of life of patients receiving these treatments. IV. Compare the incidence and location of disease recurrence in patients receiving these treatments.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo vaginal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) via laparoscopy.

ARM II: Patients undergo total abdominal hysterectomy and BSO via conventional laparotomy.

Patients in both arms also undergo pelvic and para-aortic lymph node sampling. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at 1, 3, and 6 weeks, and then at 6 months.

Patients are followed at 6 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.