A Phase II Trial of Gemcitabine and Oxaliplatin for Triple Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to investigate if the combination of gemcitabine and oxaliplatin is effective for triple negative breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Number of Participants With Complete Response, Partial Response, Progressive Disease and Stable Disease., A sum of the longest diameter(LD) for all target lesions will be calculated and reported as the baseline sum LD.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Progressive Disease (PD):At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions.

Stable Disease (SD):Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., 8 weeks
Overall Survival From Time of Study Entry, The number of weeks patient survived from the time of patient entry. The time frame reflects the time the first patient was entered into the study to the time till the last patient survived.

Note: Not all patients started the study at the same time so the time frame is different from the full range.

The full range reflects the least number of weeks a patient survived to the most number of weeks a patient survived., 132 weeks
In this study, participants will receive gemcitabine and oxaliplatin, drugs that have been in use for a long time. Gemcitabine is a treatment that is an effective therapy currently available to patients with this type and stage of breast cancer. Frequently, in cancer therapy, combinations of drugs prove more effective as treatment than the same drugs used alone. The combination of gemcitabine and oxaliplatin has not been tested in patients with triple negative breast cancer. It is hoped that the addition of oxaliplatin may cause your tumor to stop growing or possible your tumor may shrink. This assessment will be basd on measuring changes in the size of your tumor.