Intravesicular Abraxane for Treatment-Refractory Bladder Cancer
Phase I:

To determine the safety, toxicity and efficacy profiles of intravesically administered Abraxane at the Maximum Tolerated Dose.

To assemble tissue bank to assess molecular correlates for response to intravesical Abraxane therapy. The antibodies analyzed will include p53, p63, Stathmin, Tau and Ki67.

Phase II:

To evaluate the utility (potential for clinical efficacy) of Abraxane in the treatment of refractory non-muscle invasive and a subset of T2 TCC of the bladder as measured by response rate (defined as negative cytology and bladder biopsy).

To further evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of intravesically administered Abraxane therapy.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Abraxane
Number of Participants Who Experienced a Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), To determine the safety, toxicity and efficacy profiles of intravesically administered Abraxane at the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD). A DLT is defined by the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 3.0, 6 weeks|Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or No Response (NR) After Treatment, To evaluate the utility (potential for clinical efficacy) of Abraxane in the treatment of refractory superficial transitional cell carcinomas (TCC) as measured by response rate (defined as negative cytology and bladder biopsy). Patients were considered to have a complete response if they had a negative biopsy and negative cytology. All patients with positive biopsies or cytology were classified as having no response., 6 weeks
To Further Evaluate the Safety and Toxicity Profile of Intravesically Administered Abraxane Therapy., 6 months
In 2006, it is estimated that 61,420 cases of bladder cancer will be diagnosed in the United States and 13,060 people will die from the disease. This makes bladder cancer the fourth leading cause of cancer in men and the ninth leading cause of cancer in women in the United States. Non-muscle invasive bladder cancer accounts for 70 to 80 percent of these cases and the natural history can vary widely with recurrence being common. In individual cases with high-risk clinical and pathological features (Ta, Tis, and T1) the use of intravesical therapy following complete transurethral resection of the tumor has become the standard of care. However up to 50 percent of patients treated with intravesical therapy for high-risk non-muscle invasive bladder cancer will recur. Response rates to second-line intravesical therapy are 20 percent or less in this population. Innovations in the efficacy of intravesical agents also have applications within a subset of patients with muscle-invasive disease who are undergoing complete transurethral resection in conjunction with local chemotherapy.