MK-7684A With or Without Other Anticancer Therapies in Participants With Selected Solid Tumors (MK-7684A-005) (KEYVIBE-005)
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety, tolerability, and preliminary efficacy of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab co-formulation (MK-7684A) with or without other anticancer therapies in participants with selected advanced solid tumors. The primary hypothesis is that pembrolizumab/vibostolimab co-formulation is superior to pembrolizumab alone in terms of objective response rate or progression-free survival in participants with cervical cancer.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasms|Endometrial Neoplasms|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck|Gallbladder Neoplasms|Cholangiocarcinoma|Esophageal Neoplasms|Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Urinary Bladder Neoplasms|Ovarian Neoplasms|Stomach Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab Co-Formulation|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Objective Response Rate (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experience a CR or PR as assessed by blinded independent central review based on RECIST 1.1 will be presented., Up to approximately 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 2 years|ORR per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Investigator in Participants with Selected Solid Tumors, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a CR (Disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experience a CR or PR as assessed by investigator based on RECIST 1.1 will be presented., Up to approximately 2 years|PFS per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Investigator at 9 months, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD., 9 months|PFS per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Investigator at 12 months, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD., 12 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 5.5 years|PFS per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Investigator, PFS is defined as the time from first dose of study treatment to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by investigator will be presented., Up to approximately 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR) per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or confirmed PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until PD or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. The DOR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 2 years|DOR per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Investigator, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or confirmed PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until PD or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. The DOR as assessed by investigator will be presented., Up to approximately 2 years|ORR per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Investigator, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a CR (Disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experience a CR or PR as assessed by investigator based on RECIST 1.1 will be presented., Up to approximately 2 years|PFS per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Investigator in Participants with Cervical Cancer, PFS is defined as the time from first dose of study treatment to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by investigator will be presented., Up to approximately 2 years|Change from Baseline in Global Health Status/Quality of Life Score (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Questionnaire Core 30 [EORTC QLQ-C30] Items 29 and 30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall health status. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 2 years|Change from Baseline in Physical Functioning Score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better quality of life. The change from baseline in Physical Functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 2 years|Number of Participants Who Experienced One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 2 years|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Intervention Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 2 years
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety, tolerability, and preliminary efficacy of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab co-formulation (MK-7684A) with or without other anticancer therapies in participants with selected advanced solid tumors. The primary hypothesis is that pembrolizumab/vibostolimab co-formulation is superior to pembrolizumab alone in terms of objective response rate or progression-free survival in participants with cervical cancer.