Evaluation of the Texas Wellness Incentives and Navigation (WIN) Project
The Wellness Incentives and Navigation (WIN) project is designed to help improve health self-management and reduce the incidence and consequences of chronic disease among non-elderly adult Medicaid Supplemental Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries. WIN targets SSI beneficiaries with behavioral health (mental health and substance abuse) diagnoses. Research demonstrates that these individuals are more likely to suffer chronic physical co-morbidities, experience debilitating chronic illnesses earlier in life and have elevated healthcare costs.

WIN uses person-centered wellness planning and navigation facilitated by trained, professional health Navigators, dedicated specifically to the WIN project, who use Motivational Interviewing (MI) techniques, and a personal wellness account. Participants with more serious mental illnesses will be offered additional support in the form of Wellness Recovery Action Planning (WRAP) to enable them to take full advantage of person-centered wellness planning.
Chronic Mental Illness|Chronic Physical Illness
BEHAVIORAL: Patient-Directed Wellness Account|BEHAVIORAL: Health Navigator
Self-reported physical health related quality of life (HRQOL) using the Short Form-12 (SF-12), The SF-12 has been validated across a number of chronic diseases and conditions. The survey consists of 12 questions measuring functional health and well-being. Patients answer questions related to daily functioning, difficulties in physical tasks, and disruptions in life due to mental illness (e.g. depression, anxiety). The overall score can be further classified into two summary scores for physical and mental health., (Change) baseline, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months|Self-reported mental health related quality of life (HRQOL) using the Short Form-12 (SF-12), The SF-12 has been validated across a number of chronic diseases and conditions. The survey consists of 12 questions measuring functional health and well-being. Patients answer questions related to daily functioning, difficulties in physical tasks, and disruptions in life due to mental illness (e.g. depression, anxiety). The overall score can be further classified into two summary scores for physical and mental health., (Change) baseline, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months
Change in Total Healthcare expenditures as measured through Medicaid claims data, We will use Medicaid claims and enrollment expenditure data to examine changes in total medical expenditures between the three groups of participants across baseline, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months., (Change) baseline, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, and 1 year after month 36|Changes in Inpatient Hospitalization expenditures as measured through Medicaid claims data, We will use Medicaid claims and enrollment expenditure data to examine changes in inpatient hospitalization expenditures between the three groups of participants across baseline, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months., (Change) baseline, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, and 1 year after month 36|Changes in Outpatient expenditures as measured through Medicaid claims data, We will use Medicaid claims and enrollment expenditure data to examine changes in outpatient expenditures between the three groups of participants across baseline, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months., (Change) baseline, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, and 1 year after month 36|Changes in Emergency Department expenditures as measured through Medicaid claims data, We will use Medicaid claims and enrollment expenditure data to examine changes in emergency department expenditures between the three groups of participants across baseline, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months., (Change) baseline, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, and 1 year after month 36
The Texas based Wellness Incentives and Navigation (WIN) project uses a continuum of evidence-based "whole person" interventions that take into account clinical, environmental, and social risk factors and co-morbidities. Unlike more traditional didactic approaches to health management, WIN addresses individual behavioral, social, and economic barriers to health and wellness, and promotes continued engagement in achieving, internalizing, and maintaining healthy behaviors.

The study is focused on non-dual eligible adult STAR+PLUS (a Texas Medicaid managed care program for people with chronic illnesses) members (ages 21-55) with a behavioral health disorder including serious mental illness (SMI - e.g., schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or major depressive disorder) or other behavioral health conditions (e.g., anxiety disorder or substance abuse). Key features of the program include the use of professional health navigators, working in collaboration with the three STAR+PLUS plans in the Harris Service Area (SA) (United-Evercare, Amerigroup, and Molina), the use of motivational interviewing (MI) techniques to help members develop and meet personal wellness goals, and a flexible wellness account for the participant to use in meeting his/her goals.