Nasal Steam Therapy for Post-extubation Respiratory Events
The effect of symptom improvement of nasal steam strategy compared to routine management strategy for upper respiratory symptoms occurring after endotracheal intubation in patients aged 19 years or older who underwent surgical removal under anesthesia requiring endotracheal intubation was evaluated by the difference in the results of Wisconsin Upper Respiratory Symptom Survey
Thyroid Cancer|Intubation
PROCEDURE: Nasal steam therapy|PROCEDURE: Routine management strategy
Wisconsin upper respiratory symptom survey-24, WURSS-24, WURSS is a questionnaire mainly used to evaluate symptoms of acute upper respiratory tract infection, and is divided into WURSS-11, WURSS-21, WURSS-24, WURSS-44, and WURSS-Kids versions. In this study, WURSS-24 will be used to evaluate the degree of daily symptom improvement by dividing it into items of symptoms, quality of life, and overall satisfaction, and 24 questions on a 7-point Likert scale. The most severe level is evaluated as 7 points, the least level as 1 point, and in the case of symptoms and quality of life that may be lost, 0 points are additionally recorded when the symptoms are lost., From enrollment to the end of treatment at Day 8, and follow up visit at Day 15
Incidence and severity of cough, * The number of times the participant experienced coughing during the day will be recorded.
* The degree of discomfort in your daily life due to coughing will be assessed using the numeric rating scale (NRS). On the NRS, the patient selects a number from 0 to 10 that best represents their current level of discomfort (0 being no discomfort, 10 being the worst discomfort imaginable)., Day 1, Day 4, Day 8, Day 15|Thyroid cancer-Quality of Life (ThyCa-QoL), - THYCA-QoL is a health-related quality of life questionnaire developed for thyroid cancer and thyroid cancer survivors. It was developed using methodologically proven standard guidelines and is a validated questionnaire that can improve symptoms, treatment, aftercare, and disease experience of thyroid cancer survivors., Day 1, Day 4, Day 8, Day 15
This study aims to confirm the comparative effectiveness of nasal steam therapy by conducting a practical randomized controlled clinical trial comparing 66 patients complaining of upper respiratory symptoms with patients treated with a nasal steam therapy strategy (33 patients) and patients treated with a routine management strategy (33 patients).

This study is a practical clinical study, and only randomly assigns patients to two groups: nasal steam therapy strategy and routine management strategy. The specific treatment method used is not determined in advance. The specific treatment is performed according to the clinical judgment according to the patient's condition. All treatment methods used during the study are recorded in the case report and compared.

The treatment will be administered for a total of 5 days, and drug treatment may not be discontinued after the study period at the clinician's discretion.