Phase IV, Open-label, Multicenter Study of Dasatinib in Chronic-Phase Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CP-CML) Patients With Chronic, Low-grade Non-Hematologic Toxicity to Imatinib
This study proposes to evaluate the number of chronic, Grade 1 or 2, non-hematologic Adverse Events (AEs) that reduce in grade or resolve at 3 months after switching therapy from imatinib to dasatinib.
Chronic Phase Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Dasatinib
The Number of Imatinib-related Adverse Events (AEs) That Were Resolved, Improved, Remained Unchanged, or Worsened After 3 Months of Dasatinib Treatment, Dasatinib treatment was administered and its impact on the imatinib-related Grade 1/2 adverse events was assessed. The severity of an adverse event is ranked based on grades that range from 1 to 4. Grade 1=Mild, Grade 2=Moderate, Grade 3=Severe, Grade 4= Potentially Life-threatening or disabling. Resolved, AE no longer present or resolution of imatinib-related chronic Grade 1 or Grade 2 non-hematologic AEs. Improved, AE grade reduced from Grade 2 to Grade 1. Unchanged, AE did not improve or worsen or no change in grade. Worsened, grade Increased., 3 months after switch to dasatinib
Mean Change From Baseline in Patient Reported CML Symptom Severity and Interference by MD Anderson Symptom Inventory - Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (MDASI-CML) Score After Switching to Dasatinib, The MD Anderson Symptom Inventory Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (MDASI-CML) is a validated questionnaire completed by study participants to assess symptom severity and symptom interference on daily function. These categories are divided into 5 domain summary scores: Core Symptom Severity Score, Interference Score, Symptom Severity Score, CML-Specific Symptom Severity Score, and 5 Most Severe Symptom Score. Scores were evaluated at baseline and after switching to Dasatinib on a range from 1 to 10; 1=not present/did not interfere, 10=as bad as you can imagine/interfered completely., Baseline to 3, 6, 12 months|Mean Change From Baseline in Patient Reported Quality of Life Measurements by The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer - Quality of Life (QoL) Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ) Score After Switching to Dasatinib, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire is completed by study participants to assess quality of life through nine multi-item scales: five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional and social functioning); three symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea/vomiting); and a global health status/QoL scale. Six single-item scales are also included (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). All of the scales and single-item measures were evaluated at baseline and after switching to Dasatinib as an average raw score that was standardized by transformation, so that final scores were on a range in score from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status/QoL represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale and single-item measures represents a high level of problematic symptomatology., Baseline to 6, 12 months|Number of Participants With at Least 1 AE, Discontinuations Due to AE, Treatment-related AE, Serious Adverse Event (SAE), Treatment-related SAE, or Death as Outcome, SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. Treatment-related=having certain, probable, possible, or missing relationship to study drug, dasatinib., Date of first dose to 30 post last dose of study drug, an average of 3 years|The Percentage of Participants With at Least 1 Imatinib-related Grade 1 or Grade 2 Chronic Adverse Events (AEs) That Improved Without Worsening Within 3 Months of Switching to Dasatinib, Dasatinib treatment was administered and its impact on the Imatinib-related Grade 1/2 adverse events was assessed. The percentage of participants is based on the number that had pre-existing Imatinib-related AEs. Measure assesses the participants with reduction or improvement of at least 1 Imatinib-related Grade 1 or Grade 2 chronic AE, without a worsening of any Imatinib-related, chronic adverse events after Dasatinib treatment. The severity of an adverse event is ranked based on grades that range from 1 to 4. Grade 1=Mild, Grade 2=Moderate, Grade 3=Severe, Grade 4= Potentially Life-threatening or disabling. Improved, AE grade reduced from Grade 2 to Grade 1. Worsened, Grade Increased. Confidence interval from Clopper-Pearson method., 3 months
Number of Participants With a Major Molecular Response (MMR) and MR 4.5 After Switching to Dasatinib, Molecular responses were assessed at 6 and 12 months after switching to dasatinib to determine if these baseline responses could be maintained. MR4.5, the number of treated participants with BCR-ABL transcripts ≤ 0.0032% (IS) at 6 and 12 months from the date of dasatinib initiation; MMR, Major Molecular Response = 3-log reduction in BCR-ABL gene transcripts from a standardized baseline., 6 and 12 months
This study proposes to evaluate the number of chronic, Grade 1 or 2, non-hematologic Adverse Events (AEs) that reduce in grade or resolve at 3 months after switching therapy from imatinib to dasatinib.