Multidisciplinary Follow-up of Patients Treated for Malignant Hematological Disease
The aim of this study is to adjust and test an existing internet-based tool for collecting patient-reported outcome measures and to use the internet-based tool in an multidisciplinary follow-up of patients treated for malignant hematological diseases. The patient-reported outcome measurements will be used in describing the patients' health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and to investigate whether the HRQol will increase due to participation in multidisciplinary follow-up.
Malignant Hematologic Neoplasm
Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) - General, Patients will be asked to electronically fill out questionnaires before each consultation.

The questionnaire that will be used to measure HRQoL is SF-36. SF-36 is a generic questionnaire which can be used to assess HRQoL in the general public., HRQoL is assessed every 2, 3, 4 or 6 months, up to 18 months.|Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) - Disease specific, Patients will be asked to electronically fill out questionnaires before each consultation.

The questionnaire that will be used to measure HRQoL is EORTC C30 QLQ. EORTC C30 QLQ is a disease specific questionnaire which can be used to assess HRQoL in patients diagnosed with cancer, HRQoL is assessed every 2, 3, 4 or 6 months, up to 18 months.
Symptoms of depression and anxiety, Data on symptoms of depression and anxiety will be collected before and after each consultation using an international validated questionnaire.

The questionnaire which will be used is:

Hospital Depression and Anxiety Scale (HADS), Symptoms of depression and anxiety will be assessed every 2, 3, 4 or 6 month, up to 18 months|Symptoms of hematological disease, Data on symptoms of disease will be collected before each consultation using an international validated questionnaire.

The questionnaire which will be used is:

Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form (MPN-SAF), Symptoms of disease will be assessed every 2, 3, 4 or 6 month, up to 18 months
The aim of this study is to adjust and test an existing internet-based tool for collecting patient-reported outcome measures and to use the internet-based tool in an multidisciplinary follow-up of patients treated for malignant hematological diseases. The patient-reported outcome measurements will be used in describing the patients' health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and to investigate whether the HRQol will increase due to participation in multidisciplinary follow-up.