Study to Assess Safety and Immune Response of Stage IIB-IV Resected Melanoma After Treatment With MAGE-A3 ASCI
The goals of this study are to 1) assess the safety of recombinant MAGE-A3 protein combined with AS15 Immunological Adjuvant System (recMAGE-A3 + AS15) as an Antigen-Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic (MAGE-A3 ASCI) when administered in two different administration sites, intramuscular (IM) or intradermal/subcutaneous (ID/SC), and 2) to provide preliminary data on the immunological response to ASCI in the injection site microenvironment, in the node draining the vaccine site (sentinel immunized node) and in the blood and whether there are large differences in the magnitude, persistence, or type of immune response induced as a function of the ASCI injection. Evaluation of immune responses to the ASCI will include, amonth others antiMAGE-A3 antibody responses and CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: recMAGE-A3 + AS15 ASCI
Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, grade 2 treatment-related adverse events graded by CTCAE v4, Over 6 months|Enumeration of CD4 and CD8 T Cell Responses to MAGE-A3 Epitopes in the Injection Site-draining Lymph Node (Sentinel Immunized Node, SIN) as a Measure of Immunogenicity., Flow cytometry on in vitro stimulated lymphocytes. A positive immune response was identified as one with bifunctional CD4+ or CD8+ T cells, producing both TNF alpha and IFN-gamma after exposure to antigen., One week after 3 doses of study drug, on day 22.
Enumeration of CD4+ and CD8+ T Cells Reactive to MAGE-A3 Epitopes in Peripheral Blood as a Measure of Immunogenicity., The analysis determined the proportion of CD4+ (and/or CD8+) T cells producing IFN-gamma or TNFα, or both, in response to MAGE-A3 peptide pools (with irrelevant peptide as negative control). T cell response was defined when T cells producing both IFNγ and TNFα in response to MAGE-A3 peptides exceeded (a) twice the maximum of 2 negative controls (PRAME peptides, media only), corrected for pre-existing response; and (b) exceeded the negative controls by at least 0.2% of the T cell population. These criteria also were used to define immunogenicity by ELIspot (IFNγ only). If the negative control values for a given sample were zero, a meaningful fold-increase could not be calculated; so, in those cases, we used the minimum detectable value among all similar assays (0.06%) as the negative control value for that sample., Over 6 months|Identification of Antibody Responses to MAGE-A3 After MAGE-A3 ASCI Administration as a Measure of Immunogenicity., Antibody responses were assessed in serum by ELISA, assay for IgG. Seroconversion was defined as a detectable Ab response by ELISA (\>20 EU/ml)., Over 6 months, typically weeks 1, 7, 13, 26|Characterization of the Maturation and Activation of Dendritic Cell (DC) Populations in the Sentinel Immunized Node (SIN) After Treatment With MAGE-A3 ASCI., Number of CD83+ cells (mature DC) and CD1a+ cells (immature DC/Langerhans cells) per mm\^2 in cross-sections of sentinel immunized nodes, Over 3 weeks|A Preliminary Evaluation of Cellular Components of the Injection Site Microenvironment for Cutaneous Immunization With MAGE-A3 ASCI (Activated T Cells, Th1,Th2, Th17 Infiltrating CD4 Cells, Regulatory T Cells, and Myeloid-derived Suppressor Cells)., Cells per mm\^2 in the superficial dermis at the vaccine site microenvironment, by enumeration of immunohistochemically stained slides. Biopsies of the vaccine sites were taken at week 1 (1 week after the first vaccine) and week 7 (1 week after the 3rd vaccine). This only was evaluable in Arm B patients., Over 6 months
This was an open-label randomized single institution pilot study to evaluate the safety and immunologic response to MAGE-A3 immunotherapeutic administered by either of two injection routes (i.m. or i.d./s.c.). Patients were studied following IRB approval (IRB #15398) and documentation of informed consent. The trial was registered in clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01425749), and was performed at the University of Virginia.

MAGE-A3 immunotherapeutic (0.5 ml) was administered five times (weeks 0, 3, 6, 9, 12) in extremities uninvolved with melanoma. Vaccines 1 and 3 were administered at the same site: other vaccine sites were rotated among available extremities. Subjects were randomized 1:1, within each stratum (AJCC stage II/III or IV), to i.m. (Group A) or i.d./s.c. (Group B) administration. The randomization code was generated by the study statistician using varying block sizes of 2 to 4. For group B patients, half of the dose was injected s.c., then the needle was withdrawn to the dermis, then advanced intradermally from that same puncture site and the remaining half dose was injected i.d. Immune responses were evaluated in a SIN and PBMC.