Lenvatinib in Combination With Pembrolizumab Versus Treatment of Physician's Choice in Participants With Advanced Endometrial Cancer (MK-3475-775/E7080-G000-309 Per Merck Standard Convention [KEYNOTE-775])
This is a study of pembrolizumab (MK-3475, KEYTRUDA®) in combination with lenvatinib (E7080) versus treatment of physician's choice (doxorubicin or paclitaxel) for the treatment of advanced endometrial cancer. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either pembrolizumab and lenvatinib or treatment of physician's choice. The primary study hypothesis is that pembrolizumab in combination with lenvatinib prolongs progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) when compared to treatment of physician's choice.
Endometrial Neoplasms
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Doxorubicin
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of disease progression, as determined by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 or death due to any cause (whichever occurred first). Disease progression was defined as at least 20 percent (%) increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeter \[mm\]) in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions. PFS was estimated and analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of disease progression or death, whichever occurred first or up to data cutoff date 26 October 2020 (up to approximately 2 years 5 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Participants who were lost to follow-up and those who were alive at the date of data cut-off were censored at the date the participant was last known alive, or date of data cut-off, whichever occurred first., From the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or up to data cutoff date 26 October 2020 (up to approximately 2 years 5 months)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had best overall response of either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by BICR per RECIST 1.1. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis to less than (\<) 10mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From date of randomization up to first documentation of PD or date of death, whichever occurred first up to data cutoff date 26 October 2020 (up to approximately 2 years 5 months)|Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) Assessed by European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 (QLQC30) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 was a questionnaire which included 30 questions that rates the overall quality of life in cancer participants. The first 28 questions use a 4-point scale (1=not at all to 4=very much) for evaluating function (physical, role, social, cognitive, emotional), symptoms (diarrhea, fatigue, dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, nausea/vomiting, constipation, and pain) and financial difficulties. The last 2 questions use a 7-point scale (1=very poor to 7=excellent) to evaluate overall health and quality of life. Scores are transformed to a range of 0 to 100 using a standard EORTC algorithm. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status/quality of life (QoL) represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptomatology/problem. Data for this outcome measure will be reported after study completion (anticipated study completion date is November 2023)., At baseline (prior to first dose of study drug), on Day 1 of each subsequent cycle (cycle length of either 21 or 28 days), and at the post-treatment visit (up to 5 years and 5 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and Immune-Related Adverse Events (irAEs), TEAEs was defined as AEs that occurred (or worsened, if present at Baseline) after the first dose of study drug through 28 days after the last dose of study drug. AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participants or clinical study participant temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. A SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence at any dose if it resulted in death or life-threatening AE or required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization or resulted in persistent or significant incapacity or substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions or was a congenital anomaly/birth defect. irAE was defined as any unfavorable and unintended immune-related sign, symptom, or disease (new or worsening) temporally associated with the use of study therapy, regardless of whether or not a causal relationship with the study therapy can be determined., From the first dose of study drug up to data cutoff date 26 October 2020 (up to approximately 2 years 5 months)|Percentage of Participants Discontinued Study Treatment Due to TEAEs, TEAEs was defined as those AEs that occurred (or worsened, if present at Baseline) after the first dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug. An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participants or clinical study participant temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment., From the first dose of study drug up to data cutoff date 26 October 2020 (up to approximately 2 years 5 months)|Time to Treatment Failure Due to Toxicity, Time to treatment failure due to toxicity was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date a participant discontinued study treatment due to TEAEs. Data for this outcome measure will be reported after study completion (anticipated study completion date is November 2023)., From the date of randomization to the date of discontinuation of study treatment due to TEAEs (up to 5 years 5 months)|Model Predicted Apparent Total Clearance (CL/F) for Lenvatinib, Sparse pharmacokinetic (PK) samples were collected and analyzed using a population PK approach to estimate PK parameters. Individual predicted CL/F for lenvatinib was then derived from the PK model. The data was collected and analyzed for lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab arm only., Cycle 1 Day 1: 0.5-10 hours post-dose; Cycle 1 Day 15: 0-12 hours post-dose; Cycle 2 Day 1: 0.5-10 hours post-dose (each cycle length=21 days)|Model Predicted Area Under the Plasma Drug Concentration-time Curve (AUC) for Lenvatinib, Sparse PK samples were collected and analyzed using a population PK approach to estimate PK parameters. Individual predicted AUC for lenvatinib was then derived from the PK model. The data was collected and analyzed for lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab arm only., Cycle 1 Day 1: 0.5-10 hours post-dose; Cycle 1 Day 15: 0-12 hours post-dose; Cycle 2 Day 1: 0.5-10 hours post-dose (each cycle length=21 days)
This is a study of pembrolizumab (MK-3475, KEYTRUDA®) in combination with lenvatinib (E7080) versus treatment of physician's choice (doxorubicin or paclitaxel) for the treatment of advanced endometrial cancer. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either pembrolizumab and lenvatinib or treatment of physician's choice. The primary study hypothesis is that pembrolizumab in combination with lenvatinib prolongs progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) when compared to treatment of physician's choice.