Testing Dabrafenib and Trametinib With or Without Hydroxychloroquine in Stage IIIC or IV BRAF V600E/K Melanoma
This phase II trial investigates how well adding hydroxychloroquine to the standard treatment of dabrafenib and trametinib works to overcome resistance and delay disease progression in treating patients with stage IIIC or IV BRAF V600E/K melanoma. Hydroxychloroquine may cause cell death in tumor cells that rely on a process called "autophagy" for survival. Dabrafenib and trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving hydroxychloroquine together with dabrafenib and trametinib may work better than dabrafenib and trametinib alone to shrink and stabilize the cancer.
Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Melanoma|Pathologic Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Melanoma
DRUG: Dabrafenib mesylate|DRUG: Hydroxychloroquine|DRUG: Placebo Administration|DRUG: Trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide
One-year Progression-free Survival Rate, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined as appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.

One-year progression-free survival rate is estimated from the Kaplan-Meier progression-free survival curve., Assessed every 2 months until 6 months after completion of study treatment, up to 1 year
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined as appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Assessed every 2 months until 6 months after completion of study treatment, up to 3 years|Proportion of Patients With Best Overall Response, Best overall response is defined as either complete response or partial response.

Complete response is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

Partial response is defined as persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Assessed every 2 months until 6 months after completion of study treatment, up to 3 years|Proportion of Patients With Complete Response, Complete response is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., Assessed every 2 months until 6 months after completion of study treatment, up to 3 years|Adverse Event Rate, Proportion of patients with treatment-related adverse events of grade 3 or higher., Assessed every 4 weeks while on treatment and for 30 days after the end of treatment, up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death or date last known alive., Assessed every 2 months until 6 months after completion of study treatment, up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the rate of one year progression-free survival (PFS) when hydroxychloroquine sulfate (hydroxychloroquine) or placebo is added to dabrafenib mesylate (dabrafenib) and trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide (trametinib) in advanced BRAFV600E/K melanoma with elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the PFS of both arms. II. To evaluate the best overall response rate by treatment arm. III. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rate by treatment arm. IV. To evaluate the adverse event rate by treatment arm. V. To evaluate overall survival (OS) by treatment arm.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive dabrafenib mesylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID), trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide PO once daily (QD), and hydroxychloroquine sulfate PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive dabrafenib mesylate PO BID, trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide PO QD, and placebo PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.