An Automated Personalized Physical Activity Intervention to Improve Immune Function and Clinical Outcomes in Stage II-IV Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal or Fallopian Tube Cancer and Newly Diagnosed Endometrial Cancer, Life on the Go 3 Study
This clinical trial compares the effect of an automated personalized physical activity intervention supported by wearable technology to standard of care on physical activity levels and quality of life in patients with stage II- IV ovarian, primary peritoneal, fallopian tube cancer or endometrial cancer that is newly diagnosed. Physical activity is a modifiable risk factor for the prevention and treatment of many diseases. In fact, increased levels of physical activity have been shown to decrease the risk of some cancers as well as increase overall survival in some cancers. Currently, standard of care guidelines include participation in at least 150 minutes of moderate exercise weekly. An automated personalized physical activity intervention may increase physical activity, enhance quality of life, and improve physical function and daily living activities compared to standard recommendations in patients with stage II-IV ovarian, primary peritoneal, fallopian tube or newly diagnosed endometrial cancer. This trial also evaluates the impact of physical activity on the gut microbiome and immune function. The microbiome is the collection of tiny organisms, like bacteria, that live in and on the body, especially places like the gut. These microorganisms play an important role in health. Information gathered from this study may help understand how the gut microbiome and physical activity influences the immune system in patients with stage II-IV ovarian, primary peritoneal, fallopian tube or newly diagnosed endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Stage II Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|OTHER: Best Practice|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Supportive Care
Proportion of participants achieving ≥ 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) per week, Will be defined based on Fitbit's activity intensity levels (e.g., minutes spent in moderate and vigorous zones). Fisher's exact test will be used to compare proportions between groups. Will use logistic regression for adjustments for baseline physical activity levels if necessary. A two-sided alpha = 0.05 will be used for statistical significance., At 3 months (weeks 11 and 12)
Proportion of participants maintaining ≥150 minutes of MVPA per week on average, MVPA will be based on Fitbit's activity intensity levels (e.g., minutes spent in moderate and vigorous zones). Will be compared between groups using the Fisher's exact test., During months 4-6 (weeks 13-24) of the intervention period|Mean change in average weekly active minutes, Mean changes in average weekly active minutes will be calculated within and between groups. Linear mixed-effects models will be used to assess changes over time between groups and adjusted for baseline activity levels and other covariates., From baseline to 3 and 6 months|Changes in quality of life (QOL) scores -Ovarian Cancer Module, Will be evaluated using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)- Ovarian (OV)28 . The difference in mean change of QOL scores between the intervention and control groups will be analyzed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), adjusting for baseline scores. 28 questions rated on a 4 point rating scale : "Not at all," "A little," "Quite a bit," and "Very much.", From baseline to 3 and 6 months|Changes in Quality of life, 36-item Short form Survey (SF-36)Patient-reported outcome measurement for health-related quality of life and activities of daily living scored on a scale of 0 (negative health) to 100 (positive health)., From baseline to 3 and 6 months|Change in Quality of Life Score- Endometrial, EORTC QLQ - Endometrial (EN) 24.he EORTC QLQ-EN24 is a 24-item instrument designed to assess various aspects of treatment-related quality of life specifically in patients undergoing treatment for endometrial cancer.The EORTC QLQ-EN24 uses a 4-point response scale for most items: 1 = not at all, 2 = a little, 3 = quite a bit, and 4 = very much.

A higher score indicates worse quality of life., From baseline to 3 and 6 months|Functional Status, Will compare difference in mean change of Lawton Instrumental Activities of Daily Living Scale (IADL) . Statistical analysis will use paired t-tests or non-parametric equivalents if data are not normally distributed. Changes will be analyzed using ANCOVA. Non-parametric tests may be used if data are not normally distributed., From baseline to 3 and 6 months|Functional Status - Katz Index of Activities Daily Living, Activities of daily living as assessed by the KATz Index. A score of 6 is high whereas a score of 0 is low., From baseline to 3 and 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether an automated, personalized physical activity (PA) intervention using wearable technology increases the proportion of patients with ovarian or endometrial cancer who achieve at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) per week by the end of the first 3 months, compared to standard recommendations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether the physical activity (PA) intervention leads to sustained increases in physical activity levels among patients with ovarian or endometrial cancer by measuring the proportion of participants who maintain at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) per week on average during the last three months of the intervention period (months 4 to 6).

II. To evaluate changes in average weekly active minutes from baseline to 3 months and 6 months between the intervention and control groups.

III. To evaluate the effect of the PA intervention on quality of life among ovarian and endometrial cancer patients, as measured by validated questionnaires.

IV. To assess changes in physical functioning and activities of daily living between the intervention and control groups.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

ARM I: (PA INTERVENTION): Patients receive personalized PA goals and positive feedback to increase participation in MVPA in 10-15 minute increments up to 150 minutes per week for 12 weeks then sustain participation for an additional 12 weeks (6 months total). Patients also receive ongoing support to maintain or further increase PA levels up to month 6. Patients wear a Fitbit Sense 2 and CGM device continuously throughout the 6 month intervention. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.

ARM II (STANDARD PA): Patients receive general PA counseling recommending 150 minutes of activity per week consistent with standard of care at time of enrollment. Patients also wear a Fitbit and continuous glucose monitor (CGM) device for 6 months. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 24 months after enrollment.