Adjuvant Therapy With an Alpha-lactalbumin Vaccine in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety as well as the most effective dose of the alpha-lactalbumin vaccine (aLA breast cancer vaccine) to treat patients with non-metastatic triple negative breast cancer, participants who are of cancer-free but may be at risk for triple-negative breast cancer, and for participants who are receiving adjuvant pembrolizumab following initial triple negative breast cancer treatment.
Pathologic Stage IIA-IIIC Triple-Negative Breast Cancer|TNBC - Triple-Negative Breast Cancer|Residual Disease
BIOLOGICAL: α-lactalbumin vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Zymosan
Treatment Cohort MTD of α-lactalbumin vaccine, MTD of an α-lactalbumin vaccine in participants with operable triple-negative breast cancer, Day 84|Preventative Cohort MTD of α-lactalbumin vaccine, MTD of an α-lactalbumin vaccine in participants at risk for TNBC who are scheduled for prophylactic double mastectomy., Day 84|Pembrolizumab Cohort of α-lactalbumin vaccine, MTD of an α-lactalbumin vaccine in participants who are receiving adjuvant pembrolizumab following initial TNBC treatment., Day 84
Treatment Cohort Lowest Immunologic Dose (LID) of α-lactalbumin vaccine, LID of α-lactalbumin vaccine in participants with operable triple-negative breast cancer, based on ELISPOT assays to assess the ability to induce a pro-inflammatory T cell response consistent with tumor protection. This assessment will be determined using the ELISPOT assay to determine peripheral blood frequencies of T cells that produce interferon-gamma (IFNγ; type-1) and IL-17 (type-17) in response to recombinant human α-lactalbumin, Day 84|Preventative Cohort Lowest Immunologic Dose (LID) of α-lactalbumin vaccine, LID of α-lactalbumin vaccine in participants at risk for TNBC who are scheduled for prophylactic double mastectomy, based on ELISPOT assays to assess the ability to induce a pro-inflammatory T cell response consistent with tumor protection. This assessment will be determined using the ELISPOT assay to determine peripheral blood frequencies of T cells that produce interferon-gamma (IFNγ; type-1) and IL-17 (type-17) in response to recombinant human α-lactalbumin, Day 84|Pembrolizuman Cohort Lowest Immunologic Dose (LID) of α-lactalbumin vaccine, LID of α-lactalbumin vaccine in participants who are receiving adjuvant pembrolizumab following initial TNBC treatment, based on ELISPOT assays to assess the ability to induce a pro-inflammatory T cell response consistent with tumor protection. This assessment will be determined using the ELISPOT assay to determine peripheral blood frequencies of T cells that produce interferon-gamma (IFNγ; type-1) and IL-17 (type-17) in response to recombinant human α-lactalbumin, Day 84
This is an open-label, phase I dose-escalation trial that will be performed on three successive cohorts. The first cohort is comprised of participants with high-risk triple-negative breast cancer. The second is made up of participants scheduled to undergo bilateral prophylactic mastectomy due to their genetic risk of triple-negative breast cancer. The third cohort is comprised of participants who have had treatment for their triple-negative breast cancer treatment, receiving adjuvant pembrolizumab. These cohorts will be treated with successively higher doses of α-lactalbumin and zymosan.

This aLA breast cancer vaccine is an investigational (experimental) drug that the study team believes will work by stimulating the immune system to fight the participant's cancer, in a way similar to the way the immune system fights off an infection after a vaccination for that infection. α-lactalbumin Vaccine is experimental because it is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

A traditional "3+3" Phase I trial design will be employed for the cohorts to determined the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD). After identification of the MTD, if at least 1 participant has an immunologic response (correlative measurement), successively lower dose levels will be expanded to a total of 6 participants and immunologic response assessed. Enrollment will stop if a dose level is reached for which no responses are observed. Dose-Limiting toxicities (DLTs) in 2 or more of 6 participants, the next lower dose will be considered the new MTD.

Objectives are to determine MTD, DLT incidence, and Lowest Immunologic Dose (LID) for each cohort.

Toxicity will be assessed every 2 weeks until day 56 and at day 84 or at off-study. Participants will be offered participation in long-term follow-up involving contact or in-person follow-up for late toxicity and survival every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for an additional 3 years, and then annually for 10 years.