18F-MFBG Imaging for Evaluation of Neuroendocrine Malignancies
The purpose of this study is to see how a new tracer named 18F-MFBG (Meta Fluorobenzyl Guanidine) behaves in the body after injection, how it spreads to all the organs and how it is removed from the body. We will also study how long 18F-MFBG lasts in the blood after administered. In addition we want to study if 18F-MFBG can show Neuroendocrine tumors on a PET-CT or PET MR scan.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
RADIATION: 18F-MFBG (meta-fluoro benzylguanidine)|DEVICE: Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging|OTHER: Blood draws
dosimetry of 18F MFBG, in two cohorts of patients: (a) those with NB and (b) those with non-NB NE. Data will be derived from blood draws and PET/CT scans at multiple time points after injection of 18F-MFBG IV., 1 year|radioactivity, Multiple samples will be counted and time activity curve generated for evaluation of serum clearance. Blood samples will be centrifuged and the plasma pipetted, weighed and counted to determine the plasma time activity concentration curves (% injected dose/liter), as well as for metabolite analysis of the 18F-MFBG compound by HPLC and/or TCA methodology., 1 year
18 F-MFBG imaging PET/CT to target known sites of disease, Lesion detection will be evaluated based on per patient and per lesion basis. The segmental distribution method described for 123 I -MIBG imaging (modified curie scoring system will be used- appendix C). If, for each individual patient, there is a concordance of ≥70% of segments or lesion detection between MIBG and 18 F-MFBG , the latter will be considered as effectively targeting lesions. For discordant lesions, if MFBG imaging shows 2 or more lesions that are positive on other concurrent or follow up conventional imaging, it will be considered optimal targeting., 1 year
The purpose of this study is to see how a new tracer named 18F-MFBG (Meta Fluorobenzyl Guanidine) behaves in the body after injection, how it spreads to all the organs and how it is removed from the body. We will also study how long 18F-MFBG lasts in the blood after administered. In addition we want to study if 18F-MFBG can show Neuroendocrine tumors on a PET-CT or PET MR scan.