Evaluating Pre-Treatment Vestibular Physical Therapy Rehab for Patients with Vestibular Schwannomas
The study is a pilot efficacy study. The investigators aim to estimate mean baseline and post-treatment balance scores among Vestibular Schwannomas (VS) patients undergoing pretreatment rehab (PREHAB) or no PREHAB when managed with either surgery or radiosurgery.
Vestibular Schwannoma
PROCEDURE: Microsurgical resection of VS|RADIATION: Stereotactic radiosurgery|OTHER: PREHAB
Sensory Organization Test Score at Post-Treatment Assessments, The sensory organization test (SOT) was developed to describe the contribution levels of the three basic systems of balance (visual, vestibular, somatosensory) to the general equilibrium. The primary endpoint is the SOT at post-treatment assessments. This is measured by a composite score. A higher score equals greater stability. The measurement is made by a Bertec machine., Post-treatment 1 week|Sensory Organization Test Score at Post-Treatment Assessments, The sensory organization test (SOT) was developed to describe the contribution levels of the three basic systems of balance (visual, vestibular, somatosensory) to the general equilibrium. The primary endpoint is the SOT at post-treatment assessments. This is measured by a composite score. A higher score equals greater stability. The measurement is made by a Bertec machine., Post-treatment 6 weeks|Sensory Organization Test Score at Post-Treatment Assessments, The sensory organization test (SOT) was developed to describe the contribution levels of the three basic systems of balance (visual, vestibular, somatosensory) to the general equilibrium. The primary endpoint is the SOT at post-treatment assessments. This is measured by a composite score. A higher score equals greater stability. The measurement is made by a Bertec machine., Post-treatment six months|Sensory Organization Test Score at Post-Treatment Assessments, The sensory organization test (SOT) was developed to describe the contribution levels of the three basic systems of balance (visual, vestibular, somatosensory) to the general equilibrium. The primary endpoint is the SOT at post-treatment assessments. This is measured by a composite score. A higher score equals greater stability. The measurement is made by a Bertec machine., Post-treatment 12 months
Study Design: This is a pilot randomized study with enrollment of 9 patients each to 4 groups: PREHAB+Surgery, No PREHAB+Surgery, PREHAB+Radiosurgery, and No PREHAB+Radiosurgery. Eighteen patients will be enrolled to receive each treatment type: surgery and radiosurgery. Within each type, patients will be randomized to PREHAB or NO PREHAB at a 1:1 ratio using stratified permuted blocks. The treatment modality will be determined by the patient and investigator(s) based upon collective consultations with neuro-otology, neurosurgery, and radiation oncology aligned with the Medical College of Wisconsin sporadic VS treatment guidelines.

Study Intervention: A PREHAB visit will be done once weekly for three weeks to determine exercise regimen prior to surgery or radiotherapy. Therapy includes balance exercises (twice daily), gaze stabilization exercises (12-20 minutes daily), and habituation exercises (as applicable). Standard surgical approaches including retrosigmoid, translabyrinthine, and middle fossa and radiosurgical (SRS) delivery will be determined based on current VS management guidelines and followed by study randomization to PREHAB.