Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Plus Docetaxel Versus Placebo Plus Docetaxel in Chemotherapy-naïve Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC) (MK-3475-921/KEYNOTE-921)
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of the combination of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) and docetaxel in the treatment of men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who have not received chemotherapy for mCRPC but have progressed on or are intolerant to Next Generation Hormonal Agent (NHA).

There are two primary study hypotheses.

Hypothesis 1: The combination of pembrolizumab plus docetaxel plus prednisone is superior to placebo plus docetaxel plus prednisone with respect to Overall Survival (OS).

Hypothesis 2: The combination of pembrolizumab plus docetaxel plus prednisone is superior to placebo plus docetaxel plus prednisone with respect to Radiographic Progression-free Survival (rPFS) per Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG)-modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as assessed by blinded independent central review.
Prostatic Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The OS was calculated using the product-limit Kaplan-Meier (K-M) method for censored data. Participants without documented death at the time of the analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up., Up to 36.5 months|Radiographic Progression-free Survival (rPFS) Per Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG)-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), rPFS was defined as the time from randomization to occurrence of: radiological tumor progression using RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR; progression of bone lesions using PCWG criteria; or death due to any cause. Radiological progression as per RECIST 1.1 was ≥20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions and progression of existing non-target lesions. Progression of bone lesions by PCWG criteria was the appearance of ≥2 new bone lesions on bone scan, that have been confirmed to not represent tumor flare, and was persistent for ≥6 weeks. The rPFS was calculated using the product-limit K-M method for censored data. Participants without a rPFS event were censored at the date of last disease assessment., Up to approximately 28 months
Time to Initiation of the First Subsequent Anti-cancer Therapy (TFST), TFST was defined as the time from randomization to initiation of the first subsequent anti-cancer therapy or death; whichever occurred first. The TFST was calculated using the product-limit K-M method for censored data. Any participant not known to have further subsequent therapy or death was censored at the last known time that no subsequent new anti-cancer therapy was received., Up to approximately 28 months|Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Response Rate, The Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) response rate was the percentage of participants who had PSA response defined as a reduction in the PSA level from baseline by ≥50%. The reduction in PSA level was confirmed by an additional PSA evaluation performed ≥3 weeks from the original response. The analysis was performed on participants who had baseline PSA measurements., Up to 36.5 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG)-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions per RECIST 1.1; and no evidence of disease (NED) on bone scan per PCWG) or partial response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions per RECIST 1.1; and non-progressive disease, non-evaluable \[NE\], or NED on bone scan or CR with non-progressive disease or NE bone scan per PCWG)., Up to 36.5 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Per Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG)-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), DOR was the time from first documented evidence of complete response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions per RECIST 1.1; and no evidence of disease \[NED\] on bone scan per PCWG) or partial response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions per RECIST 1.1; and non-progressive disease, non-evaluable \[NE\], or NED on bone scan or CR with non-progressive disease or NE bone scan per PCWG) until progressive disease (PD) or death. PD per RECIST 1.1 was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PD per PCWG was the appearance of ≥2 new bone lesions on bone scan, that have been confirmed to not represent tumor flare and were persistent for ≥6 weeks. The DOR was calculated using the product-limit K-M method for censored data. If a participant had not progressed, the participant was censored at the date of last disease assessment., Up to 36.5 months|Time to Pain Progression (TTPP) as Assessed by Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) Item 3 ("Worst Pain in 24 Hours") and Opiate Analgesic Use Assessed by the Analgesic Quantification Algorithm (AQA) Score, TTPP was the time from randomization to pain progression (PP) based on BPI-SF Item 3 and AQA score. BPI-SF assesses pain intensity; for item 3, participant responses to "Please rate your pain at its worst in the last 24 hours" are scored from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain). A higher score indicates greater pain. AQA captures the intensity of analgesic use in pain management, scored from 0 (no analgesic) to 7 (strong opioid use). A higher score indicates higher intensity of analgesic use.

For participants asymptomatic at baseline, PP was ≥2-point change from baseline in BPI-SF item 3 score OR initiation of opioid use. For participants symptomatic at baseline, PP was ≥2-point change from baseline in the BPI-SF Item 3 score, a score of ≥4 and no decrease in average opioid use OR any increase in opioid use (e.g., 1 point change in AQA score). TTPP was assessed by product-limit K-M method. Participants with \>2 consecutive unevaluable visits were censored at the last evaluable assessment., Up to 36.5 months|Time to First Symptomatic Skeletal-related Event (SSRE), SSRE was the time from randomization to the first symptomatic skeletal-related event defined as:

1. Use of external-beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to prevent or relieve skeletal symptoms
2. Occurrence of new symptomatic pathologic bone fracture (vertebral or non-vertebral)
3. Occurrence of spinal cord compression
4. Tumor-related orthopedic surgical intervention, whichever occurs first.

The SSRE was calculated using the product-limit K-M method for censored data. Participants without symptomatic skeletal-related events were censored at the last evaluable assessment., Up to 36.5 months|Time to Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Progression, The time to PSA progression was the time from randomization to PSA progression. The PSA progression date was defined as the date of:

1. ≥25% increase and ≥2 ng/mL above the nadir, confirmed by a second value ≥3 weeks later if there was PSA decline from baseline; OR
2. ≥25% increase and ≥2 ng/mL increase from baseline beyond 12 weeks if there was no PSA decline from baseline

Time to PSA progression was calculated using the product-limit K-M method for censored data. Participants without PSA progression were censored at the last evaluable assessment., Up to 36.5 months|Time to Radiographic Soft Tissue Progression Per Soft Tissue Rules of Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG)-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), The time to radiographic soft tissue progression was defined as the time from randomization to radiographic soft tissue progression per soft tissue rules of PCWG-modified RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR. Progression was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. Time to radiographic soft tissue progression was calculated using the product-limit K-M method for censored data. Participants without radiographic soft tissue progression were censored at the last evaluable assessment., Up to 36.5 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who experienced an AE is presented., Up to approximately 30 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due To an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE is presented., Up to approximately 27 months
With Amendment 6 (effective date: 29-Sep-2022), all participants will be unblinded and placebo treatment will be stopping. Participants who are deemed to be deriving clinical benefit from treatment may continue at the discretion of the investigator.

The global study for MK-3475-921 enrolled 1030 participants. Of the 1030 total participants enrolled in the global study, 21 were also enrolled in the China extension study for MK-3475-921 (NCT04907227).