Pilot Study on Focal Prostate Radio-Frequency Ablation
This is a prospective pilot study. The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of focal Radio-Frequency Ablation (RFA) in men with low-risk, clinically localized prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Radio-Frequency Ablation (RFA) ENCAGE™
Negative Prostate Biopsy Rate at Six Months, The primary efficacy endpoint is negative biopsy rate at 6 months after focal bipolar RFA. Evaluable patients for this study will be those who complete up through the six month follow-up/evaluation procedure., 6 Months
Completion of Quality of Life (QOL) Assessment Questionnaires at Six Months, Patients will complete the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC), American Urologic (AUA), Rectal Assessment Scale (RAS), and Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) questionnaires at baseline, 3 month and 6 month visits. QOL will be primarily based on the EPIC, developed to measure health related QOL among men with prostate cancer., 6 Months
RFA is a minimally invasive procedure. It is an image-guided technique that heats and destroys cancer cells. In RFA, imaging techniques such as ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are used to help guide a needle electrode into a cancerous tumor. High-frequency electrical currents are then passed through the electrode, destroying the cancer cells. Use of an RFA device was approved by the Food and Drug Association (FDA) in 1997 for the purposes of treating soft tissue tumors. The device we (Moffitt Cancer Center) will be using in this study has clearance for clinical use from the FDA. The effectiveness of the device is measured using biopsy cores at the site of the cancer after the RFA procedure. To evaluate the benefits of this procedure, we will also evaluate the change in quality-of-life indicators from baseline to 6 months following RFA. RFA is being developed as a minimally invasive potential treatment for prostate cancer.

This research study is a pilot clinical trial. Pilot clinical trials are smaller versions of larger studies that are conducted to prepare for the larger study. This pilot study pre-tests a research device before a large-scale multicenter study is launched.

The specific purpose of this pilot trial is to find out if RFA can effectively treat prostate cancer with fewer side effects including effects on urination, bowel function, and sexual function. RFA for early stage prostate cancer is designed to affect only the part of the prostate where cancer has been detected. The reasoning for this approach is the smaller the area given RFA, the less damage to surrounding tissues.