Role of Serum Albumin and Total Protein in Survival of Cancer Cachectic Patients
Serum albumin can indicate the onset of cancer cachexia, provide information about a patient's nutritional status, and serve as a biomarker for the prognosis of patients with cancer cachexia. However, the relationship between serum albumin levels and mortality in patients with cancer cachexia remains unclear. We aimed to examine the association of albumin and total protein with 1-year mortality in patients with cancer cachexia
Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: BMI
the association between serum albumin and total protein with one year mortality in patients with cancer cachexia, to evaluate the association between serum albumin and total protein with one year mortality in patients with cancr cachexia, baseline
the association between anthropometric measures and other laboratory findings with one year mortality in patients with cancer cachexia, to evaluate the association between anthropometric measures and other laboratory findings with one year mortality in patients with cancer cachexia, baseline
Cancer cachexia is defined as a multifactorial and multi-organ syndrome characterized by the loss of skeletal muscle mass (with or without loss of adipose tissue), which cannot be fully reversed by conventional nutritional support. In recent years, cancer cachexia has increasingly been seen as a systemic phenomenon that affects various organs, such as the liver and myocardial tissue. Cachexia is closely related to anorexia, inflammation, insulin resistance, and decreased protein levels, which can lead to progressive functional impairment, treatment-related complications, poor quality of life, and cancer-related death. Its pathophysiology is characterized by a negative protein and energy balance. However, there are no clear clinical guidelines to effectively combat the progressive tissue loss associated with cachexia. Cancer cachexia occurs mostly in advanced cancers, with more than half of patients with cancer having cachexia in the later stages, and \>10% of patients die with or from it.

Studies have shown that cachexia can be diagnosed when weight loss in the past 12 months is ≥5%, and the physiological variables of patients match at least threeof the following five criteria: decreased muscle strength,fatigue, anorexia, low fat-free mass index (FFMI), and abnormal blood profile. Albumin and total protein are two variables that reflect an individual's nutritional status and disease severity. Additionally, albumin can serve as an indicator of the inflammatory response and is considered a highly sensitive marker of a patient's nutritional status. Serum albumin and total protein can be used to define cancer cachexia and cancer-related malnutrition; patients with cachexia have lower total protein and albumin levels than those without cachexia.5 Serum albumin may serve as a prognostic factor for treatment outcomes and compliance in patients with advanced cancer.

Although a reduction in albumin and total protein levels are associated with the diagnosis of cancer related cachexia, no studies have shown that albumin and total protein can predict mortality in patients with cancer cachexia. Here, we describe a prospective non randomized study that will be conducted to explore the association between serum albumin and total protein levels and 1-year mortality in patients with cancer cachexia .