Phase I Study of Fractionated Stereotactic Radiation Therapy
There is a lack of prospective trial data and consensus guidelines describing the use of Fractionated Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (FSRT) in the treatment of brain metastases. There has been no prospective dose escalation study performed to date to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in patients treated with FSRT. Prescription doses in the series described above ranged from 18 Gy to 42 Gy, delivered in 3 to 12 fractions. The results of this study will be used to plan future Phase II/III studies to determine the efficacy of different dose fractionation schedules of FSRT. The investigator team thus proposes a Phase I study to determine the feasibility and safety of FSRT in patients with brain metastases.
Brain Metastases
RADIATION: Fractionated Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (FSRT)
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) associated with a 20% dose limiting toxicity (DLT). DLT is defined as grade 3 or higher toxicities that occur within 1 year of treatment start and either possibly, probably, or definitively related to radiotherapy (RT)., Within 1 year of initiation of treatment
Response to Treatment, Response to treatment will be assessed based on the percentage of patients who achieve either a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD), or progression (P) in response to FSRT treatment will be determined. Best response will be summarized. Response criteria will be assessed as follows

Complete Response (CR): Defined as follow up imaging which shows that complete radiographic disappearance of brain metastasis. Partial Response (PR): Decrease of \>50% in the size of each lesion radiographically, using perpendicular diameters Stable Disease (SD): 0 to 50% reduction in size of each lesion radiographically, using perpendicular diameters. Progression (P): Defined as \> 25% increase in the size of each lesion or a new, non-contiguous lesion developed outside of the radiosurgical volume., Up to 1 year following initiation of treatment
There is a lack of prospective trial data and consensus guidelines describing the use of Fractionated Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (FSRT) in the treatment of brain metastases. There has been no prospective dose escalation study performed to date to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in patients treated with FSRT. Prescription doses in the series described above ranged from 18 Gy to 42 Gy, delivered in 3 to 12 fractions. The results of this study will be used to plan future Phase II/III studies to determine the efficacy of different dose fractionation schedules of FSRT. The investigator team thus proposes a Phase I study to determine the feasibility and safety of FSRT in patients with brain metastases.