Resistance Exercise Training For Radically Treated Respiratory Cancer
The first part of the study is an observational part. In eligible patients with early stage respiratory cancer, the primary and secondary endpoints will be evaluated before and after their scheduled radical cancer therapy. The measured variables, include a blood sample, pulmonary function tests, level of dyspnea, exercise tests, measurement of body composition, respiratory and peripheral muscle force, health related quality of life and psychological status. Only registered participants having completed a radical treatment and having either less than 70% of the predicted normal value of the quadriceps force (QF) or a decrease of more than 10% predicted value of the QF between pre-and post radical treatment, will be allowed to participate to the second part of the study. These patients will then be randomized in three groups. Group A, the control group, will have the usual care and follow up according to clinical symptoms. Group B will be offered a conventional resistance training program (CRT), and group C, will be offered a whole body vibration resistance training (WBV) on the FITVIBE-platform. All previous variables will be measured after 6 and 12 weeks of training.
Respiratory Cancer
OTHER: Conventional resistance training|OTHER: Whole body vibration resistance training
The change of 6MWD observed between pre-and post radical treatment, 12 weeks|between post radical treatment and after a 12 week resistance training, 12 weeks
The changes of the following variables: Muscle strength, 12 weeks|Muscle mass, 12 weeks|Body composition, 12 weeks|Maximal exercise capacity, 12 weeks|Muscle force, 12 weeks|Quality of life, 12 weeks|Anxiety and depression scores, 12 weeks|Dyspnea scores, 12 weeks|6MWD, 12 weeks
The first part of the study is an observational part. In eligible patients with early stage respiratory cancer, the primary and secondary endpoints will be evaluated before and after their scheduled radical cancer therapy. The measured variables, include a blood sample, pulmonary function tests, level of dyspnea, exercise tests, measurement of body composition, respiratory and peripheral muscle force, health related quality of life and psychological status. Only registered participants having completed a radical treatment and having either less than 70% of the predicted normal value of the quadriceps force (QF) or a decrease of more than 10% predicted value of the QF between pre-and post radical treatment, will be allowed to participate to the second part of the study. These patients will then be randomized in three groups. Group A, the control group, will have the usual care and follow up according to clinical symptoms. Group B will be offered a conventional resistance training program (CRT), and group C, will be offered a whole body vibration resistance training (WBV) on the FITVIBE-platform. All previous variables will be measured after 6 and 12 weeks of training.