Understanding the Risk of Blood Clots and Bleeding in Patients With Hematological Malignancies, HAT Study
This study evaluates the risks and experience of blood clots and bleeding in patients with blood cancers. While it is standard of care to use medications to reduce the risk of blood clots in hospitalized individuals, some patients with blood cancers have low platelet counts that can increase the concern for bleeding complications associated with these medications. At this time, the optimal management strategies for blood clots are not well known for patients with blood cancers. This pilot study evaluates additional information that could help doctors know which patients are at highest risk for blood clots.
Acute Leukemia|Deep Vein Thrombosis|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma|Thrombocytopenia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Thrombosis incidence, Assessed by incidence of hemorrhage following deep vein thrombosis diagnosis, based on anticoagulant use and presence of thrombocytopenia, Up to 1 year|Rate of venous thromboembolism (VTE) recurrence, Assessed as the time from admission to the hospital and Venous thrombotic event, Up to 1 year
Hemorrhage incidence, without prior thrombosis, Assessed as the time from admission to the hospital until hemorrhage incidence (without prior thrombosis), Up to 1 year|Hemorrhage incidence, with prior thrombosis < 12 months, Assessed as the time from admission to the hospital until Hemorrhage incidence (with prior thrombosis) \< 12 months, Within 3 months following deep vein thrombosis diagnosis
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the incidence of hemorrhage in the 3 months following deep vein thrombosis diagnosis in hospitalized malignant hematology patients, based on anticoagulant use and presence of thrombocytopenia.

II. Determine recurrent or progressive venous thromboembolism in the 3 months following deep vein thrombosis diagnosis in hospitalized malignant hematology patients, based on anticoagulant use and presence of thrombocytopenia.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess feasibility of database creation of patient and clinical characteristics regarding thrombosis and hemorrhage in hospitalized malignant hematology patients.

II. Assess feasibility of patient enrollment and hemostatic laboratory collection pre, during and post treatment.

III. Describe the impact of thrombocytopenia on resource utilization following thrombosis diagnosis (blood product administration, imaging studies performed, number of days hospitalized).

IV. Describe the impact of therapeutic anticoagulation vs prophylactic anticoagulation on resource utilization following thrombosis diagnosis (blood product administration, imaging studies performed, number of days hospitalized).

V. Define baseline hemostatic characteristics in hospitalized malignant hematology patients prior to chemotherapy and the association with thrombosis or hemorrhage.

VI. Describe changes in laboratory hemostatic characteristics pre-treatment, during treatment and post treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients' electronic health record are reviewed for 12 months and/or undergo collection of blood at pretreatment and on days 7, 28, 90, and 180.