Heated Chemotherapy for Cancers That Have Spread to the Chest Cavity
Cancers that have spread to the inner lining of the chest are classified as Stage IV and bear a poor prognosis. Surgery is rarely an option, with palliative chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy the only treatment options. This study intends to evaluate whether surgical removal of all visible tumor on the chest wall followed by bathing the chest cavity in heated chemotherapy solution will improve outcomes for these advanced cancers.
Pleural Metastases|Breast Cancer|Colon Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Uterine Cancer|Renal Cell Cancer|Thymic Cancer
PROCEDURE: Surgical debulking and Intrathoracic Hyperthermic Chemotherapy
Time to disease progression, Most cancers that have spread to the chest cavity have limited survival. Response to systemic chemotherapy and radiation therapy is short-lived. This end point will determine the time to disease progression of this experimental treatment modality., 1 year|Survival, Most cancers that have spread to the chest cavity have limited survival. Response to systemic chemotherapy and radiation therapy is short-lived. This end point will determine the overall survival period following treatment with this experimental modality., 1 year
Systemic drug absorption, By perfusing the chest cavity with chemotherapy, higher doses can be safely administered as less drug is absorbed systemically and therefore toxicity should be lower. This end point will assess drug toxicity due to intrathoracic perfusion., 1 month|Complications, Patients will undergo surgical debulking prior to intrathoracic chemotherapy perfusion. Complications from the surgery as well as inhibited wound healing from chemotherapy will be monitored as a secondary end point., 1 month
Cancers that have spread to the inner lining of the chest are classified as Stage IV and bear a poor prognosis. Surgery is rarely an option, with palliative chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy the only treatment options. This study intends to evaluate whether surgical removal of all visible tumor on the chest wall followed by bathing the chest cavity in heated chemotherapy solution will improve outcomes for these advanced cancers.