Assessment of the Diagnostic Role of Serum Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding Protein-3 as a Potential Biomarker for Colorectal Cancer (CRC) in Egypt
1. evaluation of diagnostic importance of insulin like growth factor binding protein3 in patient with recently diagnosed as Colorectal cancer
2. correlation between the diagnostic efficacy of insulin like growth factor binding protein 3 with routine marker carcinoembryonic antigen.
Colorectal Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: evaluation of diagnostic importance of insulin like growth factor binding protein3 in patient with recently diagnosed as Colorectal cancer
Assessment of the Diagnostic Role of Serum Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding Protein-3 as a Potential Biomarker for Colorectal Cancer (CRC) in Egypt, measure level of insulin like growth factor binding protein3 in serum in patients of egypt recently diagnosed as Colorectal cancer by useing ELISA, Baseline
Colorectal Cancer is the third most common cancer diagnosed in the USA and the world's fourth most deadly cancer .the incidence and the mortality rate of colorectal cancer has decreased due to effective cancer screening measures.

Besides an ageing population and dietary habits of high-income countries, unfavourable risk factors such as obesity, lack of physical exercise, and smoking increase the risk of colorectal cancer.

The incidence of early-onset colorectal cancer diagnosed in patients under the age of 50 years- has been increasing around the world.

The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system composed of two ligands, their receptors and regulatory proteins.

IGFBPs regulate the cell cycle, and the function of IGFBPs in transcriptional regulation, DNA damage repair and apoptosis induction suggest that they are closely associated with tumour development, progression, and therapy resistance.

Insulin-like growth factor peptides play important roles in regulating cell growth, cell differentiation, and apoptosis, and have been demonstrated to promote the development of colorectal cancer.

Researchers found that IGFBP3 has the potential to be used as early indicator for colorectal cancer diagnosis.

Moreover, IGFBP3 as a risk factor for carcinogenesis has been demonstrated in many cancers.

IGFBP3 as a tumour suppressor was reported to be down-regulated in some cancers. But some other publications showed its overexpression is associated with poor prognosis for several cancers including pancreatic endocrine neoplasms.

Meanwhile, epidemiological studies indicated that higher circulating IGFBP3 level were an increased risk of breast cancer.