Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial is to see if bevacizumab works in treating patients who have persistent or recurrent ovarian epithelial cancer or primary peritoneal cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them.
Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle for 6 months.|Tumor Response, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., Every other cycle for the first 6 months; then every 3 months x 2 ; then every 6 months thereafter for up to 5 years.|Number of Participants and Degree of Toxicity of Bevacizumab in This Cohort of Patients as Assessed by CTC., Assessed every cycle while on treatment, 30 days after the last cycle of treatment, up to 5 years.
Overall Survival, The observed length of life from entry into the study to death or the date of last contact., From study entry to death or last contact, up to 5 years.|Duration of Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle for the first 6 months; then every 3 months x 2 ; then every 6 months therafter for up to 5 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the 6-month progression-free survival of patients with persistent or recurrent ovarian epithelial or primary peritoneal cancer treated with bevacizumab.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with this drug.

IV. Determine the frequency of clinical response in patients treated with this drug.

V. Determine the effect of this drug on initial performance status, age, and mucinous or clear cell histology in these patients.

VI. Correlate biological and imaging markers with 6-month progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.