Phase I Study of Intralesional Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) Followed by Ipilimumab in Advanced Metastatic Melanoma
This was a Phase 1, open-label, dose-escalation, single-center study in patients with histologically confirmed Stage III or IV melanoma and at least 3 metastatic cutaneous or subcutaneous lesions that were suitable and accessible for intralesional (IL) injection (1 lesion), biopsy (1 lesion), and response evaluation (1 lesion). The primary objective was to determine the safety of IL administration of bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) followed by oral dosing with an antibiotic (isoniazid) and intravenous (IV) infusions of ipilimumab. Secondary objectives were to evaluate the clinical efficacy (induction of tumor response) and immunogenicity (induction of immune response against the tumors) of the combination regimen.
Metastatic Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine|DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Isoniazid
Number of Patients With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Toxicity was graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported based on clinical laboratory tests, physical examinations, and vital signs from pre-treatment through the study period. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) for BCG was defined as any ≥ Grade 3 local injection site reaction (ulceration or necrosis requiring operative intervention), and DLT for ipilimumab was defined as any toxicity that required dosing modifications in accordance with the recommendations in the local product labelling, or any ≥ Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity that was definitely, probably, or possibly related to the administration of ipilimumab., Continuously for up to 5 months
Number of Patients With Best Overall Clinical Tumor Response, Tumor responses were evaluated using computed tomography and clinical photography at Baseline, Weeks 6, 17, 21, and 30 (± 3-day window for each assessment), and at the end of the study. Tumor response was designated according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version 1.1). Per RECIST, target lesions are categorized as follows: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions (no evaluable disease); Partial Response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria., Up to 5 months|Number of Patients With Best Overall Immune-related Tumor Response, Immune-related tumor responses were evaluated using computed tomography and clinical photography at Baseline, Weeks 6, 17, 21, and 30 (± 3-day window for each assessment), and at the end of the study. Tumor response was designated according to the immune-related Response Criteria (irRC) (Wolchok et al. Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:7412-20) into the following categories: immune-related complete response (irCR) requires disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations not less than 4 weeks apart; immune-related partial response (irPR) requires ≥ 50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations at least 4 weeks apart; immune-related stable disease (irSD) is assigned when neither a 50% decrease from baseline tumor burden nor a 25% increase in tumor burden from nadir can be established; immune-related progressive disease (irPD) requires a ≥ 25% increase from nadir in tumor burden at any single time point in two consecutive observations at least 4 weeks apart., Up to 5 months
Patients were enrolled into one of two study cohorts depending on the induration noted after a baseline purified protein derivative (PPD) skin test to determine tuberculin reactivity. Cohort 1 comprised patients with an induration of \<10mm in diameter, and Cohort 2 comprised patients with an induration of ≥10mm. Enrollment was staggered by 3 weeks for each of the first 3 patients in Cohort 1, Group 1 to enable safety monitoring of each patient prior to exposure of additional patients.

In all cohorts, study treatment included BCG (200 µL volume) given IL on Day 1, isoniazid (300 mg) given orally daily from Days 29 to 56, and ipilimumab (3 mg/kg) given IV every 3 weeks (± 3 days) on Days 36, 57, 78, and 99. The dose of BCG varied by assigned treatment group: Cohort 1, Group 1 received 0.16 - 0.64 × 10\^6 colony-forming units (CFU); Cohort 1, Group 2 received 0.8 - 3.2 x 10\^6 CFU; Cohort 1, Group 3 was to receive 4.0 - 16.0 x 10\^6 CFU; and Cohort 2 was to receive 0.16 - 0.64 × 10\^6 CFU. Enrollment into Cohort 2 was to be initiated after the final patient in Cohort 1, Group 1 reached Week 7. Enrollment was then to proceed in parallel for Cohort 2 and Cohort 1, Groups 2 and 3.

Patients were monitored for safety, tumor response, and immunogenicity (cellular, humoral, and in situ immunity) for the duration of study participation.