Sintilimab (IBI308) in Combination With Chidamide and Azacitidine in Refractory or Relapsed PTCL
This is a single-arm, single-center Phase II clinical trial for patients with relapsed or refractory Peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL). Immunotherapy with anti-PD-1 antibodies, such as sintilimab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chidamide and azacitidine may respectively stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking histone deacetylation and DNA methylation enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving chidamide and azacitidine with sintilimab these three drugs may work better than single drug or combination of two drugs in treating patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma.
Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Sintilimab|DRUG: Chidamide|DRUG: Azacidine
Objective response rate (ORR) by Lugano 2014 up to 24 months, Proportion of subjects who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by Lugano 2014 response criteria, Up to 24 months
Complete remission rate (CRR) by Lugano 2014 up to 24 months, Proportion of subjects who achieve complete response (CR) by Lugano 2014 response criteria, Up to 24 months|Duration of response (DOR) up to 24 months, DOR is defined as the time from the date of first remission to the date of disease progression or death whichever is earlier, Up to 24 months|Progression free survival (PFS) up to 24 months, PFS is defined as the time from the treatment date to the date of disease progression per the Lugano 2014 Response Criteria or death regardless of cause, Up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS) up to 24 months, OS is defined as the time from treatment to the date of death, Up to 24 months|Incidence and Severity of adverse events by CTCAE v5.0 up to 90 days post-treatment, Incidence and Severity of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Up to 90 days post-treatment
Identification of potential biomarkers predictive of response to treatment, The correlation of clinical response with the expression of PD-L1, CD4, CD8, CD68 in tumor environment, Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

To determine the objective response rate (ORR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To determine the complete response rate (CRR).
2. To determine the duration of response (DOR).
3. To determine the progression free survival (PFS).
4. To determine the overall survival (OS).
5. To determine the safety.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

Assess the correlation between the expression of PD-L1, CD4, CD8, CD68 in tumor microenvironment and the efficacy of combined therapy in relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma.