Checkpoint Inhibition In Pediatric Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This research study is studying an immunotherapy drug (pembrolizumab or KEYTRUDA) as a possible treatment for pediatric hepatocellular carcinoma or hepatocellular neoplasm not otherwise specified (HCN NOS).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Childhood|Fibrolamellar Carcinoma|Liver Cancer|Liver Cancer, Pediatric
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Immune-related best overall response (irBOR), irRECIST criteria, 63 Days
Progression-free survival (PFS), irRECIST criteria, enrollment to progression (defined by irRECIST criteria) or death (whichever event occurs first), or to date of last contact up to 100 months|Expression levels of infiltrating immune cells and markers of checkpoint inhibition on pre-treatment specimens, Expression levels of infiltrating immune cells and markers of checkpoint inhibition, as assessed by immunohistochemistry on pre-treatment specimens, quantified using a semi-quantitative scoring system based on percent of cells showing positive staining., 2 Years|Percent change immune cell phenotype, cytokines, and circulating tumor DNA, summarized using descriptive statistics., 2 Years|Number of Participants with DLT, organ affected or laboratory determination, severity (by NCI CTCAE v5.0), and attribution., 2 Years|DNA sequencing of specimens, Descriptive analysis of gene mutation patterns correlating with disease response to checkpoint inhibition, 2 Years
Patients who fulfill eligibility criteria will be entered into the trial to receive pembrolizumab or KEYTRUDA

This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. In the case of this trial, the investigators are studying whether pembrolizumab can treat pediatric hepatocellular carcinoma.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved pembrolizumab for your specific disease but it has been approved for other uses in adults. Checkpoint inhibitors are in early-phase study in pediatric patients across diagnoses.

In this research study, the investigators plan to investigate whether pediatric patients with hepatocellular carcinoma experience stable disease or response to pembrolizumab. In addition, the investigators would like to explore different biological factors of the tumor and immune system that might help us predict whether pediatric patients with HCC may benefit from treatment with pembrolizumab.