CBX-12 for the Treatment of Metastatic Chemotherapy-Refractory Microsatellite Stable Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well CBX-12 works in treating patients with microsatellite stable colorectal cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) and is no longer responding to chemotherapy treatment (chemotherapy-refractory). The usual approach to treating colorectal cancer includes treatment with surgery, radiation, or Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drugs such as trifluridine-tipiracil, bevacizumab, regorafenib, or fruquintinib. However, most metastatic colorectal patients progress through all approved treatments and eventually succumb to their disease. CBX-12 is a drug that contains a peptide (a substance that contains many amino acids \[molecules that join together to form proteins\]) called pHLIP, linked to an anticancer substance called exatecan. Upon administration, pHLIP gets inserted into the cellular membrane of tumor cells, delivering exatecan to kill them. Giving CBX-12 may work better than the usual approach in treating patients with metastatic chemotherapy-refractory microsatellite stable colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Refractory Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: pH Low Insertion Peptide-exatecan Conjugate CBX-12|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Objective response rate (ORR), Treatment response will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. Objective response will be defined as either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Simon's 2-stage optimal design will be used, From registration to disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), DLTs will be defined as any grade \>= 3 non-hematologic toxicity irrespective of adequate supportive treatment, or grade \>= 4 hematologic toxicity per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 attributed as possibly, probably, or definitely related to drug. The ORR will be estimated along with the 95% confidence interval., Baseline up to 12 months
Pharmacodynamics of CBX-12 by DDR3 and apoptosis, Percent of tumor cells positive for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage marker γH2AX and percent of tumor cells positive for apoptosis marker cleaved caspase 3. Pre- and on-treatment comparisons will be made within patients who provide evaluable paired biopsies, using a paired t-test. A nonparametric method will be pursued as needed. Assuming an 80% evaluable biopsy rate out of 17 patients, we would obtain 14 evaluable pre-treatment and 14 evaluable post-treatment biopsies. Using a one-sided paired t-test at a type I error rate of 0.05, this study achieves 80% power to detect a mean paired difference of 0.6 standard deviation of differences, which is deemed to be a medium effect size (Cohen, 1992). In addition, will fit a logistic regression on objective response with increase in %γH2AX-positive tumor cells and increase in %caspase 3-positive tumor cells, separately as well as simultaneously., Baseline to 12 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS and OS will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, along with 95% confidence regions. The median time will be estimated and compared with 5.6 months of PFS and 10.8 months (Prager et al., 2023). One-sample log-rank tests will be performed against the reference curves from Prager et al. (Prager et al., 2023)., From registration to disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Overall survival (OS), PFS and OS will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, along with 95% confidence regions. The median time will be estimated and compared with 5.6 months of PFS and 10.8 months (Prager et al., 2023). One-sample log-rank tests will be performed against the reference curves from Prager et al. (Prager et al., 2023)., From registration to disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months
Tissue and plasma pharmacokinetics (PK) of CBX-12 and free exatecan, The Cmax and AUC of the plasma PK will be compared descriptively with historical data. The on-treatment tumor concentrations of free exatecan and CBX-12 will be used to calculate the free exatecan:CBX-12 ratio. The ratio of plasma free exatecan Cmax:CBX-12 Cmax will be calculated. These ratios in tumor and plasma will be compared using a two-sided paired t-test, where p\<0.05 will be considered statistically significant. The ratio of free exatecan:CBX-12 from the tumor is expected to greater than the ratio of the same from plasma, From baseline to 12 months|Variant allele frequencies (VAF) of tumor mutations in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), VAF change will be assessed categorically for each patient (increased or decreased at cycle 3 as compared to baseline). VAF change will be compared to objective response or non-response using the Fisher's test, where p\<0.05 will be considered statistically significant, Baseline and at cycle 3|Incidence and grades of adverse events, All patients who received at least one dose of CBX-12 will be considered evaluable for safety and toxicity. Continual toxicity monitoring will be used for all patients. Toxicity names, rates, and grades will be reported descriptively, Baseline up to 12 months|Expression of YH2AX, DNA damage, apoptosis, and TOP1-DNA complex markers will be measured in pre- and post-treatment samples, and a difference (increase) in expression post-treatment will also be measured on DNA damage multiplex assay. Regression analysis will be used to determine if the increase in these three biomarkers correlates with response to CBX-12., Baseline to 12 months|Expression of apoptosis protein markers, DNA damage, apoptosis, and TOP1-DNA complex markers will be measured in pre- and post-treatment samples, and a difference (increase) in expression post-treatment will also be measured in Luminex assay. Regression analysis will be used to determine if the increase in these three biomarkers correlates with response to CBX-12, Baseline to 12 months|Expression of SLFN11, On immunohistochemistry. SLFN11 tumor baseline expression will be measured in pre-treatment tumor tissue and regression analysis will be used to determine if baseline SLFN11 expression correlates with response to CBX-12., At baseline|Expression of TOP1-DNA complex, DNA damage, apoptosis, and TOP1-DNA complex markers will be measured in pre- and post-treatment samples, and a difference (increase) in expression post-treatment will also be measured. Regression analysis will be used to determine if the increase in these three biomarkers correlates with response to CBX-12, Baseline to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the clinical activity, as determined by response rate, of pH low insertion peptide-exatecan conjugate CBX-12 (CBX-12) in microsatellite stable/mismatch repair proficient (MSS/pMMR) metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacodynamics of CBX-12 (DDR3 and apoptosis). II. To determine the effect of CBX-12 on progression-free survival (PFS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the tissue and plasma pharmacokinetics (PK) of CBX-12 and free exatecan.

II. To evaluate circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) as a predictor for treatment response to CBX-12.

III. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CBX-12 dosed every 21 days. IV. To evaluate biomarkers of response to CBX-12 (DNA damage response, apoptosis, SLFN11 expression, TOP1-DNA complex).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive CXB-12 intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo x-rays during screening, biopsy during screening and on study, and computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and blood collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for 12 months or until death.