Decitabine/Cedazuridine and Enzalutamide for the Treatment of Metastatic Castrate Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase Ib trial is to find out the best dose decitabine/cedazuridine and possible benefits and/or side effects of decitabine/cedazuridine and enzalutamide in treating patients with castrate resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Chemotherapy drugs, such as decitabine/cedazuridine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Enzalutamide blocks the use of androgen by the tumor cells. Giving decitabine/cedazuridine together with enzalutamide may reverse or help prevent the acquired therapeutic resistance that is observed when enzalutamide is used alone. Drug resistance occurs when cancer cells stop responding to a chemotherapy that had previously been effective.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Decitabine and Cedazuridine|DRUG: Enzalutamide
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Assesses using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 30 days post-treatment
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The MTD will be defined as the dose level at which 0 out of 3 or \< 2 out of 6 patients within the same cohort experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). DLTs will be defined as an AE or clinically significant abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications that occurs within the first 28 days of treatment with decitabine in cycle 1. These will be assessed using the NCI CTCAE version 5.0., Up to cycle 1 (1 cycle = 28 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety of oral decitabine and cedazuridine (decitabine/cedazuridine) in combination with enzalutamide in patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of oral decitabine/cedazuridine in combination with enzalutamide in patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of decitabine and cedazuridine.

Patients receive decitabine and cedazuridine orally (PO) once daily (QD) on either days 1-3, 1-4, or 1-5 and enzalutamide PO QD on days 1-28. Treatments repeat every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months for 24 months.