A Study of ASP8273 in Subjects With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Harboring Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutations
The objective of this study is to evaluate the bioequivalence of a tablet formulation versus a capsule formulation of ASP8273 following a single dose under fasted condition in subjects with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations. The study will also evaluate the safety and tolerability of a tablet formulation as a single dose and a capsule formulation as a single and multiple dose of ASP8273 in subjects with NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)|Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutations
DRUG: naquotinib
Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: Cmax, Cmax: Maximum plasma concentration. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)|Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: AUCinf, AUCinf: Area under the concentration time curve extrapolated to time infinity. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)|Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: AUClast, AUClast: Area under the concentration time curve from time zero to the last quantifiable concentration. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)|Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: AUC72, AUC72: Area under the concentration time curve truncated at 72 hours. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)
Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: t1/2, t1/2: Terminal elimination half-life. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)|Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: tmax, tmax: The time of maximum concentration. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)|Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: tlast, tlast: The time of last observed concentration. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)|Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: CL/F, CL/F: Oral clearance. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)|Pharmacokinetics of ASP8273 in plasma: Vz/F, Vz/F: Apparent volume of distribution. Pharmacokinetic phase only, Up to Day 5 in each period of Phase 1 (maximum of 10 days)|Safety and tolerability assessed by nature, frequency, and severity of adverse events (AES), For both pharmacokinetic and postpharmacokinetic phases, Up to day 30|Number of participants with vital sign abnormalities and/or adverse events related to treatment, Vital signs include systolic and blood diastolic pressure, temperature and pulse rate. For both pharmacokinetic and postpharmacokinetic phases, Up to day 30|Number of participants with laboratory abnormalities and/or adverse events related to treatment, Laboratory values include biochemical, hematological, coagulation and urine analysis. For both pharmacokinetic and postpharmacokinetic phases, Up to day 30|Safety assessed by routine 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECG), Routine 12-lead ECGs will be performed after the subject has been in a supine position for at least 5 minutes. For both pharmacokinetic and postpharmacokinetic phases, Up to day 30
Study and subjects will be divided into two phases: a pharmacokinetic (PK) and a postpharmacokinetic phase. The pharmacokinetic phase will follow a randomized, 2 period, 2 sequence single dose crossover design. Each period will be 5 days in duration. Within the sequence, both an ASP8273 tablet and ASP8273 capsule will be administered under fasted condition. The postpharmacokinetic phase will consist of up to 1 cycle (28 days) of continuous once daily dosing in post PK phase with ASP8273 capsules. Dose modifications are allowed if necessary in post PK phase and they follow a step-wise dose reduction. Subject is able to re-escalate dose level if reaction is stable.