Visceral Adiposity Index Differences Between Subtypes of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
We aimed to investigate visceral adiposity index (VAI) in patients with different phenotype of policystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and to compare healthy controls.
Visceral Adiposity Index|Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Visceral Adiposity Index Differences Between Subtypes of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, Since there are different metabolic effects in different subtypes of polycystic ovary syndrome; In this study we aimed to investigate whether there is a difference between VAI in different PCOS subtypes and the difference between these subtypes and the healthy group., Eight months
Polycystic ovary syndrome; Metabolic disorders such as insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, glucose intolerance, hypertension and obesity are often accompanied, and increased inflammation is the main characteristic of this syndrome. While the presence or absence of PCOS was important until recently, recent studies have shown that metabolic changes and inflammation occur at different degrees in different subtypes of PCOS. Therefore, PCOS cases are divided into 4 subtypes. These; Subtype 1 has hyperandrogenemia + oligoanovulation + PCO appearance on ultrasonography (USG), Subtype 2 has hyperandrogenemia + oligoanovulation, Subtype 3 has hyperandrogenemia + PCO appearance on USG, and Subtype 4 has oligoanovulation + PCO appearance on USG. As the subtype number of polycystic ovary syndrome decreases, the severity and frequency of metabolic disorders and inflammation accompanying polycystic ovary syndrome increase.

Patients with polycystic ovary syndrome often have abdominal obesity, which leads to hypertension, dyslipidemia, impaired glucose tolerance, Type 2 Diabetes and metabolic syndrome, which predisposes to the development of cardiovascular disease. Visceral adiposity is associated with abnormal lipid levels, proinflammatory activity, insulin resistance, and hyperandrogenism. Increased visceral adiposity increases the risk of metabolic syndrome, Type 2 Diabetes, and cardiovascular events in women with PCOS; It also aggravates ovulation dysfunction and hyperandrogenism.

Visceral adiposity index (VAI) is a simple marker of visceral adipose tissue dysfunction and visceral adiposity and is associated with insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, hyperandrogenism and anovulation. Visceral adiposity index (VAI) is one of the new methods used to determine visceral adiposity and predict cardiometabolic risks in patients. Visceral adiposity index is the strongest marker determining metabolic syndrome in both obese and non-obese PCOS patients. Visceral adiposity index is calculated with the formula \[Waist circumference / (36.58 + (1.88xBMI)\] x (Triglyceride/0.81) x (1.52/HDL-C). Visceral adiposity index is used in the clinical presentations of PCOS and treatment success. It is reported to be a useful marker that enables early detection and intervention of the risk of metabolic syndrome in women. Since there are different metabolic effects in different subtypes of PCOS, we aimed to investigate whether there is a difference between visceral adiposity indexes in different PCOS subtypes.