PI3K Inhibitor BKM120, Carboplatin, and Pemetrexed Disodium in Treating Patients With Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of PI3K inhibitor BKM120 when given together with carboplatin and pemetrexed disodium in treating patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. PI3K inhibitor BKM120 and pemetrexed disodium may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving PI3K inhibitor BKM120, carboplatin, and pemetrexed disodium together may kill more tumor cells
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: PI3K inhibitor BKM120|DRUG: pemetrexed disodium|DRUG: carboplatin|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Maximum tolerated dose, defined as the highest dose in which fewer than 33% of study participants experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE version 4.0, 21 days|Toxicity profile of PI3K inhibitor BKM120, assessed using NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Tables will be created to summarize all toxicities and side effects by dose, course, organ, and severity., Up to 28 days after completion of study treatment
Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of PI3K inhibitor BKM120, carboplatin, and pemetrexed disodium in combination, Means and 95% confidence intervals will be provided for the PK parameters., Days 1 and 8 of course 1|Anti-tumor activity (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR]), assessed using RECIST, Rates and associated 95% exact Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., Up to 28 days after completion of study treatment|Disease control rate (CR + PR + stable disease [SD]), assessed using RECIST, Rates and associated 95% exact Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., Up to 28 days after completion of study treatment|Progression free survival, Rates and associated 95% exact Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., 6 months|Overall survival, Rates and associated 95% exact Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of BKM120 (PI3K inhibitor BKM120) that can be administered in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed (pemetrexed disodium) in patients with advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

II. To define the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and other toxicities associated with the use of combination BKM120 and carboplatin and pemetrexed.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetic parameters of BKM120, when used in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed.

II. To obtain preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity with this combination.

III. To evaluate downstream inhibition of the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K) pathway.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of PI3K inhibitor BKM120. Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes followed by carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1, and PI3K inhibitor BKM120 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive courses of PI3K inhibitor BKM120 alone or PI3K inhibitor BKM120 and pemetrexed disodium after 4-6 courses with carboplatin in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.