Phase I Study of Patupilone and RAD001
This is an unblinded, dose escalation study of patupilone in combination with RAD001 in subjects with advanced cancer to find the maximum tolerated dose of each drug. The purpose of this study is to see what doses of RAD001 and patupilone are safe to use when the two drugs are used at the same time. Other goals in this study are to learn about the effect of RAD 001 and patupilone on tumor growth; to find out what amount of RAD001 is present in the blood when it is combined with patupilone; to learn about proteins in the blood that may predict or show an effect of RAD001 or patupilone and to learn if any changes are seen in the tumor with the type of test called a PET scan.Subjects will be assigned to a dosing group. The dose of patupilone and RAD001 a subject gets depends on when they enter onto this study. The initial subjects in the study will take the lowest doses of RAD001 and patupilone. At least 3 subjects will be treated in each dosing group starting with the smallest dose. If there are few or easy to handle side effects, the next group of at least 3 people to enter in the study will get the next higher dose. This continues until the highest dose of the study drug is found that does not cause serious or hard to treat side effects. Both the subjects and the study doctor will know which dose is assigned. In this study, RAD001 will be given as tablets to take with water. RAD001 will be taken for either 7, 14, or 21 days of each 21 day cycle depending on which dosing group is assigned. If taking RAD 001 and patupilone on the same day, then RAD 001 will be taken with water however prior to receiving patupilone.Patupilone will be given by an intravenous injection (through a vein) for 20 minutes on Days 1 or day 6 of the 21-day cycle. The patupilone dose will be based on height and weight. Blood tests (approximately 1-3 teaspoons) will be done every week. Every six weeks a CT scan or MRI will be done to assess the tumor size. Subjects will continue to receive RAD001 and patupilone as long as the tumor is stable or shrinking, and not having too many side effects from treatment.
Refractory Malignancy
DRUG: Patupilone|DRUG: RAD001
To identify the maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of the combination of patupilone and RAD001, 3 years
find toxicity of patupilone and RAD001, see if concentrations of RAD001 are elevated with patupilone, evaluate tumor response using standard imaging, develop pharmacodynamic markers that may predict/indicate response to mTOR inhibition or patupilone trt, 3 years
Primary Endpoint To identify the maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of the combination of patupilone and RAD001

Secondary Endpoints To assess the toxicity of patupilone and RAD001 To determine if concentrations of RAD001 are elevated in the presence of patupilone To evaluate tumor response using standard imaging modalities (CT scan, x-ray, bone scan) To develop pharmacodynamic markers that may predict or indicate response to mTOR inhibition or patupilone treatment.