5-Azacytidine and/or Nivolumab in Resectable HPV-Associated HNSCC
This study is being done because both 5-azacytidine and nivolumab can influence the immune system's response to HPV-associated head and neck cancer, and we wish to evaluate whether taking 5-azacytidine will make HPV-associated head and neck cancer more sensitive to treatment with nivolumab.

5-Azacytidine (5-AZA) is a chemotherapy, and nivolumab is an immunotherapy. Both drugs are approved for use in the US by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the treatment of different types of cancer, and nivolumab is approved for use in head and neck cancer that has previously been treated with chemotherapy. Because they are not approved to be used together in HPV-associated head and neck cancer, these drugs are considered experimental in this study. For this study, the drugs will be used either together or separately.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
DRUG: Combination 5-azacytidine and nivolumab|DRUG: 5-azacytidine|DRUG: Nivolumab
Increased response for combination therapy compared with either monotherapy, As assessed by the ir-PRC of Cottrell., Day 16-18
Increased activated T cell infiltration in 5-Aza containing arms compared to Nivolumab monotherapy arm, As confirmed by quantitative immunofluorescence for CD3+ cells and granzyme B expression., Day 16-18|Secondary correlative evidence of anti-tumor response, As captured with tumoral Ki-67 and caspase staining on pre- and post-treatment specimens., Screening pre-treatment specimen Day - 8 through day -1; post treatment specimen Day 16-18|Secondary correlative evidence of disease control, As measured by the HPV ctDNA with the NavDx assay, baseline; 14-30 days prior to surgery, 30 and 90 days post resection surgery|Occurrence of toxicity, Adverse Events occurrence (Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events), Immune-related adverse events of special interest, and hyperprogression will be captured., Time of 1st treatment to 30 days post
This Phase 2 study is a 3-arm window trial, randomizing patients to pre-operative treatment with 5-azacytidine alone, to nivolumab alone, or the combination of 5-azacytidine and nivolumab. The primary endpoint is immune-related pathologic response, employing the quantitative immune-related pathologic response criteria (ir-PRC) of Cottrell et al. The secondary endpoint is augmentation of tumor infiltration of the tumor microenvironment as determined by a quantitative immunofluorescence score (QIF) measuring CD3+ lymphocytes and granzyme B expression. Secondary endpoints are objective response by modified RECIST, change in Ki-67, change in caspase activity, toxicity and hyperprogression. Patients are eligible with T1-3, N0-2, M0 p16-positive squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx deemed resectable by a surgical co-investigator. Patients must have normal absolute lymphocyte count, adequate end organ function, and not require full dose anticoagulation. Patients must be capable of providing, and provide, written informed consent. Patients on Arm A receive 5-azacytidine 75mg/m2 IV once daily day 1-5. Patients on Arm B receive nivolumab 240 mg IV days 1 and 15. Patients on Arm C receive 5-azacytidine as described above and receive nivolumab 240 mg IV days 2 and 16. On arms A and B surgery is performed during the period of days 16 to 18, and on Arm C during the period of days 17 to 18. The study will enroll 8 patients to 5-azacytidine monotherapy and 20 patients per arm to nivolumab or 5-azacytidine/nivolumab combination and has an 80% power to detect a significant difference in immune-related pathologic response, according to the criteria of Cottrell, between the combination arm and each of the monotherapy arms considered separately, using a one-sided Fisher's exact test at a significance level of 0.10.