Lenvatinib+Sintilimab+TACE vs. Lenvatinib+TACE for Advanced HCC
This study is conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib, sintilimab plus TACE (Len-Sin-TACE) compared with lenvatinib plus TACE (Len-TACE) for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Non-resectable
DRUG: Lenvatinib, sintilimab plus TACE|DRUG: Lenvatinib plus TACE
Overall survival (OS), The time from date of randomization to death due to any cause., 4 years
Progression free survival (PFS), The time from date of randomization until the first occurrence of disease progression (according to mRECIST) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 4 years|Time to Progression (TTP), The time from date of randomization until the first occurrence of disease progression (according to mRECIST)., 4 years|Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of patients with the best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to mRECIST., 4 years|Disease control rate (DCR), The proportion of patients with the best response of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) according to mRECIST., 4 years|Adverse Events (AEs), Number of patients with AEs assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0., 4 years
This is a multicenter, prospective and randomized controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Len-Sin-TACE versus Len-TACE for patient with advanced HCC.

427 patients with advanced HCC (CNLC IIIa-IIIb/BCLC C stage) will be enrolled in this study. The patients will receive either Len-Sin or Len alone after first TACE using an 2:1 randomization scheme. In the Len-Sin arm, lenvatinib 12mg (body weight ≥60kg) or 8mg (body weight \<60kg) P.O. qd and sintilimab (200mg I.V. q3w) will be started at 3-7 days after the first TACE. In the the Len arm, lenvatinib 12mg (body weight ≥60kg) or 8mg (body weight \<60kg) P.O. qd will be started at 3-7 days after the first TACE.

TACE will be repeated if clinically indicated based on the evaluation of follow-up laboratory and imaging examination. Lenvatinib will last until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first. Sintilimab will last up to 24 months, or until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first. In the Len-Sin arm, patients will be allowed to have lenvatinib or sintilimab as a sigle agent and will be still considered on study when the other drug cause intolerable toxicity.

The primary end point of this study is overall survival (OS). The secondary endpoints are progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP), objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and adverse events (AEs).