Remote Assessment of Physical Function
The primary objective is to evaluate the validity and reliability of using videoconferencing to assess physical performance tests self-administered by older cancer survivors in their own homes. This remote assessment will be compared to the traditional face-to-face (i.e., in-person) assessment and to accelerometer data.
Cancer Survivors
OTHER: Remote Assessment of Physical Function with Direct Observation|OTHER: Remote Assessment of Physical Function
Validation - 30-second Chair Stand Test, Comparison of remote assessment to the traditional face-to-face (i.e., in-person; direct observer) assessment. Phase 2 will enroll 10-20 participants, depending on the point at which no new information is learned about the use of the toolkit (including instructions). Comparisons will be made between the direct observer and the remote assessor. The 30-second chair stand test involves standing up from a chair and sitting down as quickly and safely as possible, preferably without the use of upper extremity support. It is measured by the number of times a person comes to a full standing position from a chair in 30 seconds. The outcome is the difference in the number of chair stands counted between the direct observer and the remote assessor., 1 day|Validation - Timed Up & Go Test, Comparison of remote assessment to the traditional face-to-face (i.e., in-person; direct observer) assessment. Phase 2 will enroll 10-20 participants, depending on the point at which no new information is learned about the use of the toolkit (including instructions). The Timed Up \& Go test involves standing up from a standard armchair, walking 10 feet, turning around (180° turn), and walking back to the chair and sitting down. Comparisons will be made between the direct observer and the remote assessor. The outcome is the difference in the number of seconds counted between the direct observer and the remote assessor., 1 day
Reliability - Percentage of Participants Who Successfully Completed the Revised Protocol., Test of whether a sample of participants from Phases I \& II can repeat the test protocol 2-3 months later. This phase will enroll 5-10 participants. The outcome is subjective -- whether the participant could successfully receive the test kit, follow the instructions, communicate with the remote assessor, and perform the two measure of physical performance., 3 months
The ultimate goal of this research study is to develop a test protocol to allow older cancer survivors to self-administer physical performance tests in the survivor's own home, while an investigator remotely assesses the tests via videoconferencing. The test protocol includes written and video instructions and the test kit. To achieve this objective, the study will proceed with a series of phases. A similar concept of "saturation" will be applied, as is done in qualitative studies. In qualitative studies, the number of focus groups or interviews is based on the saturation point, i.e., the point at which no new information is learned. For the current study, each study phase will include a range in the number of participants enrolled. At the point at which no new information is being learned, i.e., no further adjustments are needed to the test protocol, the study will proceed to the next phase.