Study of Tumor Tissue Samples From Patients Who Have Undergone Surgery for Advanced Stage III or Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
This research study is looking at tumor tissue samples from patients who have undergone surgery for advanced stage III or stage IV ovarian epithelial cancer. Studying samples of tumor tissue from patients with cancer in the laboratory may help doctors learn how tumor infiltrating T cells can predict how patients will respond to treatment.
Stage IIIA Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIB Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Overall survival curves, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival curves, and the log-rank test will be used to test the difference between survival curves for TIL positive and negative patients. All of the tests will be two-sided and the significant levels will be set a 0.05., Baseline|Progression-free survival curves, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival curves, and the log-rank test will be used to test the difference between survival curves for TIL positive and negative patients. All of the tests will be two-sided and the significant levels will be set a 0.05., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To validate the ability of intratumoral tumor-infiltrating T lymphocytes (TILs) to predict progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with suboptimally debulked advanced stage III or IV ovarian epithelial cancer.

II. To validate the ability of intratumoral TILs to predict PFS in patients with optimally debulked disease.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To validate the ability of intratumoral TILs to predict overall survival of patients with suboptimally debulked disease.

II. To validate the ability of intratumoral TILs to predict overall survival of patients with optimally debulked disease.

OUTLINE:

Patients are stratified according to status of debulked disease (suboptimal vs optimal).

Previously collected tumor tissue samples are analyzed for tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) via immunohistochemistry and double immunofluorescence assays using standard immunostaining.