Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Uterine Cancer
This phase II clinical trial studies the side effects and how well imatinib mesylate works in treating patients with uterine cancer that has failed to respond to initial chemotherapy or has re-grown after therapy. Imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Uterine Sarcoma|Uterine Carcinosarcoma
DRUG: imatinib mesylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival (PFS) > 6 Months, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., For those patients whose disease can be evaluated by physical examination, progression was assessed prior to each 28-day cycle. CT scan or MRI if used to follow measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months.|Incidence of Adverse Effects as Assessed by CTCAE v 3.0, The frequency and severity of all toxicities are tabulated from submitted case report forms and summarized for review., Each cycle during treatment and 30 days after treatment ends.
Tumor Response, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months; up to 5 years|Overall Survival, The observed length of life from entry into the study to death or the date of last contact, From study entry to death or last contact, up to 5 years.|Duration of Progression Free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months; up to 5 years|Initial Performance Status, Performance Status 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction Performance Status 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of light or sedentary nature, e.g., light housework, office work Performance Status 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours., Baseline|Initial Histologic Grade, G1 - Highly differentiated adenomatous carcinoma. G2 - Differentiated adenomatous carcinoma with partly solid areas. G3 - Predominantly solid or entirely undifferentiated carcinoma. Not graded - tumor grade not reported., Baseline
PDGFR Expression Levels in Archived, Formalin-fixed, Paraffin-embedded Primary Tumor Tissue by IHC, Potential associations with clinical or PFS response will be assessed., Baseline|AKT2 Expression Levels in Archived, Formalin-fixed, Paraffin-embedded Primary Tumor Tissue by IHC, Potential associations with clinical or PFS response will be assessed., Baseline|p-AKT2 Expression Levels in Archived, Formalin-fixed, Paraffin-embedded Primary Tumor Tissue, Potential associations with clinical or PFS response will be assessed., Baseline|c-KIT Expression Levels in Archived, Formalin-fixed, Paraffin-embedded Primary Tumor Tissue by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), Potential associations with clinical or PFS response will be assessed., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the activity of Gleevec\^trademark (TM) (imatinib mesylate) as measured by progression-free survival at six months.

II. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse effects of Gleevec\^TM in this cohort of patients as assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria of Adverse Events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the distribution of progression-free survival and overall survival.

II. To estimate the objective response rate (partial and complete response as defined under the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria).

III. To determine the effects of prognostic factors such as initial performance status and histological grade.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the levels of expression of v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (c-KIT), platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 2 (AKT2), and phosphorylated (p)-AKT2 in archived, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded primary tumors collected prior to the initiation of first-line chemotherapy

OUTLINE:

Patients receive imatinib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.