Cisplatin With Alimta or Gemcitabine in Long Infusion for Mesothelioma
This is a randomised Phase II clinical trial to assess and compare efficacy and safety profile of cisplatin and pemetrexed against cisplatin and low-dose gemcitabine in long infusion.
Mesothelioma
PROCEDURE: Gemcitabine in long infusion
Progression free survival, Efficacy of the treatment will be measured by response rate (RR) and progression free survival (PFS) using modified RECIST criteria for assessment of response in malignant pleural mesothelioma, CT measurement of disease will be performed after 2nd cycle of chemotherapy, at the end of the treatment and during follow up period up to progression (total average 8 months)
Overall survival, Efficacy of the treatment will be measured also by overall survival (OS).

Safety and tolerability will be assessed by monitoring the adverse events during treatment and follow-up phase and graded according the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC), version 3.0.

Quality of life (QOL) will be assessed with performance status (Karnofsky) and with Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS) - Observer and patient scale., Outcome measures will be assessed during average time period of 18 months from enrollment
Combination of pemetrexed and cisplatin is now considered the standard systemic treatment for mesothelioma. Three arguments against such a position are: 1. Pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin was registered for mesothelioma on the basis of superiority over cisplatin alone, a clearly suboptimal control arm; 2. Several Phase II trials of gemcitabine in standard doses or as low-dose in long infusion in combination with cisplatin have shown at least comparable activity; 3. Due to high cost, pemetrexed is not available to many patients in countries with limited health care resources. During the past five years, our research team in Ljubljana conducted a Phase II trial of low-dose gemcitabine (250 mg/m2) in 6-hours infusion and cisplatin for patients with mesothelioma. In an unselected population of patients including those in poor performance status, elderly, patients with advanced extrathoracic disease and patients in progression after previous chemotherapy, the response rate was 54%, and median survival was 16.5 months. On the basis of this favourable experience and in search of cost-effective treatment for mesothelioma, we here propose a randomised Phase II clinical trial to compare efficacy and safety profile of cisplatin and pemetrexed against cisplatin and low-dose gemcitabine in long infusion. The primary endpoints are response rate and time to progression; secondary endpoints are survival, toxicity and quality of life.