Massage Therapy in Reducing Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy in Patients With Gastrointestinal or Breast Malignancies
This clinical trial studies massage therapy in reducing chemotherapy-induced nerve problems (peripheral neuropathy) that may cause pain, numbness, tingling, swelling, or muscle weakness in different parts of the body in patients with gastrointestinal or breast malignancies. Massage therapy may help reduce chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy symptoms and improve quality of life.
Malignant Breast Neoplasm|Malignant Digestive System Neoplasm|Peripheral Neuropathy
PROCEDURE: Massage Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Completion Rates of Two Massage Treatment Protocols for Patients With Chronic, Oxaliplatin-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy, Completion rate defined as the average number of treatments completed of a possible 12 for patients in each protocol. Mean and standard deviation, along with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of the mean of the number of massages completed for each of the two massage schedules computed. Two-sample t-test used to compare the number of massages completed between the two schedules using a two-sided 0.05 significance level., 10 weeks
Quality and intensity of neuropathic pain, Will be measured by Pain Quality Assessment Scale (PQAS). To estimate the efficacy of the massage treatments at 10 weeks, linear regression will be used with PQAS as the dependent variable, massage site and schedule being two binary independent variables with interaction, adjusting for appropriate covariates such as the baseline value of PQAS. To assess the efficacy of the massage treatments over time linear mixed models (LMMs) will be used., At 10 weeks|Quality of life (QOL), Will be measured by the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36. Pairwise comparisons between arms will be made as desirable, adjusting for multiple comparisons using the Bonferroni approach. Similar linear regression and LMM analyses will be carried out for the QOL and function measures., Up to 10 weeks|Function and balance, Will be measured by the Timed Up and Go test, the Single Limb Stance, and the Activities-Specific Balance Confidence Scale. Pairwise comparisons between arms will be made as desirable, adjusting for multiple comparisons using the Bonferroni approach. Similar linear regression and LMM analyses will be carried out for the QOL and function measures., Up to 10 weeks|Symptoms associated specifically with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, Will be assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecological Oncology Group-neurotoxicity version 4 questionnaire. Pairwise comparisons between arms will be made as desirable, adjusting for multiple comparisons using the Bonferroni approach. Similar linear regression and LMM analyses will be carried out for the QOL and function measures., Up to 10 weeks|Baseline treatment expectations, Baseline treatment expectations will be assessed as a predictor of the secondary measures at week 10., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES; I. To compare completion rates of two massage treatment protocols (twice-weekly for 6 weeks versus three times weekly for 4 weeks) for patients with chronic, chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the initial efficacy and effect size estimates of twice versus three times weekly site specific (lower extremity) massage versus alternate massage site (head/neck/shoulder) control groups at treating chronic, lower extremity chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.

II. To determine the initial efficacy and effect size estimates of massage on patient quality of life and functional performance tests.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo massage therapy over 30 minutes to the affected legs at the foot and toes, ending at the knee, thrice weekly for 4 weeks.

GROUP II: Patients undergo massage therapy over 30 minutes to the affected legs at the foot and toes, ending at the knee, twice weekly for 6 weeks.

GROUP III: Patients undergo massage therapy over 30 minutes to the head, neck, and shoulder thrice weekly for 4 weeks.

GROUP IV: Patients undergo massage therapy over 30 minutes to the head, neck, and shoulder twice weekly for 6 weeks.

After completion of study, patients are followed periodically.