Efficacy and Safety Study of Cediranib in Combination With Olaparib in Patients With Recurrent Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Cancer
This is an open label, single arm, multi-center study to assess the efficacy and safety of the combination of cediranib and olaparib tablets in platinum-resistant relapsed high grade serous, high grade endometroid or clear cell ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal carcinoma patients who have received at least 3 prior lines of chemotherapy and who do not carry deleterious or suspected deleterious germline breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) mutations.
Recurrent Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: cediranib and olaparib
Mean Objective Response Rate (ORR) by Independent Central Review (ICR) Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), The ORR was defined as the percentage of patients with objective response (complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\]) according to RECIST 1.1 and was assessed by ICR. Only patients whose CR/PR response was confirmed by a second scan at least 4 weeks after the initial response, with no evidence of progression between the initial and CR/PR confirmation visit were included.

CR: Disappearance of all target lesions (TLs) and non-TLs (NTLS) since baseline; any pathological lymph nodes selected as TLs must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm).

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of TL, referencing the baseline sum of diameters.

Data obtained up until progression, or last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression were included in the assessment of ORR., From baseline to primary analysis DCO (8 months after last patient received their first dose of IPs). RECIST assessments were performed at baseline and every 8 weeks (+/- 1 week) after first doses of IPs until disease progression.
ORR by Investigator Assessment Using RECIST 1.1, The percentage of patients with a response (CR/PR), including patients with both confirmed and unconfirmed responses, based on investigator assessed RECIST 1.1 data is presented. Confirmed responses included patients whose CR/PR response was confirmed by a second scan at least 4 weeks after the initial response, with no evidence of progression between the initial and CR/PR confirmation visit.

CR: Disappearance of all TLs and NTLs since baseline; any pathological lymph nodes selected as TLs must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of TL, referencing the baseline sum of diameters., From baseline to primary analysis DCO (8 months after last patient received their first dose of IPs). RECIST assessments were performed at baseline and every 8 weeks (+/- 1 week) after first doses of IPs until disease progression.|Median Duration of Response (DoR) by ICR and Investigator Assessment Using RECIST 1.1, DoR was defined as the time from date of first documented response (which was subsequently confirmed) until date of documented progression or death in the absence of disease progression (i.e. date of progression free survival \[PFS\] event or censoring - date of first response + 1). The end of response coincided with the date of progression or death from any cause used for the PFS endpoint. The time of initial response was defined as the latest of the dates used towards the first visit that was CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed. If a patient did not progress following a response, the PFS censoring time was used. The Investigator assessment was based on the FAS and the ICR used the EFR analysis set. The median DoR for each assessment is presented and was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique., From baseline to primary analysis DCO (8 months after last patient received their first dose of IPs). RECIST assessments were performed at baseline and every 8 weeks (+/- 1 week) after first doses of IPs until disease progression.|Disease Control Rate (DCR) by ICR and Investigator Assessment Using RECIST 1.1, The DCR was defined as the percentage of patients who had a best overall response of CR, PR or Stable Disease (SD) at 6 months.

CR: Disappearance of all TLs and NTLs since baseline; any pathological lymph nodes selected as TLs must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of TL, referencing the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage of TLs to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD) (at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of TLs with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm and progression of existing NTLs). Patients had to have demonstrated SD for at least 23 weeks following the start of treatment. The Investigator assessment was based on the FAS and the ICR used the EFR analysis set. The percentage of patients with disease control for each assessment is presented., From baseline up to 6 months after first doses of IPs. RECIST assessments were performed at baseline and every 8 weeks (+/- 1 week) after first doses of IPs until disease progression.|Median PFS by ICR and Investigator Assessment Using RECIST 1.1, PFS was defined as the time from date of first dose of IP until the date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression) regardless of whether the patient withdrew from treatment or received another anti-cancer therapy prior to progression (i.e. date of PFS event or censoring - date of first dose + 1). Patients who had not progressed or died at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the latest date of assessment from their last evaluable RECIST assessment.

The median PFS, calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique, is presented for the ICR and the Investigator assessment, both based on the FAS., From baseline to primary analysis DCO (8 months after last patient received their first dose of IPs). RECIST assessments were performed at baseline and every 8 weeks (+/- 1 week) after first doses of IPs until disease progression.|Median Time to Treatment Discontinuation or Death (TDT), The median time to discontinuation of IPs or death was defined as the time from the date of first dose of IP to the earlier of the date of discontinuation of both IPs, or death date. If 1 IP was discontinued before the other, the TDT reflected the time from the date of first dose to the earliest IP discontinuation date. The median TDT was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique., From baseline to primary analysis DCO (8 months after last patient received their first dose of IPs).|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of IP until death due to any cause regardless of whether the patient withdrew from treatment or received another anti-cancer therapy (i.e. date of death or censoring - date of first dose + 1). Any patient not known to have died at the time of analysis was censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive. The median OS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique., From baseline until death due to any cause, assessed until primary analysis DCO (8 months after last patient received their first dose of IPs).|Best Observed Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30 Scales, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire assesses health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The questions are grouped into a global health status/QoL scale, 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive and social), 3 multi-item symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/ vomiting), 5 single items assessing cancer symptoms (dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea), and 1 item on the financial impact of the disease.

Each scale/item is scored from 0 to 100. Higher scores on the global health status/QoL scale and functional scales indicate better health status/function. Higher scores on the symptom scales/items indicate a greater symptom burden.

A 10-point change in the score was used to identify patients who improved, stayed the same or deteriorated from baseline. The number of patients with a best observed change from baseline response of improved, stayed the same or deteriorated for each EORTC QLQ-C30 scale/item is presented., From baseline to primary analysis DCO (8 months after last patient received their first dose of IPs). EORTC QLQ-C30 assessments were performed at baseline and every 8 weeks relative to first dose until discontinuation of IPs.|Best Observed Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ-OV28, The EORTC QLQ-OV28 is specific for ovarian cancer and consists of 28 items assessing abdominal/gastrointestinal symptoms (6 items), peripheral neuropathy (2 items), other chemotherapy side effects (5 items), hormonal symptoms (2 items), body image (2 items), attitudes to disease/treatment (3 items), sexuality (4 items) and 4 other single items.

Each scale was scored from 0 to 100 with higher scores on the symptom scales indicating greater symptom burden.

The best observed change from baseline is presented for each EORTC QLQ-OV28 scale, where a 10-point change in the score was used to identify patients who improved, stayed the same or deteriorated. The number of patients with a best observed change from baseline response of improved, stayed the same, or deteriorated in the EORTC QLQ-OV28 is presented., From baseline to primary analysis DCO (8 months after last patient received their first dose of IPs). EORTC QLQ-OV28 assessments were performed at baseline and every 8 weeks relative to first dose until discontinuation of IPs.
The study will recruit approximately 60 patients aged ≥18 years, with histologically proven diagnosis of platinum-resistant relapsed high grade serous, high grade endometroid or clear cell ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal carcinoma who have received at least 3 prior lines of therapy, and who do not carry a deleterious or suspected deleterious germline BRCA mutation. All patients should have recurrent platinum resistant disease. The receipt of prior antiangiogenic treatment (e.g. bevacizumab) is optional. If used, it can be in the first line or recurrent setting. To be eligible to enter the study, all patients should have measurable disease (as assessed by the Investigator).

There is no maximum duration for taking the study treatments (cediranib+olaparib). Patients should continue on study treatments until objective radiological disease progression, as defined by RECIST version 1.1 guidelines, or they meet other discontinuation criteria. Following discontinuation of study treatment patients will be followed for disease progression (if they have not already progressed), survival and post-progression anti cancer therapies until the data cut-off for the primary analysis, approximately 8 months after enrollment of the last patient.