The Effect of Sugammadex on the Outcome After Colorectal Cancer Surgery
This study is retrospective study. The purpose of this study is checking the effect of sugammadex on the outcome after colorectal surgery. The outcome is compared among the 2 groups, sugammadex group and non-sugammadex group. The primary parameters of outcome are length of stay, readmission rate, postoperative complications, time interval for first successful oral intake.
Outcome, Fatal
DRUG: Sugammadex
Length of stay, Length of stay in hospital, admission to discharge (within 1 month)
Readmission rate, Readmission or ER visit within 30 days after discharge, 30 days after discharge|postoperative complication rate, postoperative complications, heart, lung, kidney, neurovascular, infection etc Check by review discharge summary note, consultation note, and postoperative laboratory tests, after colorectal surgery, within 30 days|Time to first successful oral intake, time interval between end of surgery and the first successful oral intake, within 30 days
Abdominal surgery, like colorectal surgery, needs more than moderate neuromuscular block during surgery. After the surgery, reversal agent of neuromuscular blocking agent is given almost every pateints who underwent general anesthesia.

Classic reversal agent is cholinesterase inhibitor, like pyridostigmine and neostigmine. Its action mechanism is competetive antagonist of rocuronium. But cholinesterase inhibitor cannot make complete reversal in moderate or deep neuromuscular block. Its incomplete reversal which is called residual block cause respiratory complications and prolongation hospital stay.

Sugammadex has different mechanism compared to cholinesterase inhibitor. It captures neuromuscular agent, especially rocuronium, and prevent rocuronium's action. Even in deep neuromuscular block, sugammadex can reverse the action of rocuronium, and its reversal effect is fater and more reliable compared to cholinesterase inhibitor.

Previous studies focused on only short term outcome of sugammadex, like postanesthetic care unit (PACU) discharge time, respiratory complications in PACU.

But in this study, longer term outcome will be comapred between sugammadex group and cholinesterase inhibitor group (pyridostigmine).