Safety and Efficacy of XELOX Combined With Sintilimab and Lenvatinib in Advanced AFP-positive Gastric Cancer Patients
This is a multi-center, prospective, open label phase 2 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of standard first-line chemotherapy XELOX regimen combined with Sintilimab (anti-PD-1 antibody) and Lenvatinib in the treatment of advanced AFP-positive gastric cancer. This study was conducted in the Department of Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital. Previous phase 1 dose escalation study (TJMUCH-GI-GC002) has demonstrated that such combinational pattern was well tolerated with promising efficacy. In this study, patients with AFP-positive and HER-2-negative advanced gastric cancer who had not received palliative systematic treatment in the past will be enrolled. Patients who met the inclusion criteria were treated with XELOX regimen combined with Sintilimab plus Lenvatinib every 3 weeks until disease progression or intolerable adverse reactions or death. The treatment regimen is XELOX chemotherapy (oxaliplatin 130mg/ m2, d1, capecitabine 850-1250 mg/m2, bid, d1-14, every 3 weeks) in combination with Sintilimab (\>=60kg, 200 mg; \<60kg, 3mg/kg; intravenous infusion, every 3 weeks) plus Lenvatinib (determined from previous phase 1 study, 16mg, orally once a day). Patients received regular and periodic reviews, with imaging evaluations every 6 weeks. Safety will be evaluated by AE and laboratory tests.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib and Sintilimab
ORR, the rate of patients with PR and CR, 24 months
OS, The time from the beginning of treatment to the time when the patient dies from any cause, 24 months|PFS, The time from the beginning of treatment to the time when the disease progresses or the patient dies from any cause, 24 months
AE, Safety will be evaluated by AE, 24 months
This is a multi-center, prospective, open label phase 2 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of standard first-line chemotherapy XELOX regimen combined with Sintilimab (anti-PD-1 antibody) and Lenvatinib in the treatment of advanced AFP-positive gastric cancer. This study was conducted in the Department of Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital. Previous phase 1 dose escalation study (TJMUCH-GI-GC002) has demonstrated that such combinational pattern was well tolerated with promising efficacy. In this study, patients with AFP-positive and HER-2-negative advanced gastric cancer who had not received palliative systematic treatment in the past will be enrolled. Patients who met the inclusion criteria were treated with XELOX regimen combined with Sintilimab plus Lenvatinib every 3 weeks until disease progression or intolerable adverse reactions or death. The treatment regimen is XELOX chemotherapy (oxaliplatin 130mg/ m2, d1, capecitabine 850-1250 mg/m2, bid, d1-14, every 3 weeks) in combination with Sintilimab (\>=60kg, 200 mg; \<60kg, 3mg/kg; intravenous infusion, every 3 weeks) plus Lenvatinib (determined from previous phase 1 study, 16mg, orally once a day). Patients received regular and periodic reviews, with imaging evaluations every 6 weeks. Safety will be evaluated by AE and laboratory tests.