Mitomycin C Intravesical Chemotherapy in Conjunction With Synergo® Radiofrequency-Induced Hyperthermia for Treatment of Carcinoma in Situ Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer Patients Unresponsive to Bacillus Calmette-Guérin, With or Without Papillary Tumors.
This study will determine whether Synergo® RITE + MMC treatment is efficacious as second-line therapy for CIS NMIBC BCG-unresponsive patients with or without papillary NMIBC, through examination of the complete response rate (CRR) and disease-free duration for complete responders. The study will also explore progression-free survival time, bladder preservation rate, and overall survival time.

The study will address an unmet need to identify a treatment effective in both ablating the disease and providing a prolonged disease-free period for patients. Ideally, the treatment will delay progression to invasive disease, thus preserving the bladder.
Bladder Cancer|Bladder Neoplasm|Bladder Tumors|Cancer of Bladder|Cancer of the Bladder|Malignant Tumor of Urinary Bladder|Neoplasms, Bladder|Urinary Bladder Cancer|Carcinoma in Situ of Bladder|Papillary Carcinoma of Bladder (Diagnosis)|BCG-Unresponsive Bladder Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Synergo® RITE + MMC
complete response rate (CRR), * no CIS
* no papillary HG tumor
* no papillary T1 tumor
* no extra-vesical UC tumor
* no progression

a patient will be considered a complete responder only if all the criteria above are met.

Patients experiencing a new occurrence of a benign tumor or low-grade Ta will be allowed to continue in the study (tumor will be resected); such an occurrence will not constitute an event in the primary analysis.

Patients with tumors of the ostium and/or upper tract and/or prostatic urethra will be considered to have achieved a complete response in the primary analysis but will be removed from the study., 3 months after the initiation of study therapy
disease-free duration of complete response (DCR), time of recurrence for complete response patients from the 3-month visit until the time of recurrence or until the last follow-up, whichever occurs sooner., through study completion, up to 33 months
This study will determine whether Synergo® RITE + MMC treatment is efficacious as second-line therapy for CIS NMIBC BCG-unresponsive patients with or without papillary NMIBC, through examination of the complete response rate (CRR) and disease-free duration for complete responders. The study will also explore progression-free survival time, bladder preservation rate, and overall survival time.

The study will address an unmet need to identify a treatment effective in both ablating the disease and providing a prolonged disease-free period for patients. Ideally, the treatment will delay progression to invasive disease, thus preserving the bladder.