Is Radiation-before-pathology a Feasible Approach in the Palliative Oncology Setting? A Pragmatic Clinical Trial
When a doctor suspects cancer, often a biopsy is taken for testing to confirm if cancer is present. Usually, doctors would wait for the results of a biopsy before delivering radiation, but this may lead to a patient having to wait for a treatment that he or she urgently needs.

With long wait times for biopsies in Canada, this may lead to symptoms and risks of complications from cancer in the meantime. Therefore, this study is being done to answer the following question: Is it safe and feasible to deliver radiation before obtaining a biopsy in a carefully selected group of patients who urgently need radiation treatment.
Cancer
Percent of Inappropriate Use of Radiation Therapy in Participants with Urgent Indications Treated Prior to Biopsy Results, The percentage of participants in whom management would have differed, based on the final pathology, if the pathology had been known prior to radiation therapy.

Inappropriate use of radiation therapy is defined as:

If a non-cancerous process was treated, Or, the use of radiation therapy was inappropriate in hindsight (for example, the participant would have clearly been better treated with alternative options)., 2 weeks after biopsy results
Histological Diagnostic Accuracy, Histological diagnostic accuracy is defined as the percentage of biopsies that yielded a histological diagnosis. This will include a comparison of diagnostic yield between biopsies done at radiated vs. non-radiated sites., 2 weeks after biopsy results|Molecular Testing Accuracy, Molecular testing accuracy is defined as the percentage of biopsies that yielded enough viable tissue for molecular testing/diagnosis., 2 weeks after biopsy results|Number of Biopsy Attempts Required, 2 weeks after biopsy|Biopsy Complication Rates, 2 weeks after biopsy|Time from Enrollment to First Fraction of Radiation Therapy, Within 1 year after enrollment|Time from Enrollment to Biopsy, Within 1 year after enrollment|Evidence of Radiation Effect in Biopsy, 2 weeks after biopsy results|Overall Survival, 1 year after enrollment|Edmonton Symptom Assessment System Revised Scores, Participants will rate their symptoms on a scale of 1 to 10, 0 being the best and 10 being the worst.

Examples of symptoms included in the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System revised are pain, tiredness, nausea, appetite, depression, and so on., 2 weeks after radiation therapy of 2 weeks after biopsy
When a doctor suspects cancer, often a biopsy is taken for testing to confirm if cancer is present. Usually, doctors would wait for the results of a biopsy before delivering radiation, but this may lead to a patient having to wait for a treatment that he or she urgently needs.

With long wait times for biopsies in Canada, this may lead to symptoms and risks of complications from cancer in the meantime. Therefore, this study is being done to answer the following question: Is it safe and feasible to deliver radiation before obtaining a biopsy in a carefully selected group of patients who urgently need radiation treatment.