Circulating Tumour DNA (ctDNA) as a Prognostic and Predictive Marker in Colorectal Cancer - a Pilot Study
In clinical practice, there are currently no biomarkers that can guide colorectal cancer treatment in the primary and curative setting. Improved biomarker-based adjuvant treatments would be of greatest value in order to reduce the risk of relapse. There are reasons to believe that measurements of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in plasma could be used to monitor minimal residual disease after surgery. To address this question, a pilot study was conducted with the purpose to demonstrate the feasibility to perform prospective profiling of ctDNA in a cohort of patients with colorectal cancer stage I-III using the already created Nordic infrastructure for clinical research built up for the ALASCCA trial. If the pilot study proves successful, a large randomised controlled Nordic multicenter study is planned where patients with positive ctDNA 4-6 weeks after radical surgery will be randomised to chemotherapy and/or a biologic agent.
Colorectal Cancer
Feasibility and logistics of measuring ctDNA, 2 years|Frequency of positive ctDNA postoperatively in relation to tumour stage and oncological outcome., 3 years|Frequency of positive ctDNA preoperative converted to negative postoperatively., 3 years
In clinical practice, there are currently no biomarkers that can guide colorectal cancer treatment in the primary and curative setting. Improved biomarker-based adjuvant treatments would be of greatest value in order to reduce the risk of relapse. There are reasons to believe that measurements of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in plasma could be used to monitor minimal residual disease after surgery. To address this question, a pilot study was conducted with the purpose to demonstrate the feasibility to perform prospective profiling of ctDNA in a cohort of patients with colorectal cancer stage I-III using the already created Nordic infrastructure for clinical research built up for the ALASCCA trial. If the pilot study proves successful, a large randomised controlled Nordic multicenter study is planned where patients with positive ctDNA 4-6 weeks after radical surgery will be randomised to chemotherapy and/or a biologic agent.