Brentuximab Vedotin (SGN-35) as Salvage Treatment for CD30-positive Germ Cell Tumors
The purpose of the study is to assess the activity of Brentuximab vedotin in refractory germ cell tumors.
Germ Cell Cancer
DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin
The number of objective responses (partial and complete responses) according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 integrated with response of serum tumor markers., Six weeks after the first administration of the study drug.
Progression-Free Survival, 3 months after the initiation of study treatment|Overall Survival, Six months after the initiation of study treatment|Incidence of adverse events related to the study drug, Six weeks after the initiation of the study drug and every 6 weeks thereafter up to 16 weeks.
Metabolic response to Brentuximab Vedotin measured by means of a Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (FDG-PET/CT) scan., Six weeks after the first administration of the study drug.
Complete responses with third-line or later salvage chemotherapy (CT) for germ cell tumors (GCT) range 0% to 10% and are usually short-lived and nearly all patients (pts) progressing after multiple courses or high-dose CT will ultimately die from progressive disease.

Cluster of Differentiation antigen-30 (CD30) is expressed by untreated embryonal carcinoma (ECA) thus lending support to a rationale for a targeted approach. The investigators retrospectively re-assessed ECA to strongly retain CD30 staining in most cases (\>70%), even after multiple courses or high-dose CT. Moreover, a negative prognostic value of CD30 expression by residuals after CT, particularly in the salvage setting, was set. Brentuximab vedotin is an antibody-drug conjugate consisting of the chimeric anti-CD30 antibody chemically conjugated to an antitubulin synthetic analog (MMAE).

Proof of activity will provide rationale for developing first-line chemo-immunotherapy or maintenance immunotherapy for selected high-risk pts. The primary objective of the study will be the activity of Brentuximab vedotin in refractory GCT. Secondary objectives will include safety and survival.

24 pts with biopsy-proven CD30 positive GCT will receive intravenous Brentuximab vedotin at the dose of 1.8 mg/Kg every 3 weeks until disease progression or onset of unacceptable toxicity. Further eligibility requirements will include failure of 2 or 3 platinum-based CT (prior high-dose CT is allowed). All pts will undergo measurement of serum tumor markers, a computed tomography and a positron emission tomography (PET) scan every weeks. An optimal Simon's 2-stage design will be applied. The primary endpoint is the objective response-rate (ORR). An ORR of 5% is not promising, while a 25% rate will be promising. In stage 1, 9 evaluable patients will be accrued. The type I and II error are both set at 10%.

Additional post-treatment tissue will be available for pts undergoing surgery in the treatment time-course. Tissue array blocks will be constructed from samples of all pts. Assessment will include mutational analysis of most-frequently mutated genes. Two serum aliquots will be collected at baseline and during/end of treatment to assess circulating CD30.