Assessing the Acceptability of the Use of a Mobile Health App Among Young Adult Female Survivors of Childhood Cancer
The purpose of this research study is to understand if a mobile app is useful to assist young adult female survivors of childhood cancer in the self-management of survivorship-related needs.
Childhood Cancer Survivor
OTHER: Mobile Health App
Feasibility of mHealth app as measured by tracking all activities conducted on the app, Assess the feasibility of the mHealth app as measured by tracking all activities of the patient-centered mHealth health tracking app, Health StorylinesTM, in young adult female survivors, Up to 2 years
Adherence, Assess the adherence to study procedures including baseline and follow-up assessments as measured by completion rates of required tasks, Up to 2 years|Self-Efficacy, Determine the association between the amount of usage (in minutes), the frequency of usage number of times accessed) of the Health StorylinesTM mhealth app, and self-efficacy in young adult female survivors of childhood cancer., Up to 2 years|Health Related Quality of Life, Determine the association between the amount of usage (in minutes), the frequency of usage number of times accessed) of the Health StorylinesTM mhealth app and health related quality of life in young adult female survivors of childhood cancer, Up to 2 years|Perceived Illness, Determine the association between the amount of usage (in minutes), the frequency of usage number of times accessed) of the Health StorylinesTM mhealth app and perceived illness in young adult female survivors of childhood cancer., Up to 2 years
Survivorship related needs include managing lingering symptoms from treatment, how to keep a healthy lifestyle, social and medical issues, as well as other needs. The mobile health app that will be used in this study is the Health Storylines TM app developed by Self Care Catalysts Inc. The app can be used for an unlimited amount of time over nine months, which is how long the study will be conducted. The use of the Health Storylines TM app in this study is investigational.

Participation in this study starts with setting up a study specific profile on the app and entering information including email address, age, ethnicity/race, cancer diagnosis, as well as other optional information for the profile (example health goals or current health conditions). Participants will then be prompted by the app to complete three questionnaires about their ability to self-manage their survivorship-related needs, their perception of their survivorship-related illness symptoms and perceived health related quality of life. They will be prompted on the app to complete these questionnaires again at the 3, 6 and 9 month intervals of using the app. It will take about 20 minutes to complete the questionnaires at each measurement time. The only additional information that will be reported from the app for the study is the amount of time and features of programs accessed during the study period.