p53/p16-Independent Epigenetic Therapy With Oral Decitabine/Tetrahydrouridine for Pancreatic Cancer
Patients with pancreatic cancer which has stopped responding to one or more chemotherapy drugs are asked to take part in this study. The study hopes to find out whether decitabine, the drug being studied, will have an effect on pancreatic cancer. The decitabine is being given at a lower dose than its approved use. It is also being given with another drug, tetrahydrouridine (THU), to improve the exposure of your pancreatic cancer cells to decitabine.

The purpose of this study is to determine if the drug combination of decitabine and tetrahydrouridine can recognize a certain DNA target in your cancer. All cells have DNA within them, and tumor cells have abnormal DNA.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Tetrahydrouridine|DRUG: Decitabine
DNMT1 protein level decreases with an effect size of 1, Differences will be calculated using a paired t-test and alpha=0.05. The effect size is defined as the difference in mean DNMT1-protein levels between post-treatment and pre-treatment divided by the standard deviation and is thus a metric of change in the natural units of the distribution, its standard deviation. Our goal is thus to detect drops in DNMT1 of at least one standard deviation., up to 12 months
Clinical Response as measured by RECIST 1.1 guidelines, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., up to 12 months|Best Overall Response, The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The patient's best response assignment will depend on the achievement of both measurement and confirmation criteria., up to 12 months|Duration of Response, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started) The duration of overall CR is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for CR until the first date that progressive disease is objectively documented., up to 12 months|Duration of stable disease, Stable disease is measured from the start of the treatment until the criteria for progression are met, taking as reference the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, including the baseline measurements., up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival will be calculated as time in days from enrollment (signing of the informed consent) to death., up to 12 months|Progression-Free Survival, Progression-free Survival will be calculated as time in days from enrollment (signing of the informed consent) to the earlier of:

* Death, or
* Disease progression, by clinical or imaging parameters., up to 12 months
Primary Objective The primary goal of this pilot study is to detect decitabine therapy induced DNMT1 protein level decreases with an effect size of 1 using a paired t-test and alpha=0.05. The effect size is defined as the difference in mean DNMT1-protein levels between post-treatment and pre-treatment divided by the standard deviation and is thus a metric of change in the natural units of the distribution, its standard deviation. Our goal is thus to detect drops in DNMT1 of at least one standard deviation.

Secondary Objectives Secondary goals include correlating DNMT1 decreases with clinical response (measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST1.1\]), using logistic regression; time to relapse, using a Cox model; tolerability and safety assessment by toxicity characterization using CTCAEv4.

Study Design Single-arm, open-label, proof-of-concept clinical trial in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer that has progressed on one or more lines of systemic therapy.