The Outcomes of Laparoscopic Hybrid Surgery Versus Totally Open Surgery
Simultaneous colorectal cancer liver metastasis (SCRLM) is one of the risk factors for poor prognosis in colorectal cancer. Surgical resection of primary and metastatic lesions is the first choice of treatment for patients with resectable SCRLM. Simultaneous resection of colorectal cancer liver metastases by totally open surgery (TOS) has been widely used. However, we propose that laparoscopic hybrid surgery (LHS) may have better short and long-term outcomes. This study aimed to compare the safety, short-term, and long-term efficacy of LHS versus TOS for patients with resectable SCRLMs.
Resectable Simultaneous Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastasis
PROCEDURE: laparoscopic hybrid surgery (LHS)
short-term outcome: Operative time, Time taken for surgery, Within one week of the patient undergoing surgery|short-term outcome: Blood loss, Patient haemorrhage during surgery, Within one week of the patient undergoing surgery|short-term outcome: Time of liquid diet, Time for patients to eat fluids for the first time after surgery, Within one week of the patient undergoing surgery|short-term outcome: Postoperative hospital stay, Length of stay of patients after surgery, Within one week of the patient undergoing surgery|short-term outcome: Surgical complications, Complications that occur in patients after surgery, Within one week of the patient undergoing surgery
overall survival (OS), the time after surgical treatment until death for any reason, 3years|disease-free survival (DFS), the time after surgical treatment until the first observation of tumor recurrence or death for any reason, 3years
Simultaneous colorectal cancer liver metastasis (SCRLM) is one of the risk factors for poor prognosis in colorectal cancer. Surgical resection of primary and metastatic lesions is the first choice of treatment for patients with resectable SCRLM. Simultaneous resection of colorectal cancer liver metastases by totally open surgery (TOS) has been widely used. However, we propose that laparoscopic hybrid surgery (LHS) may have better short and long-term outcomes. This study aimed to compare the safety, short-term, and long-term efficacy of LHS versus TOS for patients with resectable SCRLMs.