Daratumumab in Treating Participants With Relapsed Multiple Myeloma After Stem Cell Transplant
This phase II trial studies whether daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj and pomalidomide work in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back (relapsed) after stem cell transplant. Daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as pomalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj with pomalidomide may help control the disease in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab
Complete remission rate (CRR) defined as achieving a negative immunofixation of serum and urine, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas, and < 5% plasma cells in bone marrow, The student t-test/Wilcoxon rank test and analysis of variance (ANOVA)/Kruskal-Wallis test, or chi-squared test/Fisher's exact test will be used to test associations between the response and the prognostic factors. Complete remission will be estimated along with a 95% credible interval., At course 6 of therapy|Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be summarized descriptively using the Kaplan-Meier method (including the median, 95% confidence interval, and survival curve). The proportion of patients alive and without disease progression at 6 months of daratumumab maintenance therapy will be summarized. The estimate will be accompanied by a two-sided exact 95% binomial confidence interval. In addition, a Cox regression analysis may be performed if demographic and clinical factors potentially affecting PFS are identified., From the date of initiation of maintenance therapy assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the complete remission rate (CRR) by the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria within 9 months post salvage auto-transplant with subcutaneous daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj plus pomalidomide maintenance therapy starting approximately 3 months post salvage auto-transplant in patients with relapsed myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To discover the impact of daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj plus pomalidomide on graft function and immune reconstitution.

OUTLINE:

Beginning 60-180 days after transplant, patients daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1 and 2, on days 1 and 15 of cycles 3-6, and then on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Patients also receive pomalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 3 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days, then every 12 weeks thereafter.