Digoxin for the Reinduction of Radioiodine Uptake in Metastatic or Locally Advanced Non-medullary Thyroid Carcinoma
Non-medullary thyroid carcinoma has a good prognosis in most patients. However, a small subset of patients nevertheless develop metastatic or locally advanced and unresectable disease which in some cases also becomes radioiodine refractory. In these patients treatment options are very limited. Earlier cell line and animal studies have shown that digoxin can reinduce radioiodine uptake in non-medullary thyroid cancer. This study serves as a proof of principle study to assess the possibility of digoxin to reinduce radioiodine uptake in adult humans with metastatic or locally advanced non-medullary radioiodine refractory thyroid carcinoma.
Non-Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma
DRUG: Digoxin tablet
Reinduction of radioiodine uptake in target lesion, At baseline and after 3 weeks of digoxin treatment, a scintigraphy scan will be conducted. Reinduction of radioiodine uptake is defined as enough uptake that a treatment with high-dose radioactive iodine is possible., 3 weeks
Beneficial effects of high-dose radioactive iodine treatment after reinduction, Participants with reinduction of radioiodine uptake in the target lesion will be offered a treatment with high-dose radioactive iodine, according to the guidelines for the treatment of thyroid carcinoma. The beneficial effects of this treatment will be measured after 6 months with a computertomography scan and will be described using the RECIST criteria., 6 months|Safety of digoxin treatment, All serious adverse events (SAE) occuring during the digoxin treatment will be described., 3 weeks
Non-medullary thyroid carcinoma has a good prognosis in most patients. However, a small subset of patients nevertheless develop metastatic or locally advanced and unresectable disease which in some cases also becomes radioiodine refractory. In these patients treatment options are very limited. Earlier cell line and animal studies have shown that digoxin can reinduce radioiodine uptake in non-medullary thyroid cancer. This study serves as a proof of principle study to assess the possibility of digoxin to reinduce radioiodine uptake in adult humans with metastatic or locally advanced non-medullary radioiodine refractory thyroid carcinoma.