MRI Assessment of Leukemia Response to Therapy
The purpose of this study is to investigate if a type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the bone marrow before the start of standard chemotherapy can predict complete remission of leukemia patients after the therapy. This type of MRI scan, called dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI), measures bone marrow blood flow. For those patients who do not achieve complete remission status after initial therapy and will be treated with additional therapy, the investigators are also interested in determining if the second MRI exam before the additional therapy can predict complete remission. If successfully tested, the MRI exam may be used in the future to help with early identification of patients who are unlikely to respond to standard chemotherapy. This will allow for a personalized therapeutic plan to be developed for these patients at an early stage and prevent them from being exposed to toxic and ineffective therapies.
Acute Myelogenous Leukemia
DEVICE: 3 Tesla (3T) Siemens Total imaging matrix (TIM) Trio whole-body system
Shutter-Speed Model, To explore if Shutter-Speed Model (SSM) dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI)of the bone marrow (BM) can predict complete remission (CR) in newly diagnosed or relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)patients., Up to 1 year
Pilot Data, To collect pilot data in SSM DCE-MRI assessment of AML response to therapy for the conduct of future studies., Up to 1 year|Complete Response, To explore whether SSM DCE-MRI differs in predicting complete response (CR) for the newly diagnosed AML patients and for the relapsed AML patients., Up to 1 year|Second SSM DCE-MRI, To explore if the second SSM DCE-MRI and/or changes between the first and second imaging studies can predict CR in the non-CR group who undergo an additional therapy., Up to 1 year|DCE-MRI Biomarkers, To compare/correlate/combine DCE-MRI bio-markers with micro-vascular density (MVD) and proangiogenic cytokine profiles for the purpose of predicting response of AML patients to therapy., Up to 1 year
The purpose of this study is to investigate if a type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the bone marrow before the start of standard chemotherapy can predict complete remission of leukemia patients after the therapy. This type of MRI scan, called dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI), measures bone marrow blood flow. For those patients who do not achieve complete remission status after initial therapy and will be treated with additional therapy, the investigators are also interested in determining if the second MRI exam before the additional therapy can predict complete remission. If successfully tested, the MRI exam may be used in the future to help with early identification of patients who are unlikely to respond to standard chemotherapy. This will allow for a personalized therapeutic plan to be developed for these patients at an early stage and prevent them from being exposed to toxic and ineffective therapies.