Testing GDC-0032 (Taselisib) as a Potential Targeted Treatment in Cancers With PIK3CA Genetic Changes (MATCH-Subprotocol I)
This phase II MATCH treatment trial identifies the effects of GDC-0032 (taselisib) in patients whose cancer has a genetic change called PIK3CA mutation. Taselisib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking PIK3CA, a protein that may be needed for cell growth. Researchers hope to learn if taselisib will shrink this type of cancer or stop its growth.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Taselisib
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate was defined as the proportion of patients with best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) among all eligible and treated patients. Best overall response was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. The 90% two-sided binomial exact confidence interval was calculated for ORR., Tumor assessments occurred at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
6-Month Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate, PFS was defined as time from treatment start date to date of disease progression or death from any causes, whichever occurred first. The 6-month PFS rate was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method which can provide a point estimate for any specific time point. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients., Assessed at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles, and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration, from which 6-month PFS is determined|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as time from treatment start date to date of disease progression or death from any causes, whichever occurred first. Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients., Assessed at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response (OR) to targeted study agent(s) in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with targeted study agent in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

II. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. III. To identify potential predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and imaging-based assessment platforms.

IV. To assess whether radiomic phenotypes obtained from pre-treatment imaging and changes from pre- through post-therapy imaging can predict objective response and progression free survival and to evaluate the association between pre-treatment radiomic phenotypes and targeted gene mutation patterns of tumor biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive taselisib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if less than 2 years from study entry, and then every 6 months for year 3 from study entry.