EUS Glue vs Endoscopic Variceal Band Ligation for Prevention of Rebleeding in Patients With HCC and EV Bleeding: a Retrospective Comparative Study
SP by EUS-CYA improves clinical outcomes (eg, EV rebleeding) in patients with HCC and prior EV bleeding when compared with SP by EGD-VBL
EUS Guided Cyanoacrylate Injection|Endoscopic Variceal Band Ligation|Hepatocelular Carcinoma|Esophageal Variceal Bleeding
Death adjusted cumulative incidence of rebleeding at 30-day, Death adjusted cumulative incidence of rebleeding at 30-day, 30 days
Death adjusted cumulative incidence of rebleeding at 90-day, Death adjusted cumulative incidence of rebleeding at 90-day, 90 days|Bleeding-free survival at 3 months and 6 months, Bleeding-free survival at 3 months and 6 months, 6 months|Adverse events related to EUS-CYA or EGD-VBL for secondary prophylaxis, Adverse events related to EUS-CYA or EGD-VBL for secondary prophylaxis, during EUS procedure|Mortality rate at 6 months, Mortality rate at 6 months, 6 months
Variceal bleeding is a life-threatening complication in patients with portal hypertension and cirrhosis. Rebleeding is common in patients who survive the acute variceal bleeding episode without secondary prophylaxis (SP). Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and portal vein thrombosis (PVT) are associated with recurrent variceal bleeding and worse clinical outcomes. Rebleeding rates of esophageal varices (EV) and gastric varices (GV) remain substantial in HCC patients despite conventional endoscopic treatments.

Lack of SP was associated with a higher rate of rebleeding and mortality in a multicenter study of HCC patients with prior EV bleeding. SP of variceal rebleeding in suitable HCC patients has been suggested in the latest practice guideline of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, but the optimal endoscopic approach for SP in HCC patients has not been well defined. Whether conventional strategies such as variceal band ligation (VBL) or cyanoacrylate (CYA) injection for EV can achieve durable variceal control in HCC patients remains unclear since HCC patients were often excluded from clinical trials. This remains a pertinent issue as recent advances in the treatment of advanced HCC with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) and immunotherapy means that some patients may achieve reasonable survival and benefit from further variceal management.

Recently, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) guided variceal interventions by CYA, coiling, or a combination of both have gained clinical attention due to its high clinical success. When compared with conventional endoscopic variceal treatments, EUS guided variceal interventions allow real-time confirmation of intra-variceal delivery of therapy and flow obliteration after treatment. A recent study from our group reported that SP by EUS-CYA reduced rebleeding rate and improved variceal bleeding-free survival in patients with inoperable HCC and variceal bleeding when compared with no SP. However, there has been no dedicated study comparing the clinical outcomes of SP by EUS guided CYA (EUS-CYA) or conventional VBL by esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) in patients with HCC and EV bleeding. Therefore, we propose this retrospective study to compare the clinical outcomes after EUS-CYA or EGD-VBL for SP of EV rebleeding in this often difficult-to-treat patient group with HCC.