EF-39 PANOVA-4: Study of Tumor Treating Fields Concomitant With Atezolizumab, Gemcitabine and Nab-Paclitaxel as First-LineTreatment for Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
The PANOVA-4 study is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields) therapy together with atezolizumab, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, for the treatment of metastatic pancreatic cancer. The study is intended for patients who have been diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic cancer and have not received prior systemic therapy.
Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: Tumor Treating Fields|DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel
Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) will be measured by the proportion of patients who had either stable disease (SD) for at least 16 weeks or confirmed partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) according to RECIST v1.1, at least 16 weeks for SD or confirmed PR/CR
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) will be measured from time of treatment initiation until date of death., up to 4 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) will be measured as the time from treatment initiation until progression per RECIST v1.1 or death., up to 4 years|1-Year survival rate, 1 year survival rate will be measured as the percentage of patients who are alive at one year following treatment initiation ., alive at 1 year following treatment initiation|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) will be measured by the proportion of patients who had either complete response or partial response per RECIST v1.1 following treatment initiation., up to 4 years|Progression free survival at 6 months (PFS6), Progression free survival at 6 months (PFS6) will be measured as the proportion of patients who are not progressive per RECIST v1.1 at 6 months following treatment initiation., 6 months following treatment initiation|Duration of response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR) will be defined as the time from the first occurrence of a documented objective response (complete or partial response) to disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first) as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1., up to 4 years|Rate of of patients with treatment emergent adverse events, Adverse Events will be reported as incidence by body system and MedDRA term out of the number of patients who receive at least 1 day of TTFieldstreatment or one dose of atezolizumab. Based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, CTCAE v5.0., up to 4 years
The PANOVA-4 study is an international, multi-center, research study for female and male adult patients diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (mPDAC).

The purpose of the study is to test the efficacy and safety of TTFields, delivered using the NovoTTF-200T Treatment Kit, concomitantly with atezolizumab, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel as first line treatment for Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (mPDAC).

The chemotherapy used in this study, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, are standard-of-care treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer. The atezolizumab drug and the NovoTTF-200T device are investigational for this tumor type. Atezolizumab is an immunotherapy drug that works with the immune system to help fight cancer. NovoTTF-200T is a non-invasive medical device that delivers Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields) at 150kHz to the cancer in the abdominal region, where the tumor is located.

The study is expected to enroll 76 patients in centers around the world. The expected duration on study per patient is approximately 12 months.

Patients with previously untreated mPDAC who meet all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria as determined by the investigator will initiate study treatment within 28 days from signing the Informed Consent Form (ICF) to receive TTFields (150 kHz), atezolizumab, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.

All patients enrolled in the study will receive continuous TTFields therapy concomitant with monthly atezolizumab treatments for their metastatic pancreatic cancer and weekly gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.

While on the study, patients will be asked to visit the clinic every 4 weeks, in order to perform a physical examination, blood tests,and some other assessments. Patients will be asked to have a radiological examination (CT scan of the chest abdomen and pelvis) every 8 weeks to assess the status of the disease.

Study treatments will continue until disease progression according to RECIST v1.1, or loss of clinical benefit.

Patients who experience disease progression will be permitted to continue study treatments if there is evidence of clinical benefit.

Subjects will return to the clinic for one final visit approximately 30 days after discontinuation of the last study treatment.

Following the final visit, the subjects will be contacted every three months by telephone to answer basic questions about their health status.