Combination of Cetuximab, Capecitabine, and Oxaliplatin With or Without Bevacizumab
The purpose of this study is to determine the objective response rate of patients with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer treated with the combination of cetuximab, capecitabine, and oxaliplatin with out without bevacizumab.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: cetuximab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate calculated by the proportion of overall response: CR+PR. Patients were categorized by one of the following (1-4 per RECISTv1.0 criteria on CT, MRI, x-ray; 4-9 considered failure to respond/disease progression):

1. complete response (CR): Disappearance of all lesions
2. partial response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (SoL); from baseline SoL
3. stable disease (SD): Neither PR, PD, or CR
4. progressive disease (PD): \>=20% increase in the SoL; from smallest SoL. Or appearance of new lesion
5. early death from malignant disease
6. early death from toxicity
7. early death from other cause

9) unknown (not assessable, insufficient data), every 6-9 weeks; from date of first study drug dose until off treatment date (median of 8 cycles; range <1-19)
Time to Progression (TTP), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECISTv1.0) assessed by CT, MRI, x-ray scan:

Complete response (CR): Disappearance of all lesions Partial response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (SoL); from baseline SoL Stable disease (SD): Neither PR, PD, or CR Progressive disease (PD): \>=20% increase in the SoL; from smallest SoL. Or appearance of new lesion, every 6-9 weeks; from dose of first study drug to event|Overall Survival, Follow-up for survival to be done at 3 month intervals for 2 years, then 6 month intervals for up to 5 years from study registration, From dose of first study drug to last timepoint known to be alive (median follow-up for all patients was 25.9 months)
Research has shown that the more drug treatments patients with cancer of the colon or rectum receive, the longer they live. One uses the drugs capecitabine and oxaliplatin which all patients on this study will receive. Bevacizumab is an antibody which blocks blood flow to tumors and increases how long patients with colorectal cancer live. However, it can increase the risk of stroke and heart attack. Bevacizumab is currently a standard part of treatment for colorectal cancer. Cetuximab is an antibody which blocks a protein called EGFR which shrinks colorectal cancer. It may be helpful with initial chemotherapy and with bevacizumab. One goal of this study is to find out the response rate (chance of tumor shrinking) with two treatments for colorectal cancer. All patients will get capecitabine, oxaliplatin and cetuximab. Half will receive bevacizumab. All drugs in this study are approved to treat colorectal cancer. This research study is being done to find the best, safest way to combine these therapies.