Cadonilimab (AK104) in the Treatment of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
This study is a phase II clinical study of Cadonilimab (AK104) combined with chemotherapy in the treatment of PD-1 inhibitor-resistant nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Cadonilimab
Adverse Event(AE), The type, frequency, severity, timing, seriousness, and relationship to study therapyclinical significance, From randomization to the end of the study，the evaluation lasts for 24 months|Objective Response Rate，ORR, The proportion of patients whose tumor volume is reduced to 30% and can be maintained for more than 4 weeks,Based on RECIST v i I Assessed ORR, The last subject completes at least 24 weeks of follow-up (or disease progression)|Progression-free survival，PFS, The time from the beginning of the patient's treatment to the disease progression or death for any reason.Based on RECIST v i I Assessed PFS, The last subject completes at least 24 weeks of follow-up (or disease progression)
Overall Survival,OS, The time from the patient receiving treatment to the death of the patient for any reason,OS evaluated according to RECIST vi. I, 3 years
Time to progress，TTP, The time from the beginning of the patient's treatment to the occurrence and progression of the tumor, The last subject completes at least 24 weeks of follow-up (or disease progression)
The purpose is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Cadonilimab combined with chemotherapy in the treatment of PD-1 inhibitor-resistant nasopharyngeal carcinoma as the second line and above. This study is a single-arm, phase II clinical study. It is planned to enroll about 30 patients with PD-1 inhibitor resistant nasopharyngeal carcinoma. PD-Ll CPS (\<50% vs\>50%, subjects whose PD-Ll expression could not be evaluated were classified as\<50%) was used as the stratification factor. The study will set up a safety induction period. It is planned to enroll about 6 PD-1 inhibitor resistant subjects first, and the researchers will conduct a preliminary safety assessment. If the safety and tolerability are good, and the preliminary curative effect signal is observed, it will enter the extended group period. When about 15 subjects are selected, effectiveness analysis will be carried out. If 6 of the 15 subjects with severe side effects can not tolerate, the researcher may stop the group of subjects after discussion. In case of poor safety, the researcher decided to revise or stop the study after discussion.