Fludarabine, Cyclophosphamide, and Rituximab in Treating Patients Who Have Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of fludarabine plus high-dose cyclophosphamide and rituximab in treating patients who have previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate
Overall Response Rate, Response was determined as indicated in the protocol. The categories are: complete response, nodular partial response, partial response and failure. The major criteria for determination of response to therapy in patients with CLL include physical examination and examination of the peripheral blood and bone marrow. The laboratory and radiographic studies which were abnormal pre-study, will be repeated to document the degree of maximal response., 3 years
Utilize Flow Cytometry and Polymerase Chain Reaction as Sensitive Measures of Minimal Residual Disease, The flow cytometric response and the molecular polymerase chain reaction (PCR) response was captured as indicated in the protocol. Immunophenotypic analysis of bone marrow and/ or peripheral blood demonstrate a normal k:λ ratio and a normal number of CD5/CD19 (or CD5/CD20) dual staining cells (\<5% of the lymphocyte gate)., 3 years|Overall Survival Status, The 5 year survival rate. The survival of patients with this disease is dependent on the stage of disease. Two useful staging systems are: Three-stage Rai System Clinical Feature and the Binet System., up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the response rate in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with sequential fludarabine, high dose cyclophosphamide, and rituximab.
* Survival up to 5 years
* Utilize flow cytometry and polymerase chain reaction as sensitive measures of minimal residual disease in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is an open label study.

Patients receive fludarabine IV once daily for 5 days. Treatment is repeated every 4 weeks for 3 or 6 courses.

Three weeks later, cyclophosphamide is administered intravenously every 2-3 weeks for 3 courses. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered on days 2-10. Beginning 4 weeks after the last dose of cyclophosphamide, patients receive rituximab by intravenous infusion once weekly for 4 weeks.

Patient are followed every 3 months until death.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue 30 patients within 3 years.