Azacitidine and Lenalidomide for Relapsed and Refractory Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
The primary objective of this study is to determine the complete remission/complete remission with incomplete recovery of blood counts (CR/CRi) rate for relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Off Therapy
Percentage of Participants With Complete Remission or Complete Remission With Incomplete Recovery Blood Counts, Change in baseline to end of study. To be assessed by standard criteria based on bone marrow examination. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Interim assessment after 18 patients (estimated 2 years) and full assessment after 37 patients (estimated 3-4 years)|Overall Response Rate, Change in baseline to end of study. To be assessed by standard criteria based on bone marrow examination, Planned assessment after enrollment of all 37 patients (estimated 3-4 years)
Response or Remission Duration, Change in baseline to end of study. To be assessed by standard criteria based on bone marrow examination, Depending on outcomes, will initiate this assessment after 2 years and will continue until completion of study, estimated at 4 years|Toxicity and SAEs Related to Treatment, Change in baseline to end of study. To be measured based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) criteria, Will begin assessment with first patient and will continue until completion of study, estimated to be 4 years|Overall Survival, Change in baseline to end of study, Depending on outcomes, will begin assessment at 2 years and will continue until completion of study, estimated to be at four years|Progression-free Survival, Change in baseline to end of study. To be assessed by standard criteria based on bone marrow examination, Depending on outcomes, will initiate this assessment after 2 years and will continue until completion of study, estimated at 4 years|Determine Biomarkers That Predict Response/Toxicity, Change in baseline to end of study. Planned assessments of methylation changes and other biomarkers. Computational biology modeling used to identify biomarkers and predict response., Three years after initiating study
AML patients with relapsed and refractory disease have very poor outcomes. Sequential azacitidine and lenalidomide was recently shown by the PI of this study to be well-tolerated and effective in elderly, treatment naïve AML patients. Observations from this study and others that have piloted this combination have suggested that patients who received and failed prior treatments may also respond to this regimen. Therefore, the sequential combination of azacitidine with lenalidomide could potentially improve outcomes for relapsed and refractory AML patients by providing them with a treatment option that is tolerable and potentially clinically synergistic. To determine the efficacy of this combination in this population, we will pilot this phase 2 study.