Short-term Implanted Electrodes Following Regenerative Peripheral Nerve Surgery for Improving Prosthetic Limb Control Signals
The device, a bipolar percutaneous intramuscular electromyography electrode, is intended for use in upper-limb amputation patients who have received the regenerative peripheral nerve interface surgical procedure, in order to enable the use of advanced prosthetic arms and hands.
Amputation Neuroma|Amputation
DEVICE: a bipolar percutaneous intramuscular electromyography electrode
Change in Pain Level as measured by SF-36, Pain will be assessed using the SF-36 survey instrument, to be filled out by the participant before and after each surgical procedure performed and at a minimum of once per month while electrodes remain implanted. Two questions related to pain with a score closer to 0 means a pain increase, Baseline and monthly for up to 7 years postoperatively|Change in Pain Level as measured by LANSS survey, Pain will be assessed using the LANSS survey instrument, to be filled out by the participant before and after each surgical procedure performed and at a minimum of once per month while electrodes remain implanted. A score greater than 12 indicates neuropathic pain., Baseline and monthly for up to 7 years postoperatively|Change in Pain Level as measured by Phantom Limb Questionnaire, Phantom pain will be assessed using the Phantom Limb Questionnaire, to be filled out by the participant before and after each surgical procedure performed and at a minimum of once per month while electrodes remain implanted. This 9-item instrument measures phantom pain on a scale of 0-4, where 0-no pain at all and 4=very severe pain., Baseline and monthly for up to 7 years postoperatively|RPNI tissue degeneration measured by pain scores, RPNI tissue degeneration will be assessed by changes in pain scores (see above) and measurements of recording efficacy.

Recording efficacy will be assessed using two signal quality measures:

1. Peak-to-peak signal amplitude during maximum voluntary contraction
2. Signal-to-noise ratio during maximum voluntary contraction, Baseline and once per month after surgery following a 3-month postoperative recovery period, while electrodes remain implanted.|RPNI electrode migration assessed by changes recording in efficacy and ultrasound, Electrode migration outside of the implanted RPNI graft or muscle will be assessed by changes in recording efficacy, as described above, and by ultrasound examination as necessary. Electrode extrusion and implantation complications will be assessed by adverse events reported by both the participant and the study physicians. At each study visit, the participant will be asked to report any issues, and will have a basic examination of the affected limb performed by study physicians and/or trained staff., Baseline and once per month after surgery following a 3-month postoperative recovery period, while electrodes remain implanted.
EMG signal quality from RPNI grafts, Efficacy will be assessed, for each implanted electrode using two calculated signal quality measures: Peak-to-peak signal amplitude during maximum voluntary contraction and signal-to-noise ratio during maximum voluntary contraction., Baseline and monthly for up to 7 years postoperatively|Stimulation Threshold of RPNI grafts, Stimulation data will be recorded at least once per month while electrodes remain implanted. Stimulation threshold will be determined using the range of sensory feedback necessary to evoke a sensory percept., Baseline and monthly for up to 7 years postoperatively
This is a single center, 10 subject early feasibility study in which the primary objective is to ensure the safety of percutaneous intramuscular electrodes implanted in surgically-created RPNI constructs (free muscle grafts attached to the amputated nerves) in subjects with upper limb amputation. The secondary objectives are to assess the efficacy of the electrodes in recording electromyographic signals from the RPNI grafts and in delivering electrical stimulation to the RPNI grafts to evoke sensory percepts.

This study will enroll people who have had upper limb amputations or are planning to have upper limb amputations. Each participant who does not already have RPNI grafts at the time of enrollment will have RPNI grafts implanted on branches or fascicles of nerves of the upper extremity. Several or all RPNI grafts will have a single bipolar electrode implanted in the muscle tissue, with the proximal end tunneled to a percutaneous exit point on the residual limb. Additional electrodes may be placed in innervated muscles in the residual limb, in order to provide a control comparison as well as to provide additional input during prosthesis control experiments. Electrodes will remain implanted for up to 7 years, with a minimum of 2 study visits per month to perform prosthesis control and sensory feedback experiments. Study endpoint will be assessed at a minimum of once per month while electrodes remain implanted. After a maximum of 7 years, electrodes will be explanted and the study ended after a 1 week follow-up.

The results of this study will inform the final design of the electrodes to be implanted long-term in RPNI grafts to provide an increased number of degrees of freedom for prosthetic control and sensory and proprioceptive feedback. This will drastically improve the functionality of the prosthesis, enhance the sense of embodiment of the prosthesis itself, and enable future investigation of a fully-implanted (non-percutaneous) prosthesis control system.