Auricular Point Acupressure to Self-Manage Chronic Pain or Aromatase Inhibitor Musculoskeletal Symptoms in Breast Cancer Survivors: Effectiveness and Scientific Underpinnings
Aromatase inhibitor therapy has become a standard adjuvant endocrine therapy for postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. Up to 50% of postmenopausal breast cancer survivors exhibit significant aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms, defined as severe joint pain and stiffness. Aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms in turn has a negative effect on the women's physical function and quality of life, leading to discontinued aromatase inhibitor therapy and causing significant social and economic burden. Given aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms' profound effects, the management of aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms is an essential component in cancer care.

The investigators propose to test auricular point acupressure- -an innovative, non-invasive, nonpharmacologic, and low-cost intervention- -to manage aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms in breast cancer survivors. Auricular point acupressure applies an acupuncture-like stimulation to ear acupoints without using a needle (i.e., seeds are taped to the acupoints) to treat illness/symptoms. Auricular point acupressure is particularly well suited for current challenges of unmet aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms management. The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial to (1) determine the efficacy of auricular point acupressure in relieving aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms, and (2) examine the inflammatory signaling of auricular point acupressure effects in breast cancer survivors treated with aromatase inhibitor. The investigators will also measure psychological, behavioral, personal, and social factors that may moderate or mediate the effects of auricular point acupressure. The investigators also believe inflammatory cytokines may partially explain the mechanism of action of auricular point acupressure for improved aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms and physical function, and plan to measure these.

This study will identify a novel approach to manage aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms in postmenopausal breast cancer survivors, with minimal side effects. If successful, the paradigm of pain management will shift from a traditional medical model to a larger integrative medicine and patient-management paradigm to avoid unnecessary evolution towards prolonged disability.
Aromatase Inhibitor|Musculoskeletal Symptoms|Postmenopausal Breast Cancer Survivors
OTHER: APA|OTHER: Sham APA control|OTHER: Education control
Change in Pain Intensity as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory-short form, The Brief Pain Inventory-short form (BPI-sf) questionnaire includes assessment of pain location and multiple aspects of severity of pain, numbness, tingling, and stiffness, including worst, least, average pain, and present, as well as the interference with daily activities. The Brief Pain Inventory-short form (BPI-sf) has a total score ranging from 0 to 10 with higher scores indicating more pain., Baseline, pre- Intervention (4 weeks), post-intervention (8 weeks), one-month (12 weeks), 2-month (16 weeks), and 3-month (20 weeks)|Change in Physical Function as assessed by the Western Ontario and McMaster Osteoarthritis Index, The Western Ontario and McMaster Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) consists of 24 items divided into 3 subscales:

* Pain (5 items): during walking, using stairs, in bed, sitting or lying, and standing
* Stiffness (2 items): after first waking and later in the day
* Physical Function (17 items): stair use, rising from sitting, standing, bending, walking, getting in / out of a car, shopping, putting on / taking off socks, rising from bed, lying in bed, getting in / out of bath, sitting, getting on / off toilet, heavy household duties, light household duties.

The WOMAC score range from 0 to 96. Higher scores on the WOMAC indicate worse pain, stiffness, and functional limitations., Baseline, pre- Intervention (4 weeks), post-intervention (8 weeks), one-month (12 weeks), 2-month (16 weeks), and 3-month (20 weeks)|Change in Physical disability as assessed by the QuickDASH, QuickDASH outcome measure is used. At least 10 of the 11 items must be completed for a score to be calculated. The assigned values for all completed responses are simply summed and averaged, producing a score out of five. The value is then transformed to score out of 100. The score range will be 0 to 100. Higher score indicating greater disability., Baseline, pre- Intervention (4 weeks), post-intervention (8 weeks), one-month (12 weeks), 2-month (16 weeks), and 3-month (20 weeks)|Change in Physical Strength as assessed by Handgrip, Handgrip strength is a simple and commonly used test of a person's general strength level. There is a simple norm table which is categorized with age is used to measure the strength., Baseline, pre- Intervention (4 weeks), post-intervention (8 weeks), one-month (12 weeks), 2-month (16 weeks), and 3-month (20 weeks)
Change in medication use adherence as assessed by the Ecological Momentary Assessment, Analgesic use and Aromatase Inhibitor (AI) adherence will be included in the Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) diary during intervention and medications will be checked at study visits at follow-ups., Baseline, pre- Intervention (4 weeks), post-intervention (8 weeks), one-month (12 weeks), 2-month (16 weeks), and 3-month (20 weeks)
Aromatase inhibitor therapy has become a standard adjuvant endocrine therapy for postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. Up to 50% of postmenopausal breast cancer survivors exhibit significant aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms, defined as severe joint pain and stiffness. Aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms in turn has a negative effect on the women's physical function and quality of life, leading to discontinued aromatase inhibitor therapy and causing significant social and economic burden. Given aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms' profound effects, the management of aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms is an essential component in cancer care.

The investigators propose to test auricular point acupressure- -an innovative, non-invasive, nonpharmacologic, and low-cost intervention- -to manage aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms in breast cancer survivors. Auricular point acupressure applies an acupuncture-like stimulation to ear acupoints without using a needle (i.e., seeds are taped to the acupoints) to treat illness/symptoms. Auricular point acupressure is particularly well suited for current challenges of unmet aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms management. The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial to (1) determine the efficacy of auricular point acupressure in relieving aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms, and (2) examine the inflammatory signaling of auricular point acupressure effects in breast cancer survivors treated with aromatase inhibitor. The investigators will also measure psychological, behavioral, personal, and social factors that may moderate or mediate the effects of auricular point acupressure. The investigators also believe inflammatory cytokines may partially explain the mechanism of action of auricular point acupressure for improved aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms and physical function, and plan to measure these.

This study will identify a novel approach to manage aromatase inhibitor musculoskeletal symptoms in postmenopausal breast cancer survivors, with minimal side effects. If successful, the paradigm of pain management will shift from a traditional medical model to a larger integrative medicine and patient-management paradigm to avoid unnecessary evolution towards prolonged disability.