Evaluation of CD19-Specific CAR Engineered Autologous T-Cells for Treatment of Relapsed/Refractory CD19+ Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
SJCAR19 is a research study seeking to evaluate the use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy, a type of cellular therapy, for the treatment of pediatric, adolescent and young adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD19+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). CAR therapy combines two of the body's basic disease fighters: antibodies and T Cells. For this type of therapy, peripheral (circulating) immune cells are collected and then undergo a manufacturing process to engineer them to more effectively kill cancer cells. The SJCAR19 product will be manufactured at the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital's Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) facility.

The main purpose of this study is to determine:

1. The largest dose of SJCAR19 that is safe to give,
2. How long SJCAR19 cells last in the body,
3. The side effects of SJCAR19, and
4. Whether or not treatment with SJCAR19 is effective in treating people with refractory or relapsed ALL.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, in Relapse|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Refractory
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Mesna|DEVICE: CliniMACS|BIOLOGICAL: CD19- specific CAR engineered autologous T-cells (SJCAR19 product)
Maximum Tolerated Dose and Dose-limiting Toxicities, The primary objectives for the Phase I study portion are to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and characterize the safety profile and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of treatment with SJCAR19 in pediatric and young adult patient's ≤ 21 years of age, with relapsed or refractory CD19+ ALL. The proportion of participants with dose limiting toxicities are reported., 4 weeks post-SJCAR19 infusion|Complete Response Rate, The primary objective for the Phase II study portion is to evaluate the complete response (CR) rates of SJCAR19 in pediatric and young adult patient's ≤ 21 years of age, with relapsed or refractory CD19+ ALL., 4 weeks post-SJCAR19 infusion
SJCAR19 is a Phase I/II clinical trial evaluating the use of SJCAR19 (CD19- specific CAR engineered autologous T-cells) in pediatric, adolescent and young adult patients with relapsed/ refractory CD19+ ALL. Treatment will include a single treatment course, with most patients receiving a lymphodepleting chemotherapy preparative regimen of fludarabine/ cyclophosphamide, followed by a single infusion of SJCAR19.

This protocol contains a 3-part consent process: 1) to proceed with autologous apheresis, 2) to proceed with manufacturing of the SJCAR19 product, and 3) to receive treatment with the SJCAR19 product (initially as Phase I, then proceeding to Phase II). The Phase I portion will evaluate the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of SJCAR19.

The Phase II portion will evaluate the efficacy, and provide further safety evaluation, of SJCAR19 in an expansion cohort at the MTD determined in the Phase I portion of the study. Additionally, for both the Phase I/II portions of the study there are correlative studies evaluating the biology of this treatment as well assessments into patient/caregiver experiences with undergoing this treatment.