Erwinase for Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) (IND 104224)
This is a phase I study using the Erwinia form of asparaginase in place of the E. coli form using a standard re-induction regimen (Vincristine, Dexamethasone, Doxorubicin) for patients with relapsed ALL who have developed an allergy to the E. coli formulation. This study will administer the drug intravenously instead of the usual intramuscular route. The dose of Erwinia will be escalated in the absence of dose limiting toxicity. Patients must have first or second relapse ALL with a history of prior systemic reaction to E. coli asparaginase.
Relapsed Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Allergy to PEG e.Coli Asparaginase|Allergy to Native e.Coli Asparaginase
DRUG: Erwinase|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Triple Intrathecal Therapy|DRUG: Dexrazoxane
Occurrence of a Dose-Limiting Toxicity, The MTD in each stratum will be the highest dose at which 1 or fewer of six patients experience DLT during cycle 1 of therapy., Beginning with the first dose of investigational product until 30 days following the last dose of Erwinase
Response Rate and Minimum Residual Disease, Disease response evaluated by examination and labs. MRD evaluated from marrow samples., After completion of treatment course|Asparaginase Activity, Activity levels assessed from PK sampling, PK samples to be collected Pre-Tx, and and Erwinase Doses 3, 6 and 9 and Day 29
Significance

1. Substitution of Erwinase after E.coli asparaginase allergy has been standard practice despite the paucity of evidence regarding its efficacy and uncertainty about dose. Definition of an appropriate dose and schedule of Erwinase that provides reliable asparagine depletion may be useful for patients with clinical allergy to E. coli asparaginase, both in first remission or after relapse.
2. Patients in relapse may have a different level of asparagine synthesis than patients maintaining remission and require different asparaginase dosing.5
3. Intravenous administration provides more rapid and predictable asparagine depletion with less discomfort and danger of bleeding for often thrombocytopenic patients than intramuscular administration.
4. Vincristine, doxorubicin, asparaginase, and dexamethasone with dexrazoxane is clinically relevant for a population with first marrow relapse.
5. Vincristine, doxorubicin, asparaginase, and dexamethasone with dexrazoxane is clinically relevant for a population with second marrow relapse, if the duration of CR2 \> 18 months year.