A Phase I Study of the NovoTTF-200M and Novo TTF-200A Systems for the Treatment of Refractory Spinal Metastasis
This clinical research study is to learn about the safety of the NovoTTF-200M and Novo TTF-200A Systems, when used either alone or in combination with standard therapy, in patients with tumors that did not respond to treatment.
Spinal Metastasis
DEVICE: TTF-200M and TTF-200A systems
Safety and Adverse Events (AEs), Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version (v) 5.0, Through study completion; an average of 1 year
Primary Objective:

To evaluate the safety of applying TTFields at frequencies between 150 and 200KHz, using the TTF200M and TTF-200A systems (respectively), alone or in combination with available systemic therapies as adjuvant treatment in patients with radiation refractory spinal metastasis. Safety will be specifically assessed based on absence of wound dehiscence in the surgical group and severe cellulitis requiring drainage and intravenous antibiotics in both surgical and non-surgical cohorts.

Secondary Objective:

To assess local spine progression-free survivals at about every 3 months (+/- 1 month) in these patients until one of the following occurs: local disease progression, transition to hospice, loss of follow up, withdrawal from study or consent, whichever comes first.

Exploratory Objectives:

1. To evaluate the safety of application of tumor treating fields at frequencies between 150kHZ and 200 KHZ using the TTF-200M and TTF-200A systems (respectively), alone or in combination with available systemic therapy as adjuvant treatment after surgery for spinal cord decompression in patients with refractory spinal metastasis
2. To assess local spine progression-free survivals at about every 3 months (+/- 1 month) until their local disease progresses, they go to hospice, or are off study, whichever is earlier, in patients in 2.3(a).
3. To evaluate the safety of application of tumor treating fields at frequencies between 150kHZ and 200 KHZ using the TTF-200M and TTF-200A systems (respectively), alone or in combination with available systemic therapy as adjuvant treatment for patients with radiation refractory spinal metastasis who are unable to undergo surgery due to high risk of complications.
4. To assess local spine progression-free survivals at about every 3 months (+/- 1 month) until their local disease progresses, they go to hospice, or are off study, whichever is earlier, in patients in 2.3(c).
5. To evaluate change in plasma ctDNA levels before initiation (baseline) to Cycle 1 and 3.