QUILT-3.019: Phase 2 Study of NPC-1C Chimeric Monoclonal Antibody to Treat Pancreatic and Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of the phase 2 component of this study is to determine if giving the immune molecule NPC-1C to individuals who have cancer of the pancreas or gastrointestinal tract (colon or rectum) which has not responded to standard treatments can shrink or halt the growth of cancer, and to obtain additional data to study its effect on the immune system. Safety data will also be accumulated and evaluated during this study. NPC-1C is a monoclonal antibody that recognizes a specific tumor target on certain cancers. In laboratory studies, the antibody killed tumor cells in some colon and pancreatic cancers that express the NPC-1C antigen by a process called "antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity" or ADCC.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer|Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: NPC-1C/NEO-102
Efficacy will be assessed by analysis of CT scans pre and post therapy, clinical laboratory tests, and physical examinations., 10 weeks|Efficacy OS, Using the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) evaluate the overall survival (OS) associated with administration of NPC-1C (NEO-102) in subjects with metastatic, locally advanced unresectable or recurrent pancreatic cancer or metastatic colorectal cancer that express NPC-1C target on tumor., 5 months
Safety will be assessed by analysis of adverse experiences, clinical laboratory tests, and physical examinations., 10 weeks|Pharmacokinetics and select immune responses to the antibody will be assessed., 10 weeks
The limitations of many current therapeutic products for pancreatic cancer are widely recognized. Despite the development of several new treatment regimens for pancreatic cancer, little if any benefit has been appreciated, leaving this disease as one of the most significant unmet medical needs in cancer.

NPC-1C is a chimeric immunoglobulin molecule comprised from the variable region of the heavy chain and light chain of murine NPC-1, genetically engineered in-frame with the constant regions of a human IgG1 isotype. NPC-1, the predecessor of NPC-1C, was derived from a Tumor Associated Antigen (TAA) based vaccine that was previously tested in a Phase 1-2 clinical trial performed in the United States in the 1980's that explored the use of TAA therapy in patients with adenocarcinoma of the colon. These early studies demonstrated safety as well as preliminary evidence of activity in these patients treated with the vaccine.

NPC-1C antibody-staining studies demonstrate specific immunoreactivity with cancer tissues from colon and pancreas patients, whereas only weak binding, if at all, is observed in normal pancreas or colon tissues with no cross-reactivity observed in other normal human tissues. The Phase 2 portion of this trial is an open label, multi-center study estimated to treat approximately 30 patients with pancreatic cancer who have failed first line therapy, and 43 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to standard treatment.