Outcomes After Esophagectomy With a Focus on Minimally Invasive Esophagectomy and Quality of Life
To assess short and long term outcomes after minimally invasive esophagectomy compared to open esophagectomy. To compare both standard outcome measures as well as patient derived outcome measures, in particular, quality of life (QOL). To look at the applicability of this QOL instrument to this patient group.
Esophagectomy|Esophageal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Questionnaires
Change from baseline in SF36 Quality of Life Questionnaire at 4 month postoperative, The SF36 is an eight dimension Quality of Life Measurement. It provides two main Component scores, Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). It includes 8 scales or sub-scores: Physical function (PF), role physical (RP), Bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role emotional (RE), and mental health (MG). Each scale contributes a different amount to the component scores, which are calculated by a special algorithm that is licensed by Optum. The Component and sub-scales have a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 100. The higher the score represent the higher quality of life/less disability., Baseline and 4 month postoperative|Change from baseline in SF36 Quality of Life Questionnaire at 6 month postoperative, The SF36 is an eight dimension Quality of Life Measurement. It provides two main Component scores, Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). It includes 8 scales or sub-scores: Physical function (PF), role physical (RP), Bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role emotional (RE), and mental health (MG). Each scale contributes a different amount to the component scores, which are calculated by a special algorithm that is licensed by Optum. The Component and sub-scales have a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 100. The higher the score represent the higher quality of life/less disability., Baseline and 6 month postoperative|Change from baseline in SF36 Quality of Life Questionnaire at 12 month postoperative, The SF36 is an eight dimension Quality of Life Measurement. It provides two main Component scores, Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). It includes 8 scales or sub-scores: Physical function (PF), role physical (RP), Bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role emotional (RE), and mental health (MG). Each scale contributes a different amount to the component scores, which are calculated by a special algorithm that is licensed by Optum. The Component and sub-scales have a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 100. The higher the score represent the higher quality of life/less disability., Baseline and 12 month postoperative|Change from baseline in SF36 Quality of Life Questionnaire at 18 month, The SF36 is an eight dimension Quality of Life Measurement. It provides two main Component scores, Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). It includes 8 scales or sub-scores: Physical function (PF), role physical (RP), Bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role emotional (RE), and mental health (MG). Each scale contributes a different amount to the component scores, which are calculated by a special algorithm that is licensed by Optum. The Component and sub-scales have a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 100. The higher the score represent the higher quality of life/less disability., Baseline and 18 month postoperative|Change from baseline in SF36 Quality of Life Questionnaire at 24 month, The SF36 is an eight dimension Quality of Life Measurement. It provides two main Component scores, Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). It includes 8 scales or sub-scores: Physical function (PF), role physical (RP), Bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role emotional (RE), and mental health (MG). Each scale contributes a different amount to the component scores, which are calculated by a special algorithm that is licensed by Optum. The Component and sub-scales have a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 100. The higher the score represent the higher quality of life/less disability., Baseline and 24 month postoperative|Change from baseline in SF36 Quality of Life Questionnaire at 30 month, The SF36 is an eight dimension Quality of Life Measurement. It provides two main Component scores, Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). It includes 8 scales or sub-scores: Physical function (PF), role physical (RP), Bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role emotional (RE), and mental health (MG). Each scale contributes a different amount to the component scores, which are calculated by a special algorithm that is licensed by Optum. The Component and sub-scales have a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 100. The higher the score represent the higher quality of life/less disability., Baseline and 30 month postoperative|Change from baseline in SF36 Quality of Life Questionnaire at 36 month, The SF36 is an eight dimension Quality of Life Measurement. It provides two main Component scores, Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). It includes 8 scales or sub-scores: Physical function (PF), role physical (RP), Bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role emotional (RE), and mental health (MG). Each scale contributes a different amount to the component scores, which are calculated by a special algorithm that is licensed by Optum. The Component and sub-scales have a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 100. The higher the score represent the higher quality of life/less disability., Baseline and 36 month postoperative
Assess short and long term outcomes after minimally invasive esophagectomy(MIE) compared to open esophagectomy. Measure standard observer derived outcomes such as morbidity, mortality, tumor recurrence and also patient derived outcomes, in particular quality of life (QOL) using the MOS SF36 questionnaire. Evaluate whether the SF36 will accurately reflect pre and postoperative changes in clinical status in this patient group.Compare the results of this global QOL instrument (SF 36) to disease specific scales of dysphagia and reflux. Assess the impact of adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy on QOL in this patient group and determine if any advantages of MIE can be demonstrated.