Phase I/IIa AdCD40L Immunogene Therapy for Malignant Melanoma and Other Solid Tumors
In this phase I/II trial, immunostimulatory gene therapy (AdCD40L) will be investigated. In Part 1 patients with melanoma will receive AdCD40L as mono therapy. In Part 2A, patients with melanoma and patients with other solid tumors will receive AdCD40L in combination with low dose cyclophosphamide. In Part 2B, patients with melanoma will receive AdCD40L in combination with one local radiotherapy and cyclophosphamide.
Malignant Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: AdCD40L
All cause adverse events, Adverse events will be documented such as inflammation, fever, pain, changes in blood pressure, pulse etc., during 10 weeks|Immune reactions to adenovirus and spreading of vector, Immune reactions to adenovirus will be measured by evaluating the increase of anti-adenoviral antibodies in the patients at different time points using an ELISA. Spreading of vector will be evaluated by real time PCR to detect adenovirus vector copies in blood (plasma and erythrocyte fraction)., during 10 weeks
Tumor burden as measured by PET/CT and whole body MR, At enrollment, week 5 and week 9
In this phase I/II trial, immunostimulatory gene therapy (AdCD40L) will be investigated. In Part 1 patients with melanoma (n=6) will receive AdCD40L as mono therapy. In Part 2A, patients with melanoma (n=9) and patients with other solid tumors (n=6) will receive AdCD40L in combination with low dose cyclophosphamide. In Part 2B, patients with melanoma will receive AdCD40L in combination with one local radiotherapy and cyclophosphamide. AdCD40L is given by weekly injections of 2.5x10e11 VP, 4x; total dose 1x10e12 VP. A maximum of 30 patients will be included in this trial.

AdCD40L is an adenoviral nonreplicating vector carrying the human CD40L gene. AdCD40L infects tumor cells upon intratumoral injection and deliver the CD40L gene into the cells whereupon the virus is destroyed. CD40L is then expressed as a membrane-bound protein and interacts with the CD40 receptor expressed by for example dendritic cells (DCs) in the tumor area. DCs mature upon CD40/CD40L interactions and activates tumor-specific T cell responses.