Chemotherapy and Radiation in Treating Participants With Stage 3 Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This study will compare the overall survival of participants with locally-advanced, Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with nonsquamous cell histology.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|RADIATION: Thoracic Radiation Therapy (TRT)
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) time is from baseline to the date of death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of the data cut-off date, OS time was censored at the last contact date the participant was known to be alive prior to the data cut-off date. OS was summarized using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Baseline to Date of Death from Any Cause (Up to 71.4 Months)
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) time is from baseline to the first date of documented objective progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause. For participants who were not known to have died or to have had objective PD as of the data inclusion cut-off date for a particular analysis, PFS was censored at the date of the last objective progression-free disease assessments. For participants who took any subsequent systemic anticancer therapy prior to progression or death, PFS was censored at the date of the last objective progression-free disease assessment prior to the start date of any subsequent systemic anticancer therapy. PFS time was summarized using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Baseline to Measured Progressive Disease or Death from Any Cause (Up to 66.6 Months)|Objective Response Rate (Complete Response [CR] + Partial Response [PR]), Overall response rate (ORR) is the best response of CR or PR as classified by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST, v1.1) guidelines. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions, and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter (mm). PR is an at least 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameter) without progression of non-target lesions or appearance of new lesions. Overall response rate is calculated as a total number of participants with CR or PR divided by the total number of participants with at least 1 measurable lesion, multiplied by 100., Baseline to Measured Progressive Disease (Up to 7 Months)|Survival Rates at 1, 2, and 3 Years, The probability that survival time is at least 1, 2, or 3 years was summarized using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Baseline to Date of Death from Any Cause (Up to 71.4 Months)|First Site of Disease Failure in Terms of Relapse, The percentage of participants with first sites of disease failure in terms of relapse within the radiation treatment field, inside the thorax, (outside of the radiation field), or distant disease are presented. Results were summarized using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Some participants relapsed in more than 1 location/site and appear in more than a single category., Baseline to Relapse (Up to 66.6 Months)|Percentage of Participants With a Post Baseline Swallowing Diary Score >=4, Participants were provided with a swallowing diary to record issues with swallowing using a 5-point categorical scale: (1) no problems; (2) mild soreness; (3) swallowing solids with some difficulty; (4) inability to swallow solids; and (5) inability to swallow liquids. Participants rated swallowing over the previous 24 hours. The percentage of participants was calculated by dividing the number of with a post baseline swallowing diary score \>=4 by total number of participants analyzed, multiplied by 100. No adjustments were made for the number of available assessments nor were any interpolation of missing assessments made., Baseline through 30 Days Post Study
Adverse Events: The Number of Deaths Per Treatment Group, The number of deaths that occurred while on study drug, the number of deaths due to adverse events (AEs) while on study drug, and the number of deaths due to the study disease (that is, disease progression) while on study drug are presented. In addition, the number of deaths within 30 days of treatment discontinuation, the number of deaths due to AEs within 30 days of treatment discontinuation, and the number of deaths due to study disease within 30 days of treatment discontinuation are presented. For both the deaths due to AEs that occurred on study and for deaths due to AEs that occurred within 30 days of treatment discontinuation, the causality (events assess as possibly related \[poss related\] to study drug per investigator judgement) is also presented. A summary of serious and other non-serious adverse events regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., Baseline through 30 Days Post Study
This study will compare the overall survival of participants with locally-advanced, Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with nonsquamous cell histology.