Study of Ixazomib and Romidepsin in Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma (PTCL)
Single arm phase I/II study of ixazomib and romidepsin in relapsed/refractory PTCL. Each cycle is 28 days. Patients will continue to receive therapy until progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity, or if any other withdrawal criteria are met. The phase I study includes three dose levels. The phase II study will include treatment with ixazomib and romidepsin at the MTD established in the Phase I study.
Lymphoma, T-Cell, Peripheral
DRUG: Romidepsin|DRUG: Ixazomib
Phase I: Assess adverse events, To evaluate the safety of ixazomib when given in combination with romidepsin to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of this combination, per CTCAE v4., 12 months|Phase II: Complete Response Rate (CR), To determine the complete response (CR) rate of this combination in relapsed/refractory PTCL. CR, defined as complete metabolic response recorded from first day of treatment until disease progression or initiation of new antineoplastic therapy, as per the Lugano response criteria., 36 months
Phase II: Overall Response Rate (ORR), OR, defined as complete or partial metabolic response recorded from first day of treatment until disease progression/recurrence or initiation of new antineoplastic therapy, as per the Lugano response criteria., 36 months|Phase II: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR, defined as time that measurement criteria are met for complete or partial metabolic response (whichever status is recorded first) until disease progression/recurrence or initiation of new antineoplastic therapy, as per the Lugano response criteria., 36 months|Phase II: Time To Next Treatment (TTNT), TTNT defined as the date of initiation of treatment until death or the date of initiation of the next treatment., 36 months|Phase II: Overall Survival (OS), OS, defined as time from first day of treatment to time of death., 36 months
Single arm phase I/II study of ixazomib and romidepsin in relapsed/refractory PTCL. Each cycle is 28 days. Patients will continue to receive therapy until progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity, or if any other withdrawal criteria are met. The phase I study includes three dose levels. The phase II study will include treatment with ixazomib and romidepsin at the MTD established in the Phase I study.