Vorinostat, Carboplatin and Gemcitabine in Women With Recurrent, Platinum-Sensitive Ovarian Cancer
This trial is a Phase Ib/II study of carboplatin/gemcitabine/vorinostat for the treatment of platinum sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer. The carboplatin and gemcitabine combination is an FDA approved regimen for platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer. Vorinostat is a type of drug called a histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDAC inhibitor). HDAC inhibitors interact with chromosomes in the cancer cell and cause cancer cells to stop growing. Vorinostat has shown a decrease in the amount of ovarian cancer cells growing in the laboratory and also may enhance the anti-cancer effects of carboplatin.The purpose of the Phase Ib study is to determine the highest dose of the drug vorinostat that can be given safely in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine. Not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose of the study drug, vorinostat, but carboplatin and gemcitabine doses are held constant. Vorinostat doses depend on previous enrollment and tolerability. The expansion Phase II study uses the vorinostat dose found in the Phase Ib study in combination with carboplatin/gemcitabine and as a single agent maintenance therapy to better understand toxicity and efficacy.
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Vorinostat|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Vorinostat Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) [Phase Ib], The Vorinostat MTD is determined by the number of patients who experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). See subsequent primary outcome measure for the DLT definition. The MTD is defined as the highest dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience a DLT. If no DLTs are observed, the MTD is not reached., The DLT observation period in determining the MTD was the 21-day cycle 1 length.|Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) [Phase Ib], Dose-limiting toxicity was based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0) and defined as any of the following:

1. Any CTCAE grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic event except manageable gastrointestinal toxicity and fatigue.
2. Any of the following hematologic events (excluding neutropenia lasting \< 5 days):

   i) febrile neutropenia defined as grade 3-4 neutropenia with fever ≥ 38.5°C and/or infection.

   ii) any grade 4 neutropenia lasting 5 days or more. iii) grade 4 thrombocytopenia (plt count \< 25x 109/L) iv) failure of ANC to recover to ≥ 1000/μL or platelets to recover to ≥ 50,000/μL within 14 days of therapy v) grade 4 anemia
3. Any clinically significant abnormal laboratory value that results in dose delay of \>14 days.
4. \<75% of vorinostat dosing taken by the patient during the first cycle due to any toxicity., The DLT observation period in determining the MTD was the 21-day cycle 1 length.
Response, Response was based on RECIST 1.0 criteria. Per RECIST 1.0 for target lesions, complete response (CR) is complete disappearance of all target lesions and partial response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. Progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in sum LD from the smallest LD recorded on treatment. Stable disease (SD) is neither sufficient increase to qualify as PD nor sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR. For CR or PR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed 4 weeks +/- 2 weeks after the response criteria are first met. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions. Participants who received therapy but did not have their disease re-evaluated were considered unevaluable., Disease was assessed radiographically (CT or MRI scan) every 2 cycles on treatment; Phase Ib participants received up to 8 cycles of treatment. The median number of cycles started was 2 (range 1-8).
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

Phase Ib: Determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of vorinostat when used in combination with standard (fixed) doses of carboplatin/gemcitabine during a 21 day cycle in patients with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer

Phase II: Estimate the median progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with carboplatin/gemcitabine/vorinostat and vorinostat maintenance

Secondary

* Estimate the response rate of carboplatin/gemcitabine/vorinostat
* Assess the toxicities of carboplatin/gemcitabine/vorinostat
* Assess the toxicities of maintenance vorinostat
* Measure overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS)

STATISTICAL DESIGN:

The Phase Ib study was originally design to follow a standard 3+3 dose escalation design and evaluate 4 vorinostat dose levels.The DLT observation period was the 21-day cycle 1 length. Note: Ultimately 6 dose levels were evaluated as the protocol was amended to add dose levels, de-escalating cumulative vorinostat dose per cycle when 2 of 3 participants in dose level cohorts 2A, 1B and 1C experienced DLTs.

In the Phase II study, a median PFS of 13 months would be worthy of further study, representing a 66% improvement compared with the historical median of 8.6 months observed with carboplatin/gemcitabine. With 36 evaluable patients, there is 80% power to reject the null hypothesis in favor of the alternative at a 5% significance level.