Nivolumab With or Without Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Epithelial Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well nivolumab works with or without ipilimumab in treating patients with epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer that has not responded after prior treatment (persistent) or has come back (recurrent). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab and ipilimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Objective Tumor Response, Complete and Partial Tumor Response by modified irRECIST. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (irRECIST) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Within 6 months of study entry
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Time until disease progression, death, or date of last contact. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (irRECIST), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, The duration of time from study entry to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, an average of 3.9 months.|Duration of Overall Survival (OS), The observed length of life from randomization into the study to death or the date of last contact., The duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of Adverse Events Grade 3 and Above, Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 30 days after treatment ends
Natural Anti-tumor Immunity in Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes and Tumor Cells, Assessed with immunohistochemistry., Baseline|Markers of "Immunogenicity", Determined by the neo-epitope landscape using next-generation whole exome sequencing., Baseline|Changes in Biomarkers, Will assess the impact of biomarkers on tumor response, PFS, and OS., Baseline to after the first 8 weeks of therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the proportion of patients who have objective tumor response (complete or partial) by modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 in patients with persistent or recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, primary peritoneal cancers, treated with nivolumab or the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab and to assess the difference in objective response rate (ORR) between patients treated with nivolumab versus those treated with the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) hazard ratio for patients treated with nivolumab versus those treated with the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab.

II. To estimate and compare the duration of overall survival (OS) for patients treated with nivolumab or the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab.

III. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events associated with treatment with nivolumab or the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

IV. To determine whether cellular and molecular laboratory parameters in pre-treatment tissue and peripheral blood specimens predict overall survival (OS), tumor response by modified RECIST 1.1, and progression-free survival (PFS):

IVa. PD-L1 expression in tumor cells and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) measured by quantitative immunohistochemistry (IHC).

IVb. Natural anti-tumor immunity in tumor cells and TILs measured using IHC and T cell repertoire analyses.

IVc. Tumor "immunogenicity" as determined by the neo-epitope landscape using next-generation whole exome sequencing (NGS).

IVd. Anti-tumor immune response in peripheral blood, including serologic responses and analysis of T cell receptor (TCR) repertoires by deep sequencing.

IVe. Shift in quantitative laboratory peripheral blood parameters after the first 6 and 12 weeks of therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

GROUP I:

INDUCTION: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 2 weeks. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 2 weeks. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 21 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II:

INDUCTION: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 2 weeks. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 21 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 100 days, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.