Vorinostat and Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat and gemcitabine in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vorinostat and gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Vorinostat may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: vorinostat|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride
Maximally tolerated dose of a combination of SAHA and gemcitabine determined by dose-limiting toxicity as measured by NCI CTCAE v3.0 continuously, 21 days|Pharmacokinetics of SAHA, -0.5, 0.5, 1, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 6 and 8 hours after day 1 dose; -0.5 hours day 2; and -0.5, 0.5, 1, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 6 and 8 hours day 3
Best overall response (complete + partial response rate) as measured radiologically by RECIST, Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the dose-limiting toxicity, maximum tolerated dose, and pharmacokinetics of vorinostat (SAHA) and gemcitabine in patients with metastatic or unresectable epithelial solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

II. Determine tumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, open-label study.

Patients receive oral vorinostat (SAHA) once daily on days 1-14 and gemcitabine IV over 1-2 hours on days 3 and 10. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA and gemcitabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. A minimum of 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days.