An Assessment of the Ability of Fentanyl Citrate Nasal Spray to Manage Breakthrough Pain in Cancer Patients.
Lazanda is a prescription nasal spray medicine that contains the medicine fentanyl. It is used to manage breakthrough pain in adults with cancer who are already routinely taking other opioid pain medicines around-the-clock for cancer pain. Lazanda is started only after taking other opioid pain medicines and the patient's body has become used to them (opioid tolerant).

The purpose of this study is to assess the ability of Lazanda to control pain during an episode of breakthrough pain in cancer patients.
Pain
DRUG: Fentanyl Citrate Nasal Spray (FCNS)
Pain Intensity, The primary efficacy outcome measure is pain intensity difference at 15 minutes (PID15) after dosing during the Maintenance Stage. (PID15 is defined as the difference between pain intensity at 15 minutes and baseline.)Maintenance stage is defined as 6 breakthrough pain episodes for up to 6 weeks., Assessed at end of Maintenance Stage
Pain Management Satisfaction, The key secondary outcome measure is the proportion of episodes that the patient defines as satisfactorily managed at 15 minutes.

Satisfaction will be considered to have been achieved for an individual episode of BTPc(Breakthrough pain)if the patient rates pain management as "Satisfied" or "Very Satisfied." Patients complete a satisfaction questionnaire at end of study., participants will be followed during maintenance phase, up to 6 weeks
Lazanda is a prescription nasal spray medicine that contains the medicine fentanyl. It is used to manage breakthrough pain in adults with cancer who are already routinely taking other opioid pain medicines around-the-clock for cancer pain. Lazanda is started only after taking other opioid pain medicines and the patient's body has become used to them (opioid tolerant).

The purpose of this study is to assess the ability of Lazanda to control pain during an episode of breakthrough pain in cancer patients.