A Study of the Effect of Enantone LP 11.25 mg (Leuprorelin) on the Histological Progression of Indolent Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess two treatment strategies (leuprorelin treatment and active surveillance without androgen deprivation) for indolent prostate cancer and to compare their therapeutic benefit for management of patients with low-risk, localized prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Leuprorelin|DRUG: Bicalutamide
Number of Participants With Negative Biopsies at Month 12, Staging biopsy of at least 12 cores were sampled and analyzed according to a centralized biopsy procedure which confirm the results of the first biopsy \[presence of positive cores, the absence of core with tumor length \> 3 millimeters (mm), and absence Grade 4 cells (Gleason score \< 7)\]. The Gleason score grades prostate cancer tissue, based on its appearance under a microscope. Scores range from 2 to 10, with a higher score meaning that the cancer tissue is more likely to spread., Month 12
Number of Participants With Gleason Score ≥ 7, Gleason score grades prostate cancer tissue, based on its appearance under a microscope. Scores range from 2 to 10, with a higher score meaning that the cancer tissue is more likely to spread., Month 12|Change From Baseline in the International Prostate Symptom Score (I-PSS) Total Symptom (S) Score, The I-PSS is an 8-question tool used to measure prostate symptoms (≤7: mildly symptomatic; 8-19 moderately symptomatic; 20-35 severely symptomatic). The first 7 symptom questions answered on a scale of 0 (never) to 5 (almost always) are used to determine the I-PSS Total S Score for a total possible score of 0 to 35. The 8th question is quality of life and is not reported here. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement. An Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) model fitted with baseline I-PSS total score and age as covariates was used for analysis., Baseline and Months 3, 6, 9 and 12|Prostatic Volume as a Measure of Tumor Radiologic Progression Using Dynamic Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), MRI is an imaging technique used to investigate the anatomy and function of the body. Measurements were taken to calculate the prostatic volume in cubic millimeters (mm\^3)., Baseline and Month 12|Highest Diameter of the Lesion as a Measure of Tumor Radiologic Progression Using Dynamic MRI, MRI is an imaging technique used to investigate the anatomy and function of the body. Measurements were taken to determine the diameter of the lesions in millimeters (mm)., Baseline and Month 12|Change From Baseline in Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Levels, Blood was collected and sent to a central laboratory for analysis of PSA reported in milligrams/milliliter (mg/mL). A negative change from baseline indicates improvement. An ANCOVA model fitted with baseline PSA Level and age as covariates was used for analyses., Baseline and Months 3, 6, 9 and 12|Change From Baseline in Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) Score, The HADS is a 14-item scale that measures anxiety (7-items) and depression (7-items) over the previous week. Each question is answered on a scale of 0 (best) to 3 (worst) for a total possible score of 0 to 42, with higher scores indicating more anxiety and depression. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement. An ANCOVA model fitted with baseline HADS score and age as covariates was used for analyses., Baseline and Months 3, 6, 9 and 12|Change From Baseline in the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) Questionnaire Score, The IIEF-5, a 5 question patient completed questionnaire, is a measure of erectile dysfunction over the past 6 months. Each question is answered on a scale of 1 (worst) to 5 (best). Total score ranges from 5 to 25 with higher scores indicating better function (5-7: severe; 8-11: moderate; 12-16: mild to moderate;17-21: mild; 22-25: none). A positive change from baseline indicates improvement. A negative change from baseline indicates a worsening. An ANCOVA model fitted with baseline IIEF-5 score and age as covariates was used for analyses., Baseline and Months 3, 6, 9 and 12
The drug being tested in this study is called leuprorelin. Leuprorelin is being tested to treat people who have prostate cancer. Study assessments will include adverse events, prostatic-specific antigen (PSA) levels, and prostate biopsies.

The study will enroll approximately 120 patients. Participants will be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to a treatment group that will receive leuprorelin 11.25 mg (as one injection) or to an untreated observation group. Patients in the leuprorelin group will also receive bicalutamide 50 mg, a non-steroidal antiandrogen, once daily for 15 days to prevent a flare-up.

This multi-center trial will be conducted in France. The overall time to participate in this study is 12 months. After the screening visit, participants will make 6 visits to the clinic.