Nab-Paclitaxel With Gemcitabine for Relapsed Small Cell Cancer
The purpose of this research study is to see if Abraxane and Gemcitabine given together will be effective in treating small cell cancer that has progressed after one line of treatment.
Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC)
DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate is defined as the percentage of patients with a confirmed complete or partial response per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI/CT scan:

Complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR), is at least a ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameter (LD). Progression of disease (PD) is at least a ≥ 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions and as defined by RECIST v1.1 guidelines. Stable disease (SD) is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as references the smallest sum LD., Patients will be evaluated every 2 cycles until progression or off treatment (up to 3 years)
Progression-Free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from treatment initiation to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause. Otherwise, patients are censored at the date of last radiographic assessment for progression., Patients will be evaluated every 2 cycles until progression or off treatment (up to 3 years)|Time to Progression, Time to progression is defined as the time from treatment initiation to the date of first documentation of disease progression per RECIST v1.1. Otherwise, patients are censored at last radiographic assessment for progression., Patients will be evaluated every 2 cycles until progression or off treatment (up to 3 years)|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from treatment initiation to death due to any cause. Patients still alive are censored at last date known to be alive., Patients will be evaluated every 3 months until death or study completion (up to 3 years)
This study is designed as a second-line therapy for patients with histologically or cytologically confirmed small cell lung cancer or small cell cancer from other organs or poorly differentiated neuroendocrine tumors that are treated like small cell cancer. This study is for patients with metastatic or recurrent disease. Eligible patients will receive Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane), 100 mg/m2, IV over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle followed by Gemcitabine, 1000 mg/m2, IV over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle. Participants can continue receiving Nab-Paclitaxel and Gemcitabine until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal from the study. Tumor measurements will be done every 2 cycles.