HepaSphere/Quadrasphere Microspheres for Delivery of Doxorubicin for the Treatment of Hepatocellular Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate overall survival in patients diagnosed with hepatocellular cancer (HCC) treated with HepaSphere/QuadraSphere Microspheres loaded with chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin compared to conventional transarterial chemoembolization with particle PVA, lipiodol, and doxorubicin.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DEVICE: HepaSphere/QuadraSphere Microspheres|PROCEDURE: PVA, lipiodol, doxorubicin
Median Overall Survival, Median overall survival will be calculated using the Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population in each treatment arm when the last subject has completed two years of follow up after their first study TACE procedure. Per protocol, study subjects were followed for survival until death or deemed lost to follow up. All deaths are reported within safety., 2 years
Objective Response Rates (ORR), The Objective Response Rate will be calculated for the ITT population by adding the number of participants that were determined to have complete or partial response (utilizing mRECIST criteria) and dividing by the number of ITT participants., Study was terminated early so analysis of additional outcome(s) were not possible.
Number of TACE-Related Adverse Events in Subjects Treated With HepaSphere/QuadraSphere vs Subjects Treated With Conventional TACE., The number of TACE- Related adverse events experienced by subjects treated with HepaSphere/QuadraSphere will be compared to the number of TACE-related adverse events experienced by subjects treated with conventional TACE.

Adverse events were recorded for treated subjects from the date of randomization up to and including 30 days post the last study MRI., 30 days
This phase three, interventional, and prospective study consists of a patient population that has advanced liver cancer (hepatocellular cancer \[HCC\]) that cannot be removed by standard therapies such as surgical removal, liver transplant, and/or ablation.

Embolics and drug eluting embolics are being used by interventional radiologists to try and shrink or kill the tumor area.

Patients that met eligibility criteria, wanted to participate in the study, and signed the informed consent form (ICF) made up the study subject population. Subjects were randomized on a 1:1 basis (subjects were blinded to arm they were randomized to).

Post randomization and within four weeks of the first chemoembolization procedure all subjects had a baseline MRI. Following, the first chemoembolization procedure (hqTACE or cTACE) or 'cycle' was completed. Subjects can (per protocol) receive up to 3 TACE cycles. Within 4 weeks after any TACE cycle, an MRI and labs should be conducted/collected to evaluate disease status (reduction vs progression) and measure treated lesions. Any residual disease that is present after after the first TACE will undergo the next TACE cycle (maximum of three). However, if the liver MRI shows a complete response (absence of HCC) then no additional TACE procedures are performed and the subject is followed for survival.