Selumetinib in Treating Patients With Biliary Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase II trial is studying how well selumetinib works in treating patients with biliary cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Liver and Intrahepatic Biliary Tract Cancer|Recurrent Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Unresectable Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer
DRUG: selumetinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Response Rate (CR and PR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Every 8 weeks
Toxicity Profile of AZD6244, Toxicitity will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 3.0, From the time of first treatment with AZD6244, assessed up to 4 weeks|Median Progression Free Survival for Patients, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Up to 6 months|Overall Survival, Up to 12 months|RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK Signaling Pathway Activation, At baseline|Protein Levels of RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK Signaling Pathway Activation, Measure the proteins levels of RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK signaling pathway activation to AZD6244, At baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the objective response rate (complete response \[CR\] and partial response \[PR\]) in patients with unresectable biliary carcinoma treated with AZD6244 (selumetinib).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity profile of this drug in these patients. II. To evaluate the 6- and 12-month survival, 6-month progression-free survival, and overall survival rates of patients treated with this drug.

III. To correlate genetic mutations, epigenetic silencing, and/or protein levels of RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK signaling pathway activation with therapeutic efficacy of AZD6244 in these patients.

IV. To genotype tumors for the presence of RAS mutations (i.e., NRAS, KRAS, HRAS) and BRAF mutations (e.g., V600E) in biliary tumor samples from these patients.

V. To assess the presence of activation of the MEK1, MEK2, ERK, and/or Akt pathways in tumor samples from these patients.

VI. To assess the epigenetic alterations (i.e., methylation) affecting the level of gene/protein expression of RASSF1A, NORE1A, and NORE1B in tumor samples from these patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral selumetinib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Formalin fixed paraffin-embedded tissue blocks or fresh tissue samples are obtained from all patients prior to treatment. Tissue samples are analyzed by immunohistochemistry for the expression level of target proteins (MEK, p-MEK, ERK, p-ERK, Akt, p-AKT, RASSF1A, NORE1A and NORE1B); PCR for mutational status of target genes RAS, BRAF and EGFR); and in methylation-specific PCR for methylation of target gene promoters (promoters for RASSF1A, NORE1A and NORE1B). Samples are also analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR to compare methylation status. Fresh frozen tissue, when available, is evaluated by Western analysis to measure expression levels of target proteins.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.