Can Protein Intake be Increased Using Whole Foods Post-treatment in Cancer Patients?
Cancer and its treatments often result in severe toxicities and side effects that, over the course of treatment, results in weight loss and depletion of key nutrients. Loss of muscle mass and strength during cancer treatment is a critical problem because it negatively affects patient response and tolerance to therapy and post-treatment recovery. To restore the nutritional status, it is imperative to stimulate muscle protein anabolism. Eggs are high quality protein source, popular and well tolerated by cancer patients. Therefore, the objective of this study is to determine whether a nutritional intervention of ≥2 eggs can aid in restoring nutritional status and improving immune function and quality of life of cancer patients' post-treatment. It is an 8- week randomised clinical trial with parallel arm assignment. Half of the participants will receive the nutritional intervention (Early Intervention) and the other half will be on standard of care or usual diet for first 4 weeks. Starting from week 5, all participants will receive the nutrition intervention till week 8 (Delayed Intervention). Dietary intake (foods and nutrients), cumulative protein intake (g protein/kg body weight), immunological measures, physical performance and quality of life has been planned to be assessed over time and between groups to evaluate the feasibility of an egg intervention in meeting recommended protein intakes for patients with cancer.
Cancer|Other Malnutrition
OTHER: ≥ 2 eggs in addition to usual diet for 8 weeks|OTHER: ≥ 2 eggs in addition to usual diet for 4 weeks
Difference in mean cumulative protein intake between the two groups at 8 weeks., Mean cumulative protein intake will be arrived at by normalizing protein intake in kilocalories by body weight in kilograms, From baseline at 8 weeks|Difference in mean cumulative protein intake within a group at 8 weeks for each group., Mean cumulative protein intake will be arrived at by normalizing protein intake in kilocalories by body weight in kilograms, From baseline at 8 weeks
Change in Energy Intake, Energy intake can be described as energy intake in kilocalories normalized by body weight in kilograms., From baseline at 8 weeks|Change in Body weight, in kilograms, From baseline at 8 weeks|Change in Quality of Life, Research and Development(RAND) Short Form 36-Item Health Survey 1.0 Minimum to Maximum score= 0 to 100 High Score indicates more favorable outcome., From baseline at 8 weeks|Change in Nutritional status and Symptom severity., Patient generated-subjective global assessment (PG-SGA), 0-9 point score, higher the score more severe the malnourishment.

Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale- Revised (ESAS-r, 0 to 10 Visual analog scale, higher the number more severe the symptom), From baseline at 8 weeks|Change in Quality of Life related to malnutrition, Functional assessment of Anorexia-Cachexia Therapy 5 question Anorexia/ Cachexia subscale (FAACT A/C Subscale, Score Range= 0 to 20, Higher the score better the quality of life), From baseline at 8 weeks|Change in Physical performance, Short physical performance battery (SPPB, Score range= 0 to 12, higher the score better the performance), From baseline at 8 weeks
Cancer and its treatments often result in severe toxicities and side effects that, over the course of treatment, results in weight loss and depletion of key nutrients. Loss of muscle mass and strength during cancer treatment is a critical problem because it negatively affects patient response and tolerance to therapy and post-treatment recovery. To restore the nutritional status, it is imperative to stimulate muscle protein anabolism. Eggs are high quality protein source, popular and well tolerated by cancer patients. Therefore, the objective of this study is to determine whether a nutritional intervention of ≥2 eggs can aid in restoring nutritional status and improving immune function and quality of life of cancer patients' post-treatment. It is an 8- week randomised clinical trial with parallel arm assignment. Half of the participants will receive the nutritional intervention (Early Intervention) and the other half will be on standard of care or usual diet for first 4 weeks. Starting from week 5, all participants will receive the nutrition intervention till week 8 (Delayed Intervention). Dietary intake (foods and nutrients), cumulative protein intake (g protein/kg body weight), immunological measures, physical performance and quality of life has been planned to be assessed over time and between groups to evaluate the feasibility of an egg intervention in meeting recommended protein intakes for patients with cancer.