PROTECT Study, "PRObiotics to TrEat Anal preCancer Trial
This study is focused on treatment of anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) in persons with HIV (PWH), with the ultimate goal of applying the approach toward prevention of anal cancer in this population
HSIL, High Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion|HPV-Related Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Anal HSIL
DRUG: EXE-346 Probiotic|DRUG: Placebo|PROCEDURE: Usual Care High Resolution Anoscopy (HRA)
Proportion of participants with no disease present, No anal disease defined as complete regression of lesions as determined by examination of biopsies obtained at HRA, Up to 36 weeks|Proportion of participants reporting treatment-emergent adverse events, The frequency of participants reporting adverse events by group will be classified according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 36 weeks
Proportion of participants with demonstrated disease regression, Regression of HSIL associated with any hrHPV type to LSIL or lower, as determined by examination of biopsies obtained at HRA, Up to 36 weeks|Proportion of participants with HPV-negative status, The proportion of participants with HPV-negative on anal swab for type(s) found at baseline will be reported., 1 day
This is a randomized double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate regression to no disease among people with HIV (PWH) with anal HSIL at baseline at Week 36.

II. To determine the safety of EXE-346 in PWH.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate regression to LSIL or normal at Week 36 among PWH with anal HSIL at baseline.

II. To evaluate clearance at Week 36 to HPV-negative in anal swab for type(s) found at the baseline visit in PWH.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if changes in the microbiome from baseline to Week 36 correlate with regression of anal HSIL to low grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL) or normal, or clearance of HPV found at baseline.

Participants will be randomized in a block design used to stratify women or men according to high-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV) status (HPV16 present or absent in baseline swab). After confirmation of biopsy-proven HSIL, participants will receive sachets of EXE-346 or placebo for up to 3 months (12 weeks) with follow-up visits at 24 weeks and 36 weeks. Participants with HSIL at week 36 may be treated with non-investigational, standard of care, hyfrecation.