Device Assisted Full Thickness Resection Versus Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection for Duodenal Neuroendocrine Tumors
Introduction :

The incidence of duodenal neuroendocrine tumors (DNETs) is increasing. Endoscopic resection is recommended for the management of small DNETs measuring ≤10 mm. Various endoscopic techniques have been utilized for the resection of DNETs including endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR), band ligation assisted EMR, endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). However, the published studies report a high rate of histologically incomplete resection even with ESD. More recently, device assisted endoscopic full thickness resection (EFTR) has emerged as a safe and effective resection modality in cases with upper and lower gastrointestinal (GI) mucosal as well as submucosal lesions. There is limited data on the outcomes of EFTR in cases with DNETs.

In this study, we aim to compare the rate of histologically complete resection (R0) with ESD and EFTR in cases with DNETs.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
PROCEDURE: Endoscopic submucosal dissection|DEVICE: EFTR
Rate of R0 resection in both the groups, Endoscopically and pathologically complete resection, 7 days
Technical success: defined as en-bloc resection of the lesion without any residual lesion endoscopically, Endoscopically complete resection, 7 days|Procedure duration, Time to complete each procedure in minutes, 7 days|Adverse Events, Adverse events during and after the procedure, 7 days
Primary objective:

Rate of R0 resection in both the groups

Secondary outcomes:

1. Technical success: defined as en-bloc resection of the lesion without any residual lesion endoscopically
2. Procedure duration
3. Adverse Events

Inclusion criteria:

1. Adult patients (≥18 years) with biopsy proven duodenal neuroendocrine tumors (DNETs)
2. Size of the lesion \<15 mm
3. Absence of local and distant metastases (EUS and DOTANOC scan)
4. Willing to provide informed consent

Exclusion criteria:

1. Large lesions \>15 mm
2. Invasion of muscularis layer and beyond on imaging (EUS)
3. Scarring or deformity in duodenum
4. Active duodenal ulcer
5. History of prior resection
6. Coagulopathy