Radiotherapy - Adjuvant Versus Early Salvage
Radical prostatectomy (RP) is the most common curative approach offered to men with newly diagnosed prostate cancer. Unfortunately, up to half of these patients will have factors placing them at high risk of their cancer recurring. Having radiotherapy after RP is known to improve cure rates, but what is not known is whether it should be given straight after the operation or only when there is a rising PSA after surgery indicating active cancer. Immediate RT may not benefit all men, and can cause serious side effects such as bladder and bowel problems and impotence. International lack of consensus on the optimal timing of RT has resulted in varied clinical practice. This phase 3 trial will compare the two approaches.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Adjuvant Radiotherapy|RADIATION: Early Salvage Radiotherapy
Biochemical failure: PSA ≥ 0.4 ng/ml and rising following RT, After 160 events have been observed, expected to be 5 years after recruitment closes
Quality of Life, Final Analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be five years after the end of accrual|Toxicity, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Anxiety/Depression, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Biochemical failure-free survival, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Overall survival, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Disease-specific survival, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Time to distant failure, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Time to local failure, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Time to the initiation of androgen ablation, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Quality adjusted life years, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.|Cost-utility, Final analysis will be after 160 events, estimated to be 5 years after end of accrual.
This is a prospective, multi-centre, international, randomised controlled trial with a 1:1 allocation ratio. Patients with positive margins and/or pT3 disease will be randomised to adjuvant RT (Standard Arm) or active surveillance with salvage RT delivered at early relapse (Experimental Arm). 64 Gy in 32 fractions will be delivered to the prostate bed. QoL self-assessment questionnaires, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Score and toxicity will be assessed at baseline, the end of RT and annually for 5 years. Patients will be seen by their doctor 6 monthly for the first 5 years, then annually for the next 5 years. A blood test measuring prostate specific antigen (PSA) is done 3 monthly for the first 5 years for patients randomised to early salvage RT, then 6 monthly from years 5 to 10.