Safety and Efficacy of Cryoablation Combined With Radiation Therapy for the Palliation of Painful Bone Metastases
This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of cryoablation therapy combined with radiation therapy for the relief of pain associated with metastatic bone tumors.
Pain|Neoplasm Metastasis
PROCEDURE: Cryoablation|PROCEDURE: Radiation
Difference in worst pain scores, The endpoint for this study will be measured as follows: assessment of the effectiveness of cryoablation combined with radiation associated with palliation of pain in subjects with metastatic bone cancer by measuring the average difference of pre- and posttreatment worst pain in 24 hours from baseline to 24 hour, 1, 4, 12, and 24 week follow-up intervals as measured on the numeric 0 to 10 Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) scale., 24 weeks post cryoablation
Cryoablation retreatments, If the first cryoablation procedure effectively relieves pain but the relief wears off over time and the pain becomes unbearable, a second procedure may be performed. The number of repeat cryoablation treatments will be recorded., 24 weeks post-cryoablation|Additional surgical treatments other than cryoablation, If pain is not effectively relieved by the cryoablation, other surgical treatments may be performed. The number of these treatments will be recorded., 24 weeks post-cryoablation|Reduced analgesic usage, The number of subjects (percentage) who are able to reduce analgesic medications from baseline to 24 hours, 1, 4, 12, and 24 weeks after cryoablation will be recorded., 24 weeks post-cryoablation|Time to maximal palliation of pain after cryoablation, The difference in pain scores will be assessed from baseline to follow-up intervals after cryoablation will be analyzed. The interval indicating the most relief from pain will be compared across subjects., 24 weeks post-cryoablation|Number of adverse events, The safety endpoint for this study is to assess the incidence and severity of intra-operative events, post operative adverse events, serious adverse events and unanticipated adverse device effects related to the cryoablation procedure., 30 days post-cryoablation|Difference in average pain scores, Difference in average pain scores from baseline to 24 hours, 1, 4, 12, and 24 weeks after cryoablation as measured on the numeric 0 to 10 BPI scale, 24 weeks post-cryoablation|Time to recurrence of worst pain, Time to recurrence of worst pain at or above baseline; worst pain score in the 24 week follow-up period as measured on the numeric 0 to 10 BPI scale, 24 weeks post-cryoablation|Subject satisfaction with the amount of palliation of pain obtained from cryoablation combined with radiation, Subject satisfaction will be compared at baseline to follow-up intervals., 24 weeks post-cryoablation
Patients with painful bone metastases who meet the eligibility criteria and who have been determined to be an appropriate candidate for cryoablation therapy and radiation therapy will be offered enrollment into the study. Cryoablation is the process of destroying tissue by the application of extremely cold temperatures. Galil Medical Cryoablation Systems are used as a surgical tool in the fields of general surgery, dermatology (skin), neurology (nerves), chest surgery (including lung), Ears-Nose-Throat (ENT), gynecology, oncology (cancer), proctology (colon/rectal) and urology (kidney). Radiation therapy, also called radiotherapy, uses carefully targeted doses of high-energy radiation to kill cancer cells. Radiation is used to treat many kinds of cancer.

Patients agreeing to participate will read and sign an informed consent form and thus become subjects in the study. Treatment will be performed using a Galil Medical cryoablation system and Galil Medical cryoablation needles. Subjects will be followed for up to 24 weeks (6 months) for palliation of pain, quality of life and analgesic usage. Baseline and follow-up data will be collected for each subject via a web-based electronic data collection tool.