MRI in Predicting Tumor Reponse After Radiofrequency Ablation in Women With Invasive Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Radiofrequency ablation uses a high-frequency, electric current to kill tumor cells. Diagnostic procedures, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), may help in learning how well radiofrequency ablation works to kill breast cancer cells and help doctors predict whether breast cancer cells remain after treatment.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well MRI works in predicting tumor response after radiofrequency ablation in women with invasive breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Lumpectomy|PROCEDURE: dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging|PROCEDURE: radiofrequency ablation|RADIATION: gadopentetate dimeglumine
Complete Tumor Necrosis, Efficacy of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) in inducing complete tumor necrosis as measured by immunohistochemical and biomarker studies.
Sensitivity and specificity of delayed dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) in detecting residual cancer after RFA as measured by the Hylton method|Cosmetic Outcome, as rated by EORTC QLQ-C30. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. The rating system includes evaluation of breast size and shape, skin tone, nipple shape and location, appearance of the surgical scar, and overall cosmetic results. With the exception of evaluation of the surgical scar, all ratings are based on a comparison of the treated breast with the untreated breast. Patients will also rate the cosmetic outcome as excellent-good-fair-poor., after RFA but before definitive surgery|Toxicity or complications of RFA, as assessed by CTCAE v3.0 (Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events, version 3.0).

Any complications of RFA will be determined and documented before definitive surgery. Anticipated complications may include bleeding, pain, infection, and skin and chest muscle burns., before definitive surgery
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine if radiofrequency ablation (RFA) can induce complete tumor necrosis in women with invasive breast cancer.

Secondary

* Determine whether breast MRI can accurately predict residual cancer and tumor necrosis in patients treated with RFA.
* Determine the toxicity of RFA in these patients.
* Determine the cosmetic outcome after RFA in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a prospective, nonrandomized study.

Patients undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) using gadopentetate dimeglumine. Within the next few days, patients undergo radiofrequency ablation (RFA) over approximately 20-30 minutes. Patients then undergo a second DCE-MRI 3 to 21 days after RFA, followed by definitive surgery (standard mastectomy or lumpectomy).

Pathologic confirmation of the post-ablation DCE-MRI findings is performed within 1 to 21 days after the second MRI. Tumor cell viability and proliferative activity are assessed by immunohistochemical and biomarker analysis.