Study of Combination of Metronomic Oral Vinorelbine and Sorafenib in Patients With Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Targeting the blood supply of cancer, called anti-angiogenesis is a new but proven treatment strategy. There are two ways of achieving this effect. The first way to specifically target the molecular pathways that promote new blood vessel formation in cancer. An example of such an agent is sorafenib, which is an oral agent and which is already in use worldwide for the treatment of kidney and liver cancers. The second way is to target the cells lining the blood vessels by using low dose of chemotherapy agents administered at frequent intervals. This strategy is called metronomic chemotherapy. It is possible that combining agents like sorafenib and metronomic chemotherapy may further enhance anti-cancer effects. This study aims to determine the optimal way of combining oral vinorelbine in metronomic doses and sorafenib. Oral vinorelbine is a chemotherapy agent that is already approved for use in cancer treatment such as lung cancer. By combining both oral anti-cancer agents to optimize their anti-angiogenic effects in this study, the potential benefit to the patients can be tremendous and far-reaching. Special radiologic imagings and blood tests will be incorporated into this study to help further the understanding of the anti-angiogenic processes of both agents.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: oral vinorelbine|DRUG: sorafenib
to determine the optimal combination of metronomic oral vinorelbine with sorafenib to achieve anti-angiogenic and hence anti-tumour effect in patients with advanced NSCLC, every 1-2 monthly with DCE-MR and circulating endothelial cells apart from routine CT scans
To determine the response rate to the combination of metronomic oral vinorelbine and sorafenib in advanced NSCLC, CT scan every 2 months while on treatment
Phase I Dose-finding study: The patients will be divided into 3 cohorts (15 patients per cohort), each cohort receiving a fixed metronomic (thrice a week) dose of oral vinorelbine at 60 mg/week, 90 mg/week, and 120 mg/week respectively. Each patient within each cohort will receive a starting dose of sorafenib at 200 mg bid for 4 weeks. In the absence of dose-limiting toxicities, the dose of sorafenib will be escalated to 400 mg bid for another 4 weeks, 600 mg bid for 4 weeks and then finally 800 mg bid. We should arrive at 3 different MTDs from the 3 cohorts.

Once the MTD has been determined for each cohort, we will recruit an additional 12 patients for each cohort and study the PK profile of both drugs. The 12 patients in each cohort will be sequentially alternated to group 1 or group 2 treatment schedules. Group 1 (N=6 patients in each cohort) will receive vinorelbine three times per week starting on Monday (Day 1) followed by Wednesday (Day 3) and Friday (Day 5). In the subsequent weeks vinorelbine will be given on the same working days (i.e. Monday, Wednesday and Friday). The first PK profile of vinorelbine (without concomitant sorafenib) will be determined on Day 15 under steady state conditions.