Efficacy and Safety of Herombopag in Patients With Thrombocytopenia Before Hepatectomy
This is a single center, randomized, controlled study, to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Herombopag in patients with Thrombocytopenia before hepatectomy.
Hepatopathy
DRUG: Hetrombopag|DRUG: Placebo
The proportion of patients who require blood product infusion or intervention with platelet raising drugs due to bleeding during the perioperative period, Platelet transfusions were administered at the discretion of the investigator and the physician performing the hepatectomy., From the start of using the investigational drug to 7 days after surgery completion
Proportion of patients with bleeding after surgery need intervention., The World Health Organization Bleeding Scale was used to assess bleeding following surgery.. The range of possible scores is 0 to 4. Grade 0 is no bleeding; Grade 1 is petechiae (small \[1-2 millimeter\] red or purple spot on the body, caused by a minor hemorrhage); Grade 2 is mild blood loss; Grade 3 is gross blood loss (requiring a transfusion; and Grade 4 is debilitating blood loss (retinal or cerebral associated with fatality)., up to 7 days following surgery。|Changes in preoperative Platelet count compared to baseline, Platelet count were determined from blood draws. platelet count collect on baseline and prior to 1 days of surgery. Missing platelet count assessments at any given time point was considered to be a non-response at that point and were not estimated, baseline and up to 1 days prior to surgery|Proportion of patients whose Platelet count returned to ≥80×10^9/L, Platelet count were determined from blood draws. platelet count collect on baseline and prior to 1 days of surgery. Missing platelet count assessments at any given time point was considered to be a non-response at that point and were not estimated., baseline and up to 1 days prior to surgery|Incidence of deep venous thrombosis, Imaging examination will be conducted at d1、d3、d5、d7、d14、end of one month、 end of three month after surgery, to evaluate deep venous thrombosis if necessary., up to 3 months following surgery.|Incidence of liver failure, Posthepatectomy liver failure is defined as: A postoperatively acquired deterioration in the ability of the liver to maintain its synthetic, excretory, and detoxifying functions, characterized by an increased international normalized ratio A postoperatively acquired deterioration in the ability of the liver to maintain its synthetic, excretory, and detoxifying functions, characterized by an increased international normalized ratio and hyperbilirubinemia on or after postoperative day 5. If international normalized ratio or serum bilirubin concentration is increased preoperatively, Post hepatectomy liver failure is defined by an increasing international normalized ratio and increasing serum bilirubin concentration on or after postoperative day 5 Other obvious causes for the observed biochemical and clinical alterations such as biliary obstruction should be ruled out. The evaluate of liver failure was conducted at d1、d3、d5、d7、d14、end of one month、 end of three month after surgery., up to 3 months following surgery.
The purpose of this study is to assess the ability of Herombopag to elevate platelet counts thereby reducing the need for platelet transfusions in patients with thrombocytopenia before hepatectomy. The clinical benefit of Herombopag will be measured by the proportion of subjects who avoid platelet transfusions, before, during and up to 7 days after undergoing an hepatectomy. In addition, bleeding events will be monitored during this time. The number of transfusions, safety events will be monitored during this time and for up to 3 months after undergoing a hepatectomy to help further evaluate clinical benefit.