Different Intraoperative Blood Pressure Management on Postoperative Cognitive Function in Tumor Patients（PRECISION）
This is a randomized controlled study to explore whether perioperative blood pressure management with different strategies can reduce the incidence of delirium and postoperative cognitive impairment and serious perfusion related complications (persistent hypotension, new heart arrhythmia, cardiac insufficiency, new stroke, sudden death, etc.) within 30 days after stroke in cancer patients at high risk for stroke.

Patients were randomly divided into: 1) strict blood pressure management group: norepinephrine or phenylephrine maintenance intraoperative MAP≥85 mmHg, and 2) conventional blood pressure management group: intraoperative routine blood pressure management (MAP≥65mmHg).

The study included 424 subjects and was randomized to provide 90% efficacy. Secondary markers were unscrupulous cerebrovascular events (persistent hypotension, arrhythmia, cardiac insufficiency, new stroke, sudden death) within 30 days after surgery.
Tumor|Stroke
DRUG: Norepinephrine or phenylephrine
Postoperative delirium and cognitive function in patients with high-risk stroke., We use the Consciousness Ambiguity Measure (CAM) for POD assessment at 3, 5, and 7 days postoperatively. The 3-Minute Confusion Assessment Measure (3D-CAM) is used for POD assessment at 3, 5, and 7 days postoperatively, and the Memory Confusion Assessment Scale (MDAS) is used for POD severity scoring. Scores are taken twice, at 10:00 am and 5:00 pm, and are assessed by trained researchers (non-anesthesia personnel) who conduct cognitive tests. If a patient experiences an acute change or fluctuation in their mental state, decreased attention, confusion of thought, or a change in level of consciousness, then delirium is present. If delirium requires intervention, the patient receives an intravenous injection of haloperidol, and if necessary, it is repeated every 60 minutes and recorded promptly., in one week after surgery
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Adverse cardiovascular events within 30 days after surgery were recorded: Such as persistent hypotension, arrhythmia, heart failure, and new strokes. Record the incidence of complications (new conditions that require medical intervention) within 30 days after surgery (including the hospitalization period) (follow-up by phone for discharged patients) postoperative survival status., 30 days after surgery.
S100 calcium-binding protein B, S100B was measured using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (Merck \& Co Inc, USA) according to manufacturer's instructions., on postoperative day 3 and one week after surgery|BDNF, BDNF was measured using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (Merck \& Co Inc, USA) according to manufacturer's instructions., on postoperative day 3 and one week after surgery|ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1), UCH-L1 was measured using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (Merck \& Co Inc, USA) according to manufacturer's instructions., on postoperative day 3 and one week after surgery|neurofilament light chain protein (NfL), NfL was measured using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (Merck \& Co Inc, USA) according to manufacturer's instructions., on postoperative day 3 and one week after surgery|cardiac troponin I, cardiac troponin I was measured using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (Merck \& Co Inc, USA) according to manufacturer's instructions., on postoperative day 3 and one week after surgery
After entering the operating room, invasive blood pressure, heart rate, electrocardiogram and SpO2 were monitored, central vein was opened, and intravenous administration of Sufentanil 0.3-0.5ug/kg, etomidate 0.3mg /kg and rocurobromide 0.9mg/kg were performed after induction of anesthesia. Mechanical ventilation, VT 6-8 mL/ kg, RR 12-16 times/min, PETCO2 3540mmHg maintained. Intraoperative continuous infusion of propofol and remifentanil to maintain Bis 40-60 (TCI or constant velocity?) . Do not use dexmedetomidine or benzodiazepines during anesthesia; Scopolamine and penehyclidine are also prohibited because they promote the occurrence of postoperative delirium. Atropine is only used to treat bradycardia when necessary. The MAP set threshold is maintained in the two groups of patients, below the threshold, as follows: 1. Administer reasonable vasoactive drugs, and record the dose; 2. Appropriate fluid infusion and body position changes are given and recorded; 3. Intraoperative blood gas analysis was monitored to maintain electrolyte homeostasis; 4. Once the hematocrit is less than 28%, give blood transfusion; 30 minutes before the end of surgery, 0.1-0.2ug/kg sufentanil was used as analgesic load. Peripheral nerve blocks, such as paravertebral block, transverse abdominal muscle plane block, etc., or combined epidural anesthesia are routinely performed.

Patients without contraindications were routinely given an NSAID-type drug combined with acetaminophen (acetaminophen 500mg or flurbiprofen 50mg or parexib 40mg) before incision. According to clinical routine infusion, blood transfusion/blood products if necessary, maintain urine volume \>0.5ml/kg/h, hemoglobin ≥8g/dL. During the operation, the nasopharyngeal temperature was maintained at 36-37C.

Treatment after operation: The patient was admitted to the postoperative recovery room (PACU) after the operation and recovery and extubation, or entered the PACU with tube; Routine monitoring includes non-invasive blood pressure, pulse oxygen saturation and electrocardiogram. Stay at PACU for at least 30 minutes and return to the ward after the modified Aldrete score is ≥9. Unstable patients are sent to the ICU after surgery.