Abdominal Neuroblastoma Laparoscopic Surgery Risk Factors Stratification
Surgery plays significant role in treatment of neurogenic tumors, both for benign ganglioneuroma and for high risk neuroblastoma. The world literature has accumulated large experience in laparoscopic surgery for abdominal neuroblastoma. The presence of IDRF (image-defined risk factors) and tumor size (\>4-7 cm) are considered as common contraindications for minimally invasive surgery in neuroblastoma. However, the recent studies have shown that presence of IDRF is not an absolute contraindication for laparoscopic surgery. This open-label, nonrandomized, observational, phase III evaluates role and weight of different surgical risk factors (including IDRF, tumor size, tumor localization, tumor volume/patient height ratio, previous open surgical procedures, previous chemotherapy etc.) in the laparoscopic neuroblastoma resections. The aim of this study is to create novel risk factors scoring system for laparoscopic surgery in abdominal neuroblastoma.
Neuroblastoma|Ganglioneuroma|Ganglioneuroblastoma
PROCEDURE: Duration of surgery intervention
Duration of surgery intervention, Pilot difficulty scoring system for laparoscopic surgery in abdominal neuroblastoma, Intraoperative
The influence of surgical risk factors, The influence of surgical risk factors (see supplementary material) on the surgery results (see supplementary material) and the course of the postoperative period., Intraoperative and 30 days postoperative|Cases of conversion from laparoscopic to cavity access, Intraoperative|Comparison of surgeon's visual assessment of the tumor resection, Comparison of surgeon's visual assessment of the tumor resection completeness with data from abdominal contrast-enhanced CT, performed in the first 5 days after surgery., 5 days postoperative|1-, 3-, 5-years local recurrence-free survival, up to 5 years
After signing informed consent and surgical risk factors assessment (see Study Documents), eligible patients received surgical treatment - laparoscopic neuroblastoma resection. Parameters to be assessed are: duration of surgery intervention, intraoperative complications, blood loss volume, cases and volume of blood transfusion, conversion from laparoscopic to cavity access, surgeon's visual assessment completeness of the tumor resection. During 5 postoperative days patients undergo contrast-enhanced abdominal computed tomography (CT) to control completeness of the tumor resection assessment. Postoperative complications during 30 postoperative days to be accessed. In follow up period 1-, 3- and 5 years local recurrence-free survival to be accessed.