Phase II Study of Adenovirus/PSA Vaccine in Men With Recurrent Prostate Cancer After Local Therapy APP21
The purpose of this study is to determine whether vaccination with the Ad/PSA vaccine will induce an anti-PSA immunity that will result in the destruction of the remaining prostate cancer cells.
Recurrent Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Adenovirus/PSA Vaccine
Number of Participants Who Develop a Strong or Modest Anti-PSA Immune Response, Anti-immunologic response is defined as an increase of \>200% above pre-immunization levels of anti-PSA T cells as measured by ELISPOT analysis, 18 months
Number of Participants With Stable, Decreased, or Increased PSA Doubling Times (PSADT), To evaluate the increase, decrease, or stable response rates (PSA responses and changes in PSADT) of the Ad/PSA vaccine using a prime-boost immunization strategy. PSADT will be calculated based on the MSKCC online calculator., 18 months|Number of Participants Alive and Deceased Following Treatment, To evaluate survival in evaluable patients receiving the Ad/PSA vaccine, as measured by 2-year, 5-year, 10-year, and overall survival (OS), Every 6 months, up to 14 years
Subjects will be randomized to Arm A (vaccine only) or Arm B (androgen deprivation therapy plus vaccine). On Arm A, subjects can begin the three vaccinations immediately. On Arm B, subjects will be started on androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) 14 days prior to beginning the vaccinations.

Subjects will be vaccinated three times, each injection administered at 30-day intervals. Based upon our earlier clinical trial, the vaccine is considered safe and should not induce any major side effects. The investigators hope that vaccination with this PSA virus will cause the body to produce immunity to the PSA and that immunity will destroy any cell that produces PSA. Since the only cells left in the body that produce PSA will be the cancer cells, the investigators propose that the vaccination and ensuing anti-PSA immunity will kill the prostate cancer cells. Importantly, this treatment should not cause any major side effects as would treatment with anti-cancer drugs.