Development of a Video Game for the Improvement of Outcomes in Stem Cell Transplant Survivors
This trial collects feedback from patients to develop a video game in improving the outcomes in stem cell transplant survivors. A video game may help to improve health behaviors for leukemia or lymphoma patients after stem cell transplant.
Leukemia|Lymphoma
BEHAVIORAL: Focus Group|OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Interview
Feasibility of electronic game intervention, Primary feasibility benchmark based on responses to questions regarding users' perceptions of the technology. If 75% of respondents have a mean score reflecting positive responses (e.g., strongly agree or agree) to each of the 7 constructs related to users' perceptions, as described above, then feasibility benchmark met. Responses to open-ended questions analyzed qualitatively using Atlas.ti software. Responses to individual questions evaluated to look for common themes, and findings used to inform future development of the prototype., 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Develop a prototype intervention electronic game that implements a baseline testable feature set, including features for social networking within a virtual game space, managing an intermittent mediated reward cycle, goal setting and tracking, and collaborative problem solving.

II. Evaluate the technical merit, feasibility, user perception and acceptance of the prototype system with adolescents and young adults (AYAs) allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCTs) patients in recovery.

III. Based on the results of the prototype evaluation, enhance and complete development of the Stempowerment on-line intervention.

IV. This is a single arm study with no comparison group; therefore, the purpose is to evaluate the impact of the Stempowerment intervention on

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients attend a focus group for up to 1.5 hours and provide feedback on design elements, specific desirable features, and preferences for the initial prototype.

GROUP II: Patients have access to the game for 3 weeks and then provide feedback on problems or questions regarding the use of the prototype.