Treatment of Malignant Sinonasal Tumours With Intensity-modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) and Carbon Ion Boost (C12)
The IMRT-HIT-SNT trial is a prospective, mono-centric, phase II trial evaluating toxicity and efficacy in the combined treatment with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and carbon ion (C12) boost. Primary endpoint is mucositis ≥ CTC°3, secondary endpoints are local control, disease-free survival, overall survival, and toxicity. Planned accrual of the trial includes 36 patients with histologically proven (≥R1-resected or inoperable) sinonasal malignancies.
Sinonasal Malignancies|Adenocarcinoma and Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinuses
RADIATION: carbon ion boost
mucositis CTC grade 3, Incidence of mucositis ≥ CTC°III will be assessed as the primary endpoint of the trial at completion of radiation therapy, 6-8 weeks post completion of treatment
local control, 2 years post completion of RT|disease-free survival, 2 years post completion of RT|overall survival, 2 years post completion of RT|acute toxicity CTC grade 1/2, within 90 days of RT|late toxicity, from 90 days to trial completion
Local control in sinonasal malignancies is dose dependent. However, dose escalation at acceptable toxicity is technically demanding even with modern radiotherapy techniques. Raster-scanned carbon ion therapy with highly conformal dose distributions may allow higher doses at comparable or reduced side-effects.

Methods/ design:

The IMRT-HIT-SNT trial is a prospective, mono-centric, phase II trial evaluating toxicity in the combined treatment with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and carbon ion (C12) boost in 36 patients with histologically proven (≥R1-resected or inoperable) adeno-/ or squamous cell carcinoma of the nasal cavity or paransal sinuses. Patients receive 24 GyE carbon ions (8 fractions) and IMRT (2.0 Gy/ fraction).

Study objectives:

Incidence of mucositis ≥ CTC°3 will be assessed as the primary endpoint of the trial, local control, disease-free survival, overall survival, and toxicity (incl. mucositis CTC °I-II and late toxicity at 2 years post RT)are secondary endpoints.