Resource Intervention to Support Equity (RISE) in High-Risk Neuroblastoma
The goal of this study is to test if the addition of a novel income-poverty targeted supportive care intervention (Pediatric Resource Intervention to Support Equity \[Pediatric RISE\]) to usual supportive care for low-income children with high-risk neuroblastoma can improve parent- and child-centered outcomes.

Participants will be randomized to receive one of the following for 6-months:

* Usual supportive care alone or
* Usual supportive care plus Pediatric RISE
Neuroblastoma|High-risk Neuroblastoma
BEHAVIORAL: RISE Intervention
Household Material Hardship (HMH) Score, Change in the proportion of patients achieving at least a 1 domain reduction in HMH (food, housing, utility or transportation insecurity) score between arms from baseline (T1) to 6-months (T3; end intervention). HMH scores (range 0-4) will be calculated based on parent/guardian reported domains of insecurity (food, housing, utility, or transportation)., Baseline (T1) and 6-months (end-intervention; T3)
Pediatric-Modified Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity (COST) Score, To compare end-of-induction (3-months; T2) and end-intervention (6-months; T3) parent-reported financial toxicity (measured by the modified COST survey) between arms. Financial toxicity will be assessed with the 12-item modified COST measure. Questions are rated on a 0 through 4 point scale. The sum of the item scores will be multiplied by the number of items in the scale divided by the number of items answered which equals the final COST score. Higher scores indicate better financial well-being. Recommended thresholds for severe financial toxicity are scores \<13., 3-months (end-of-induction; T2) and 6-months (end-intervention; T3)|Kessler-6 Psychological Distress Scale Score, To compare change in parent psychological distress (measured by the Kessler-6 Psychological Distress Scale \[K6\]) from baseline (T1) to end-intervention (T3; 6-months) between arms. K6 responses are scored on a 5-point Likert scare with answers ranging from 0 "None of the time" to 4 "All of the time," and with a total score range of 24. Recommended thresholds for severe psychological distress are scores ≥ 13., Baseline (T1) and 6-months (end-intervention; T3)|Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Applied Cognition-Abilities Scale Score, To compare change in parent cognition (PROMIS Applied Cognition-Abilities short form, an 8-item measure of subjective learning/memory, attention/concentration, executive function, and processing speed) from baseline (T1) to end-intervention (T3; 6-months) between arms. Responses are scored on a scale of 1-5, and the total score is converted to a T-score with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation (SD) fixed at 10. Higher scores suggest better perceived cognitive function., Baseline (T1) and 6-months (end-intervention; T3)
This is a randomized Phase II trial evaluating the addition of the RISE supportive care equity intervention to usual supportive care for poverty-exposed children participants with newly diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma. Participants will be randomized into one of two groups: Usual supportive care or Pediatric RISE plus usual supportive care. Randomization means a participant is placed into a study group by chance.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, in-person or virtual appointments, and surveys.

Participation in this research study is expected to last for about 6-months.

It is expected that about 84 participants will take part in this research study.