A Study to Determine the Efficacy of the Combination of Daratumumab (DARA) Plus Durvalumab (DURVA) (D2) in Subjects With Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma (RRMM)
This is a single-arm, multicenter, Phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the combination regimen of daratumumab plus durvalumab (D2). The study will consist of 2 parts; Part 1 has a 2-stage design while Part 2 consists of an expansion phase. Subjects will receive intravenous (IV) DARA at 16 mg/kg on the same dosing schedule (weekly \[QW\], every 2 weeks \[Q2W\] or every 4 weeks \[Q4W\] of each 28-day cycle) received on their last prior therapy containing DARA. The dosing schedule for DARA may be adjusted during the course of the study as outlined in the protocol. Subjects will also receive IV DURVA at 1500 mg on Day 2 (Cycle 1) and on Day 1 (Cycles ≥ 2) of each 28-day treatment cycle.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: DARATUMUMAB|DRUG: DURVALUMAB
Percentage of Participants With an Objective Response According to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria, Objective response is defined as a best overall response of stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR) or partial response (PR) based on the investigator assessment: sCR: CR and normal free light chain (FLC) ratio and no clonal cells in bone marrow; CR: Negative serum and urine on immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ≤ 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours; PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24 hours. In addition to the above, if present at baseline a ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 17 April 2018. The median duration of treatment for durvalumab and daratumumab was 7.9 weeks and 8.0 weeks respectively.
Time-to-Response (TTR), Time-to-response was defined as the time from treatment initiation to the first documentation of response (PR or greater) based on IMWG criteria. sCR: CR and normal free light chain (FLC) ratio and no clonal cells in bone marrow; CR: Negative serum and urine on immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ≤5% plasma cells in bone marrow; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein level \<100 mg/24 hours; PR: ≥50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in urinary M-protein by ≥90% or to \<200 mg/24 hours. A ≥50% decrease in the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels in place of the M-protein criteria or a ≥50% reduction in plasma cells in place of M-protein if baseline was ≥30%. If present at baseline a ≥50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytomas., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 17 April 2018. The median duration of treatment for durvalumab and daratumumab was 7.9 weeks and 8.0 weeks respectively.|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response was defined as time from the first documentation of response (PR or greater) to the first documentation of PD or death, whichever is earlier, based on the investigator assessments according to the IMWG Uniform Response Criteria., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 17 April 2018. The median duration of treatment for durvalumab and daratumumab was 7.9 weeks and 8.0 weeks respectively.|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival was defined as the time from treatment initiation to the first documentation of PD or death from any cause during study, whichever occurred earlier. Time to event analysis for PFS and was not analyzed due to insufficient follow up time because of early termination of the trial., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 17 April 2018. The median duration of treatment for durvalumab and daratumumab was 7.9 weeks and 8.0 weeks respectively.|Overall Survival, Overall Survival was defined as the time from treatment initiation to death due to any cause. Time to event analysis for overall survival was not analyzed due to insufficient follow up time because of early termination of the trial., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 17 April 2018. The median duration of treatment for durvalumab and daratumumab was 7.9 weeks and 8.0 weeks respectively.|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 to the Time of the Last Quantifiable Concentration Of Durvalumab, Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to the time of the last quantifiable concentration, calculated by linear trapezoidal method when concentrations are increasing and the logarithmic trapezoidal method when concentrations are decreasing., Pharmacokinetic samples were drawn on Cycle 1 on Day 2 (C1D2) pre-dose, at the end of the infusion, on Day 8 at 144 hour post dose, on Day 15 at 312 hours post dose and on Day 22 at 480 hours post C1D2 infusion.|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 to Extrapolated to Infinity (AUC-inf) of Durvalumab, Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 extrapolated to infinity, calculated as \[AUCt + Ct/ λz\]. Ct is the last quantifiable concentration. No AUC extrapolation was performed with unreliable λz. If AUC %Extrap was ≥25%, AUC inf was not reported., Pharmacokinetic samples were drawn on Cycle 1 on Day 2 (C1D2) pre-dose, at the end of the infusion, on Day 8 at 144 hour post dose, on Day 15 at 312 hours post dose and on Day 22 at 480 hours post C1D2 infusion.|Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) Of Durvalumab, Maximum observed plasma concentration, obtained directly from the observed concentration versus time data., Pharmacokinetic samples were drawn on Cycle 1 on Day 2 (C1D2) pre-dose, at the end of the infusion, on Day 8 at 144 hour post dose, on Day 15 at 312 hours post dose and on Day 22 at 480 hours post C1D2 infusion.|Time to Reach Maximum Concentration (Tmax) of Durvalumab, Time to Cmax, obtained directly from the observed concentration versus time data., Pharmacokinetic samples were drawn on Cycle 1 on Day 2 (C1D2) pre-dose, at the end of the infusion, on Day 8 at 144 hour post dose, on Day 15 at 312 hours post dose and on Day 22 at 480 hours post C1D2 infusion.|Terminal Half-Life (T1/2) of of Durvalumab, Terminal phase half-life in plasma, calculated as \[(ln 2)/λz\]. t1/2 was only calculated when a reliable estimate for λz could be obtained., Pharmacokinetic samples were drawn on Cycle 1 on Day 2 (C1D2) pre-dose, at the end of the infusion, on Day 8 at 144 hour post dose, on Day 15 at 312 hours post dose and on Day 22 at 480 hours post C1D2 infusion.|Apparent Total Clearance (CL/F) of of Durvalumab, Apparent total clearance, calculated as \[Dose/AUCinf\]., Pharmacokinetic samples were drawn on Cycle 1 on Day 2 (C1D2) pre-dose, at the end of the infusion, on Day 8 at 144 hour post dose, on Day 15 at 312 hours post dose and on Day 22 at 480 hours post C1D2 infusion.|Apparent Volume of Distribution (Vz/F) of Durvalumab, Apparent volume of distribution, calculated as \[(CL/F)/λz\]., Pharmacokinetic samples were drawn on Cycle 1 on Day 2 (C1D2) pre-dose, at the end of the infusion, on Day 8 at 144 hour post dose, on Day 15 at 312 hours post dose and on Day 22 at 480 hours post C1D2 infusion.|Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), TEAEs include AEs between the earliest of the first dose date of either study drug and 90 days after the last dose of either study drug. In addition, an AE that occurred beyond the timeframe and was assessed by the doctor as possibly related to IP was considered to be treatment-emergent. Severity was assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Terminology Criteria for AEs (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03, where 1= Mild; 2= Moderate; 3= Severe; 4= Life-threatening; 5= Death related to AE. Serious AEs resulted in death, were life-threatening, required or prolonged inpatient hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly, or resulted in a medical event that may have jeopardized the patient or required medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes above., From the date of the first dose of study drug until 90 days after the last dose of durvalumab or daratumumab , whichever is later. Maximum overall time on treatment was 16 weeks for daratumumab and durvalumab
Indication:

This study will include subjects that have relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) after treatment with at least 3 prior antimyeloma therapies, including a proteasome inhibitor (PI) and an immunomodulatory drug (IMiD®) or after development of double-refractoriness to a both a PI and an IMiD.

The most recent multiple myeloma (MM) treatment regimen should contain daratumumab (DARA) and subjects must have progressed on DARA while on this regimen. Stage 1 A cohort of 18 subjects will be enrolled to determine the preliminary efficacy of DARA plus DURVA. Once the 18 subjects have been enrolled, an interim analysis for futility purpose will be conducted to determine if the study can proceed to Stage 2.

Early Safety Monitoring Once 6 subjects have been enrolled and completed the first treatment cycle in Stage 1 of this study, the enrollment continuity would depend on the availability of safety data from the on-going Phase 2 study (MEDI4736-MM-003) of DARA and DURVA in previously DARA-naïve patients.

* If MEDI4736-MM-003 safety data are available and the tolerability profile of DARA plus DURVA has been determined to be adequate, then enrollment will continue as planned in Stage 1 without an early safety monitoring review of the data.
* If safety data are not available enrollment in this study will be paused for a review of the safety profile of DARA plus DURVA by a Dose Review Team (DRT), using the data from the first 6 patients.
* If ≥ 1 of the first 6 patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the study will be halted for review and a change in the dosing regimen may be implemented.
* The DRT will consist of the Celgene Medical Monitor, Celgene lead Safety Physician, Celgene biostatistician, other Celgene functional area representatives, as appropriate, study specific consultants (MD/PhD), and site investigator and/or designees who have enrolled subjects to the study.
* All available safety and, if applicable, PK/(pharmacodynamic) Pd, biomarker, and preliminary efficacy data will be reviewed and can be considered in the DRT's decisions.
* A DRT meeting will be held to review all data and make decisions regarding continuity of the study.

Dose-limiting Toxicity

Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) may be evaluated during the DLT evaluation period for the initial 6 patients in Part 1 of the study. The DLT evaluation period will be defined as the first treatment cycle. Subjects are considered evaluable for assessment of DLT if they:

* Receive at least 1 dose of study treatments and experience a DLT OR
* Receive 1 dose of DURVA, 4 doses of DARA and complete the safety follow-up through the end of the DLT evaluation period.

Grading of DLTs will be according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.03.

A DLT will be defined as below:

Hematologic DLT

1. Grade 4 neutropenia observed for greater than 5 days duration
2. Grade 3 neutropenia associated with fever (≥ 38.5 °C) of any duration.
3. Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, or any requirement for platelets transfusion.
4. Any other Grade 4 hematologic toxicity that does not resolve to subject's pretreatment baseline level within 72 hours
5. Grade 4 anemia, unexplained by underlying disease. Non-hematologic DLT

a. Any nonhematological toxicity ≥ Grade 3 except for alopecia and nausea controlled by medical management b. Any treatment interruption greater than 2 weeks due to an AE. While the rules for adjudicating DLTs in the context of dose escalation are specified above, an AE not listed above may be defined as a DLT after consultation with the Sponsor and investigators, based on the emerging safety profile.

Stage 2 If 3 or more subjects achieved a response (PR or better) out of the 18 subjects at the end of Stage 1, an additional 32 subjects will be enrolled to evaluate the safety and efficacy of DARA plus DURVA.

Part 2: Expansion Upon completion of Part 1, if at least 9 subjects achieve a response (PR or better) out of a total of 50 subjects and it is determined to further confirm the efficacy and safety of DARA plus DURVA, an additional 70 subjects may be enrolled.

An Independent Response Adjudication Committee (IRAC) will be set up for this trial to review study data. The IRAC will determine tumor response to therapy and to confirm the time of disease progression (PD) (if disease progressed) at scheduled or unscheduled visits for each subject.

The safety and efficacy of the study will be monitored by an independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) who are not involved in the trial conduct. The DMC will meet up and review study data at pre specified intervals throughout the trial.

In the event that the trial is halted for early safety monitoring, evaluation of the emerging safety data from the initial 6 patients enrolled in Part 1 will be performed by the Dose Review Team (DRT).

Safety data will be monitored by the Celgene Medical Monitor and Safety Physician on an ongoing basis throughout the study. Should a significant safety issue be identified, the DMC will be convened to make a recommendation as to the future conduct of the study.

The decision to discontinue a subject, which will not be delayed or refused by the Sponsor, remains the responsibility of the treating physician. However, prior to discontinuing a subject, the Investigator may contact the Medical Monitor and forward appropriate supporting documents for review and discussion.

The study will be conducted in compliance with the International Council on Harmonisation (ICH) of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use/Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and applicable regulatory requirements.