HepQuant: Study to Assess the Role of Blood-based Biomarkers and Quantitative MR Imaging for Patients Receiving Radiation Therapy for Liver Cancer
This is a pilot and feasibility study assessing the role of quantitative multiparametric MRI and blood-based biomarkers for the measurement of liver function in patients receiving radiation therapy for liver cancer, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), cholangiocarcinoma, or liver metastases regardless of primary histology, that are undergoing photon radiation either in the de-novo or re-irradiation setting. The goal of this study is to prospectively evaluate the feasibility of using quantitative multiparametric MRI to monitor liver function at baseline and following liver radiation therapy.
Liver Cancer|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Hepatocellular Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma|Liver Metastases
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: HepQuant DuO|OTHER: Multiparametric MRI Scans
Feasibility of Quantitative MRI, Feasibility will be determined by assessing the proportion/percentage of participants who complete at least 2 quantitative multiparametric MRI scans following study enrollment. The proportion/percentage of patients will be summarized by study arm using basic descriptive statistics and a Clopper-Pearson 95% exact confidence interval will be determined., Approximately 3 months
Change in Disease Severity Index (DSI) score, Change in DSI scores from baseline will be evaluated using the HepQuant DuO test. The HepQuant DuO test measures the liver's ability to clear cholate from the blood using the Disease Severity Index (DSI). The DSI is a single score calculation that incorporates measures of both hepatocyte function and portal circulation and is calculated by indexing a patient's hepatic filtration rate (HFR) against maximum HFR and generates a liver DSI score ranging from 0 (no hepatic disease) to 50 (severe hepatic disease) such that increased DSI scores are correlated with worsening liver function and disease severity and progression. For purposes of this study change in DSI score from baseline will be summarized using basic descriptive statistics and will be examined using a Wilcoxon Sign rank test., From baseline to 3 months post-SBRT|Predictive ability of LiverMultiScan, The ability of the LiverMultiScan to predict the risk of non-classic RILD will be evaluated. The pre-SBRT liver health assessment score will be calculated by measuring the Future Liver Remnant volume outside the 50% radiation isodose line weighted by the liver cT1 value. MRI images will be post-processed using LiverMultiScan, which provides a multiparametric quantitative map of a region of interest in the liver including characterization of the underlying liver fibroinflammation as reported by a corrected T1 (cT1) value, which will be measured and reported in milliseconds (ms). The likelihood of non-classic RILD based on the cT1 value will be assessed using multivariable logistic regression.

Non-classic RILD will be defined as either worsening of Child-Pugh Score by \>=2 points (overall range: 5-15 points) at 6 months following SBRT or an elevated aminotransferase (ALT or AST) level \> 5 times the upper limit of normal or baseline value within 90 days of completion of SBRT., 6 months post-SBRT|Change in Total Liver Volume, Change in total liver volume from pre-SBRT treatment at baseline will be evaluated using Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MRI of the abdomen at the specified timeframes to assess the impact of radiotherapy. Mean changes in total liver volume (in mL or cm\^3) will be assessed using the MRI software image analysis and summarized by study arm and data will be analyzed using linear mixed-effects models. Increases in liver volume are correlated to more favorable outcomes., From baseline to 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months post-SBRT|Change in volume of non-irradiated and irradiated liver lobes, Change in volume of non-irradiated and irradiated liver lobes, from pre-SBRT treatment at baseline will be evaluated using Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MRI of the abdomen at the specified timeframes to assess the impact of radiotherapy. Mean changes in the volume of non-irradiated and irradiate lobes (in mL or cm\^3) will be assessed using the MRI software image analysis and summarized by study arm and data will be analyzed using linear mixed-effects models. Increases in liver lobe volume are correlated to more favorable outcomes., From baseline to 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months post-SBRT
Historically, the role of fractionated liver radiation therapy (RT) has been limited because of the potential for developing fatal radiation-induced liver disease (RILD), particularly in patients who already have poor liver function due to cirrhosis. Classic RILD generally occurs within 4 months following radiotherapy to the liver and consists of symptoms including fatigue, right upper quadrant pain, ascites, anicteric hepatomegaly, and elevation of liver enzymes especially alkaline phosphatase.

Technical advances in the delivery of RT, particularly using stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) and proton therapy with respiratory gating and image guidance, have facilitated the safe use of radiation dose escalation in unresectable liver cancers. SBRT is a promising and attractive option for HCC patients with cirrhosis. Previous reported experiences have been largely kept to Child-Pugh (CP) A patients with significant liver reserves. The 1 to 2-year local control rate for CP A patients with early-stage tumor have generally been reported around 80-90%. Toxicities rates have also been acceptable with no classic RILD or grade 4 or 5 treatment related toxicities seen 3 months after SBRT. This impressive toxicity result is likely due to keeping with strict dosimetric constraints for the normal liver tissue. Dosimetric parameters reported in literature indicated mean liver disease (MLD) and V20 to be a significant predictor of RILD and elevated liver enzymes in CP A patients with primary HCC.

While there are no overt liver toxicities in CP A patients with primary liver cancer, 10 to 30% of patients will experience a decline in liver function 3 months after SBRT even without disease progression based on the referenced literature. Pre-treatment CP A6 has an increased risk of liver function decline when compared to CP A5. In addition, the tumor volume was also a significant predictor of liver function decline after SBRT.

Patients with CP B or C and primary HCC are more likely to experience liver toxicities as defined by worsening liver function. Dosimetric parameters to predict for fatal RILD for this group has also remained elusive. Yet, it is this particular group of patients that have the worst outcome due to limited treatment options as a result of poor liver reserve to tolerate currently available treatments. The median survival for patients with Child-Pugh B or C HCC treated with best supportive care or sorafenib is approximately 4-5 months according to the literature. Limited institutional experiences have shown that local treatment of these patients with SBRT can potentially improve survival; however, this also comes at a cost of significant potential toxicity. Current reported data are limited, but they do show that patients can experience liver function decline as early as 3 months.

The published experience with SBRT in the treatment of HCC clearly demonstrates a relationship of the underlying degree of hepatic impairment to risk for liver toxicity. However, the data also clearly demonstrate that CP class or score is insufficient to define risk or to monitor treatment effects. The proposed study will use blood-based biomarkers coupled with quantitative imaging (LiverMultiScan™) to fully characterize the effect of SBRT on the liver and the liver cancer.

In vivo Multiparametric MR imaging (mpMRI) is well established at quantifying measures of liver health in patients with liver disease and pre-clinical models of liver disease. In patients with pre-existing/co-existing parenchymal liver disease and liver tumors (primary or secondary), mpMRI can be used to assess the health of the parenchyma and the anatomical and tissue characteristics of the tumor. This allows for decision-making to be based on the health of the liver and the resectability of the tumor. Initial data suggests that this approach can predict which operations will carry higher risk and cost, measured by length of stay in hospital after surgery.

A more sensitive laboratory measure that is currently available in the U.S. as a Laboratory Developed Test (LDT) to measure liver function and will be used in this study as an investigational assay, is the HepQuant DuO test. It measures cholate hepatic uptake from portal circulation and estimates hepatic uptake from systemic circulation to calculate degree of portosystemic shunting as well as hepatic function using the disease severity index (DSI). Both of these measures have been shown to correlate with severity of chronic liver disease and in studies detected and measured the severity and progression of disease and the response to treatments. The HepQuant DuO test is done by oral administration of unconjugated cholate and collection of two serum samples up to 60 minutes after administration. HepQuant DuO may offer a unique capability to assesses liver functional impairment across the spectrum of injury and fibrosis in patients undergoing radiation therapy to better predict clinical outcomes and risk of liver function deterioration.