Everolimus in Restoring Salivary Gland Function in Participants With Locally Advanced Head and Neck Cancer Treated With Radiation Therapy
This early phase 1 trial studies the use of everolimus in restoring salivary gland function in participants with locally advanced head and neck cancer after concurrent chemoradiation or radiation therapy alone.
Salivary Gland Dysfunction|Xerostomia|Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Everolimus|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Survey Administration
Percent recovery of salivary gland function, The primary end point of the analysis will be the percent recovery of salivary gland function, with pre-everolimus treatment saliva flow rate as the denominator and the saliva flow rate at 3 months after completion of radiation or chemoradiation therapy as the numerator., At 3 months after completion of radiation or chemoradiation therapy
Change of saliva flow rates, This will be measured during radiotherapy treatment at 3, 6 weeks, and prior to everolimus administration and the subsequent recovery of saliva flow rates at completion of the 5 day everolimus course and 1, 3 and 6 months after radiation therapy/chemoradiation therapy completion to determine the kinetics and stability of saliva flow rate recovery. Will be explored using graphical methods., Up to 6 months after completion of radiation or chemoradiation therapy|Saliva protein composition, Protein composition within the saliva will be measured and will be expressed as percent decrease and recovery of amylase at all available time points. Will be explored using graphical methods., Up to 6 months after completion of radiation or chemoradiation therapy|Total score obtained on Xerostomia Visual Analog Scale survey, Will be explored using graphical methods. Subjective assessment of salivary dysfunction. • Scale ranges: not difficult at all - very difficult. • Not difficult at all is considered better, very difficult is considered worse. Subscales are summed. Scale ranges: 1-5 = • 1 (Never), 2 (hardly ever), 3 (occasionally), 4 (fairly often), 5 (very often). • Sub scales are summed., Up to 6 months after completion of radiation or chemoradiation therapy|Total score obtained on Xerostomia Inventory Survey, Will be explored using graphical methods. Measures xerostomia symptoms., Up to 6 months after completion of radiation or chemoradiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the recovery of salivary gland function after administration of a 5-day course of everolimus, administered two weeks after completion of radiation or chemoradiation therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the decrease of saliva flow rates during radiation or chemoradiation therapy.

II. To describe the changes in saliva protein composition during radiation or chemoradiation therapy and following administration of a 5-day course of everolimus.

OUTLINE: This is an early phase 1 proof of principal study.

Participants receive everolimus orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 5 days beginning 2 weeks after completion of radiation or chemoradiation treatment. Participants also undergo saliva output testing at baseline prior to radiation or chemoradiation treatment, after 3 weeks of RT/chemoRT, after 6 weeks of RT/chemoRT, prior to everolimus administration, at completion of the 5 day everolimus course, and at 1, 3, and 6 months after the completion of radiation or chemoradiation therapy.