Anlotinib Hydrochloride Combined With Sintilimab Injection in the Treatment of Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
This is a single-arm, open-label and exploratory clinical study of Anlotinib Hydrochloride Capsules combined with Sintilimab injection in the treatment of advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC).

In oder to observe and evaluate the efficacy and safety of Anlotinib Hydrochloride Capsules combined with Sintilimab injection. Subjects with pathological confirmed Hepatocellular Carcinoma will be enrolled.

21 days as a treatment cycle, Anlotinib 12mg/day(D1-D14 ) and Sintilimab injection 200mg Q3W (D1). Sintilimab injection will be administered until disease progressioncor un-tolerable toxicity. Anlotinib will be administered until disease progression. If anlotinib is not tolerated, the dose can be reduced to 10mg or 8mg ,until un-tolerable toxicity again.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Anlotinib and Sintilimab injection
Objective Response Rate (ORR), the best Objective Response Rate, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 18 months|Adverse reaction rate, Observe all the participants in any adverse events occurred during the period of clinical research, including clinical symptoms and signs of life, an abnormal in laboratory tests, record its clinical characteristics, severity, occurrence time, duration, treatment and prognosis, and determine its and the correlation between test drugs. NCI-CTC AE 5.0 standard was used to evaluate drug safety., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 18 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 18 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of Response, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 18 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), the Rate of Disease Control, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 18 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall Survival, From date of randomization until the date of patient died, assessed up to 24 months
This is a single-arm, open-label and exploratory clinical study of Anlotinib Hydrochloride Capsules combined with Sintilimab injection in the treatment of advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC).In oder to observe and evaluate the efficacy and safety of Anlotinib Hydrochloride Capsules combined with Sintilimab injection.subjects with pathological confirmed Hepatocellular Carcinoma will be enrolled.21 days as a treatment cycle, Anlotinib 12mg/day(D1-D14 ) and Sintilimab injection 200mg Q3W (D1). Sintilimab injection will be administered until disease progressioncor un-tolerable toxicity. Anlotinib will be administered until disease progression. If anlotinib is not tolerated, the dose can be reduced to 10mg or 8mg ,until un-tolerable toxicity again.