Building a Renewed ImaGe After Head & Neck Cancer Treatment (BRIGHT) 2.0
Head and neck cancer (HNC) survivors with body image-related distress (BID) will be randomized to 5-weeks of tablet-based BRIGHT or tablet-based active control (AC; electronic information about HNC recovery). Participants will complete validated measures of BID and psychological, social, and emotional wellbeing to assess the preliminary clinical impact of BRIGHT on BID in HNC survivors. Participants will also complete validated measures of body image coping behavior to assess the role of image coping behavior as the behavioral mechanism of BRIGHT.
Head and Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: BRIGHT|BEHAVIORAL: Active Control
Change in Body Image Scale Score From Baseline to 1-month Post-intervention, The Body Image Scale (BIS) is a validated, 10-item patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) that assesses the affective, cognitive, and emotional aspects of body image due to cancer or its treatment over the prior 7 days. Responses include 'not at all', 'a little', 'quite a bit', and 'very much', and are scored from 0-3, respectively. Total BIS scores can range from 0-30, with higher scores indicating greater body image dissatisfaction., 1 month
Change in Body Image Scale Score From Baseline to 3-months Post-intervention, The BIS is a validated, 10-item patient-reported outcome measure that assesses the affective, cognitive, and emotional aspects of body image due to cancer or its treatment over the prior 7 days. Responses include 'not at all', 'a little', 'quite a bit', and 'very much', and are scored from 0-3, respectively. Total BIS scores can range from 0-30, with higher scores indicating greater body image dissatisfaction., 3 months|Change in IMAGE-HN Score From Baseline to 1-month Post-intervention, The IMAGE-HN is a psychometrically sound, 24-item, multi-domain PROM consisting of 4 sub-scales and a global scale that can be used to measure key aspects of HNC-related body image distress (BID) due to HNC or its treatment. Responses include 'Never', 'Rarely', 'Sometimes', 'Often', 'Always', corresponding to a Likert scale of 0-4, respectively. Total IMAGE-HN scores on the global domain (21 questions) range from 0-84, with higher scores indicated greater HNC-related body image dissatisfaction., 1 month|Change in IMAGE-HN Score From Baseline to 3-months Post-intervention, The IMAGE-HN is a psychometrically sound, 24-item, multi-domain PROM consisting of 4 sub-scales and a global scale that can be used to measure key aspects of HNC-related BID due to HNC or its treatment. Responses include 'Never', 'Rarely', 'Sometimes', 'Often', 'Always', corresponding to a Likert scale of 0-4, respectively. Total IMAGE-HN scores on the global domain (21 questions) range from 0-84, with higher scores indicated greater HNC-related body image dissatisfaction., 3 months|Change in Shame and Stigma Scale Score From Baseline to 1-month Post-intervention, The Shame and Stigma Scale is a 20-item, validated, unidimensional PROM that measures four domains (shame with appearance, stigma, regret, and social/speech concerns) in patients with HNC over the prior 7 days. Responses include 'never', 'seldom', 'sometimes', 'often', and 'all the time' and are scored 0-4, respectively. The total score is calculated by summing the individual responses (except for 4 questions which are reverse scored) and thus ranges from 0-80. Higher scores reflect greater shame and stigma from HNC., 1 month|Change in Shame and Stigma Scale Score From Baseline to 3-months Post-intervention, The Shame and Stigma Scale is a 20-item, validated, unidimensional PROM that measures four domains (shame with appearance, stigma, regret, and social/speech concerns) in patients with HNC over the prior 7 days. Responses include 'never', 'seldom', 'sometimes', 'often', and 'all the time' and are scored 0-4, respectively. The total score is calculated by summing the individual responses (except for 4 questions which are reverse scored) and thus ranges from 0-80. Higher scores reflect greater shame and stigma from HNC., 3 months|Change in PROMIS SF v1.0-Depression 8a Score From Baseline to 1-month Post-intervention, PROMIS SF v1.0-Depression 8a is a validated, 8-item measure developed by the NIH to assess self-reported negative mood, views of self, and decreased positive affect and engagement. Items are scored using a 5-point Likert scale from 'never' to 'always' (1-5). Higher scores reflect more severe depressive symptoms., 1 month|Change in PROMIS SF v1.0-Depression 8a Score From Baseline to 3-months Post-intervention, PROMIS SF v1.0-Depression 8a is a validated, 8-item measure developed by the NIH to assess self-reported negative mood, views of self, and decreased positive affect and engagement. Items are scored using a 5-point Likert scale from 'never' to 'always' (1-5). Higher scores reflect more severe depressive symptoms., 3 months|Change in PROMIS SF v1.0-Anxiety 8a Score From Baseline to 1-month Post-intervention, The PROMIS SF v1.0-Anxiety 8a is a validated, 8-item measure developed by the NIH to assess self-reported fear, worry, and hyperarousal46. Items are scored using a 5-point Likert scale from 'never' to 'always' (1-5). The total score is calculated by summing the individual responses and thus ranges from 8-40. Higher scores reflect more severe anxiety., 1 month|Change in PROMIS SF v1.0-Anxiety 8a Score From Baseline to 3-months Post-intervention, The PROMIS SF v1.0-Anxiety 8a is a validated, 8-item measure developed by the NIH to assess self-reported fear, worry, and hyperarousal46. Items are scored using a 5-point Likert scale from 'never' to 'always' (1-5). The total score is calculated by summing the individual responses and thus ranges from 8-40. Higher scores reflect more severe anxiety., 3 months|Change in PROMIS SF v2.0- Satisfaction With Social Roles and Activities 8a Score From Baseline to 1-month Post-intervention, PROMIS SF v2.0-Satisfaction with Social Roles and Activities 8a is a validated, 8-item, measure developed by the NIH to assess self-reported satisfaction with performing one's usual social roles and activities. Items are scored using a 5-point Likert scale from 'not at all' to 'very much' (1-5). The total score is calculated by summing the individual responses and thus ranges from 8-40. Higher scores reflect greater satisfaction with social roles and activities., 1 month|Change in PROMIS SF v2.0- Satisfaction With Social Roles and Activities 8a Score From Baseline to 3-months Post-intervention, PROMIS SF v2.0-Satisfaction with Social Roles and Activities 8a is a validated, 8-item, measure developed by the NIH to assess self-reported satisfaction with performing one's usual social roles and activities. Items are scored using a 5-point Likert scale from 'not at all' to 'very much' (1-5). The total score is calculated by summing the individual responses and thus ranges from 8-40. Higher scores reflect greater satisfaction with social roles and activities., 3 months|Change in PROMIS SF v2.0-Social Isolation 8a Score From Baseline to 1-month Post-intervention, PROMIS SF v2.0-Social Isolation 8a is a validated, 8-item, measure developed by the NIH to assess self-reported perceptions of being avoided, excluded or unknown by others. Items are scored using a 5-point Likert scale from 'never' to 'always' (1-5). The total score is calculated by summing the individual responses and thus ranges from 8-40. Higher scores reflect more severe social isolation., 1 month|Change in PROMIS SF v2.0-Social Isolation 8a Score From Baseline to 3-months Post-intervention, PROMIS SF v2.0-Social Isolation 8a is a validated, 8-item, measure developed by the NIH to assess self-reported perceptions of being avoided, excluded or unknown by others. Items are scored using a 5-point Likert scale from 'never' to 'always' (1-5). The total score is calculated by summing the individual responses and thus ranges from 8-40. Higher scores reflect more severe social isolation., 3 months
Following screening and informed consent, eligible participants will complete baseline questionnaires measuring BID and psychological, social, and emotional wellbeing. Participants (n=44) will then be randomized 1:1 to BRIGHT or AC and undergo weekly, tablet-based BRIGHT or AC for 5 weeks.

The BRIGHT intervention consists of 5 weekly, 60-minute, tablet-based, one-one telehealth sessions with a licensed therapist. The control intervention will be matched to replicate the frequency, intensity, and delivery method of BRIGHT. Participants in the AC arm will thus undergo 5 weekly, 60-minute, tablet-based video sessions in which they undergo non-manualized discussions with a non-trained member of the study team.

Following randomization, patients in each arm will receive a study-issued, cellular-enabled iPad loaded with Vidyo, a video teleconference platform that allows the participant to connect to the study psychologist (BRIGHT) or AC. Vidyo allows face-face communication for tele-cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for HNC patients who can articulate well, but also includes a within-video text message feature for aphonic (due to surgical removal of the larynx) or severely dysarthric (due to surgical removal of a significant amount of the tongue) HNC patients who are unable to participate in tele-CBT by speaking. The study iPads are locked to prevent downloading of additional applications. Participants receive a pictorial instructional booklet for logging on to Vidyo. No user names, logins, or web addresses are necessary to connect to the BRIGHT session. The participant simply clicks on the Vidyo application which takes the participant to the assigned teleconference room. At the conclusion of the 5-week intervention, participants return iPads to the study team in pre-addressed, stamped, padded mailers that are provided to the patient.