The Efficacy and Safety of HIPEC Combined With PD-1 and SOX Chemotherapy for the Translational Treatment of GC or EGJC With PM
Gastric cancer (GC) with peritoneal metastasis has a poor prognosis and short survival. In recent years, heat intraperitoneal perfusion chemotherapy (HIPEC) has gained better efficacy in the treatment of peritoneal metastases of many malignant tumors, including GC with peritoneal metastasis. The use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in the treatment of advanced GC has made significant progress in recent years. And studies showed that patients who were responded to immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy as the first-line treatment were able to achieve significant survival benefit after radical resection. However, whether HIPEC combined with immunotherapy for peritoneal metastatic gastric cancer improves the R0 resection rate and prolongs survival time is currently unclear. Therefore, we conducted this prospective multicenter clinical trial to explore the effective dose and safety of the combination of systemic chemotherapy, HIPEC, anti-PD-1 and anti-HER-2 therapy, which will provide a clinical basis for the treatment of advanced GC.
Gastric Cancer, Metastatic
DRUG: HIPEC|DRUG: Systemic therapy
Overall Survival, The proportion of patients still alive at one year from the start of patient enrollment was calculated as a percentage of all patients. Deaths from all causes were included in the calculation of overall survival. The OS of patients who did not reach the one-year loss to follow-up was counted as data censored at the time of last confirmed survival before the loss to follow-up, i.e., only the time point of last known survival was counted in the number of survivors., 1 year
Progression-free Survival, Percentage of all patients who did not experience disease progression or death within one year from the start of patient enrollment. If disease progression is indicated by imaging, the date of disease progression will be the time of the imaging exam that clearly confirms disease progression. If disease progression was diagnosed by other clinical modalities, the date of diagnosis will be used as the date of disease progression. Patients who discontinued the trial (without follow-up imaging) for reasons other than disease progression and patients who received post-trial therapy will have the time of discontinuation of the trial or the time of initiation of post-trial therapy as the data censored. New onset of other tumors is not considered a disease progression event and is also not censored as data., 1 year|Completeness of cytoreduction score, CC-0 indicates no residual tumor visible to the naked eye, CC-1 indicates residual tumor with a maximum diameter of \<2.5 mm, CC-2 indicates residual tumor with a diameter of more than 2.5 mm but \<25 mm, and CC-3 indicates residual tumor with a diameter of ≥25 mm. CC-0 and CC-1 are usually classified as complete cytoreduction., 1 year|Objective Response Rate, Refers to the proportion of patients whose tumors shrank to a certain level and remained there for a certain period of time, and includes both CR (Complete Response) and PR (Partial Response) cases. Objective tumor remission was assessed using the Solid Tumor Remission Assessment Criteria (RECIST 1.1 criteria). Patients had to be accompanied by measurable tumor lesions at baseline, and the efficacy assessment criteria were classified as Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), and Progressed Disease (PD) according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria. Disease (PD)., 1 year
Gastric cancer (GC) is the 5th most common malignant tumor worldwide, and it causes the 4th most tumor-related deaths among all malignant tumors. China is a large country with 40% of the total number of GC cases worldwide. Despite the advances in medical detection methods, most of the GC patients in China are in the advanced stage at the time of diagnosis, in which peritoneal metastasis is one of the common metastatic patterns of advanced GC, and the presence of peritoneal metastasis accounts for about 46% of patients with distant metastasis detected at the first diagnosis. The prognosis of GC patients with peritoneal metastasis is extremely poor, and compared with other metastatic organs, patients with stage IV GC with peritoneal metastasis have a worse prognosis and shorter survival.

The treatment of peritoneal metastasis of GC has been based on systemic chemotherapy with reference to advanced GC, but it is difficult for traditional chemotherapeutic agents to reach the peritoneal lesions due to the existence of blood-peritoneal barrier. In recent years, heat intraperitoneal perfusion chemotherapy (HIPEC) has gained better efficacy in the treatment of peritoneal metastases of many malignant tumors, including GC.HIPEC allows chemotherapeutic drugs to act directly on tumor tissues while reducing the impact on other parts of the body; the warming effect is synergistic with the antitumor effects of chemotherapeutic drugs and helps the drugs to act more efficiently on the intraperitoneal tumor cells; moreover, the chemotherapeutic drugs are absorbed through the peritoneum and then enter the liver via the portal vein route, which is beneficial to preventing liver metastasis. HIPEC currently has four applications and indications in the clinic: firstly, palliative application to improve the quality of life for GC abdominal metastasis with a large amount of carcinomatous ascites; secondly, therapeutic application of radical gastric cancer surgery + cytoreductive surgery + HIPEC for the treatment of GC; third, prophylactic application, radical gastric cancer surgery + peritoneal hyperthermia chemotherapy, targeting people with high risk of peritoneal recurrence, especially patients with T3-4 or positive lymph nodes; fourth, neoadjuvant application, neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with peritoneal hyperthermia chemotherapy before radical gastric cancer treatment, in order to reduce the risk of peritoneal implantation of gastric cancer and to increase the possibility of radical surgery. However, there is a lack of high-level evidence-based medical evidence on the efficacy and safety of HIPEC as a translational treatment for GC with peritoneal metastasis.

The use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in the treatment of advanced GC has made significant progress in recent years. The KEYNOTE series of studies evaluated the safety and efficacy of PD-L1 antibody as a first-line treatment for advanced GC, among which the results of KEYNOTE-859 confirmed that the combination of Pembrolizumab and chemotherapy is expected to be a HER-2 negative advanced gastric/esophagogastric junctional cancer first-line treatment option. A recent retrospective study by Chinese scholars demonstrated that patients with stage IV GC who were responded to the immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy as the first-line treatment were able to achieve significant survival benefit after radical resection. However, whether HIPEC combined with immunotherapy for peritoneal metastatic gastric cancer improves the R0 resection rate and prolongs survival time is currently unclear.

Therefore, we conducted this prospective multicenter clinical trial trying to combine the specificity of HIPEC for peritoneal metastases with immunotherapy for advanced GC, aiming to evaluate the efficacy and feasibility of multimodal treatment regimens, such as HIPEC in combination with immunotherapy, for the transformative treatment of peritoneal metastases of GC or EJ junctional cancer and to explore the effective dose and safety of the combination of systemic chemotherapy, HIPEC, anti-PD-1 and anti-HER-2 therapy, which will provide a clinical basis for the treatment of advanced GC.