Observational Study on Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Patients in Any Phase Treated With Ponatinib (Iclusig®) at Any Dose
Additional information is needed to characterize the safety profile of ponatinib as it is used in routine clinical practice in Europe. This observational cohort study will provide a real-life picture of ponatinib use in clinical practice and additional quantification and characterization of adverse events (AEs) and their outcomes in patients with Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in any phase treated with ponatinib.
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, Chronic Phase
Change in Cytogenetic response, Achievement of cytogenetic Response (percentage of Ph+ metaphases), through study completion, an average of 3 years|Molecular response, BCR-ABL in % (lower is better), through study completion, an average of 3 year
This study is a multicentre, long-term, prospective and retrospective, observational cohort study of patients who are treated with ponatinib. The study is non-interventional; all Treatment decisions are made at the discretion of the patient's healthcare provider (HCP) and are not mandated by the study design or protocol.

A heterogeneous sample of oncology practice sites in Germany (both Hospitals and Field based Haematologists) treating adult patients with Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in any phase using ponatinib will be selected for participation in the study. Eligible, consenting patients initiating treatment with ponatinib will be enrolled into the prospective part of the study. Eligible consenting patients with Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in any Phase that have initiated ponatinib outside clinical trial after its approval in Germany will be enrolled in the retrospective part of the study.

Approximately 100 patients will be enrolled from approximately 50 sites. The patient enrolment period is estimated to be approximately two years. Patients who experience an Adverse Event (AE) during treatment or within the 30 days post discontinuation will be followed for 12 months to determine the consequences of the Adverse Event. Data on patient's history, patient's data at baseline, ponatinib treatment, Adverse Events, all medications received, and efficacy measures will be collected during the study in conjunction with routine care visits, anticipated to be approximately every 3 months.

Information on any new therapies, including treatment for Chronic Myeloid Leukemia and other medications will be collected during follow-up.