Postoperative Radiotherapy for Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma After Neoadjuvant Therapy and Surgery
The treatment guideline for locally advanced resectable oral squamous cell carcinoma (LAROSCC) is surgery + postoperative radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy. Though the treatment is intensive with serious harm to quality of life, the survival of patients is poor. Neoadjuvant therapy has been evaluated in a number of clinical trials for LAROSCC, but failed to directly improve the overall survival. On the other hand, de-escalation of treatment followed by neoadjuvant is also been explored with some promising results. This study is to retrospectively include patients with LAROSCC who received neoadjuvant therapy and surgery. Survival between patients in two cohorts (cohort 1: received postoperative radiotherapy, cohort 2: received no postoperative radiotherapy) are to be compared.
Radiotherapy|Neoadjuvant Therapy|Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Surgery
OS, Overall survival, 24 months
LRFS, Local recurrence-free rate, 24 months|QOL, Quality of life (QOL), according to the QLQ-C30 scoring manual, the final QOL scores of each field are transformed into standardized scores within 0-100 through linear transformation, 24 months|OS-MPR, Overall survival for patients obtained major pathological response (MPR) from neoadjuvant therapy, 24 months
The treatment guideline for locally advanced resectable oral squamous cell carcinoma (LAROSCC) is surgery + postoperative radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy. Though the treatment is intensive with serious harm to quality of life, the survival of patients is poor. Neoadjuvant therapy has been evaluated in a number of clinical trials for LAROSCC, but failed to directly improve the overall survival. On the other hand, de-escalation of treatment followed by neoadjuvant is also been explored with some promising results. This study is to retrospectively include patients with LAROSCC who received neoadjuvant therapy and surgery. Survival between patients in two cohorts (cohort 1: received postoperative radiotherapy, cohort 2: received no postoperative radiotherapy) are to be compared.