Freeze-Dried Black Raspberries in Preventing Oral Cancer Recurrence in High At-Risk Appalachian Patients Oral Cancer Survivors
This pilot clinical trial studies freeze-dried black raspberries (BRB) in preventing oral cancer recurrence in high at-risk Appalachian patients previously treated with surgery for oral cancer. Chemoprevention is the use of drugs natural products to keep cancer from developing, progressing, or recurring. Giving freeze-dried black raspberries may prevent oral cancer from forming or returning in oral cancer survivors.
Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage I Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage II Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Tongue Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: BRB Lozenge|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Time to recurrence, Two side tests and confidence intervals will be constructed using the exact binomial formulation., Up to 5 years
Adherence rates in patients receiving LBR, Adherence rates for subjects on LBR will be evaluated using 95% confidence intervals based on the exact binomial formulation (margins of error will be approximately 8% based on an expected compliance rate near 75% of subjects)., Up to 5 years|LBR-responsive gene expression before, during, and after LBR administration (Arm I), Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) data will be analyzed on the log scale using repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) models and the Bonferroni correction to adjust for the multiple inference problem, Up to 5 years|LBR-responsive gene expression in patients not exposed to LBR (Arm II), Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) data will be analyzed on the log scale using repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) models and the Bonferroni correction to adjust for the multiple inference problem., Up to 5 years|LBR responsive gene activity and time to recurrence, RT-PCR data will be analyzed on the log scale using repeated measures ANOVA models and the Bonferroni correction to adjust for the multiple inference problem. Genes that show changes with berries will also be compared with to a control group of 30 subjects who refuse LBR treatment but agree to be included in biomarker studies and for whom baseline alcohol and smoking history will be available, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To conduct an initial early phase clinical study utilizing a high ar-risk and underserved Appalachian population who are former oral cancer patients to determine the practicability of long-term daily freeze-dried black raspberry (BRB) (BRB lozenge) administration and to gain insights into the potential prevention of recurrent oral cancer by BRBs.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate numerous parameters (recruitment, tolerability, adherence to study guidelines, collection of biological samples, and demographics) that will be helpful in designing a future definitive, randomized, Phase II or III clinical trial structured to assess the potential effects of long-term BRB administration.

II. Evaluate the temporal modulation of BRB-responsive gene expression that favor oral cancer chemoprevention in high at-at risk normal tissues before and after BRB administration.

III. Assess the temporal modulation of BRB-responsive gene expression and biological levels of fruit components in post-surgical oral cancer patients not exposed to BRBs.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive freeze-dried black raspberry lozenges orally (PO) 4 times daily (QID) for up to 6 months.

ARM II: Patients do not receive freeze-dried black raspberries lozenges.

After completion of study treatment, patients in Arm I are followed for up to 5 years and patients in Arm II are followed for up to 1 year for oral cancer recurrence.