Sonidegib and Lenalidomide After Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well sonidegib and lenalidomide after stem cell transplant works in treating patients with multiple myeloma. Sonidegib and lenalidomide may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and may delay multiple myeloma from coming back after a stem cell transplant.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Sonidegib
Complete Response, Assessed Using the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria, A comfirmed Complete Response (CR) is defined as a CR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations. To be categorized as a CR, patients must exhibit the following:\>

* Negative immunofixation of serum and urine c, and\>
* Disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytoma, and\>
* \<5% plasma cells in Bone Marrow, and\>
* If the only measurable disease is the serum free light chain (FLC), a normal FLC ratio.\>

We are reporting the proportion of patients achieving a CR or higher divided by the total number of evaluable patients.\> Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 2 years
Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from Stem Cell Transplant (SCT) to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from SCT to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (1 Year Survival Rate), The progression-free survival time is defined as the time from SCT to progression or death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Here, we are reporting the proportion of patients that have not had a PFS event one year after SCT., Time from SCT to progression or death due to any cause, assessed at 1 year|Progression-free Survival, The progression-free survival time is defined as the time from SCT to progression or death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Here, we are reporting the proportion of patients that have not had a PFS event two years after SCT., Time from SCT to progression or death due to any cause, assessed at 2 years
Proportion of Patients Who Achieve MRD Negative Status, Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true MRD negative rate will be calculated., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the complete response (CR) rate with lenalidomide and sonidegib (LDE225) maintenance following an upfront single autologous stem cell transplant (SCT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the toxicity of lenalidomide and LDE225 when used as maintenance therapy in patients post autologous SCT.

II. To determine the progression-free survival rate at 1 and 2 years post autologous SCT.

III. To evaluate progression-free survival and overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients achieving a minimal residual disease (MRD) negative status.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sonidegib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 18 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve stringent complete response (sCR), CR, very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR), minor response (MR), or stable disease (SD) (or unconfirmed \[u\]sCR, uCR, uVGPR, uPR, uMR) continue treatment in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 90 days for up to 3 years.