Donafenib Plus Sintilimab for Advanced HCC
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of donafenib combined with sintilimab in patients with advanced hepatocellullar carcinoma (HCC).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Donafenib+sintilimab
Progression free survival (PFS) assessed by investigators according to modified Response Evalutaion Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST)., The time from initiation of treatment until the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 18 months
Adverse Events (AEs), Number of patients with AE, treatment-related AE (TRAE), immune-related AE (irAE), AE of special interest (AESI), serious adverse event (SAE), assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0., 18 months|PFS assessed by investigators according to Response Evalutaion Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, The time from initiation of treatment until the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 18 months|Objective response rate (ORR) assessed by investigators according to mRECIST., The percentage of patients who had a best overall tumor response rating of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., 18 months|Disease control rate (DCR) assessed by investigators according to mRECIST., The percentage of patients who had a tumor response rating of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD)., 18 months|ORR assessed by investigators according to RECIST 1.1., The percentage of patients who had a best overall tumor response rating of CR or PR., 18 months|DCR assessed by investigators according to RECIST 1.1., The percentage of patients who had a tumor response rating of CR, PR, or SD., 18 months
This is a Phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of donafenib combined with sintilimab in patients with advanced HCC.

30 subjects with advanced HCC (Barcelona-Clinic- Liver-Cancer \[BCLC\] stage C, or China liver cancer staging \[CNLC\] IIIa/IIIb) will be enrolled in the study.

Part 1 (Safety Run-in): 6 patients will receive donafenib 200mg P.O. BID and sintilimab 200mg I.V. for a 21-day cycle.

Part 2: patients will receive donafenib at the recommended phase 2 dose determined from Part 1 and sintilimab 200mg I.V. Q3W.

Donafenib will last until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first. Sintilimab will last up to 24 months, or until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first. Patients will be allowed to have donafenib or sintilimab as a sigle agent and will be still considered on study when the other drug cause intolerable toxicity.