Prospectively Randomized Control Clinical Trial of FOLFOXIRI Preoperative Chemotherapy Alone on Rectal Cancer in Local Advance Comparing to Oral Capecitabine Combined With Long-term Radiation
Preoperative radiation and chemotherapy is the standard treatment for local advanced rectal cancer. The addition of oxaliplatin to capecitabine combined with radiotherapy does not improve local control and long-term survival. Most importantly,chemoradiotherapy significantly increased surgical complication and poor long-term quality of life .In the absence of effective measures of predicting chemo-sensitivity, there is considerable risk of using any two-drug regimen for neoadjuvant therapy. Simultaneous use of the three chemotherapeutic drugs may be able to reduce the likelihood of resistance to both dual drug regimen and single drug regimen. The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of three chemotherapeutic regimen known as FOLFOXIRI (the drug 5-fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, Irinotecan) with standard radiotherapy combined with capecitabine in neoadjuvant therapy for local advanced rectal cancer. The drugs in the FOLFOXIRI regimen are all FDA(Food and Drug Administration) approved and have been used routinely to treat patients with advanced colorectal cancer.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: FOLFOXIRI|DRUG: XELOX|OTHER: Chemoradiotherapy|PROCEDURE: TME operation|PROCEDURE: efficacy evaluation
3-year disease free survival rate, 3-year disease free survival was defined as the interval from randomization to disease local recurrence and distance metastasis, death, or the last follow-up within 3 years. Patients without any event (metastasis or death) at the last follow-up date were regarded as random censoring., up to 5 years
3-year local recurrence rate, 3-year disease local recurrence was defined as the interval from randomization to local recurrence, death, or the last follow-up within 3 years. Patients without any event (local recurrence or death) at the last follow-up date were regarded as random censoring., up to 5 years|3-year distance metastasis free survival rate, 3-year distance metastasis was defined as the interval from randomization to distance metastasis, death, or the last follow-up within 3 years. Patients without any event (distance metastasis or death) at the last follow-up date were regarded as random censoring., up to 5 years|5-year overall survival rate, 5-year overall survival was defined as the interval from the date of randomization until death of any cause or the last follow-up within 5 years., up to 5 years|R0 Resection rate, Percentage of included patients who were performed radical tumor resection among total included patients, up to 5 years|Surgical complication, Surgical complication including anastomotic leakage , anastomotic stricture , intestinal obstruction , postoperative pelvic bleeding, and poor wound healing., up to 5 years|Tumor regression grade (TRG), The tumor regression grade(TRG) were assessed using the Mandard TRG system., up to 5 years|Number of Adverse events, Treatment related adverse events were evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE4.0), up to 5 years|Long term quality of life, Long term quality of life were assessed by European organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ C30), up to 5 years
Outline: This is a multicenter,prospectively,randomized control ,phase III clinical study.Patients are stratified according to the distance from the tumor to the anal margin（≤5cm，\>5cm） and randomized to 1 of 2 treatment regimen.Patients will receive full supportive care while on this study.

Objectives：

Primary: To compare neoadjuvant chemotherpay of FOLFOXIRI with conventional capecitabine single-agent radiotherapy in local advanced rectal cancer with respect to 3-year disease free survival rate (DFS) .

Secondary:

1. To compare postoperative 3-year local recurrence rate, 3-year distance metastasis free survival rate, 3-year overall survival between neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI with capecitabine single-agent radiotherapy groups.
2. To compare R0 Resection rate and surgical complication between the two groups.
3. To evaluate the tumor regression grade(TRG) between the two groups.
4. To evaluate the adverse event profile and Long term quality of life between the two groups.