Evaluating the Expression Levels of MicroRNA-10b in Patients With Gliomas
MicroRNAs (miRNA) are molecular biomarkers that post-transcriptionally control target genes. Deregulated miRNA expression has been observed in diverse cancers. In high grade gliomas, known as glioblastomas, the investigators have identified an oncogenic miRNA, miRNA-10b (mir-10b) that is expressed at higher levels in glioblastomas than in normal brain tissue. This study tests the hypothesis that in primary glioma samples mir-10b expression patterns will serve as a prognostic and diagnostic marker. This study will also characterize the phenotypic and genotypic diversity of glioma subclasses. Furthermore, considering the critical function of anti-mir-10b in blocking established glioblastoma growth, the investigators will test in vitro the sensitivity of individual primary tumors to anti-mir-10b treatment. Tumor, blood and cerebrospinal fluid samples will be obtained from patients diagnosed with gliomas over a period of two years. These samples will be examined for mir-10b expression levels. Patient survival, as well as tumor grade and genotypic variations will be correlated to mir-10b expression levels.
Astrocytoma|Oligodendroglioma|Oligoastrocytoma|Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma|Glioblastoma|Brain Tumors|Brain Cancer
Overall Survival, Patients will be followed for survival every 12 weeks +/- 1 week., 24 months
Progression-Free Survival, 24 Months
MicroRNAs (miRNA) are molecular biomarkers that post-transcriptionally control target genes. Deregulated miRNA expression has been observed in diverse cancers. In high grade gliomas, known as glioblastomas, the investigators have identified an oncogenic miRNA, miRNA-10b (mir-10b) that is expressed at higher levels in glioblastomas than in normal brain tissue. This study tests the hypothesis that in primary glioma samples mir-10b expression patterns will serve as a prognostic and diagnostic marker. This study will also characterize the phenotypic and genotypic diversity of glioma subclasses. Furthermore, considering the critical function of anti-mir-10b in blocking established glioblastoma growth, the investigators will test in vitro the sensitivity of individual primary tumors to anti-mir-10b treatment. Tumor, blood and cerebrospinal fluid samples will be obtained from patients diagnosed with gliomas over a period of two years. These samples will be examined for mir-10b expression levels. Patient survival, as well as tumor grade and genotypic variations will be correlated to mir-10b expression levels.