Ultrasound-guided Multilevel Erectorspinae Plane Block Versus Thoracic Epidural Analgesia for Prevention of Post Mastectomy Pain Syndrome for Breast Cancer Patients
The aim of this study is to compare the analgesic efficacy of multilevel erector spinae plane block (ESPB) vs thoracic epidural in modified radical mastectomy (MRM) regarding duration of analgesia, postoperative opioid consumption, effect on intraoperative fentanyl consumption, postoperative numerical pain rating scale and quality of life for the next 6 months.
Ultrasound|Multilevel Erector Spinae Plane Block|Thoracic Epidural Analgesia|Post Mastectomy|Pain Syndrome|Breast Cancer Patients
DRUG: Erector spinae plane block (ESPB)|DRUG: Thoracic epidural block
The average duration of analgesia, The average duration of analgesia will be recorded from the end of surgery till the first dose of morphine administrated., 24 hours postoperatively
The total amount of morphine, Patient will be discharged to the ward then rescue analgesia will be given in the form of IV morphine 3 mg boluses if the patient reported Numeric Pain Rating Scale ≥ 4. The total amount of morphine given in 24 hours will be recorded for the two groups., 24 hours postoperatively|Incidence of postmastectomy pain syndrome, Incidence of postmastectomy pain syndrome at 1, 3, and 6 months postoperatively will be recorded., 6 months postoperatively|The total amount of fentanyl, Fentanyl 1 μg/kg will be given if the mean arterial blood pressure or heart rate rises above 20% of the baseline levels., Intraoperatively|Heart rate (HR), Heart rate will be noted at 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 hours postoperatively, 24 hours Postoperatively|Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), Mean arterial blood pressure will be noted at 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 hours postoperatively, 24 hours Postoperatively|Degree of pain, Each patient will be instructed about postoperative pain assessment with the numeric rating scale (NRS) score. NRS (0 represents "no pain" while 10 represents "the worst pain imaginable"). NRS will be recorded (at rest and during movement) at 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 hours postoperatively., 24 hours Postoperatively|Incidence of Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV)., Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) will be rated on a four-point verbal scale; (none =no nausea, mild = nausea but no vomiting, moderate= vomiting one attack, severe =vomiting \> one attack). 0.1 mg/kg of IV ondansetron will be given to patients with moderate or severe postoperative nausea and vomiting.Nausea and vomiting Scores using a four-point verbal scale; on arrival to post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), scoring at 0, 4, 8,12,16,20 and 24 hours postoperatively., 24 hours Postoperatively|Complications related to the block, Complications related to the block such as local anesthetics, systemic toxicity, and vascular injury will be recorded, 6 months postoperatively|Morphine-related complications, Patient will be discharged to the ward then rescue analgesia will be given in the form of IV morphine 3 mg boluses if the patient reported Numeric Pain Rating Scale ≥ 4. The total amount of morphine given in 24 hours will be recorded for the two groups. Morphine-related complications such as respiratory depression, urine retention, or pruritis will be recorded., 24 hours Postoperatively|Patient's satisfaction, Patient's satisfaction: the patient will be classified in this group as satisfied or not., 24 hours Postoperatively
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among females. Modified Radical Mastectomy (MRM) is the principal surgical treatment for breast cancer. The standard mode of anesthesia is general anesthesia, in addition to regional blocks for effective postoperative pain control.

Pain is usually managed by narcotics, which have many side effects, including prolonged sedation, increasing incidence of pain recurrence, respiratory depression, nausea \& vomiting and paralytic ileus. All requiring close monitoring and in some occasions Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admission. Thoracic epidural and paravertebral blocks are the gold standard techniques. However, both techniques may lead to some serious complications including spinal cord injury, pneumothorax, incompatibility with pre-existing anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy and hemodynamic instability.

Recently, multiple regional techniques have been used for postoperative thoracic pain control, including that caused by modified radical mastectomy. Interfascial plane blocks are currently the hot topic in management of postoperative pain. One of these blocks is erector spinae plane block (ESPB). It is an interfacial Para spinal plane block that is simple, safe, effective and associated with fewer complications in comparison to the gold standard techniques.