Study of Bendamustine and Ofatumumab in Elderly Patients With Newly Diagnosed Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Who Are Poor Candidates for R-CHOP Chemotherapy
This is a single-arm, Phase II study designed to enroll and treat up to 64 patients. All patients in this study will receive ofatumumab and bendamustine as an IV infusion for 6 cycles (a cycle is defined as 21 days in length). Patients will receive as an IV infusion bendamustine Days 1 and 2 of Cycles 1 through 6 and ofatumumab Days 1 and 8 during Cycle 1 only and on Day 1 of Cycles 2 through 6.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Ofatumumab
Number of Patients With a Complete Response, Disease response assessments will be performed using the International Working Group (IMW)-revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma (Cheson 2007). Complete response requires a disappearance of all evidence of disease., 18 months
Duration of Response, Defined as the time from date of first documented confirmed response to date of disease progression or relapse from complete response as defined by the International Working Group (IMW)-revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma (Cheson 2007). This criteria categorizes the response of a patient's tumor to treatment as Complete Response (CR): the disappearance of all disease evidence; Partial Response (PR): regression of measurable disease and no new sites; Stable Disease (SD): less than a PR but not progressive disease (PD); Relapsed Disease or PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥ 50% of previously involved sites from nadir. Patients who are alive and free from disease progression will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment. Patients who begin further anticancer therapy prior to disease progression will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment prior to the start date of the anticancer therapy., After cycles 3 and 6 of each 21-day cycle and every 3 months thereafter until disease progression or relapse from complete response for up to 38 months|Time to Progression (TTP), Defined as the time from date of first treatment to the date of first documented disease progression or relapse from complete response as defined by the International Working Group (IMW)-revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma (Cheson 2007). This criteria categorizes the response of a patient's tumor to treatment as Complete Response (CR): the disappearance of all disease evidence; Partial Response (PR): regression of measurable disease and no new sites; Stable Disease (SD): less than a PR but not progressive disease (PD); Relapsed Disease or PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥ 50% of previously involved sites from nadir., After cycles 3 and 6 of each 21-day cycle, and every 3 months thereafter until progression or relapse from complete response for up to 40 months|Overall Survival (OS), Defined as the time from Day 1 of study drug administration to date of death from any cause., every 3 cycles during treatment and every 3 months thereafter until progression or death from any cause, projected 18 months|Overall Response (OR), Overall response is the number of patients with observed complete or partial response (CR or PR) as assessed using the International Working Group (IMW) revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma (Cheson 2007). Complete response requires disappearance of all evidence of disease. Partial response requires regression of measurable disease and no new sites., after cycles 3 and 6 of each 21-day cycle, and every 3 months thereafter, projected 18 months|Number of Patients With Treatment-Related Adverse Events (AEs) as a Measure of Safety, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant which was considered to have a relationship with the study drug (suspected to be possibly or probably related to the study drug per the Investigator's assessment). Adverse events were evaluated using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0., after cycles 3 and 6 of each 21-day cycle, and up to 30 days after last dose, projected 24 weeks|Progression-free Survival, Defined as the time from first treatment until objective tumor progression, relapse from complete response, or death from any cause. Tumor response is defined by the International Working Group (IMW)-revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma (Cheson 2007). This criteria categorizes the response of a patient's tumor to treatment as Complete Response (CR): the disappearance of all disease evidence; Partial Response (PR): regression of measurable disease and no new sites; Stable Disease (SD): less than a PR but not progressive disease (PD); Relapsed Disease or PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥ 50% of previously involved sites from nadir. Patients who are alive and free from disease progression will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment., After cycles 3 and 6 of each 21-day cycle, and every 3 months thereafter until progression or relapse from complete response for up to 40 months
While R-CHOP has improved survival and is considered standard of care for patients with DLBCL, the toxicities associated with R-CHOP are substantial in the elderly population. This is one of several reasons the outcome of older patients is worse than the corresponding younger patients. Bendamustine is an alkylating agent which causes intra- and inter-strand cross-links between DNA bases. Ofatumumab is a fully human anti-CD 20 antibody well tolerated by elderly patients. Ofatumumab targets a novel epitope of the CD20 molecule on B cells and remains on the cell surface twice as long as rituximab. The combination of both agents allows for a potentially efficacious, less toxic regimen.