Stereotactic Radiotherapy of Prostate Cancer With Reduction of Safety Margins
The study aims to reduce the PTV (Planning Target Volume) safety margins to 1-2 mm in stereotactic prostate radiotherapy for low- and medium-risk prostate cancers while maintaining a dose of 36.25 Gy in 5 fractions per day. By reducing the hems, the investigators expect a reduction of acute and late toxicity on the organs at risk, dominantly the urethra, bladder, penile bulb, and rectum, and an improvement in the quality of life.
Prostate Cancer (Adenocarcinoma)
PROCEDURE: Stereotactic radiotherapy
Acute toxicity incidence, Incidence of acute urological toxicity grade 2 and more according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.03 scale, 3 months from treatment|Acute toxicity of the lower gastrointestinal tract (GIT), Incidence of acute toxicity of the lower GIT grade 2 and more according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.03 scale, 3 months from treatment
5-year cumulative toxicity, 5-year cumulative toxicity (urological and lower GIT) according to the CTCAE 4.03 scale, 5 years|Quality of Life according to the EPIC-26 scale, Quality of Life will be assessed using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) scale, 5 years from treatment|Quality of life (EQ-5D), Quality of Life will be assessed using the EQ-5D tool, 5 years from treatment
In this prospective study, a total of 100 patients will be treated over 2 years. Patients will be implanted with 4 contrast markers (fiducials) in the prostate - in the base, apex, and right and left lobes of the prostate. Subsequently, 3 planning examinations will be performed: 1. CT with a urinary catheter immediately after the implantation of fiducials (gold contrast markers), with a distance from implantation 2. planning CT and MR without a urinary catheter. The CTV (Clinical Target Volume) will be defined by the prostate, and the border on the PTV will be reduced from 3-5 mm to 1-2 mm isometrically to maximize the reduction of doses to the organs at risk (rectum, bladder, and urethra, penile bulb, testes), the organs at risk (OAR) will be marked in the radiation plan as OAR. Subsequently, the patients will be irradiated with a dose of 36.25 Gy in 5 fractions per day. Acute toxicity will be evaluated in the 1st and 3rd month after radiotherapy, and late toxicity after 4-6 months according to CTCAE criteria (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events).