Radiotherapy Plus Durvalumab in Elderly Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The incidence and mortality of esophageal cancer are at the forefront in China, among which the elderly patients account for a large proportion. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment for inoperable locally advanced esophageal cancer. Most elderly patients with esophageal cancer cannot tolerate concurrent chemotherapy because of complications and other reasons. Immunotherapy has definite efficacy and low toxicity in advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, and the results combined with radiotherapy have also been preliminarily reported. Therefore, it is necessary to further explore the efficacy and safety of radiotherapy combined with immunotherapy in elderly patients with esophageal cancer.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Durvalumab
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS was assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)1.1. Progression-free survival defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented disease progression of local recurrence or distant metastasis or death due to any cause., 1-year
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival defined as the time from enrollment to death due to any cause., 1-, 2- and 3-year|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS was assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)1.1. Progression-free survival defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented disease progression of local recurrence or distant metastasis or death due to any cause., 2- and 3-year|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1)., during the intervention up to 60 weeks|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1)., during the intervention up to 60 weeks|Number of participants with an adverse event, Evaluanted by CTCAE 5.0, Up to 60 weeks|Quality of Life (QOL): questionnaire EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3), Evaluate the quality of life via questionnaire EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3), minimum value 30, maximum value 126, higher scores mean a worse outcome., up to 60 weeks
Quality of Life (QOL): questionnaire EORTC QLQ-OES18, Evaluate the quality of life via questionnaire EORTC QLQ-OES18, minimum value 18, maximum value 72, higher scores mean a better outcome., up to 60 weeks
The incidence and mortality of esophageal cancer are at the forefront in China, among which the elderly patients account for a large proportion. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment for inoperable locally advanced esophageal cancer. Most elderly patients with esophageal cancer cannot tolerate concurrent chemotherapy because of complications and other reasons. Immunotherapy has definite efficacy and low toxicity in advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, and the results combined with radiotherapy have also been preliminarily reported. Therefore, it is necessary to further explore the efficacy and safety of radiotherapy combined with immunotherapy in elderly patients with esophageal cancer.