Efficacy and Safety of Oral HBI-8000 in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma (PTCL)
Phase 2b, open-label, non-randomized, single arm study to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of HBI-8000 40 mg BIW in patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL (R/R PTCL).
Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma (PTCL)
DRUG: HBI-8000
Objective Response Rate, Tumor assessment was performed every 8 weeks until disease progression. Objective response rate was defined as the percentage of patients who achieved a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) according to International Workshop Response Criteria (IWC) 2014 criteria and assessed by an Independent Overall Efficacy Review Committee (IOERC).

CR: Target nodes/nodal masses must regress to \<1.5 cm in longest transverse diameter of a lesion (LDi), no extralymphatic sites of disease, nonmeasured lesion is absent, disappearance of spleen or liver enlargement, no new lesions, no bone marrow (BM) involvement.

PR: ≥50% decrease in sum of the product of the perpendicular diameters for multiple lesions (SPD) of up to 6 target measurable nodes and extranodal sites, nonmeasured lesions is absent/normal, regressed, but no increase, spleen must have regressed by \>50% in length beyond normal, no new lesions., Up to approximately 47 months.
Objective Response Rate by Disease Subtype, Tumor assessment was performed every 8 weeks until disease progression. Objective response rate was defined as the percentage of patients who achieved a CR or a PR according to IWC 2014 criteria and assessed by an IOERC.

CR: Target nodes/nodal masses must regress to \<1.5 cm in LDi, no extralymphatic sites of disease, nonmeasured lesion is absent, disappearance of spleen or liver enlargement, no new lesions, no BM involvement.

PR: ≥50% decrease in SPD of up to 6 target measurable nodes and extranodal sites, nonmeasured lesions is absent/normal, regressed, but no increase, spleen must have regressed by \>50% in length beyond normal, no new lesions.

Disease subtype (PTCL-NOS, AITL, ALCL, ALK, EATL) was assessed by Central Pathology Review (CPR)., Up to approximately 47 months.|Median Duration of Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the duration from the date of the first study drug dose to the disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. PD was defined using the IWC 2014 criteria, as any new lesion or an individual node/lesion must be abnormal with: "LDi \>1.5 cm" and "increase by 50% from perpendicular diameters nadir" and "an increase in LDi or shortest axis perpendicular to the LDi from nadir, 0.5 cm for lesions \<2 cm or 1.0 cm for lesions \>2 cm"., Up to approximately 47 months.|Median Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the duration of response from first response (CR/PR) to disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. CR or PR according to the IWC 2014 criteria was assessed by an IOERC., Up to approximately 47 months.|Safety Evaluated as Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v.4.0, Safety evaluated as number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0.

From date of first study drug to 30±3 days after the last dosing of the study drug or before the initiation of new cancer treatment., Up to approximately 44 months.
Median Duration of Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the duration from the first dose of study medication to death from any cause., Up to approximately 55 months.|Pharmacokinetics (Cmax-selected Sites), Maximum observed plasma concentration (ng/mL), obtained directly from the observed concentration versus time data. Calculated for the C1D1 and C2D1 doses., 0 (predose) up to 72 hours postdose on C1D1 and 0 (predose) up to 4 hours postdose on C2D1|Pharmacokinetics AUC (0-INF), Area under the plasma concentration time curve from zero (predose) extrapolated to infinity (ng\*h/mL) (Day 1 only), calculated by linear up/log down trapezoidal summation and extrapolated to infinity by addition of the last quantifiable concentration (Clast) divided by the apparent terminal rate constant (λz): AUC(0-last) + Clast/λz. Calculated for the C1D1 dose only., 0 (predose) up to 72 hours postdose on C1D1|Pharmacokinetics AUC (0-tau), Area under the plasma concentration time curve over the dosing interval tau (ng\*h/mL), calculated by linear up/log down trapezoidal summation. Calculated for the C1D1 dose only. Actual elapsed sampling time at tau and the corresponding plasma concentration was used in the calculation of this parameter. If concentrations fall to BLQ before or at tau, AUCall (area under the plasma concentration time curve from zero \[predose\] to the time of the last observation within the dosing interval, calculated by linear up/log down trapezoidal summation) was used as the estimate of this parameter., 0 (predose) up to 72 hours postdose on C1D1|t 1/2, Apparent terminal half-life (h), calculated as (ln 2)/λz. Calculated for the C1D1 dose only., 0 (predose) up to 72 hours postdose on C1D1
This is a Phase 2b, open-label, non-randomized, single arm study to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of HBI-8000 40 mg BIW in patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL (R/R PTCL). HBI 8000 will be administered orally approximately 30 minutes after any regular meal twice a week. There will be 3-4 days between dosing. A cycle is defined as consecutive 28 days. HBI-8000 administration will be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities are observed despite appropriate dose reduction or treatment interruption.