Improving Erectile Function and Quality of Life After Prostate Cancer Treatment
This is a research study of erectile dysfunction (ED) in men diagnosed with prostate cancer. 144 patients and partners will participate in the study. The purpose of this study is to test a new treatment that combines a cognitive-behavioral intervention with medication and a vacuum constrictive device to treat ED. This new treatment consists of multiple therapeutic elements that enhance compliance with medical treatment and increase sexual activity through enhancement of the sensual pleasure of sex and partner support.
Prostate Cancer|Erectile Dysfunction Following Radical Prostatectomy|Erectile Dysfunction Following Simple Prostatectomy|Erectile Dysfunction
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive-behavioral Meetings|DRUG: sildenafil citrate|DEVICE: Vacuum Constriction Device
Erectile Function Improvement, Change in Total score in the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) between baseline and 10 months. The IIEF assesses male sexual function in five domains: erectile function, orgasmic function, sexual desire, intercourse satisfaction, and overall satisfaction. Higher scores indicate improved functioning., 10 months after start of treatment|Change in Number of Erections, Change from baseline in the number of patients with a score of \>=22 on the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF). This score signifies the presence of erection., 10 months after start of treatment|Erectile Function Improvement, Change in Total score in the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) between baseline and 7 months. The IIEF assesses male sexual function in five domains: erectile function, orgasmic function, sexual desire, intercourse satisfaction, and overall satisfaction. Higher scores indicate improved functioning., 7 months after start of treatment|Change in Number of Erections, Change from baseline in the number of patients with a score of \>=22 on the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF). This score signifies the presence of erection., 7 months after start of treatment
Sexual Quality of Life (QoL) Improvement, Change from baseline in the total score of the Sexual Quality of Life (male/female) scales. Higher scores indicate better quality of life., 10 months after start of treatment|Change in Overall Quality of Life (QoL) Score, Change in the total score from baseline on the Short-Form-36 Health Survey (SF36) will be used to show changes in QoL. Higher scores indicate increased QoL. QOL in eight dimensions, including physical, role and social functioning, role limitations, and general physical and mental health., 10 months after start of treatment|Improved Mood Score, Change from baseline in the sub-score from the 21-item Profile of Mood States (POMS) will be used to measure psychological adjustment to cancer. It will be used to measure depression, anxiety and anger. Higher scores indicate more mood disorder., 10 months after start of treatment|Change in Treatment Compliance, Change from baseline in the number of patients compliant with treatment. Patients will be described as regular user, intermittent user, or drop out based on the information recorded in the patients Sex Diary over the previous seven days., 10 months after start of treatment|Change in Frequency of Sexual Activity, Change from baseline in the mean value of sexual activities ((1) Sexual encounters; (2) Sexual simulation; (3) intercourse; and (ejaculation)) experienced by each participant over the previous seven days, 7 months after start of treatment|Change in Frequency of Sexual Activity, Change from baseline in the mean value of sexual activities ((1) Sexual encounters; (2) Sexual simulation; (3) intercourse; and (ejaculation)) experienced by each participant over the previous seven days, 10 months after start of treatment|Change in Treatment Compliance, Change from baseline in the number of patients compliant with treatment. Patients will be described as regular user, intermittent user, or drop out based on the information recorded in the patients Sex Diary over the previous seven days., 7 months after start of treatment|Sexual Quality of Life (QoL) Improvement, Change from baseline in the total score of the Sexual Quality of Life (male/female) scales, 7 months after start of treatment|Change in Overall Quality of Life (QoL) Score, Change in the total score from baseline on the Short-Form-36 Health Survey (SF36) will be used to show changes in QoL. Higher scores indicate increased QoL. QOL in eight dimensions, including physical, role and social functioning, role limitations, and general physical and mental health., 7 months after start of treatment
Self-Efficacy Improvement, Change from baseline in the mean score of Bandura's measure to assess self-efficacy. This scale is scored from 0-100, where 100 indicates complete confidence., 7 months after start of treatment|Self-Efficacy Improvement, Change from baseline in the mean score of Bandura's measure to assess self-efficacy. This scale is scored from 0-100, where 100 indicates complete confidence., 10 months after start of treatment|Change in Level of Sensual Pleasure of Sex, Change from baseline in a sub-score of the Sexual Function Questionnaire where higher scores indicate greater pleasure., 7 months after start of treatment|Change in Level of Sensual Pleasure of Sex, Change from baseline in a sub-score of the Sexual Function Questionnaire where higher scores indicate greater pleasure., 10 months after start of treatment|Change in Perceived Partner Support, change from baseline in a total score from a sub-scale of the Social Support for Exercise Behavior Questionnaire as modified by the study team to measure partner support for rehabilitation. Higher scores will indicate greater support., 7 months after start of treatment|Change in Perceived Partner Support, change from baseline in a total score from a sub-scale of the Social Support for Exercise Behavior Questionnaire as modified by the study team to measure partner support for rehabilitation. Higher scores will indicate greater support., 10 months after start of treatment|Change in Flaccid Penile Length, Change from baseline in the total length of patients flaccid penis. Length will be measured using Mounding's method, 7 months|Change in Flaccid Penile Length, Change from baseline in the total length of patients flaccid penis. Length will be measured using Mounding's method, 10 months|Change in Stretched Penile Length, Change from baseline in the total length of patients stretched penis. Length will be measured using Mounding's method, 7 months|Change in Stretched Penile Length, Change from baseline in the total length of patients stretched penis. Length will be measured using Mounding's method, 10 months|Change in Volume of Flaccid Penile Blood Flow, Change from baseline in the total penile blood flow will be assessed by a color and spectral Doppler ultra sound of the cavernosal arteries, 7 months after start of treatment|Change in Volume of Flaccid Penile Blood Flow, Change from baseline in the total penile blood flow will be assessed by a color and spectral Doppler ultra sound of the cavernosal arteries, 10 months after start of treatment|TGF-B1 Levels, Total level of Transforming Growth Factor Beta-1 levels will be assessed using a commercially available assay, baseline - 1 week after start of treatment
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a common side effect of prostate cancer treatment. Existing medical treatment focuses on early penile rehabilitation, aiming to prevent penile shrinkage and preserve nerves and smooth muscles to facilitate erection return. It typically includes administration of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor (PDE-5), application of vacuum constriction devices (VCD) or intracavernous injection immediately after prostate cancer treatment.

To evaluate the proposed intervention, a randomized, controlled longitudinal clinical trial will be conducted to examine the effect of this cognitive-behavioral intervention on early-stage prostate cancer patients with ED and their partners. The proposed study includes a pilot study, a randomized clinical trial (the main study) and data analysis. The study duration for main study participants is 10 months including one month of recruitment and baseline assessment, six months of intervention, and three months of follow-up. The study duration for pilot study participants is 7 months including one month of recruitment and baseline assessment plus six months of intervention.

The Pilot Study A pilot study will be conducted to develop and test the proposed study intervention over 12 months. The pilot study will recruit 36 early-stage prostate cancer patients and their partners. The 36 couples will be randomly assigned to three study arms: (1) standard medical treatment of ED (MED); (2) standard medical treatment of ED plus cognitive-behavioral intervention (MED+CBI); and (3) usual care (UC) in which the study participants will not receive any study intervention, but will continue with standard care that allows patient's request for ED treatment. The purpose to include the usual care group is to collect preliminary data to aid the estimation of intervention effect size, statistic power and sample size, and to compare the intervention outcome with the real world scenario in order to provide the justification for the inclusion or exclusion of the usual care arm in the main study. The pilot study participants will be assessed twice at baseline (T1) and 7 months (T2) only. Doppler Ultrasound of the penis will be performed at T1 and T2 to examine changes in the volume of penile blood flow in patients. Subjects are allowed to opt out of the Doppler Ultrasound test, because this pilot data is exploratory and five or more ultrasound tests per group are sufficient. Collecting and analyzing blood samples will be performed at T1 and T2 and subjects are allowed to opt out of this test as well. The blood sample will be collected in order to test transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-ß1) and to assess its relation to erectile function. The result will allow us to evaluate the intervention impact at molecular level and formulate a best possible intervention to ED.

The Main Study During a 4-year clinical trial study, 144 early-stage prostate cancer patients along with their partners will be randomly assigned to two study arms: (1) standard medical treatment of ED (MED) and (2) standard medical treatment of ED plus cognitive-behavioral intervention (MED+CBI). The MED includes administration of sildenafil citrate (Viagra) and/or vacuum constriction devices (pump). The MED+CBI entails six in-person sessions and five telephone follow-ups over six months. The patients will be assessed on erectile function (EF), quality of life (QOL) and mood at baseline (T1), 7 months (T2) and 10 months (T3). The partners will be assessed on QOL and mood at T1, T2 and T3. Doppler Ultrasound of the penis will be performed at T1 and T2 to examine changes in the volume of penile blood flow among 50 patients who will be consecutively selected from the two study groups, with 25 per study arm.

The long-term primary goals of the study are to:

1. Assess the effect of the new treatment on erection function, quality of life, and mood.
2. Assess the treatment compliance and frequency of sexual activity of the new treatment.
3. Investigate the mechanism in which the new treatment works.

The long-term secondary goals of the study are to:

1. Assess the effect of the new treatment on the quality of life and mood of the patient's partner.
2. Assess the changes in the volume of penile blood flow due to study treatments.