Frailty Assessments for Risk Assessment in Gynecologic Oncology Patients
FARGO is a prospective cohort study that aims to determine the performance of preoperative frailty assessment based on the Frailty Phenotype (FP), compared to a perioperative cardiovascular risk assessment based on the combination of preoperative Revised Cardiac Risk Index (RCRI), age and occurrence of myocardial injury after noncardiac surgery (MINS), in predicting the composite of all-cause death or new disability at 6 months after surgery in patients aged 55 or older. Patients will have confirmed or suspected gynecologic cancer, undergoing cytoreductive or high-risk surgery with or without chemotherapy.
Gynecologic Cancer|Frailty|Oncology
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Clinical Frailty Scale|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Frailty Phenotype
All-cause death or new disability at 6 months, Disability status is determined using the 12-item World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS 2.0). New disability at any time point is based according to the following criteria that account for baseline disability scores:

1. For individuals with a disability score of \<25% at baseline, new disability is defined as a disability score ≥25% at follow-up;
2. For individuals with a disability score ≥25%, new disability is defined an increase in disability score of ≥8%.

Vascular death is defined as any death with a vascular cause and includes those deaths following a myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, stroke, cardiac revascularization procedure (i.e., percutaneous coronary intervention \[PCI\] or coronary artery bypass graft \[CABG\] surgery), pulmonary embolus, hemorrhage, or deaths due to an unknown cause. Non-vascular death is defined as any death due to a clearly documented non-vascular cause (e.g. trauma, infection, malignancy)., 6 months
All cause death, Vascular death is defined as any death with a vascular cause and includes those deaths following a myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, stroke, cardiac revascularization procedure (i.e., percutaneous coronary intervention \[PCI\] or coronary artery bypass graft \[CABG\] surgery), pulmonary embolus, hemorrhage, or deaths due to an unknown cause. Non-vascular death is defined as any death due to a clearly documented non-vascular cause (e.g., trauma, infection, malignancy)., 28 days and 1 year|Oncologic Outcomes: Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS, defined as the time from treatment initiation to tumor progression or recurrence or death from any cause, or to the date of censoring at the last time the subject was known to be alive. Cancer progression/recurrence will be defined as a measurable progression/recurrence documented on imaging., at 6 and 12 months|Oncologic Outcomes: Cancer-specific death, Cancer-specific death is death directly attributable to the primary gynecological cancer or directly related to its treatment, in the absence of other causes of death., at 6 and 12 months|New Disability, Disability status is determined using the 12-item World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS 2.0). New disability at any time point is based according to the following criteria that account for baseline disability scores:

1. For individuals with a disability score of \<25% at baseline, new disability is defined as a disability score ≥25% at follow-up;
2. For individuals with a disability score ≥25%, new disability is defined an increase in disability score of ≥8%.

Definition of new disability at 28 days, 6 months, and 1 year after surgery will use as baseline disability score the WHODAS 2.0 score measured before surgery., 28 days, 6 months and 1 year after surgery|Major vascular complications, defined as a composite of vascular death, and non-fatal myocardial infarction (or myocardial injury for the 28-day time point), stroke, symptomatic proximal venous thromboembolism, and cardiac arrest, at 28 days, 6 months, and 1 year after surgery|Infection, and infection with sepsis, Infection is defined as a pathologic process caused by the invasion of normally sterile tissue or fluid or body cavity by pathogenic or potentially pathogenic organisms.

The Third International Consensus Definitions Task Force defines sepsis as a "life-threatening organ dysfunction due to a dysregulated host response to infection." Based on the Third International Consensus Definitions for Sepsis and Septic Shock (Sepsis-3) criteria, sepsis will require a quick Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (qSOFA) Score ≥2 points due to infection. The qSOFA includes the following items and scoring system:

1. Altered mental status (1 point)
2. systolic blood pressure of 100 mm Hg or less (1 point), and
3. respiratory rate of 22 breaths/min or more (1 point)., at 28 days, 6 months, and 1 year after surgery|In-hospital delirium, Delirium during the first 3 days after surgery or before discharge from the hospital, based on Confusion Assessment Method (CAM). According to CAM, patients are diagnosed with delirium if they meet the first 2 criteria (acute onset with fluctuating course, AND attention deficit), and at least one of the second 2 criteria (disorganized thinking OR altered level of consciousness). Participants will be screened for postoperative delirium while in hospital, twice daily, during the first 3 days after surgery or until discharge (if before 3 days), by research personnel, using the 3D-CAM, or the CAM-ICU any time the participants are in the PACU or in ICU, During the index hospital admission for surgery up to the first 3 days after surgery or before discharge from hospital|Bleeding Independently Associated with Mortality after noncardiac Surgery, BIMS is a bleeding meeting any of the following 3 criteria:

1. Leading to a postoperative hemoglobin \<70 g/L
2. Requiring transfusion of one or more units of red blood cells
3. Judged to be the immediate cause of death, 28 days after surgery|Acute congestive heart failure, The definition of congestive heart failure requires at least one of the following clinical signs (i.e. any of the following signs: elevated jugular venous pressure, respiratory rales/crackles, crepitations, or presence of S3) and at least one of the following:

1. Radiographic findings (i.e., vascular redistribution, interstitial pulmonary edema, or frank alveolar pulmonary edema) OR
2. Heart failure treatment implemented with diuretics with documented clinical improvement., 28 days after surgery, 6 months and 1 year after surgery|Unplanned admission to ICU, admission to the ICU that was not planned, during index hospitalization for surgery|New clinically important atrial fibrillation, The definition of new clinically important atrial fibrillation requires the documentation of atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter of any duration on an ECG or rhythm strip, which results in angina congestive heart failure, symptomatic hypotension, or requires treatment with a rate controlling drug, antiarrhythmic drug, or electrical cardioversion., 28 days after surgery, 6 months and 1 year after surgery|Length of stay, time spent in hospital immediately after surgery, during index hospitalization for surgery|Chemotherapy-related outcomes: total dose received, This will be measured at the end of any chemotherapy treatment when considered terminated:

Total dose received, defined as Relative Dose Intensity (RDI), as calculated as the percentage of the standard dose that was administered, Before Surgery, 6-months post-surgery|Chemotherapy-related outcomes: time to completion of all chemotherapy cycles, This will be measured at the end of any chemotherapy treatment when considered terminated:

Time to completion of all chemotherapy cycles (number of days), Before Surgery, 6-months post-surgery|Chemotherapy-related outcomes: patient's decisional regret, This will be measured at the end of any chemotherapy treatment when considered terminated:

Patient's decisional regret, defined as "distress or remorse after a (health care) decision," assessed using the Decisional Regret scale, a validated a 5-item scale, Before Surgery, 6-months post-surgery|Chemotherapy-related outcomes: Change in health-related function or well-being, This will be measured at the end of any chemotherapy treatment when considered terminated:

Change in health-related function or well-being, defined as the difference in WHODAS 2.0 score after chemotherapy compared to before chemotherapy., Before Surgery, 6-months post-surgery|Chemotherapy-related outcomes, This will be measured at the end of any chemotherapy treatment when considered terminated:

Change in health-related quality of life, defined as the difference in FACT-G7 score after chemotherapy compared to before chemotherapy., Before Surgery, 6-months post-surgery
Little is known about how to best predict postoperative outcomes, recovery from complications, and chemotherapy tolerance in an increasingly older and medically complex GO population. Measuring frailty may represent a comprehensive tool for risk prediction. The study 1) will help fill the current gap in knowledge; 2) will translate into clinical practice changes both locally, and when replicated in a larger multi-centre study, elsewhere in Canada and worldwide; and 3) will inform future studies on shared decision-making strategies and interventions.

By evaluating the role of frailty as a static or dynamic predictor of patient important outcomes, and by considering the complexity of these patients and also of their treatment trajectories, the study has the potential to fill those gaps and influence how care is delivered. By involving stakeholders in the evaluation of feasibility and acceptability of frailty assessment, this will inform a change in care that is sustainable, innovative, and patient-centred.

There have been substantial knowledge advancements about perioperative risk factors and the long-term impact of postoperative complications; however, oncology patients and patient-reported outcomes have been insufficiently studied. There is increased literature on frailty assessment in noncardiac surgery; however, studies that included GO patients are few and of low-quality. The study will overcome the limitations of the current knowledge and practice, and will potentially change healthcare delivery.