Oxaliplatin in PIPAC for Nonresectable Peritoneal Metastases of Digestive Cancers
Current curative treatment of digestive peritoneal carcinomatosis consists of complete cytoreduction surgery associated with intraperitoneal chemotherapy. This treatment has important limits: a high morbimortality and the impossibility of repeating the sessions. The majority of patients are therefore treated with systemic chemotherapy, which despite its progress, remains palliative.

Pressurized Intraperitoneal aerosol chemotherapy (PIPAC) has many advantages: under laparoscopy, low morbidity, good intratumoral penetration of cytotoxics, possibility of repeating the sessions and low financial cost.

Therefore, the investigator propose a phase 1 study, in colorectal and stomach cancer, with oxaliplatin doses escalation in Pressurized Intraperitoneal aerosol chemotherapy. It would allow a better tumor response, with potentially few risks and thus improve survival in patients with digestive peritoneal carcinoses, increasing access to cytoreductive surgery.
Digestive Cancer
DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: L-Folinic acid|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Maximal Tolerated Dose, Maximal tolerated dose 3x3 patients inclusion(modified fibonacci dose escalation), 8 to 12 weeks|Recommanded dose for the extension phase, Dose level below the maximum tolerated dose, 8 to 12 weeks
Cumulative toxicity after the end of the PIPAC sessions received (maximum 5) at the same dose level, with CTC-AE scale, 24 months after the last PIPAC received|Overall survival, Median overall survival at the end of the study, 24 months after the last PIPAC received|Progression-Free Survival, Median PFS, time between the first PIPAC received and progression or death in absence of progression, 12 months after the last PIPAC received
The objective of this study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (mtd) of oxaliplatin to be used during PIPAC.

Study design is a phase I/II, multicentre, non-comparative, non-randomised dose escalation clinical trial.

The phase I study will consist of a 3 by 3 dose escalation according to modified fibonacci dose escalation, starting at the current PIPAC dose (i.e. 90mg/m2), up to a maximum dose of 300mg/m2, corresponding to the current Intraperitoneal chemohyperthermia.

Each patient may receive up to 5 PIPAC sessions ; DLT period will be from the first day (D1) of the first PIPAC session until the end of the second PIPAC session, including the interval chemotherapy (i.e. D-1 of the 3rd CIPPA session), i.e. 4 to 6 weeks later ; Phase II study is an extension cohort at the recommended dose determined in the Phase I study. It will be a multi-centre, single-arm study and will analyse overall patient survival and secondary resectability rates with complete cytoreductive surgery and intraperitoneal chemohyperthermia. It will be conducted in approximately 20 patients treated at the recommended dose and followed for 2 years.