Naltrexone RCT for Treatment-Emergent Fatigue in Patients Receiving Radiation Therapy for Breast Cancer
Naltrexone is a drug which blocks some effects of chemicals called beta-endorphins that are made in the body. Beta-endorphins can be made in response to stress, injury, and also pleasurable activities. In previous studies, it has been shown that levels of beta-endorphins in the blood go up during radiation therapy, and that this increase is linked to fatigue. This suggests that naltrexone may help to reduce fatigue in people who are getting radiation therapy In this research study, the investigators are looking to see whether naltrexone works better than a placebo in reducing fatigue during radiation therapy.
Invasive Breast Cancer (Stage I-III)|Ductal Carcinoma in Situ|Lobular Carcinoma in Situ|Lobular Carcinoma|Fatigue Related to Cancer Treatment
DRUG: Naltrexone|DRUG: Sugar Pill
Change in FACIT-fatigue Subscale Score From Randomization to End of Study, Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue Subscale (FACIT-fatigue subscale): This 13-item self-report scale measuring fatigue and functional impairment as a result of fatigue has been validated in cancer patients (Cella et al. Cancer 2002;94:528-38) The scale is reverse-scored and the range is 0 (maximum fatigue) - 52 (minimum fatigue). According to ICD10 criteria, a score \<= 34 indicates significant cancer related fatigue. A change of 10 points has been shown to constitute a clinically meaningful difference on this subscale., Evaluated at baseline, weekly monitoring visits from start of radiation therapy and meets fatigue eligibility threshold
This trial has two phases (a monitoring and an intervention phase).

Monitoring Phase: Prior to starting radiotherapy for non-metastatic breast cancer, participants will be approached and consented for the monitoring phase of the study, which involves longitudinal monitoring of fatigue in order to establish whether a patient develops fatigue after starting radiation. The level of pre-radiotherapy fatigue will be obtained during the final two weeks before radiotherapy is started. All participants will undergo weekly monitoring of fatigue via a brief self-report questionnaire. The monitoring period will continue up until one month after the conclusion of radiotherapy. Those whose fatigue symptoms increase above the pre-specified threshold at any point during the monitoring period will be approached about enrollment into the intervention phase of the study.

Intervention Phase: This is a randomized, double-blind, parallel-arm 5-week clinical trial which will be used to determine the effect of naltrexone on fatigue emerging during radiation therapy for non-metastatic breast cancer.