Rhomboid Flap vs. Deep Suturing in Recurrent Pilonidal Sinus
This prospective clinical trial aims to compare the perioperative outcomes of rhomboid flap versus deep suturing in the management of recurrent sacrococcygeal pilonidal disease.
Pilonidal Sinus Infected
PROCEDURE: The rhomboid flap approach
Primary Outcome of comparing the perioperative of rhomboid flap versus deep suturing in the management of recurrent sacrococcygeal pilonidal disease., Primary Outcome :

Postoperative recurrence rate. Recurrence will be defined as the additional outbreak of signs and symptoms of pilonidal disease after a disease-free interval following complete wound healing, baseline
Secondary Outcome (subsidiary)of comparing the perioperative of rhomboid flap versus deep suturing in the management of recurrent sacrococcygeal pilonidal disease., Secondary Outcome (subsidiary):

1. Operative time.
2. Postoperative pain.
3. The incidence of other complications.
4. Postoperative cosmetic outcome.
5. The duration to walk, sit on toilet free from pain.
6. The duration till complete daily activities., baseline
Data management and analysis (Details needed):, Data collection Data will be collected by the principal investigator from Assiut University Hospital from.

Computer software We will use SPSS version 26 for analyzing the data. Statistical tests Quantitative data will be presented as means ± SD. Categorical and binary variables will be tested using the χ 2 test and Fisher's exact test. Statistical significance will be assumed when p \< 0.05., baseline
Pilonidal disease derives its name from Latin- pilus meaning "hair," and nidus meaning "nest" . The source of pilonidal disease is thought to be a deep intergluteal sulcus. It is widely accepted that the establishment of the pilonidal sinus results from the penetration of shed hair shafts through the skin, which ultimately leads to an acute or chronic infected site .

Pilonidal disease is largely considered a surgical disease, especially in acute instances with secondary infection and abscess. Infection or abscess requires incision and drainage. Definitive treatment is delayed the majority of the time if there is an acute infection or abscess until after the infection has been addressed. Surgical options for chronic disease are numerous and can include "pit picking," curettage, aspiration, unroofing, or surgical excision. Defects can be closed primarily, with flaps or grafts, or allowed to heal by secondary intention .

The most serious problem of the various surgical approaches proposed is the recurrence rate, ranging from 0% to 40% .

The surgical treatment of patients with recurrent disease does not differ from the surgical treatment of primary pilonidal disease. In case of a recurrence with an abscess, incision and drainage prevail, while in case of chronic recurrent disease, a flap based procedure may be indicated following sinus excision with scarring, like the rhomboid flap .