Do Changes in ctDNA Predict Response for Patients With Oesophageal Cancer Receiving Durvalumab
Patients with cancer are increasingly being treated with drugs designed to modulate the response of their immune system, broadly to boost their body's defences against cancer. However, there is an unmet need to identify which patients are unlikely to benefit. Deciding on benefit from therapy uses standard imaging methods (e.g. CT scans), which can take time (months) whereas DNA in the bloodstream could be measured more rapidly.

The main aim of this study is to assess whether changes in the level of circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) can quickly determine a patients response. This would enable patients to change therapies more quickly if they are not responding and reduce exposure to unnecessary side effects.
Oesophageal Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab
Clinical response to therapy (durvalumab), Changes in ctDNA levels (from baseline to C1/C2) compared with objective RECIST radiological response at 26 weeks, 26 weeks
Immunological milieu in tumour samples, Changes in intra-tumoural T-Cell distribution, immunostaining and other biomarkers of immune activation following exposure to durvalumab, 33 months|ctDNA/plasma sampling, Tracking immunological changes and variability in immune-cells (clonality, T-cell receptor, tumour infiltrating lymphocytes) and neoantigens; tumour specific mutation(s); and, blood-based biomarkers following exposure to durvalumab, 33 months|ctDNA's potential to identify tumour resistance mechanisms, Tracking immunological changes and variability in immune-cells (clonality, T-cell receptor, tumour infiltrating lymphocytes) and neoantigens; tumour specific mutation(s); and, blood-based biomarkers following exposure to durvalumab, 33 months|Correlation in ctDNA levels and occurrence of clinically related adverse events, Variations in tumour variant alelle frequencies (VAF) compared with the occurrences of \>= Grade 2 treatment related side effects, 33 months|Integrate the use of iRECIST criteria, Compare responses by RECIST and iRECIST criteria, 33 months|Patient stratification according to predefined genetic signatures, Time taken and costs incurred from sample collection through to the generation of data and, the correlation between response to durvalumab and the genetic signature that the patient is assigned to, 33 months|Ex-vivo effect of compounds on tumour/cell models, Ex-vivo response to durvalumab using patient derived model systems, 33 months
Measuring circulating (plasma) tumour DNA has been described as a 'liquid biopsy' able to study a tumour without invasive biopsy. By measuring ctDNA at different time points the investigators can detect tumour changes that indicate if the patient is responding to treatment or not.

This trial has been designed as a prospective, open label, non-randomised trial where patient with advanced oesophageal cancer will be treated with MEDI4736 (durvalumab), a drug designed to alter the immune system response. Samples will be taken to regularly to measure ctDNA levels and compared to patients response at 6 months when undergoing standard CT scans.

The study will run at a single centre (Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge). Nineteen, evaluable, patients will receive durvalumab until progression while detailed studies will assess their tumour and immune response.