Emotional Evaluation and Reconstructed Breast Satisfaction
Data from the National Cancer Institute (Inca) reveal that breast cancer is the most common type of cancer among women worldwide. In Brazil, it is second only to non-melanoma skin cancer. Breast cancer is a feared disease in the female universe because it is considered one of the major causes of death due to neoplasia among women. It brings also the stigma of suffering, mutilation, loss of female identity and loss of body contour. Among other issues, problems with body self-image may have an impact on sexuality and fertility, and also, the incapacity to breastfeed. Breast reconstruction can restore the patient's shape and physical integrity, among other benefits. The research justifies itself because information about the satisfaction of breast reconstruction can be achieved. It is also known that women having breast reconstruction after a mastectomy due to cancer have a favorable evolution. This study will analyze body contour satisfaction of women undergoing mastectomy and breast reconstruction as part of their breast cancer treatment. The Breast Q questionnaire will be used to measure patients satisfaction.
Malignant Neoplasm of the Breast
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: First Questionnaire application|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Second Questionnaire application
Post-treatment Satisfaction, Comparison of results between the first and the second Breast Q score. This score represents questionnaries about diferents domains and each question has four possible dimensions. The values of these dimensions varies from 1 to 4 (Likert Scale). The sum of each domain raw score scale will be plotted in the Breast Q Conversion Table to convert the summed domain score to a Equivalent Rasch Transformed Score with values ranging from 0 (worst) to 100 (best)., Six month
This is a prospective, quasi-experimental study. The subject sample will be composed of women submitted to mastectomy due to breast cancer and to breast reconstruction as part of their treatment. They will be evaluated twice. One when they receive the cancer diagnosis and the other six months after de reconstruction surgery. On both occasions, they will answer the Brest Q questionnaire.