Patient's and Caregiver's Expectations and Preferences Concerning Art Therapy Activities for Cancer Support
Cancer patients and their caregivers often experience difficulties in coping with the cancer diagnosis and the treatment that follows. Creative art therapy could support cancer patients and their caregivers in coping with these issues by using their creativity and self-expression. The aim of this study for the investigator's research team is to create a clear image of what cancer patients and their caregivers expect of supportive care to help them coping with cancer diagnosis, cancer therapy and life after cancer. This is a prospective, interventional study. Cancer patients and their caregivers will be approached to participate in this study. They will be asked to complete a questionnaire about their satisfaction with the current support they get to help them coping with cancer diagnosis, cancer therapy and life after cancer and whether they would like to participate in an art therapy program, which art therapy forms they would like to participate in, how they would like them to be organized, etc.
Cancer|Psychological Distress
OTHER: Questionnaire
Response rate, At study inclusion
Activities of interest assessed by questionnary, At study inclusion|Preference on organization of activities evaluated by questionnary, At study inclusion|Patient or caregiver characteristics (sex, age, diagnosis) collected by questionnary, At study inclusion
Cancer patients and their caregivers often experience difficulties in coping with the cancer diagnosis and the treatment that follows. Creative art therapy could support cancer patients and their caregivers in coping with these issues by using their creativity and self-expression. The aim of this study for the investigator's research team is to create a clear image of what cancer patients and their caregivers expect of supportive care to help them coping with cancer diagnosis, cancer therapy and life after cancer. This is a prospective, interventional study. Cancer patients and their caregivers will be approached to participate in this study. They will be asked to complete a questionnaire about their satisfaction with the current support they get to help them coping with cancer diagnosis, cancer therapy and life after cancer and whether they would like to participate in an art therapy program, which art therapy forms they would like to participate in, how they would like them to be organized, etc.