Cancer Distress Coach Mobile App Trial
The Cancer Distress Coach (CDC) mobile app is a symptom management tool for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in cancer patients and caregivers. Based largely on "PTSD Coach" from the National Center for PTSD, the CDC app was redesigned for both iOS and Android platforms and is tailored specifically to individuals impacted by cancer.

This study aims to evaluate whether CDC app usage influences symptoms of PTSD through a randomized controlled trial (RCT) where subjects are placed into either the intervention group or the wait-listed control group for a period of 8 weeks. The CDC app is available as a free download on the App Store® and on Google Play™.
Posttraumatic Stress Disorder|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cancer Distress Coach Mobile App
Change in PTSD symptoms as measured by the PTSD Checklist (PCL-5), The PCL-5 is a 20-item self-report symptom checklist that closely mirrors DSM-5 diagnoses criteria. The instructions will be modified so that symptoms are keyed to the particular traumatic stressor of interest; specifically, subjects will be asked to rate each PTSD symptom in the past 4 weeks with respect to their cancer diagnosis and treatment., Baseline, Week 4, Week 8
Change in distress level as measured by the Distress Thermometer, The Distress Thermometer is used to assess psychosocial distress. It consists of a one-item self-report scale from 0-10, where 0 represents no distress and 10 represents extreme distress., Baseline, Week 4, Week 8|Change in stress management self-efficacy as measured by the Self-efficacy questionnaire, The Self-efficacy questionnaire is a 1-item measure of self-efficacy developed by the National Center for PTSD. It rates one's ability to manage the stress of situations reminiscent of the cancer experience on a scale of 0-4, where 0 is not at all able and 4 is extremely able., Baseline, Week 4, Week 8
Feasibility as measured by satisfaction with the Cancer Distress Coach mobile app, as measured by the Feedback questionnaire, The Feedback questionnaire was developed by the study team to assess perceived helpfulness of the app and user satisfaction with the app. Points are totaled and summed., Week 4, Week 8
The Cancer Distress Coach (CDC) mobile app is a symptom management tool for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in cancer patients and caregivers. Based largely on "PTSD Coach" from the National Center for PTSD, the CDC app was redesigned for both iOS and Android platforms and is tailored specifically to individuals impacted by cancer.

This study aims to evaluate whether CDC app usage influences symptoms of PTSD through a randomized controlled trial (RCT) where subjects are placed into either the intervention group or the wait-listed control group for a period of 8 weeks. The CDC app is available as a free download on the App Store® and on Google Play™.