A Study of Atezolizumab in Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Urothelial Bladder Cancer (Cohort 2)
This Phase II, single-arm study is designed to evaluate the effect of atezolizumab treatment in participants with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial bladder cancer. Participants will be enrolled into 1 of 2 cohorts. Cohort 1 will consist of participants who are treatment-naïve and ineligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. The results of Cohort 1 are reported separately (NCT02951767). Cohort 2 (reported here) will contain participants who have progressed during or following a prior platinum-based chemotherapy regimen. Participants in both cohorts will be given a 1200 milligrams (mg) intravenous (IV) dose of atezolizumab on Day 1 of 21-day cycles. Treatment of participants in Cohort 1 will continue until disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) or unmanageable toxicity. Treatment of participants in Cohort 2 will continue until loss of clinical benefit or unmanageable toxicity.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab
Percentage of Participants With a Confirmed Objective Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as Assessed by the Independent Review Facility (IRF) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), Tumor response was assessed by the IRF according to RECIST v1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and (if applicable) normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<) 10 millimeters (mm). PR was defined as greater than or equal to (≥) 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. Response was to be confirmed ≥4 weeks after the initial assessment of CR or PR. The percentage of participants with a confirmed objective response of CR or PR was reported. The exact 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Percentage of Participants With a Confirmed Objective Response of CR or PR as Assessed by the Investigator According Modified RECIST, Tumor response was assessed by the investigator according to modified RECIST. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new measurable or unmeasurable lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. Response was to be confirmed ≥4 weeks after the initial assessment of CR or PR. The percentage of participants with a confirmed objective response of CR or PR was reported. The exact 95% CI was calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)
Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by the IRF According to RECIST v1.1, DOR was defined as the time from the initial occurrence of documented CR or PR (whichever occurred first) until documented disease progression or death due to any cause on study, whichever occurred first. Tumor response was assessed by the IRF according to RECIST v1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and (if applicable) normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. Disease progression or progressive disease (PD) was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Response was to be confirmed ≥4 weeks after the initial assessment of CR or PR., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|DOR as Assessed by the Investigator According to RECIST v1.1, DOR was defined as the time from the initial occurrence of documented CR or PR (whichever occurred first) until documented disease progression or death due to any cause on study, whichever occurred first. Tumor response was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and (if applicable) normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Response was to be confirmed ≥4 weeks after the initial assessment of CR or PR., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|DOR as Assessed by the Investigator According to Modified RECIST, DOR was defined as the time from the initial occurrence of documented CR or PR (whichever occurred first) until documented disease progression or death due to any cause on study, whichever occurred first. Tumor response was assessed by the investigator according to modified RECIST. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new measurable or unmeasurable lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Response was to be confirmed ≥4 weeks after the initial assessment of CR or PR., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Percentage of Participants With Death or Disease Progression as Assessed by the IRF According to RECIST v1.1, Tumor response was assessed by the IRF according to RECIST v1.1. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The percentage of participants who died or experienced PD was reported., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the IRF According to RECIST v1.1, PFS was defined as the time from start of treatment to the first event of death or PD. Tumor response was assessed by the IRF according to RECIST v1.1. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Percentage of Participants With Death or Disease Progression as Assessed by the Investigator According to RECIST v1.1, Tumor response was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The percentage of participants who died or experienced PD was reported., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|PFS as Assessed by the Investigator According to RECIST v1.1, PFS was defined as the time from start of treatment to the first event of death or PD. Tumor response was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Percentage of Participants With Death or Disease Progression as Assessed by the Investigator According to Modified RECIST, Tumor response was assessed by the investigator according to modified RECIST. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The percentage of participants who died or experienced PD was reported., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|PFS as Assessed by the Investigator According to Modified RECIST, PFS was defined as the time from start of treatment to the first event of death or PD. Tumor response was assessed by the investigator according to modified RECIST. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Percentage of Participants With a Confirmed Objective Response of CR or PR as Assessed by the Investigator According RECIST v1.1, Tumor response was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and (if applicable) normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. Response was to be confirmed ≥4 weeks after the initial assessment of CR or PR. The percentage of participants with a confirmed objective response of CR or PR was reported. The exact 95% CI was calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., Baseline until confirmed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed at every 9 weeks for the first 12 months, thereafter every 12 weeks until data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Died, The percentage of participants who died from any cause was reported., Baseline until death (data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from start of treatment to the time of death from any cause on study., Baseline until death (data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)|Percentage of Participants Alive at 1-year, 1-year|Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Atezolizumab, Pre-dose (0 hours) and 30 minutes post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1 (Cycle length = 21 days)|Minimum Serum Concentration (Cmin) of Atezolizumab, Pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 (Cycle length = 21 days)|Percentage of Participants Positive for Anti-therapeutic Antibodies (ATA) to Atezolizumab, Day 1 of all cycles (Cycle length = 21 days) and at treatment discontinuation (data cutoff date 04 July 2016, up to maximum length of follow-up of 24.48 months)
This Phase II, single-arm study is designed to evaluate the effect of atezolizumab treatment in participants with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial bladder cancer. Participants will be enrolled into 1 of 2 cohorts. Cohort 1 will consist of participants who are treatment-naïve and ineligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. The results of Cohort 1 are reported separately (NCT02951767). Cohort 2 (reported here) will contain participants who have progressed during or following a prior platinum-based chemotherapy regimen. Participants in both cohorts will be given a 1200 milligrams (mg) intravenous (IV) dose of atezolizumab on Day 1 of 21-day cycles. Treatment of participants in Cohort 1 will continue until disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) or unmanageable toxicity. Treatment of participants in Cohort 2 will continue until loss of clinical benefit or unmanageable toxicity.