ADCT-602 in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of ADCT-602 in treating patients with B-cell lymphoblastic leukemia that has come back or does not respond to treatment. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ADCT-602, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Blasts 5 Percent or More of Bone Marrow Nucleated Cells|CD22 Positive|Philadelphia Chromosome Positive|Recurrent B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Refractory B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: ADCT-602
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) as determined by dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) (Phase I), The MTD is the highest dose level in which the study has treated 6 patients with at most 1 experiencing the DLT. The 3+3 algorithm along with DLTs observed during the first 21 days of the first treatment cycle will be used to guide dose escalation/de-escalation., Up to 21 days|Incidence of toxicity graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Toxicity is defined as DLTs., Up to 1 year|Recommended phase II dose of ADCT-602, The recommended dose of ADCT-602 for phase 2 is the MTD or a dose lower than MTD, which is defined based on toxicity and efficacy profile., Up to 21 days|Complete response (CR)/ CR with incomplete marrow recovery (CR/CRi) rate (Phase II), Simon's two-stage design will be used. CR/CRi rate is defined as the best response (CR/CRi) noted during the study period., Up to 1 year
Overall response rate (ORR), Up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Up to 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS), Up to 1 year|Measure the amount of ADCT-602 in the body at different time points., Blood for testing the amount of ADCT-602 in the body at different time points drawn 4 times over the 6 hours after the dose., Up to 1 year|ADCT-602 exposure on QT interval assessed by EKG, Baseline up to 30 days after study drug stopped
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ADCT-602 in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell (B)-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in Phase 1.

II. Determine the recommended dose of ADCT-602 for Phase 2. III. Evaluate the efficacy (complete response \[CR\] with incomplete marrow recovery \[CR/CRi\] rate) of ADCT-602 in Phase 2.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the clinical activity of ADCT-602, based on duration of response (DOR), overall survival (OS), and progression-free survival (PFS).

II. Characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of ADCT-602. III. Evaluate the immunogenicity of ADCT-602. IV. Characterize the effect of ADCT-602 exposure on the QT interval.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Obtain preliminary data on the correlation between the clinical activity and PK profile of ADCT-602 with the baseline expression of CD22 and other cluster of differentiation (CD) markers in peripheral blood.

II. Assess the impact of soluble CD22 (sCD22) on ADCT-602 PK.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive ADCT-602 intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve CR/CRi receive ADCT-602 every 28 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks for up to 1 year.