A Pilot Study of Acupuncture Treatment for Dysphagia
The current standard of care for advanced HNC is concurrent chemoradiation therapy (CRT), which has led to increased survival rates, but with significant acute and long-term toxicities. Dysphagia, or difficulty with swallowing, is a common and expected side effect during and following CRT. Dysphagia occurs in up to 50% of patients and significantly impairs the quality of life (QOL) of patients during delivery of and recovery from CRT. Clinical trials evaluating promising and innovative adjunctive approaches that could increase the rate and magnitude of recovery from dysphagia in HNC patients are needed. Acupuncture is a traditional Chinese medical technique that has been found to reduce symptoms and side effects associated with primary cancer therapy. This study evaluated the feasibility of conducting a randomized sham-controlled trial and collected preliminary data on safety and efficacy of acupuncture.
Carcinomas, Squamous Cell|Dysphagia
DEVICE: Acupuncture
Outcome Compliance Rate, Outcome compliance rate is the percentage of enrolled participants who completed the primary study assessments (at baseline and in long-term follow-up 6 months post acupuncture treatment)., Assessed at baseline and at 6 months post acupuncture treatment|Treatment Compliance Rate, Treatment compliance rate is the percentage of enrolled participants who completed at least 80% of treatment (10 of 12 acupuncture sessions)., Assessed throughout the 6 month treatment period (12 acupuncture treatments every 2 weeks)
MDADI Change From Baseline to 12 Months Post Chemoradiation Therapy (CRT), The M.D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) is a validated, self-administered questionnaire established as the best measure of dysphagia-related quality of life in HNC patients. (Carlsson S, et al Dysphagia 2012; 27: 361-369). MDADI has two summary scores: 1) global (1 item) and 2) composite (19 items). Each item is scored on a 5 point Likert scale (strongly disagree, disagree, no opinion, agree, strongly agree). The composite MDADI score is a weighted average of the physical, emotional, and functional subscale questions. Scores are normalized to range from 20 (extremely low functioning) to 100 (high functioning). A minimal clinically important within group difference was a 10% change from baseline., Assessed at baseline and 6 months post acupuncture which parallels 12 months post-CRT|MDADI Scores, The M.D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) is a validated, self-administered questionnaire established as the best measure of dysphagia-related quality of life in HNC patients. (Carlsson S, et al Dysphagia 2012; 27: 361-369). MDADI has two summary scores: 1) global (1 item) and 2) composite (19 items). Each item is scored on a 5 point Likert scale (strongly disagree, disagree, no opinion, agree, strongly agree). The composite MDADI score is a weighted average of the physical, emotional, and functional subscale questions. Scores are normalized to range from 20 (extremely low functioning) to 100 (high functioning). A minimal clinically important within group difference was a 10% change from baseline., Assessed at baseline, 20 weeks post chemoradiation therapy and 6 months post acupuncture
AIMS:

Aim 1. To assess the feasibility of recruiting and retaining HNC patients with dysphagia into a randomized sham-controlled trial of acupuncture.

Aim 2. To collect preliminary data on the efficacy of acupuncture in changing scores of HRQOL in post CRT head and neck cancer patients.

Aim 3. (Exploratory) In a subset of HNC subjects treated with both active and sham acupuncture, to collect objective measures on swallowing functions using Videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS); salivary flow production; and plasma Transforming Growth Factor (TGF)-β1, Interleukin 6 (IL-6), Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and Interleukin 13 levels.