BG00012 and Delay of Disability Progression in Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis
The primary objective of the study is to investigate whether treatment with BG00012 (dimethyl fumarate) compared with placebo slows the accumulation of disability not related to relapses in participants with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). The secondary objective of the study is to assess the effect of BG00012 compared with placebo on patient-reported outcomes, brain atrophy, and cognitive function.
Multiple Sclerosis, Secondary Progressive
DRUG: dimethyl fumarate|OTHER: Placebo
Time to Disability Progression Independent of Relapse, Time to onset of confirmed progression of disability is defined as 1 or more of the following criteria, confirmed at ≥ 6 months after start of treatment and at Week 108 using 1 or more of the following assessments: Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score increased from Baseline of ≥ 1 point if baseline EDSS ≤ 5.5, or ≥ 0.5 point if Baseline EDSS ≥ 6.0; Timed 25-Foot Walk (T25FW) ≥ 20% increase from Baseline in the time taken for the 25-foot walk; worsening on the 9-Hole Peg Test (9HPT; ≥ 20% increase from Baseline in the time taken for the 9HPT, confirmed in the same hand). The EDSS measures disability status on a scale ranging from 0 to 10, with higher scores indicating more disability. The T25FW is a quantitative mobility and leg function performance test where the participant is timed while walking for 25 feet. The 9HPT is a quantitative test of upper extremity function that measures the time it takes to place 9 pegs into 9 holes and then remove the pegs., Up to 108 weeks
Change From Baseline to 2 Years on the 12-Item Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale (MSWS-12), MSWS-12 is a participant self-assessment of walking limitations due to multiple sclerosis (MS) during the past 2 weeks. It contains 12 items that measure the impact of MS on walking. Items are summed to generate a total score and transformed to a scale with a range of 0 to 100, where high scores indicate greater negative impact on walking., Baseline, 2 years|Change From Baseline to Week 108 in ABILHAND Questionnaire Score, The ABILHAND Questionnaire measures the participant's perceived difficulty in performing everyday manual activities in the last 3 months. Participants fill in the 56-item questionnaire by estimating their own difficulty or ease in performing each of the 56 activities. Items are summed to generate a total score and transformed to a scale with a range of 0 to 100, where high scores indicate greater impact on manual ability., Baseline, Week 108|Percentage Change From Baseline to Week 108 in Whole Brain Volume, Whole brain volume is measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)., Baseline, Week 108|Change From Baseline to Week 108 in Cognitive Function as Measured by the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT), The SDMT measures the time to pair abstract geometric symbols with specific numbers. The score is the number of correctly coded items from 0-110 in 90 seconds. A higher score indicates a better outcome., Baseline, Week 108
The primary objective of the study is to investigate whether treatment with BG00012 (dimethyl fumarate) compared with placebo slows the accumulation of disability not related to relapses in participants with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). The secondary objective of the study is to assess the effect of BG00012 compared with placebo on patient-reported outcomes, brain atrophy, and cognitive function.