Impact of Chemotherapy and Regenerative Markers of Liver Regeneration After Liver Resection for Liver Metastases
Liver is special organ, which can regenerate. On that ability there are many treatment modalities, where liver resection is performed, especially in cancer patients with liver metastases. Liver regeneration provides an opportunity for these patients to undergo multiple treatment regimes and liver resections to achieve curability. There are many factors that impair liver regeneration. One of these factors is chemotherapy. Literature data on impact of chemotherapy to liver regeneration is ambiguous. Therefore we aim to research impact of chemotherapy to liver regeneration.
Liver Regeneration|Liver Metastases
PROCEDURE: Liver resection
Volume of regenerated liver after liver resection, Difference of liver volume preoperatively and postoperatively, meassured by CT, 30 days
Evaluation of liver fibrosis, The dynamic of liver fibrosis will be measured by ultrasound elastography pre-op and post-op day 1, 7 and 30;, 30 days|Evaluation of liver markers responsible for liver regeneration, Expression of liver regeneration markers - hepatocyte growth factor and tumor growth factor beta1 - will be measured before and post-op day 1,3 and 7 in serum and also in liver tissue with immunohistochemistry, 30 days|Evaluation of short term surgical outcomes, Complication rate will be assessed after 30 and 90 days post operatively, 90 days
Liver is the largest parenchymal organ responsible for over 500 different functions in human body, which are detoxification of various toxins, drugs, synthesis of proteins and enzymes, coagulation factors. Liver is special organ, which can regenerate. If 75% of liver is removed it can regenerate to its normal size. Liver volume is very important to liver function, if there is volume insufficiency it could lead to liver failure in addition to other factors that impair liver regeneration. On that regenerative ability there are many treatment modalities, when liver resection is performed, especially in cancer patients with liver metastases. Modern treatment modalities are based on combination of different treatments, surgical and chemotherapeutic. On the other hand, side effects of chemotherapy should not be discarded, which can increase patient morbidity and mortality. Thus, liver regeneration provides an opportunity for these patients to undergo multiple treatment regimes and liver resections to achieve curability. Literature data on impact of chemotherapy to liver regeneration is ambiguous. Therefore we aim to research impact of chemotherapy to liver regeneration.