A Personalized NeoAntigen Cancer Vaccine Combined With Anti-PD-1 in Melanoma
This study assessed the safety and efficacy of individualized new antigen cancer vaccine combined with Programmed Cell Death Protein 1（PD1） inhibitor Toripalimab in the treatment of metastatic cutaneous melanoma. Melanoma is the most malignant skin neoplasm. Immunotherapy is the main treatment at present. PD1 is an immunological checkpoint and the inhibitors can reduce the immune escape of tumors, enhance T cell function and kill tumors. At present, PD1 antibody is the representative drug of immunotherapy, but the overall efficiency of its single drug treatment of acral melanoma is still low, and the combined treatment can significantly improve the efficiency. Melanoma has a high mutation load, which makes each patient have mutations specific to individual patients and tumors (changes in genetic material). These mutations lead to tumour cells producing proteins that are distinct from those of the body's own cells. These proteins used in vaccines may cause a strong immune response, which may help participants' bodies fight against any cancer cells that may lead to future recurrence of melanoma. Inhibition of PD1 can enhance the activity of T cells and form T cells with sustained killing activity. Tumor vaccines activate human Antigen Presenting Cells (APC) by injecting tumor antigens and adjuvants, and then activate T cells by APC to produce specific killing T cells. Therefore, the combination of "tumor vaccine + PD1 inhibitor" can produce effective specific killing and sustained activation of T cells, and prevent the establishment of inhibitory tumor microenvironment by tumor cells. The study will examine the safety and efficiency of the combined therapy at different time points and assess whether there is an immune response in the patient's peripheral blood and tumor tissue.
Melanoma (Skin)
DRUG: Peptide|DRUG: Anti-PD-1|DRUG: rhGM-CSF|DRUG: Imiquimod 5% Topical Cream
Number of participants experiencing adverse events, Number of participants experiencing clinical and laboratory adverse events (AE), up to a maximum of 252 days|Number of Patients with Complete Remission Rate, Number of Patients with Complete Remission Rate（CRR）, up to a maximum of 252 days|Number of Patients with Progressive Disease, Number of Patients with Progressive Disease（PD）, up to a maximum of 252 days|Number of Patients with Partial Response, Number of Patients with Partial Response（PR）, up to a maximum of 252 days
Monitoring of cellular immune response, the immune response of serum and tumor tissue, up to a maximum of 252 days
This study assessed the safety and efficacy of individualized new antigen cancer vaccine combined with Programmed Cell Death Protein 1（PD1） inhibitor Toripalimab in the treatment of metastatic cutaneous melanoma. Melanoma is the most malignant skin neoplasm. Immunotherapy is the main treatment at present. PD1 is an immunological checkpoint and the inhibitors can reduce the immune escape of tumors, enhance T cell function and kill tumors. At present, PD1 antibody is the representative drug of immunotherapy, but the overall efficiency of its single drug treatment of acral melanoma is still low, and the combined treatment can significantly improve the efficiency. Melanoma has a high mutation load, which makes each patient have mutations specific to individual patients and tumors (changes in genetic material). These mutations lead to tumour cells producing proteins that are distinct from those of the body's own cells. These proteins used in vaccines may cause a strong immune response, which may help participants' bodies fight against any cancer cells that may lead to future recurrence of melanoma. Inhibition of PD1 can enhance the activity of T cells and form T cells with sustained killing activity. Tumor vaccines activate human Antigen Presenting Cells (APC) by injecting tumor antigens and adjuvants, and then activate T cells by APC to produce specific killing T cells. Therefore, the combination of "tumor vaccine + PD1 inhibitor" can produce effective specific killing and sustained activation of T cells, and prevent the establishment of inhibitory tumor microenvironment by tumor cells. The study will examine the safety and efficiency of the combined therapy at different time points and assess whether there is an immune response in the patient's peripheral blood and tumor tissue.