CPI-613 (Devimistat) in Combination With Hydroxychloroquine and 5-fluorouracil or Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Advanced Chemorefractory Solid Tumors
This phase II trial tests how well CPI-613 (devimistat) in combination with hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or gemcitabine works in patients with solid tumors that may have spread from where they first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced) or that have not responded to chemotherapy medications (chemorefractory). Metabolism is how the cells in the body use molecules (carbohydrates, fats, and proteins) from food to get the energy they need to grow, reproduce and stay healthy. Tumor cells, however, do this process differently as they use more molecules (glucose, a type of carbohydrate) to make the energy they need to grow and spread. CPI-613 works by blocking the creation of the energy that tumor cells need to survive, grow in the body and make more tumor cells. When the energy production they need is blocked, the tumor cells can no longer survive. Hydroxychloroquine is a drug used to treat malaria and rheumatoid arthritis and may also improve the immune system in a way that tumors may be better controlled. Fluorouracil is in a class of medications called antimetabolites. It works by killing fast-growing abnormal cells. Gemcitabine is a chemotherapy drug that blocks the cells from making DNA and may kill tumor cells. CPI-613 (devimistat) in combination with hydroxychloroquine and 5-fluorouracil or gemcitabine may work to better treat advanced solid tumors.
Advanced Biliary Tract Carcinoma|Advanced Colorectal Carcinoma|Advanced Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Advanced Ovarian Carcinoma|Advanced Pancreatic Carcinoma|Advanced Urothelial Carcinoma|Clinical Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Biliary Tract Carcinoma|Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Lung Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Ovarian Carcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Carcinoma|Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma|Refractory Biliary Tract Carcinoma|Refractory Colorectal Carcinoma|Refractory Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Refractory Lung Adenocarcinoma|Refractory Ovarian Carcinoma|Refractory Pancreatic Carcinoma|Refractory Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Devimistat|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Hydroxychloroquine|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Overall response rate (ORR), Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 in patients with solid tumors treated under this protocol. ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with documented complete response (CR) plus the percentage of patients with documented partial response (PR). ORR will be reported with the corresponding exact confidence intervals., Time from baseline to disease progression, initiates subsequent anti-cancer therapy, or 24 months (whichever occurs first)
Progression free survival (PFS), Will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier estimates. PFS for the main cohorts (cohort 1 and cohort 2) and exploratory cohort (cohort 3) will be analyzed and reported separately., Time that elapses between the day of subject registration and the earlier of the day of first documented disease progression by clinical or radiographic evaluation or death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier estimates. OS for the main cohort and exploratory cohort will be analyzed and reported separately., Time that elapses between the day of subject registration and death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Duration of response (DOR), Will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier estimates. DOR for the main cohorts and exploratory cohort will be analyzed and reported separately., Time elapsed from the day when CR or PR is first observed until the earlier of the day of first documented disease progression or death, assessed up to 24 months|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 5.0., Up to 30 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. The primary objective of this study will be to estimate the overall response rate (ORR) of treatment with devimistat (CPI-613) plus HCQ and, depending on the cohort and indication, either 5-FU or gemcitabine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with solid tumors that are treated with CPI-613 plus HCQ and, depending on the cohort and indication, either 5-FU or gemcitabine.

II. Determine overall survival (OS) of patients with solid tumors that are treated with CPI-613 plus HCQ and, depending on the cohort and indication, either 5-FU or gemcitabine.

III. Assess duration of response (DOR) of patients with solid tumors that are treated with CPI-613 plus HCQ and, depending on the cohort and indication, either 5-FU or gemcitabine.

IV. Assess safety and tolerability for patients with solid tumors treated with specified treatments.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Blood from patients in cohort 3 that consent will be collected at baseline, cycle 1, day 1 (C1D1), C1D15, C2D1, and at the time of treatment discontinuation for further molecular and metabolic analysis, possibly including but not limited to proteomic, metabolomic, and genetic/genomic analysis.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 cohorts.

COHORT 1: Patients with colorectal cancer receive devimistat intravenously (IV), 5-FU IV, plus HCQ orally (PO) on study. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and undergo blood specimen collection throughout the study.

COHORT 2: Patients with pancreatic cancer receive devimistat IV, 5-FU IV, plus HCQ PO on study. Patients also undergo CT and/or MRI and undergo blood specimen collection throughout the study.

COHORT 3: Patients with gastroesophageal cancer receive devimistat IV, 5-FU IV, plus HCQ PO on study. Patients with urothelial, ovarian, or non-small cell lung cancer receive devimistat IV, gemcitabine IV, plus HCQ PO on study. Patients with biliary tumors receive devimistat IV and gemcitabine IV or HCQ PO on study. Patients also undergo CT and/or MRI and undergo blood specimen collection throughout the study.