A Trial of CDX-1401 in Combination With Poly-ICLC and Pembrolizumab, in Previously Treated Advanced Solid Tumor Patients
This study will look at the safety of the combination of three drugs (CDX-1401, Poly-ICL, and Pembrolizumab) and its effect on decreasing tumors. Pembrolizumab is an experimental cancer drug. CDX-1401 is a tumor specific antigen and Poly-ICL is a Toll-like receptor agonist tumor specific antigens which when combined with Pembrolizumab may increase the tumor response to this drug.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Advanced Triple Negative Breast Cancer|Small Cell Lung Cancer|Urothelial Cancer|Mesothelioma|Malignant Melanoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: CDX-1401|BIOLOGICAL: Poly-ICLC
Dose Limiting Toxicity, Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as any side effects which are attributable to the study treatment during the first 28 days of therapy (Cycle 1). The dose limiting toxicity will be based on the tolerability observed during treatment., Up to 28 days of therapy (Cycle 1)
Objective Response Rate for combination therapy, Tumor response will be assessed using immune-related Response Criteria (irRC). The objective response rate will be estimated based on the crude proportion of patients who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations not less than 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as \>=50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations at least 4 weeks apart., Up to 24 months after beginning treatment|Median Duration of Response, Tumor response will be assessed using immune-related Response Criteria (irRC). The duration of response will be calculated from the time when the criteria for response are first met to the first documentation of relapse (after CR) or progression (after PR). Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations not less than 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as \>=50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations at least 4 weeks apart. Stable disease is when 50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline cannot be established nor 25% increase compared with baseline. Progressive disease is defined as at least 25% increase in tumor burden compared with baseline in two consecutive observations at least 4 weeks apart., Up to 24 months after beginning treatment|Median time to tumor response, Tumor response will be assessed using immune-related Response Criteria (irRC). Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations not less than 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as \>=50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations at least 4 weeks apart. Stable disease is when 50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline cannot be established nor 25% increase compared with baseline. Progressive disease is defined as at least 25% increase in tumor burden compared with baseline in two consecutive observations at least 4 weeks apart., Up to 24 months after beginning treatment|Median time of progression free survival, Time from beginning of treatment to disease progression. Progressive disease is defined as at least 25% increase in tumor burden compared with baseline in two consecutive observations at least 4 weeks apart., Up to 24 months after beginning treatment|Median Overall Survival, Defined as time from beginning of treatment until death, withdrawal of consent, or the end of the study, whichever occurs first., Up to 24 months after beginning treatment
Antigen presentation and cellular immunity are complex processes, and subject to modulation because of the tumor microenvironment. Antigen presenting cells in the tumor microenvironment acquire the antigens from tumor cells. Tumors express several tumor specific antigens that can be leveraged by the immune system to mount an effective anti-tumor response. NY-ESO-1, one of the cancer testis antigens, is expressed in several tumors including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), triple negative breast cancer (TNBC), and melanoma. NY-ESO-1 is highly immunogenic and spontaneous tumor regressions in association with humoral and cellular responses to NY-ESO-1 have been reported. NY-ESO-1 is tumor specific and is not detected in non-malignant tissues with the exception of germ cells and trophoblasts, thus making it an attractive target for cancer vaccine development. Cancer vaccines can augment the process of cancer specific antigen presentation, however the efficacy of protein-based vaccines is limited due to weak immunogenicity and inefficient uptake by antigen presenting cells for presentation to T and B cells, and lack of targeting to appropriate antigen presenting cells. Dendritic cells (DCs) are highly specialized antigen-presenting cells that play a central role in initiating and regulating immunity. Deca-lectin, DEC-205 (CD205) is a surface receptor of DCs, which is highly expressed by human DCs and can mediate antigen uptake, processing, and presentation. CDX-1401 is a fully human anti-DEC-205 mAb (3G9) genetically fused to the full length NY-ESO-1. In preclinical studies, Dec-205 fused to NY-ESO-was more efficiently cross-presented to T-cells than NY-ESO-1 protein alone. In a recently concluded phase 1 study of CDX-1401 in combination with adjuvant Toll-like receptor agonists with Resiquimod (TLR7/8 agonist) and Hiltonol (poly-ICLC; TLR3 agonist), CDX-1401 was well tolerated with no dose-limiting toxicities and no treatment related grade 3/4 toxicities. Clinical activity was noted in solid tumors including NSCLC. Interestingly, few of the patients who progressed on CDX-1401 subsequently received immune checkpoint inhibitors and several of these patients with NY-ESO-1-specific cellular response had partial responses by RECISTimmune-related response criteria (IRRC). Previous studies reported enhanced T-cell responses in autologous dendritic cell/myeloma fusion vaccines with PD-1 blockade using CT-011 (Anti-PD1 antibody). In addition, increased tumor-infiltrating dendritic cells which are PD1 positive mediate immune suppression and PD-1 blockade in mice ovarian cancer models enhance effector T-cell responses and reduce tumor burden. Thus, we hypothesize that the ability of CDX-1401 to generate an effective anti-tumor immune response could be enhanced when co-administered with an anti-PD1 antibody.

In this study, investigators will examine the safety of the three drug combination of CDX-1401, Poly-ICL (TLR-3 agonist), and Pembrolizumab, and its impact in generating robust and effective anti-tumor immune responses. The preliminary clinical data from Pembrolizumab are promising, and strategies such as this to enhance tumor specific antigen presentation may augment the responses and clinical benefit from Pembrolizumab.

Primary Objective:

To assess the safety, and tolerability of CDX-1401 in combination with Pembrolizumab

Secondary Objectives:

1. To determine whether the anti-tumor response is substantially increased by vaccination with CDX-1401 (anti-DEC205-NY-ESO-1 fusion protein vaccine) in combination with an immune-checkpoint inhibitor, Pembrolizumab (anti-PD1 mAb) in previously treated patients with advanced solid tumors.
2. To determine immune response to NY-ESO-1 and other tumor specific antigens in patients treated with CDX-1401 and Pembrolizumab.
3. To evaluate changes in Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and other immune evasive pathway biomarkers post treatment with CDX-1401 and Pembrolizumab.
4. To perform exploratory analysis to identify biomarkers to predict both antigen specific T-cell responses and clinical benefit to CDX-1401 and Pembrolizumab.