Sitravatinib in Advanced Liposarcoma and Other Soft Tissue Sarcomas
The purpose of this study is to evaluate Sitravatinib, an oral small molecular receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the treatment of advanced liposarcoma.
Liposarcoma|Metastatic Liposarcoma
DRUG: MGCD516
Number of Participants Who Were Progression Free, The number of patients alive and without evidence of disease progression per RECIST criteria v1.1 at the 12-week scan after starting treatment., 12 weeks
Number of Participants Who Experienced a Treatment-related Adverse Event, 12 weeks|Overall Response Rate (ORR) of MGCD516, The ORR was defined as the number of patients having a best objective tumor status of complete or partial response per RECIST v1.1 criteria lasting at least 4 weeks divided by the number of evaluable patients., Up to 33 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined from the date of enrollment to the date of progression or death, the last progression-free scan for patients who withdrew consent or had unexpected adverse events, or the last follow-up for patients who withdrew consent prior to the first scan, whichever occurred first.

PFS and OS were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 33 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined from the date of enrollment to the date of death or last follow-up, whichever occurred first.

PFS and OS were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 33 months
Sarcomas are a group of cancers which arise from connective tissue and bone, of which more than 50 subtypes exist. Approximately 12,000 people are diagnosed with sarcoma annually in the United States.

Liposarcoma is one of the more common types of soft tissue sarcoma. The primary treatment for liposarcoma is surgery when possible. When liposarcoma is not amenable to surgery, various systemic treatments, including chemotherapy, are used. However, the effectiveness of existing treatments for liposarcoma is limited.

Sitravatinib is an oral, targeted drug which inhibits receptor tyrosine kinases. Receptor tyrosine kinases are proteins on the surface of the liposarcoma cell which play a role in cancer growth. In laboratory work, Sitravatinib effectively suppressed the growth of liposarcoma models. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Sitravatinib in patients with liposarcoma which cannot be removed by surgery.