Comparative Study of Cetuximab and Radiation Vs Surgery Before or After Radiation in Patients With Colorectal Carcinoma
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as Cetuximab, can target tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.This is an anti-cancer drug which has already been approved by the FDA for use in patients who have Colorectal Cancer. Cetuximab can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Radiation Therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue . Giving the drug Cetuximab together with Radiation Therapy may kill more tumor cells. Surgery is the most common treatment for Colorectal Cancer to remove the tumor, as well as a small margin of surrounding normal tissue and possibly nearby lymph nodes. Surgery is usually used in conjunction with other conventional treatments such as Radiation Therapy. Radiation Therapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Radiation Therapy after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.

Screening test such as Fecal Occult Blood Test (FOBT) and Colonoscopy has to be done. Tumor markers for Colorectal Carcinoma are Carcinoembryonic antigen (CAE) and CA 19-9 and to assess the response of tumor markers Carcinoembryonic antigen (CAE) and CA 19-9 will be used and periodically Colonoscopy has to be done. Colorectal Cancer Surgery are Colon resection (Colectomy), Rectum resection (Proctectomy), Colostomy, and Radiofrequency ablation.

PURPOSE: Determine the tumor response rate treated with Cetuximab and Radiation Therapy Vs Surgery before or after Radiation Therapy in patients with Colorectal Cancer from stage II to IV
Colorectal Carcinoma
OTHER: Cetuximab and Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Surgery and Radiation Therapy
Objective tumor response rate, 4 year
Tolerability, 4 years|Progression free survival, 4 years|Overall survival, 4 Years|Quality of life, 4 Years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary:

* Determine the response rate in patients with Colorectal Cancer treated with Cetuximab and Radiation Therapy Vs Surgery before or after Radiation Therapy.

Secondary:

* To determine the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.
* Compare the treatment compliance of patients treated with these regimens.
* Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is an Open-label, Controlled, Multicenter study. Patients will be assigned into two different Arms.

Arm I: Patients will receive Cetuximab and Radiation Therapy. Patients will receive a dose of Cetuximab through Intravenous (IV). The initial dose is 400 mg/m2 administered as a 120-minute intravenous infusion (maximum infusion rate 10 mg/min) and weekly dose is 250 mg/m2 infused over 60 minutes (maximum infusion rate 10 mg/min) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Radiation treatment for Colorectal Cancer are Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT). IMRT delivers radiation directly to the tumor and modulates the intensity of the radiation with laser accuracy.

Arm II: Patients will undergo surgery before or after Radiation Therapy. Colorectal Cancer Surgery are Colon resection (Colectomy), Rectum resection (Proctectomy), Colostomy, and Radiofrequency ablation. Radiation treatment for Colorectal Cancer are Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT). IMRT delivers radiation directly to the tumor and modulates the intensity of the radiation with laser accuracy.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 450 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 to 24 months.