Dyadic Yoga Intervention in Improving Physical Performance and Quality of Life in Patients With Stage I-IV Non-small Cell Lung or Esophageal Cancer Undergoing Radiotherapy and Their Caregivers
This trial studies how well dyadic yoga intervention works in improving physical performance and quality of life in patients with stage I-IV non-small cell lung or esophageal cancer undergoing radiotherapy and their caregivers. Dyadic yoga intervention may help to improve physical function, fatigue, sleep difficulties, depressive symptoms, and overall quality of life for patients with non-small cell lung cancer and/or their caregivers.
Esophageal Carcinoma|Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA1 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA2 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA3 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Yoga
Patient 6-minute walk test (6MWT), Descriptive statistics for study variables and potential covariates will be computed and distribution characteristics of the variables will be examined. The difference between dyadic yoga (DY) and dyadic edication (DE) at 3 month follow-up (3MFU) will be tested at a two-sided .05 significance level., At 3 months post study
Patient and caregiver quality of life (QOL), Analyses will be similar to those for the primary outcome, except that we will use a dyadic model assuming additional dependence in outcomes between patient and caregiver outcomes., Up to 6 months post study
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To examine the extent to which the yoga program improves patient physical performance (i.e., 6-minute walk test \[6MWT\]) as compared to the education group.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To examine the extent to which the yoga program improves patient and caregiver quality of life (QOL) (SF-36) compared to the education group.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore if, compared to the education group, the yoga program improves symptom burden, reduces inflammatory cytokine and cortisol rhythmicity dysregulation, and improves dyadic symptom management skills at the end of treatment, which will in turn mediate intervention outcomes at the subsequent follow-up assessments.

II. To explore if baseline factors such as depressive symptoms moderate the treatment response. We also seek to explore if baseline factors such as depressive symptoms moderate the treatment response.

QUALITATIVE OBJECTIVE:

I. To understand the patient and caregiver experience of cancer, cancer treatment, and experience in the behavioral interventions, and explore emerging themes as possible mediators. We would also like to understand participants feedback on participating in this intervention via mobile application (app) delivery.

OUTLINE: Patients and caregivers are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients and caregivers undergo dyadic yoga intervention session involving physical exercises and relaxation techniques over 60 minutes each for up to 15 sessions.

GROUP II: Patients and caregivers undergo dyadic education program session focusing on strategies of how to manage patient and caregiver symptoms over 60 minutes each for up to 15 sessions.

After completion of study, patients and caregivers are followed up every 2 weeks for 3 months and then every month for up to 6 months.