High Volume Washing of the Abdomen in Increasing Survival After Surgery in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer That Can Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized clinical trial studies how well high volume washing of the abdomen works in increasing survival after surgery in patients with pancreatic cancer that can be removed by surgery. High volume washings may remove free floating cancers present after surgery and help prolong survival in patients with pancreatic cancer.
Acinar Cell Carcinoma|Ampulla of Vater Adenocarcinoma|Cholangiocarcinoma|Duodenal Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasm|Periampullary Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Pancreatectomy|OTHER: Lavage|PROCEDURE: Pancreatectomy|OTHER: Lavage|PROCEDURE: Pancreatectomy
Overall Survival, Will use a one-sided log-rank test to separately compare lavage (EIPL-S or EIPL=D) to no lavage with respect to OS. Assuming the study is not stopped at the interim analyses, the final comparison will be made with an alpha level of 0.02493. Distribution of OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Secondary analyses will use Cox regression to adjust the lavage/no lavage comparison for other baseline patient and/or characteristics known to be associated with OS., Up to 27 months after resection
Incidence of overall complications and specific complications graded in severity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (v4.0), Will use chi-square or Fisher's exact test for dichotomous outcomes and Poisson regression for count outcomes., Up to 5 years after resection|Disease Free survival, Will use log-rank tests for time-to-event outcomes., Up to 5 years after resection|Recurrence free survival rate, At 1 year after resection|Site of first recurrence, Up to 5 years after resection
Presence of cells in cytologic washing, Will be modeled with repeated measures logistic regression using generalized estimating equations methods. Within this model, group differences in change from post-resection to post-lavage will be compared. McNemar's test for paired dichotomous data will be used to compare presence of cells at pre-dissection to post-resection., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall survival (OS) (18 to 27 months after resection).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Disease free survival (DFS). II. Complication rate. III. Site of first-recurrence (by site, and distant vs. local). IV. Clearance of malignant cells pre vs. post-lavage.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I (EIPL-S): Patients undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy, distal pancreatectomy, or total pancreatectomy. Immediately after removal of tumor, patients receive extensive intraoperative peritoneal saline (EIPL-S) lavage 10 times over 15 minutes.

ARM II (EIPL-D): Patients undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy, distal pancreatectomy, or total pancreatectomy. Immediately after removal of tumor, patients receive extensive intraoperative peritoneal distilled water (EIPL-D) lavage 10 times over 15 minutes.

ARM III (NO LAVAGE): Patients undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy, distal pancreatectomy, or total pancreatectomy with no extensive lavage after removal of tumor.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.