Pre-operative IRX-2 in Early Stage Breast Cancer (ESBC)
The goal of this study is assess the safety and tolerability of the IRX-2 regimen in patients with early stage breast cancer (ESBC) and to estimate the pathologic complete response rate to neoadjuvant anthracycline-based and non-platinum containing chemotherapy in patients with triple-negative breast cancer who have received the IRX-2 Regimen before chemotherapy.
Breast Neoplasm|Breast Neoplasm, Male|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Indomethacin|DRUG: Omeprazole|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Multivitamin
Establish the Safety of the IRX-2 Regimen When Administered Pre-operatively in Early Stage Breast Cancer (ESBC) Patients, The safety of IRX-2 will be determined by any surgical delays associated with administration of the study regimen., Day 1 to Day 26
Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes, Change in tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) score as measured by hematoxylin and eosin tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (H\&E TIL) count according to Salgado criteria from pre-surgical biopsy to resected tumor specimen, At time of pre-surgical biopsy and time of tumor specimen resection at day 26
Characterization of Peripheral Lymphocytes, Fold change of peripheral lymphocytes including activated T-cells, T-regulatory cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and myeloid cells, Day 1 to Day 26|TIL Phenotype, Post-IRX mean density of T-regulatory cells, activated T-cells, myeloid lineages and dendritic cells post-IRX within stromal tissue compartments., Day 1 to 26|Intratumoral T-cell Clonality Response, Change in T-cell clonal responses by T-cell receptor DNA deep sequencing, Day 1-26|Intratumoral Immune Response, The Nanostring PanCancer Immune panel was used to estimate increase in PD-L1 mRNA expression among tumor-bearing FFPE specimens., Day 1-26
This will be a Phase Ib study conducted to determine the safety and tolerability of an IRX-2 regimen in ESBC, to be administered pre-operatively before standard-of-care surgical resection and following standard-of-care diagnostic biopsy. This study will also include triple-negative breast cancer patients who will receive the IRX-2 regimen prior to chemotherapy.

Eligible subjects will have early stage breast cancer of any receptor sub-type, for which standard-of-care surgical resection is planned. To be eligible, a minimum of 1 core of tumor-bearing biopsy material must be available for research analysis.

Cohort B will enroll subjects triple negative breast cancer (defined by ER\<10%, PR\<10%, and HER2-negative by NCCN guidelines), T1c+ tumors for which neoadjuvant anthracycline-based and non-platinum containing chemotherapy is planned. The IRX-2 regimen will be administered and completed preceding chemotherapy. Cohort B subjects must undergo post-IRX-2 Regimen biopsy (2-3 cores), followed by commencement of chemotherapy preferably within one week after biopsy.

The IRX-2 regimen will be administered in all enrolled subjects. IRX 2 will be administered by subcutaneous injection into the periareolar skin of the affected breast.