Transrectal MRI-Guided Biopsy in Identifying Cancer in Patients With Suspected Prostate Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies transrectal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided biopsy to see how well it works in identifying cancer in patients with suspected prostate cancer who are scheduled to undergo standard biopsy. Transrectal MRI-guided biopsy uses a thin needle inserted through the rectum into the prostate and takes a sample of tissue, guided by MRI. MRI uses magnets to take pictures of the prostate and may be able to identify cancer. Transrectal MRI-guided biopsy may be more accurate and cause patients less pain than standard ultrasound-guided biopsy. It is not yet known whether transrectal MRI-guided biopsy is more effective than ultrasound-guided biopsy in identifying prostate cancer.
Health Status Unknown|Prostate Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: 3 Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Gadodiamide|PROCEDURE: Multiparametric Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Transrectal Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound-Guided Prostate Biopsy
Proportion of MRI-guided Biopsies That Demonstrate a Higher Gleason Score Than Contemporaneous TRUS Guided Biopsy, The proportion of MRI-guided biopsies that demonstrate a higher Gleason score than contemporaneous TRUS guided biopsy for all patients diagnosed of prostate cancer based on the reference standard will be estimated. McNemar's test will be used to assess whether the MRI-guided biopsies are more likely to yield a higher Gleason score compared with TRUS guided biopsy. Simple logistic regression model will be used to assess the association between the higher Gleason score and patient characteristics and/or clinical information for patients diagnosed of prostate cancer., Up to 42 days (6 weeks)|Sensitivity of MRI-guided Biopsy, The presence of cancer on either biopsy or absence of cancer on both will be used as the reference standard. For comparison of the two methods, the 2X2 matched sample tables will be presented, and the difference in sensitivity estimated. The relative accuracy of MRI- versus TRUS-guided biopsy will be compared using McNemar's test. To explore potential associations between the accuracy of each method with patient characteristics and/or clinical information, a binary endpoint will be created to reflect agreement between each method and the reference standard., Up to 2 weeks after diagnostic MRI|Sensitivity of TRUS-guided Biopsy, The presence of cancer on either biopsy or absence of cancer on both will be used as the reference standard. For comparison of the two methods, the 2X2 matched sample tables will be presented, and the difference in sensitivity estimated. The relative accuracy of MRI- versus TRUS-guided biopsy will be compared using McNemar's test. To explore potential associations between the accuracy of each method with patient characteristics and/or clinical information, a binary endpoint will be created to reflect agreement between each method and the reference standard., Up to 2 weeks after MRI-guided biopsy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To improve the treatment of patients with prostate cancer utilizing diagnostic multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MRI-guided prostate biopsy combined with molecular and clinical data to help determine the extent of prostate cancer and risk of disease progression.

II. To determine the relative accuracy of transrectal MRI-guided versus ultrasound-guided biopsy for the diagnosis of prostate cancer in patients with an appropriate dominant target lesion at multiparametric MRI, using pooled cancer diagnoses by either MRI-guided or ultrasound-guided biopsy as the reference standard.

III. To determine the proportion of positive transrectal MRI-guided biopsies that demonstrate a higher Gleason score than contemporaneous transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy.

IV. To determine the management impact of transrectal MRI-targeted biopsy results as compared to transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided systematic biopsy results.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gadodiamide intravenously (IV) and undergo a diagnostic multiparametric endorectal MRI. Patients with lesions visible on the diagnostic multiparametric endorectal MRI undergo transrectal MRI-guided biopsy within 2 weeks of diagnostic multiparametric endorectal MRI. Patients then undergo TRUS-guided biopsy per standard clinical care approximately 2 weeks after transrectal MRI-guided biopsy.