ALX148, Rituximab and Lenalidomide for the Treatment of Indolent and Aggressive B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial finds out the best dose, possible benefits and/or side effects of ALX148 in combination with rituximab and lenalidomide in treating patients with indolent and aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Immunotherapy with ALX148, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to a protein called CD20 found on B-cells, and may kill cancer cells. Giving ALX148 in combination with rituximab and lenalidomide may help to control the disease.
Aggressive B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Composite Lymphoma|Indolent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Aggressive B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Marginal Zone Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Richter Syndrome
DRUG: CD47 Antagonist ALX148|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and schedule of ALX148 (Phase I), Up to 28 days|Complete remission (CR) rate (Phase II), Response will be assessed by the investigator based on the 2014 Cheson Lugano criteria. The number and percentage of subjects with a CR at the end of treatment will be tabulated. The CR rate will be estimated with its exact 95% confidence interval (CI)., At 6 months
Overall response rate (ORR) (CR + partial response [PR]), Will be assessed by the investigator based on Cheson, Lugano 2014. The number and percentage of subjects with an ORR will be tabulated. The best ORR will be recorded and summarized using exact method for 95% CI., After 6 cycles of treatment (At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Duration of response, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% CI., From the time by which measurement criteria for CR or PR, whichever is recorded first, is met until death or the first date by which progressive disease is documented, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% CI., From the date of cycle 1, day 1 (At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% CI., From the date of cycle 1, day 1 (At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs), Safety summaries will include tabulations in the form of tables and listings. The frequency (number and percentage) of treatment-emergent AEs will be reported. Additional AE summaries will include AE frequency by AE severity and by relationship to study drug. Clinically significant abnormal laboratory values will be summarized., Up to 30 days|Incidence of treatment-emergent AEs requiring temporary or permanent discontinuation of study drug or dose reductions, Safety summaries will include tabulations in the form of tables and listings. The frequency (number and percentage) of treatment-emergent AEs will be reported. Additional AE summaries will include AE frequency by AE severity and by relationship to study drug. Clinically significant abnormal laboratory values will be summarized., Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate safety and tolerability, and to determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and schedule of CD47 antagonist ALX148 (ALX148) in combination with rituximab and lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory B-non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs) (both indolent and aggressive histology) in phase I.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of ALX148, rituximab and lenalidomide at the RP2D (determined in phase I) in patients with previously untreated and high tumor burden indolent B-NHL in phase II.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate other toxicity and efficacy measures of the combination of ALX148, rituximab and lenalidomide.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the pharmacodynamic effects and investigate biomarkers of response and resistance.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ALX148 followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive ALX148 intravenously (IV) over 1 hour once on days 1, 8, 15 and 22, or days 1 and 15, or day 1 depending on dose level. Patients also receive rituximab IV over 4-6 hours on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of cycle 1, then on day 1 of cycles 2-6, and lenalidomide orally (PO) daily once (QD) on days 1-21 of cycles 1-6. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 7 and 30 days, then up to 3 years.