Lenalidomide, Dexamethasone, and Elotuzumab With or Without Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Relapsed Primary Amyloidosis
This randomized phase II trial studies how well lenalidomide, dexamethasone, and eotuzumab with or without cyclophosphamide work in treating patients with primary amyloidosis that has come back after a period of improvement. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, dexamethasone, and cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as eotuzumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving lenalidomide, dexamethasone, and eotuzumab with cyclophosphamide may work better in treating patients with primary amyloidosis.
Recurrent Primary Amyloidosis
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|BIOLOGICAL: Elotuzumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Major hematologic response (>= very good partial response), or better, Will be expressed as a proportion with Clopper-Pearson exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 24 months
Anti-drug antibody parameters, Will be reported with descriptive statistics including 95% confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Complete response rate, Will be reported with descriptive statistics including 95% confidence intervals and will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods for median time to event data and 95% confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Duration of hematologic response, Will be reported with descriptive statistics including 95% confidence intervals and will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods for median time to event data and 95% confidence intervals., The time from the first date a hematologic response is documented to the date of the first documented hematologic progression assessed up to 24 months|Organ response, Will be assessed by the investigator and reported in the electronic case report form and reported with descriptive statistics including 95% confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Overall response rate, Will be reported with descriptive statistics including 95% confidence intervals and will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods for median time to event data and 95% confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Overall survival, Will be reported with descriptive statistics including 95% confidence intervals and will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods for median time to event data and 95% confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Time to hematologic progression, Will be reported with descriptive statistics including 95% confidence intervals., The time from the first date of first dose to the date of the first documented hematologic progression assessed up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the rate of hematologic response of very good partial response (VGPR) or better according to the International Society of Amyloidosis (ISA) hematologic response criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess duration of hematologic response. II. To assess time to hematologic progression. III. To assess overall hematologic response rate. IV. To assess complete hematologic response rate. V. To assess organ response (according to ISA organ response criteria). VI. To assess overall survival (OS).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21 and dexamethasone intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients also receive elotuzumab IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of courses 1 and 2 and days 1 and 15 of subsequent courses. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive lenalidomide, dexamethasone, and elotuzumab as in Arm I. Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: All patients receive lenalidomide PO on days 1-21 and dexamethasone IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients also receive elotuzumab IV over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 24 months.