A Safety and Efficacy Study of DENSPM in Patients With Liver Cancer Who Are Not Eligible for Surgical Care
Approximately 18-45 patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) will be treated with DENSPM at approximately 5 centers in the United States. First, we will be trying to determine the highest dose that can be given safely and is well tolerated (this is called the maximally tolerated dose, or the MTD, for short). Once that is established, we will enroll additional patients to learn more about potential side effects and to see whether DENSPM can slow the growth of HCC tumors. We also want to learn about the safety of DENSPM. Many medications used to treat cancer cause side effects (discomforts or illness). In this study, we want to understand what side effects occur in patients with HCC who are treated with DENSPM.Study was terminated after initial assessment of insufficient data to support clinical benefit in this population.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
DRUG: DENSPM )
To determine the overall safety profile of DENSPM intravenous infusion in patients with unresectable HCC., 8 months|To establish the MTD and dose limiting toxicities of DENSPM intravenous infusion in patients with unresectable HCC., 8 months
To evaluate antitumor response as measured by progression free survival when DENSPM is administered for up to eight 28 day cycles in patients with advanced HCC., 8 months|To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of DENSPM in plasma and HCC tissue in patients unresectable HCC., 8 months
Approximately 18-45 patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) will be treated with DENSPM at approximately 5 centers in the United States. First, we will be trying to determine the highest dose that can be given safely and is well tolerated (this is called the maximally tolerated dose, or the MTD, for short). Once that is established, we will enroll additional patients to learn more about potential side effects and to see whether DENSPM can slow the growth of HCC tumors. We also want to learn about the safety of DENSPM. Many medications used to treat cancer cause side effects (discomforts or illness). In this study, we want to understand what side effects occur in patients with HCC who are treated with DENSPM.Study was terminated after initial assessment of insufficient data to support clinical benefit in this population.