ABI-007 in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Cervical Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well ABI-007 works in treating patients with persistent or recurrent cervical cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ABI-007, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Cervical Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Cervical Small Cell Carcinoma|Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel Albumin-Stabilized Nanoparticle Formulation|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Proportion of Patients With Objective Tumor Response Rate (Complete Response [CR] or Partial Response [PR]) Using RECIST Version 1.0, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months; then every 3 months x 2; then every 6 months until disease progression for up to 5 years.|Frequency and Severity of Observed Adverse Effects Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Up to 5 yearsAssessed every cycle while on treatment, 30 days after the last cycle of treatment, and up to 5 years in follow-up
OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the antitumor activity of ABI-007 in patients with persistent or recurrent squamous or nonsquamous cell carcinoma of the cervix who have failed on higher-priority treatment protocols.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of ABI-007 in this cohort of patients.

III. To determine the expression of the SPARC (secreted protein, acidic and rich in cysteine) protein in the tumor tissue and plasma (exploratory study) of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

Patients receive ABI-007 IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for SPARC protein expression analysis by ELISA. Archived tumor tissue samples are also analyzed.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.