Panobinostat, Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, Busulfan, and Melphalan Before Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Refractory or Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well panobinostat, gemcitabine hydrochloride, busulfan, and melphalan before stem cell transplant work in treating patients with multiple myeloma that does not respond to treatment (refractory) or has returned (relapsed). Panobinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving high-dose chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride, busulfan, and melphalan, before a peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps kill any cancer cells that are in the body and helps make room in the patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells) to grow. Previously collected stem cells are then returned to the patient to replace the blood-forming cells that were destroyed by the chemotherapy.
Plasma Cell Leukemia|Plasmacytoma|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Panobinostat|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Number of participants alive and disease free one year post auto transplant in patients with refractory or relapsed myeloma receiving panobinostat/gemcitabine/busulfan/melphalan (panobinostat/Gem/Bu/Mel) with autologous stem-cell transplant, either as a first or a salvage stem-cell transplant., 1 year
Overall Survival (OS), Number of participants with refractory or relapse Myeloma who still remain alive two years post transplant, Up to 2 years|Participants Who Experienced Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, Number of Participants who experienced grade 3 or higher Adverse Events during the first 100 days of the transplant., Up to day 100
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with refractory or relapsed myeloma receiving panobinostat/gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine)/busulfan/melphalan (panobinostat/Gem/Bu/Mel) with autologous stem-cell transplant, either as a first or a salvage stem-cell transplant.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rate. II. To determine the overall survival (OS). III. To determine the CR + very good partial remission (VGPR) rate. IV. To determine the overall response rate (ORR). V. To determine minimal residual disease posttransplant, measured by multiparametric flow cytometry (MFC).

VI. To describe the toxicity profile of panobinostat/Gem/Bu/Mel. VII. To analyze the predictive value of pretransplant levels in myeloma cells of X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1), inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1), unspliced XBP1 (XBP1u), sliced XBP1 (XPB1s), XBP1u/XPBs ratio and v-myc myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (avian) (Myc), by analyzing their correlation with CR, VGPR+CR and response rate (RR).

VIII. To study the prognostic effect of pretransplant levels in myeloma cells of XBP1, IRE1, XBP1u, XPB1s, XBP1u/XPBs ratio and Myc, by analyzing their correlation with PFS and OS.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive panobinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -9 to -2, gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days -8 and -3, busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -8 to -5, and melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -3 and -2. Patients then undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, 100 days, 6 months, 1 year, and then every 3-6 months for at least 2 years.