Phase1b to Evaluate Safety of AMG706 in Combination With Paclitaxel or Docetaxel for Breast Cancer
This open-label, dose-finding, multi-center study is designed to determine the safety and the maximum tolerated dose of AMG 706 given once daily in combination with either weekly paclitaxel (Arm A) or once-every-3 week docetaxel (Arm B) in subjects with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. Secondarily, this study will evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of AMG 706 in both treatment arms, the PK profile of paclitaxel in Arm A and the PK profile of docetaxel in Arm B. Additionally, this study will assess objective tumor response and duration of response. Exploratory endpoints include the investigation of potential biomarker development and to assess the effects of genetic variation in drug metabolism genes, cancer genes and drug target genes on subject response to AMG 706 in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel.
Locally Recurrent and Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: AMG 706
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Cycle 1 of treatment. For Arm A, 1 cycle = 28 days. For Arm B, 1 cycle = 21 days
Pharmacokinetics of AMG 706 when administered with paclitaxel (Arm A) or docetaxel (Arm B), Cycle 1 (Arms A and B) and Cycle 2 Arm B only)|Pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel (Arm A) when administered with AMG 706, Cycle 1, D1 and D8 for subjects in Arm A only|Pharmacokinetics of docetaxel (Arm B) when administered with AMG 706, Cycles 1 and 2 for subjects in Arm B only|Incidence of adverse events and clinical laboratory abnormalities not defined as DLTs, From study entry through 30 days post discontinuation of study treatment|Objective tumor response (complete or partial response) according to modified RECIST, Subjects in Arm A: every 8 weeks until discontuation. Subjects in Arm B:every 6 weeks until discontinuation.|Duration of response (calculated for those subjects who respond): time from first objective tumor response to objective disease progression or death., Subjects in Arm A: every 8 weeks until discontuation. Subjects in Arm B:every 6 weeks until discontinuation.
This open-label, dose-finding, multi-center study is designed to determine the safety and the maximum tolerated dose of AMG 706 given once daily in combination with either weekly paclitaxel (Arm A) or once-every-3 week docetaxel (Arm B) in subjects with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. Secondarily, this study will evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of AMG 706 in both treatment arms, the PK profile of paclitaxel in Arm A and the PK profile of docetaxel in Arm B. Additionally, this study will assess objective tumor response and duration of response. Exploratory endpoints include the investigation of potential biomarker development and to assess the effects of genetic variation in drug metabolism genes, cancer genes and drug target genes on subject response to AMG 706 in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel.