Dovitinib for Imatinib/Sumitinib-failed Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST): TKI258
With discovery of KIT mutations and the advent of KIT tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib (GlivecTM, Novartis), there has been substantial improvement in overall survival in patients with advanced and/or metastatic gastrointestinal tumors (GIST). Recently, sunitinib (SuteneTM, Pfizer) showed activity as second-line therapy in GIST patients after failure with imatinib. However, virtually all patients will eventually progress or become intolerable after the first-line imatinib and the second-line sunitinib. Dovitinib (TKI258, Novartis) is a multi-kinase inhibitor. TKI258 is a potent inhibitor of the VEGFR 1, 2, and 3, FGFR1, 2 and 3, PDGFRβ, Kit, RET, TrkA, CSF 1R, and FLT3 with inhibitory concentration 50% (IC50s) of less than 40nM. Stem cell factor (SCF) also termed KIT ligand, or steel factor has been shown to modulate tumor angiogenesis. In cultured human endothelial cells and Kit expressing cancer cells, TKI258 inhibits VEGF- and SCF-stimulated mitogenesis. .
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
DRUG: dovitinib
Disease Control Rate (DCR; OR + Stable Disease), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR; Progressive disease (PD), \>20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), Insufficient change to qualify for PR or PD

This was evaluated with abdominal and pelvic dynamic CT scan every 4 weeks for the initial 8 weeks, and then every 8 weeks., Up to 24 weeks
Overall Response Rate Using Both CT and PET Scans, PET scan will be performed at baseline and at 4 weeks of treatment. Metabolic response was defined based on the PET response criteria of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC); a metabolic partial response (mPR) was defined as a 25% reduction in average SUVmax; metabolic stable disease (mSD) between a 25% decrease and 25% increase in average SUVmax; metabolic progressive disease (mPD) as a 25% increase in average SUVmax or the appearance of new uptake in metastatic lesions., Up to 24 weeks|Efficacy According to the Primary Mutation Type, Correlation between efficacy results such as response, progression-free survival and overall survival, and primary mutation type including KIT exons 9, 11, 13, and 17 and PDGFRα exons 12 and 18., Up to 24weeks|Efficacy According to the Concentrations of Circulating Growth Factors, Correlation between efficacy results, such as response, progression-free survival, and overall survival andcirculating growth factors (including vascular endothelial growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, interleukin-8, placental growth factor, and fibroblast growth factor23), and soluble receptors (including soluble form of membrane bound vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1 and -2)., Up to 24weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse events will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse events version 3.0, up to 3 year., Monitoring of adverse events will be continued for at least 28 days following the last dose of study treatment, up to 3 year.|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the first treatment to the onset of progressive disease per RECIST criteria or to the date of death whichever comes first. For patients who do not experience progressive disease or death, the progression-free survival duration will be right censored on the last disease assessment date.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival duration is calculated as time from the first treatment to the date of death. For patients who are still alive at the cut-off date for statistical reporting, the overall survival duration will be right censored on the last known alive date., Up to 3 years
It is well known that KIT and PDGFR which can be inhibited by TKI258 have a crucial role in the development and proliferation of GIST, and in general FGFR has an important role in angiogenesis and tumor proliferation in many cancers. We assume that TKI258 can be also effective in patients with GIST. The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and activity of TKI258 given as salvage treatment for GIST after failure to standard imatinib and sunitinib.