Circulating Tumor Cells as Tools for Therapy Response in Nab-paclitaxel Treated Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer Patients
The majority patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer have metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis. The prognosis is extremely poor with a 5-year survival rate of less than 5%. Treatment with chemotherapy can improve efficacy, but still the median progression-free survival in patients receiving nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine is only 5,5 months and median overall survival is less than one year. There is a urgent need for tools for predicting the efficacy of the treatment. The current trial aims at investigating the biomarker potential of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients treated by gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Nab paclitaxel / gemcitabine
Change in levels of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) during treatment, Baseline and 9 months
Post-baseline over-all survival, Baseline and 9 months|Post-baseline disease-specific survival, Baseline and 9 months|Post-baseline time to progression, Baseline and 9 months|Clinical response to treatment by RECIST 1.1, Radiologic, clinical and biochemical assessment, Baseline and 9 months|Changes in quality of life during treatment, Quality of Life is assessed every 4 weeks during treatment and then every 8th weeks., Baseline and 9 months
The majority patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer have metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis. The prognosis is extremely poor with a 5-year survival rate of less than 5%. Treatment with chemotherapy can improve efficacy, but still the median progression-free survival in patients receiving nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine is only 5,5 months and median overall survival is less than one year. There is a urgent need for tools for predicting the efficacy of the treatment. The current trial aims at investigating the biomarker potential of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients treated by gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.