In Vivo nCLE Study in the Pancreas With Endosonography of Cystic Tumors
Assess the safety and efficacy of the Cellvizio needle-based Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy (nCLE) system in differentiating benign from malignant and premalignant cysts (e.g. mucinous from non-mucinous cysts)
Pancreatic Cysts
DEVICE: Cellvizio needle-based Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy (nCLE) system
Sensitivity, Using the descriptive criteria of the nCLE images of mucinous vs. non mucinous cysts determined in stage 1, we assessed diagnostic parameters of needle-based confocal laser endomicroscopy of for the detection of pancreatic cystic neoplasia in stage 2.

For patients who underwent surgery, a gold standard diagnosis was obtained by histopathological diagnosis of the surgical specimen. The local pathologist reviewed the histology slides and selected key areas for high-resolution digital photography. Digital images for all surgical cases were sent to the central pathologist (J.H.) for review.

In patients who did not undergo surgery, the final diagnosis was established by clinical diagnosis after a review by five investigators. These investigators independently reviewed the patients' clinical factors, cross-sectional image findings, EUS findings and images, and cyst fluid results, and follow-up imaging studies ranging from 10 to 22 months, if available., October 2011|Specificity, Using the descriptive criteria of the nCLE images of mucinous vs. non mucinous cysts determined in stage 1, we assessed diagnostic parameters of needle-based confocal laser endomicroscopy of for the detection of pancreatic cystic neoplasia in stage 2.

For patients who underwent surgery, a gold standard diagnosis was obtained by histopathological diagnosis of the surgical specimen. The local pathologist reviewed the histology slides and selected key areas for high-resolution digital photography. Digital images for all surgical cases were sent to the central pathologist (J.H.) for review.

In patients who did not undergo surgery, the final diagnosis was established by clinical diagnosis after a review by five investigators. These investigators independently reviewed the patients' clinical factors, cross-sectional image findings, EUS findings and images, and cyst fluid results, and follow-up imaging studies ranging from 10 to 22 months, if available., October 2011|PPV (Positive Predictive Value), Using the descriptive criteria of the nCLE images of mucinous vs. non mucinous cysts determined in stage 1, we assessed diagnostic parameters of needle-based confocal laser endomicroscopy of for the detection of pancreatic cystic neoplasia in stage 2.

For patients who underwent surgery, a gold standard diagnosis was obtained by histopathological diagnosis of the surgical specimen. The local pathologist reviewed the histology slides and selected key areas for high-resolution digital photography. Digital images for all surgical cases were sent to the central pathologist (J.H.) for review.

In patients who did not undergo surgery, the final diagnosis was established by clinical diagnosis after a review by five investigators. These investigators independently reviewed the patients' clinical factors, cross-sectional image findings, EUS findings and images, and cyst fluid results, and follow-up imaging studies ranging from 10 to 22 months, if available., October 2011|NPV (Negative Predictive Value), Using the descriptive criteria of the nCLE images of mucinous vs. non mucinous cysts determined in stage 1, we assessed diagnostic parameters of needle-based confocal laser endomicroscopy of for the detection of pancreatic cystic neoplasia in stage 2.

For patients who underwent surgery, a gold standard diagnosis was obtained by histopathological diagnosis of the surgical specimen. The local pathologist reviewed the histology slides and selected key areas for high-resolution digital photography. Digital images for all surgical cases were sent to the central pathologist (J.H.) for review.

In patients who did not undergo surgery, the final diagnosis was established by clinical diagnosis after a review by five investigators. These investigators independently reviewed the patients' clinical factors, cross-sectional image findings, EUS findings and images, and cyst fluid results, and follow-up imaging studies ranging from 10 to 22 months, if available., October 2011
Overall Complication Rate, Assess the safety of nCLE, by recording any possible adverse event or complications occurring during or shortly after the EUSFNA and nCLE procedure, August 2011
The primary aim of the study is to define interpretation criteria to differentiate mucinous from non-mucinous cysts and classify more precisely the cysts. Once these criteria have been defined, the diagnostic parameters of nCLE in differentiating the different types of cysts and the reproducibility of these criteria will be assessed.