Trastuzumab Biosimilar (Samfenet®) Plus Treatment of Physician's Choice (TPC) in Patients With HER2-positive Solid Tumor
HER2 signaling pathway abnormalities or HER2 overexpression can be seen in various types of solid tumors apart from breast cancer or hepatic cancer. In this regardHER2 targeting therapy has been proven to be effective in colorectal cancer, gallbladder cancer, and salivary gland tumors. Although HER2 targeted-treatment Trastuzumab biosimilar is clinically being used after gaining official permission recently, clinical data for this use is still lacking, especially regarding experiences of combination with various cytotoxic chemotherapy agents.

Notably, techniques to separate and extract a small sized ciculating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in patient's blood originated from a tumor is being developed and improved along with introduction of Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technique enabling a comprehensive genetic testing.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Trastuzumab biosimiler and to investigate the association between ctDNA and clinical outcomes such as disease response, progression-free survival, and overall survival.
HER-2 Protein Overexpression|HER-2 Gene Amplification
DRUG: Trastuzumab biosimilar|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride
objective response rate, Best response according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, 8 weeks
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the first dose of trial treatment to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 3 years|overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the first dose of trial treatment to the death of all causes or the last follow-up., 3 years|Safety profile: NCI-CTCAE, Adverse events graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.03, 3 years
Samfenet is a biosimilar of trastuzumab and received marketing approval based on the results of efficacy equivalence to trastuzumab. This study is a phase 2 study to investigate the efficacy of Samfenet in combination with cytotoxic agents in patients with HER2-positive solid tumors.

A total of 42 patients will be enrolled. Treatment will be continues until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient withdrawal. Tumor evaluation will be performed at every 8 weeks during treatment, and then at every 12 weeks thereafter end of study.