Telotristat Etiprate for Carcinoid Syndrome Therapy
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effect of telotristat etiprate versus placebo on the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events and on 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels.
Carcinoid Syndrome
DRUG: Telotristat etiprate|DRUG: Placebo
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) in the Double-Blind Treatment Period, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. A TEAE was an AE reported after the first dose of randomized treatment on Day 1., First dose of study drug to within 30 days of last dose of study drug in the Double-Blind Treatment Period (Up to 17.1 Weeks)|Primary: Percent Change From Baseline in Urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic Acid (u5-HIAA) Levels, u5-HIAA is a standard test used in clinical practice to assess neuroendocrine tumor (NET) activity and is collected as a 24-hour urine specimen. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline and 12 Weeks|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) in the Open-Label Extension Period, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. A TEAE was an AE reported after the first dose of randomized treatment on Day 1., First dose of study drug to within 30 days of last dose of study drug in the Open-Label Extension Period (Up to 52.6 Weeks)
Change From Baseline in the Number of Bowel Movements (BMs) Per Day Averaged Over 12 Weeks, Participants recorded the number of bowel movements per day in a daily diary. The total number of BMs per day were averaged over the 12-week period. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline and 12 weeks|Change From Baseline in Stool Form/Consistency Averaged Across All Time-Points, Participants assessed stool form/consistency of a BM using the Bristol Stool Form Scale where: 1=hard lumps to 7=watery liquid. The daily scores were averaged over the 12-week period. A negative change indicates improvement., Baseline and 12 Weeks|Change From Baseline in the Number of Daily Cutaneous Flushing Episodes Averaged Across All Time-Points, Participants recorded the number daily flushing episodes per day in a daily diary. The total number of flushing episodes per day were averaged over the 12-week period. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline and 12 Weeks|Change From Baseline in Abdominal Pain Averaged Across All Time-Points, Participants recorded abdominal pain in a daily diary. Participants evaluated the level of any abdominal pain using an 11-point numeric rating scale, where: 0=no pain to 10=worst pain ever experienced. The average daily abdominal pain was averaged over the 12-week period. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline and 12 Weeks|Change in the Frequency of Rescue Short-acting, Somatostatin Analog (SSA) Used to Treat Carcinoid Syndrome Symptoms Averaged Across All Time-Points, The frequency (the number of times) the participant used rescue with SSA to control symptoms was recorded in a daily diary. The daily number of rescue treatments with SSA was averaged over the 12- week period. A negative change from Baseline (less use of SSA) indicates improvement., Baseline and 12 weeks|Change From Baseline in the Number of Daily BMs Averaged Over the 12-Week Double-Blind Period, Among Participants Who Were Not Receiving SSA Therapy at Baseline, Participants recorded the number of bowel movements per day in a daily diary. The total number of BMs per day were averaged over the 12-week period. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline and 12 Weeks
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effect of telotristat etiprate versus placebo on the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events and on 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels.