Evaluate the Effectiveness and the Safety of a Medical Device in the Treatment of Common Warts and Plantar Warts.
The principal aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and the safety of the tested product on common and plantar wart after 35 days of treatment.

For this study, 33 patients presenting at least one common wart on the fingers, back on the hand or a plantar wart of a size between 0.1 and 0.5cm and present since less than 6 months will be included to reach this objective
Warts|Plantar Wart|Common Wart
DEVICE: Sérum VERRUPRO
Diameter of the Wart, Clinical examination performed by the investigator to evaluate the diameter of the wart at D0 and 35 days after treatment.

The effect of the product on clinical parameters will be evaluated by comparing the mean diameter before and after treatment., Day 0, Day 35
Global Improvement of the Wart, The global improvement of the wart will be assessed by the investigator after 35 days of treatment., Day 35|Roughness of the Wart, The effect of the product on these clinical parameters will be evaluated by a comparison before and after treatment. This outcome was measured using a scale from 0 (No roughness) to 5 (very severe roughness)., Day 0, Day 35|Thickness of the Wart, The effect of the product on these clinical parameters will be evaluated by a comparison before and after treatment. This outcome was measured using a scale form 0 (no tickness) to 4(Very severe), Day 0, Day 35|Number of Dermal Papillae, The effect of the product on these clinical parameters will be evaluated by a comparison before and after treatment., Day 0, Day 35|Number of Participants Who Participated in Photography Session, Illustration of the effectiveness of Sérum VERRUPRO® on the skin aspect before and after the treatment with photographs. A standardized photographs was taken at D0 an D35 in order to illustrate the effect of the product. No data were measured on these pictures.

Number of Participants Who Participated in Photography Session, Day 0, Day 35|Patient Evaluation, Analysis of the answers to the patient questionnaire regarding effectiveness, tolerance, and acceptability of the investigational device 35 days after treatment., Day 35|Adverse Event, Products safety will be assessed by collection of Adverse Events (AEs) throughout the study. AEs will be summarized and tabulated by severity, causality, action taken and outcome, using descriptive statistics., Day 0, Day 35|Product Tolerance, Product tolerance will be assessed by the investigator at D0 (before the product use) and D35 by a clinical examination., Day 0, Day 35
Warts are the cutaneous manifestations of human papillomavirus (HPV). (1) Cutaneous warts are benign, spontaneously regressing, epithelial tumors differing in clinical morphology depending on the human papilloma virus HPV-types. (2) Warts may exist in different forms given the epithelial surface and HPV type responsible for the infection. Common warts (Verruca vulgaris), plantar warts (Verruca plantaris), flat or planar warts (Verruca plana), and genital warts (Condyloma acuminata) are some of the clinical manifestations of HPV infection. (1) Warts are most common on your hands, feet, and face. (3)

Warts are common worldwide and affect approximately 10% of the population. In school-aged children, the prevalence is as high as 10% to 20% (4). The range of greatest incidence is between 12 and 16 years of age. (1) It is known that nearly two-thirds of warts spontaneously disappear within 24 months. (4)

The majority of warts do not cause symptoms. However, they do cause cosmetic disfigurement and, in a rare patient, may cause localized pain. Plantar warts can be painful because of compression and extensive friction that can lead to bleeding. (4) Once the diagnosis is made, the treatment depends on symptoms, patient preferences, and cost. Even though there are many treatments for warts, none is very effective, and recurrences are common with each of them. (4) This is why, developing a product that is effective against warts seems necessary.

PODERM Professional has developed an innovative wart-treatment formula based on biomimetics. The principal aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and the safety of the tested product on common and plantar wart after 35 days of treatment. For this study, 33 patients presenting at least one common wart on the fingers, back on the hand or a plantar wart of a size between 0.1 and 0.5cm and present since less than 6 months will be included to reach this objective.