Carboxylesterase-Expressing Allogeneic Neural Stem Cells and Irinotecan Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Recurrent High-Grade Gliomas
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of carboxylesterase-expressing allogeneic neural stem cells when given together with irinotecan hydrochloride in treating patients with high-grade gliomas that have come back. Placing genetically modified neural stem cells into brain tumor cells may make the tumor more sensitive to irinotecan hydrochloride. Irinotecan hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving carboxylesterase-expressing allogeneic neural stem cells and irinotecan hydrochloride may be a better treatment for high-grade gliomas.
Recurrent Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Recurrent Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma|Recurrent Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Recurrent Glioblastoma|Recurrent Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Malignant Glioma|Recurrent WHO Grade III Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: Carboxylesterase-expressing Allogeneic Neural Stem Cells|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Number of Participants Experiencing a Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Toxicities will be graded using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. A DLT is defined as an adverse event that is related to the administration of NSCs and/or irinotecan, occurs during the first treatment cycle and meets any of the following:

1. Received less than 80% of study treatments except due to CNS toxicity
2. Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or anemia or neutropenia lasting \> 7 days
3. Febrile neutropenia with ANC \< 0.5 x10\^9/L
4. Grade 3 central nervous system (CNS) disorder lasting \> 7 days not attributed to tumor or surgery and not present at baseline
5. Second occurrence of grade 3 CNS disorder not attributed to tumor or surgery and not present at baseline
6. Any grade 4 CNS disorder not attributed to tumor or surgery and not present at baseline
7. Grade 3 toxicity despite therapy lasting \> 7 days
8. Grade 3 toxicity resulting in study agent discontinuation
9. Grade 4 toxicity, except grade 4 diarrhea responding to therapy within 3 days, 28 days post first dose of NSC treatment on day 1, cycle 1|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Toxicity Profile Attributed to NSCs, Grade 3 or higher toxicity profile as assessed by the NCI CTCAE version version 4.0. Toxicities reported are possibly, probably or definitely related to NSCs., Followed 30 days post treatment for all toxicities (min=33,max 142 days), up to 5 years for gene therapy toxicities|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Toxicity Profile Attributed to Irinotecan, Grade 3 or higher toxicity profile as assessed by the NCI CTCAE version version 4.0. Toxicities reported are possibly, probably or definitely related to Irinotecan., Followed 30 days post treatment for all toxicities (min=33,max 142 days), up to 5 years for gene therapy toxicities
Median Ratio of SN-38 Area Under the Curve (AUC) to CPT-11 AUC in Plasma, Pharmacokinetic data from patients who undergo intracerebral microdialysis will be summarized using descriptive statistics. hCE1m6-NSC dose and liposomal SN-38 concentrations in brain interstitium using microdialysis data from the patients treated with the initial neural stem cells (NSC) doses and from the patients in the cohort treated with the highest NSC dose. Ratios are reported as ratio x 100., Pre-dose, at 90 minutes (just prior to the end of the infusion), and then at 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 8, 24, and 48 hours after the end of the infusion after day 1, cycle 1|Median Ratio of SN-38 AUC to CPT-11 AUC in the Brain, Pharmacokinetic data from patients who undergo intracerebral microdialysis will be summarized using descriptive statistics. hCE1m6-NSC dose and liposomal SN-38 concentrations in brain interstitium using microdialysis data from the patients treated with the initial neural stem cells (NSC) doses and from the patients in the cohort treated with the highest NSC dose. Ratio is reported as ratio x 100, Pre-dose, at 90 minutes (just prior to the end of the infusion), and then at 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 8, 24, and 48 hours after the end of the infusion after day 1, cycle 1|Number of Participants With Clinical Benefit Defined by Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO), Clinical benefit is defined by participants achieving stable disease (SD), partial response (PR), or complete response (CR).

CR: Complete disappearance of all enhancing disease (measurable and nonmeasureable) that is sustained for at least 4 weeks, stable or improved non-enhancing FLAIR/T2 lesions, no new lesions, off corticosteroids (physiologic replacement doses allowed), and neurologically stable or improved.

PR: ≥ 50% decrease of all measurable enhancing lesions, sustained for at least 4 weeks, no progression of non-measurable disease, stable or improved non-enhancing FLAIR/T2 lesions, no new lesions, corticosteroid dose stable or reduced (compared to baseline), and neurologically stable or improved.

SD: Does not qualify for CR, PR, or PD, stable non-enhancing FLAIR/T2 lesions, stable or reduced corticosteroids (compared to baseline), clinically stable., Until death or disease progression, a median of 2 months, up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To define the recommended phase II doses (RP2D) of intracranially administered carboxylesterase-expressing allogeneic neural stem cells (hCE1m6-NSCs) in combination with intravenous irinotecan in patients with recurrent high grade glioma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the relationship between hCE1m6-NSC dose and SN-38 (SN-38) concentrations in brain interstitium.

II. To characterize the relationship between intracerebral and systemic concentrations of irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride) and SN-38.

III. To investigate the biologic activity of hCE1m6 NSCs by comparing SN-38 concentrations in the brain after treatment with hCE1m6-NSCs and irinotecan versus irinotecan alone.

IV. To assess for possible development of adenovirally transduced neural stem cell (NSC) immunogenicity after first exposure and with repeat doses of NSCs.

V. To describe the clinical benefit (defined as stable disease, partial response, or complete response) in patients who receive treatment with repeat cycles of NSCs and irinotecan.

VI. To determine, at time of autopsy, the fate of the NSCs.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of carboxylesterase-expressing allogeneic neural stem cells.

Patients receive carboxylesterase-expressing allogeneic neural stem cells intracranially over 1.5-4.5 hours on days 1 and 15 (day 1 only for patients at dose level 1) and irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 3 and 17. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 3 and 6 months, and then annually thereafter for a minimum of 15 years.