Precision Thyroid Cancer Surgery With Molecular Fluorescent Guided Imaging
Almost 50 % of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) patients have central lymph node metastases (CLNM), which are associated with a high risk of persistent or recurrent disease. However, the practice of performing a prophylactic central lymph node dissection (PCLND) routinely remains controversial. The proponents argue that without a PCLND, PTC patients with positive lymph nodes have an increased risk of local recurrence, and postponed node dissection leads to with 5-6 fold higher risk of morbidity. If performed, PCLND in clinical node negative patients increases staging to pN1 in more than 50% of the cases without increasing survival. The complication rate in PCLND is lower when compared to a technically challenging re-exploration in recurrent disease, with reported incidences of 0.6% and 7.3-20%, respectively. Opponents of routine PCLND point out the lack of randomized clinical trials and object to treatment-induced hypo-parathyroidism and recurrent nerve damage for the N0 patients. Currently, no diagnostic tool is available which reliably identifies these patient categories. Therefore, there is a clear need for novel diagnostic imaging modalities that overcome this issue. Molecular Fluorescence Guided Surgery (MFGS) is potentially such a diagnostic tool. The administration of NIR fluorescent tracers can increase detection accuracy of cancer and nodal metastatic tissue using macroscopic MFGS. Therefore, we aimed to identify a GMP-produced near infrared (NIR) tracer that potentially has a high target-to-background ratio in PTC compared to normal thyroid tissue. Tyrosine-protein kinase Met (c-Met) is significantly upregulated at the protein level in PTC compared to normal thyroid tissue. The investigators therefore hypothesize that the GMP-produced NIR-fluorescent tracer EMI-137 (targeting c-Met, peak emission at 675 nm range) might be useful for intraoperative imaging of PTC and nodal metastases. The investigators' aim is to investigate if the administration of EMI-137 is a feasible approach to detect PTC nodal metastases. Ultimately, this method might be useful to improve patient selection for CLND. Eventually, we might also be able to visualize multifocality, more selective lateral neck dissections and asses residual tissue after thyroidectomy. Ultimately, all of these strategies may reduce overtreatment, morbidity, and costs while maintaining the same or better effectiveness with a lower recurrence rate and improved quality of life.
Papillary Thyroid Cancer|Lymph Node Metastases
DRUG: IV adminstration of EMI-137|DEVICE: Multispectral Fluorescence Reflectance Imaging|DEVICE: Spectroscopy
The feasibility of Molecular Fluorescence Guided Surgery using EMI-137, To determine the optimal dose of the c-Met targeting NIRF tracer EMI-137 for an adequate TBR in PTC lymph nodes metastases using 3, and possibly 4, different dosages op EMI-137., From tracer administration until after data analyses which will take up to 1.5year
Safety of using EMI-137 through monitoring vital signs, To evaluate the safety of EMI-137 through monitoring vital signs for evaluating possible (severe) adverse events., 1 day|Safety of using EMI-137 through monitoring injection site, To evaluate the safety of EMI-137 through monitoring the injection site for evaluating possible (severe) adverse events., 1 day|Feasibility of MFGS for detecting nodal metastasis, To evaluate the feasibility of MFGS for the assessment of PTC and nodal metastasis by calculating target-to-background ratio., Up to one year|Feasibility of spectroscopy for detecting fluorescence of PTC and lymph nodes, To determine the feasibility of ex vivo spectroscopy measurements of PTC and lymph nodes for quantification of the fluorescence signal of EMI-137, Up to one year|Validation of flourescence, To correlate and validate fluorescence signals detected ex vivo with histopathology and immunohistochemistry by determining if high flourescence areas show tumorcells in pathological examination., Up to one year|Distribution of EMI-137, To evaluate the distribution of EMI-137 on a microscopic level using fluorescence microscopy., Up to 1.5 year|Sensitivity and specificity of EMI-137, To quantify sensitivity and specificity of EMI-137 for PTC and nodal metastasis in order to make a power size calculation for a possible subsequent diagnostic accuracy study., Up to 1.5 year
See brief summary