The Efficacy and Safety of Anlotinib in Patients With Metastatic Pheochromocytoma or Paraganglioma
This phase II trial studies how well anlotinib hydrochloride works in treating patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma. Anlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Malignant Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Malignant Paraganglioma|Pheochromocytoma, Metastatic|Paraganglioma, Malignant|Paraganglioma, Extra-Adrenal
DRUG: anlotinib hydrochloride
Objective Response rate RECIST Using Version 1.1, Defined for all patients whose tumor met the criteria of Complete Response (CR)and Partial Response (PR), minimum of 4 cycles
Disease Control Rate, Defined for all patients whose tumor met the criteria of CR or PR or stable disease(SD), minimum of 4 cycles
Progression-free Survival Time, PFS is defined as the time from the first day of treatment to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 criteria and the Kaplan-Meier curve. Changes in only the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions are used in the RECIST criteria., minimum of 4 cycles|Incidence of adverse events assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse safety profile of anlotinib, Incidence of adverse events assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, minimum of 4 cycles
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

To determine the anti-tumor activity of anlotinib hydrochloride (Objective Response rate,ORR) in patients with metastatic pheochromocytomas or paragangliomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety profile of anlotinib. II. To assess progression-free survival time. III. To assess disease control rate.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive anlotinib hydrochloride 12mg orally once daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo urine and blood sample collection, imaging examinations at baseline and periodically during study.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3-6 months.