The Effect of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Primary Bladder Cancer Presentations
In this study, investigators aim to reveal how the COVID-19 pandemic process affects primary bladder cancer presentations, tumor stages and degrees, the time elapsed between diagnosis and intervention, tumor recurrence and progression, which are oncological results.
Bladder Cancer|Covid19
BEHAVIORAL: COVID-19 pandemic
Rate of tumor stages, Rate of tumor stages in patients who diagnosed with bladder cancer, 2 months
The rapid spread of the 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) caused by a novel betacoronavirus known as the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has had dramatic effects on individuals and health systems around the world. Beyond those infected with SARS-CoV-2, the intense demand for limited health system resources has led to reduced capacity, rapid depletion of healthcare systems, and hospitals becoming a source of virus transmission.

Urology associations and reference centers have issued recommendations to inform urology care during the COVID-19 outbreak. It is essential that urologists give priority to patient safety. Potential delays in the diagnosis and treatment of urological conditions and the additional burden on healthcare resources must be balanced against the risks of exposure to COVID-19. While this situation aims to conserve healthcare resources, it has created the risk of delaying cancer treatment. As a result, the transformation of health services and the increasing interest of the public in avoiding exposure to the disease has led to a decrease in the number of hospital admissions.

The effects of the pandemic on patients with bladder cancer due to a decrease in emergency room and urology clinic admissions are not clear. During the COVID-19 outbreak, the EAU (European Association of Urology) panel of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer published an evidence-based guideline. According to this guideline, four priority groups were formed and a certain period of delaying treatment was defined for patients in each group according to their priorities.