A Phase I/II Study of Oblimersen Plus Cisplatin and Fluorouracil in Gastric & Esophageal Junction Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy such as cisplatin and fluorouracil use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Oblimersen may increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drugs. This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of oblimersen when given with cisplatin and fluorouracil and to see how well they work in treating patients with locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic cancer of the esophagus, gastroesophageal junction, or stomach.
Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus|Adenocarcinoma of the Gastroesophageal Junction|Diffuse Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Intestinal Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Mixed Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Recurrent Esophageal Cancer|Recurrent Gastric Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Esophagus|Stage III Esophageal Cancer|Stage IIIA Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIB Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIC Gastric Cancer|Stage IV Esophageal Cancer|Stage IV Gastric Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: oblimersen sodium|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: fluorouracil
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Oblimersen in Combination With Cisplatin and 5-FU, Adverse events were evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (version 2.0). DLT was defined as grade 3 to 4 hematologic toxicity lasting more than 1 week after 5-FU/cisplatin, grade 3 to 4 nausea or vomiting occurring later than 11 days after cisplatin, grade 3 to 4 diarrhea occurring later than 10 days after 5-FU, and grade 3 to 4 mucositis at the beginning of the next cycle., 21 days
Microarray Data, This will be primarily descriptive, and will seek to compare patterns of gene expression pre- and post-treatment., Up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The escalation portion of the study will determine the MTD of G3139/Cisplatin and will help determine the toxicities of this combination.

II. Once the MTD is determined, an additional 12 patients will be enrolled in order to obtain a set of tumor biopsies for microarray analysis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The collection of additional toxicity data for this combination

OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter, dose-escalation study of oblimersen.

Phase I: Patients receive oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-7, fluorouracil IV continuously on days 4-8, and cisplatin IV on day 4. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oblimersen until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 12 patients are treated at the MTD.

Phase II: Patients receive treatment as in phase I with oblimersen at the MTD.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 37-97 patients (3-36 for phase I and 34-67 for phase II) will be accrued for this study within 15-18 months.