Gut Microbiota Prediction of Metachronous Colorectal Neoplasms
Patients with colorectal cancer are known to be at high risk of developing metachronous adenoma, however, participation in colonoscopy are low. Colonoscopy, the primary modality used all over the word, is costly and invasive, and its efficacy depends on the endoscopist's skill and the patient's bowel preparation. As life expectancy of patients with history of colon cancer is increasing, colonoscopy would increase the overall cost for patients and for the health care system. This study aim to construct a predictive model of postoperative colorectal neoplasm development using microbiota analysis.
Gut Microbiota|Metachronous Adenoma
Differences In Microbiota, The diversity, structure of microbiota and relative abundance of special bacterial taxa 16S rRNA gene sequencing will be performed., 1, 3 and 5 years after surgery
Predictive model establish, Using microbita construct a predictive model of postoperative colorectal neoplasm development., June to August of 2018|Predictive model validation, Validation the accuracy of the predictive model., August of 2018 to April of 2019
Colorectal cancer(CRC) is one of the most common malignancies in China and in Western countries. Furthermore, those with a history of CRC are at a higher risk for developing metachronous adenomas or CRC recurrence during the followup period. It has been reported that 0.7% of patients develop metachronous CRC during the 3 years after surgical resection for the initial CRC.

Surveillance colonoscopy is highly recommended by major international scientific societies with the intent of either detecting anastomotic recurrence at an early, curable stage or identifying metachronous premalignant(ie, adenomas) and malignant lesions. As life expectancy of patients with history of colon cancer is increasing, the costly and invasive postoperative examination increased the overall cost and suffering for patients.

The human colon plays host to a diverse and metabolically complex community of microorganisms. While colonic microbiome development along the colorectal adenoma-carcinoma sequence. Investigators speculate that gut microbiota related to metachronous adenoma or CRC, after curative treatment.

This study aim to discover if any difference of gut microbiota exist in patients who suffer from metachronous adenomas compared with patients who do not. Further try to seek the divergence microbiota of metachronous adenomas between Proximal and Distal Colorectum. construct a predictive model of postoperative colorectal neoplasm development using microbiota analysis. Finally, using microbita construct a predictive model of postoperative colorectal neoplasm development.