18F-FCH PET/MRI to Assess Tumor Response in Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
Evaluate the ability of 18F-FCH PET/MRI scan to detect pre-treatment tumor burden and assess response to treatment in men with castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).

It is hypothesized that these novel biomarkers will better identify evaluable lesions prior to therapy and identify response to treatment (or lack thereof) earlier in the treatment period, providing a better guide for treating men with CRPC.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: [F-18]-FCH|RADIATION: PET scan|RADIATION: MRI scan
Number of lesions detected with 18F-FCH PET/MRI compared to conventional imaging, 3 years
Number of concordant lesions identified on identified on 18F-FCH PET, conventional imaging and MRI, 3 years|Concordance between number Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) and Cancer Microparticles (CMPs) and number of lesions detected by PET/MRI and conventional imaging, At both baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment, 3 years|Change in number and size of lesions after 12 weeks of treatment, As detected by 18F-FCH PET/MRI and change in CTC and CMP values, 3 years|Progression Free Survival, Changes in lesion parameters on PET and MRI and changes in serial CTC and CMP levels will be assessed to see if they are predictive of progression free survival, 6 years|Overall Survival, Changes in lesion parameters on PET and MRI and changes in serial CTC and CMP levels will be assessed to see if they are predictive of overall survival, 6 years
Percentage of change in clinical management based on results of 18F-FCH PET/MRI and CTC results, 3 years|Concordance of identified lesions on hybrid PET/CT + fused MRI vs hybrid PET/MRI, 3 years|Concordance between CTC values on a new microfluidics-based CTC assay and the FDA/Health Canada approved CellSearch CTC assay (clinical gold standard), 3 years
Castrate resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) occurs when prostate cancer no longer responds to androgen deprivation therapy. Eventually all men diagnosed with CRPC will succumb to their disease. While many new therapies have been introduced, there are limitations in assessing treatment response and physicians are faced with a challenge when creating a management strategy for men with CRPC.

Most men present with bone metastases, and accurate quantification of disease burden can be difficult due to the nature of conventional scans such as CT and bone scan. In addition, the standard blood PSA measurement does not always reflect a clinical response, or may lag to show this response. There is a clear need for better imaging and blood biomarkers to measure disease in men with CRPC.

This study will explore the benefit of a 18F-FCH Hybrid PET/MRI scan, Cancer Microparticle (CMP) and Circulating Tumor Cell (CTC) measurements compared to standard imaging and PSA levels.

In this study, patients will receive a 18F-FCH PET/MRI or 18F-FCH PET/CT scan + whole body MRI at baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment. Serial CMP and CTC blood samples will be taken at 5 study timepoints.

66 patients will be enrolled at 3 cancer centres in Ontario. Patients will be divided into 2 cohorts based on the type of treatment they will receive: Docetaxel or Abiraterone.

It is hypothesized that these novel biomarkers will better identify evaluable lesions prior to therapy and identify response to treatment (or lack thereof) earlier in the treatment period thus providing a better guide for treating men with CRPC.