Nivolumab for Recurrent or Progressive IDH Mutant Gliomas
The objective of this study is to determine response rates (partial and complete responses) to nivolumab of recurrent or progressive IDH mutant (grades 2, 3 or 4) gliomas with prior exposure to alkylating agents.
Gliomas
DRUG: Nivolumab
Overall Response Rate, To evaluate the objective response rate (partial response (PR) and complete responses (CR)) to nivolumab of recurrent or progressive IDH mutant low and high-grade gliomas with prior exposure to alkylating agents., Total treatment duration for 2 years or until PD, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.
Duration of Response, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Until the first date that progressive disease is objectively documented or until study completion (36 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first.

Participants discontinuing study treatment will remain on study for documentation of progression and death., Until death or study completion (36 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the first dose of nivolumab to death due to any cause. All other participants will be censored at the last date known to be alive., Until death or study completion (36 months)
Gliomas are the most common malignant primary brain tumor in adults. Their clinical presentation is heterogeneous and prognosis is dependent on both the grade of the tumor and the molecular subtype. Somatic mutations in Isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) or, less commonly, Isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) genes have emerged as an important prognostic factor in gliomas and are associated with longer survival.

Regardless of initial grade, recurrence and transformation into higher grade tumors is almost universal. There is high unmet medical need in treating recurrent gliomas as there is currently no established standard of care therapy. Recent trials of IDH inhibitors in IDH mutant gliomas and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and PD-L1 inhibitors in recurrent gliomas have been disappointing. Multiple studies in other cancers have demonstrated that hypermutated tumors are associated with response to immunotherapeutic agents, including anti-CTLA4 agents in melanoma, anti-PD1 therapy in bladder cancer, and anti-programmed-cell-death protein 1 (anti-PD1) therapy in lung, and colorectal cancer.

There is evidence to suggest that gliomas with somatic IDH mutations are more prone to develop hypermutation after exposure to alkylating agents than IDH wildtype tumors, providing strong scientific rationale for establishing nivolumab as a treatment option in this subgroup of patients.