Comparing Two Surveillance Approaches for People Who Have Received Treatment for HPV-associated Head and Neck Cancer and Show No Signs of Disease
The purpose of this study is to compare standard surveillance with telemedicine surveillance (tele-surveillance) and find out which surveillance approach is best for people with HPV-associated head and neck cancer who have no evidence of disease after treatment. The researches will look at how the two approaches affect participants' quality of life, health outcomes, and expenses (for example, costs of routine visits and procedures). They will also determine doctors' and patients' satisfaction with tele-surveillance.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Standard surveillance|OTHER: Telemedicine surveillance (tele-surveillance)|OTHER: Questionnaires
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as pathologic evidence of local or distant tumor progression or death from any cause. Patients, 2 years
Locoregional recurrence (LRR), Any pathologic evidence of tumor progression in the head and neck will be counted as a LRR. Patients without concerning symptoms as determined by the treating physician at the time of the tele-visit will be determined to be free of LRR. If imaging or biopsies or ordered at any time and are consistent with tumor progression, then these patients will be counted as having a LRR event. both the EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-HN43 Scores of all scales and single-item measures range from 0 to 100 with higher scores indicating better quality of life., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to compare standard surveillance with telemedicine surveillance (tele-surveillance) and find out which surveillance approach is best for people with HPV-associated head and neck cancer who have no evidence of disease after treatment. The researches will look at how the two approaches affect participants' quality of life, health outcomes, and expenses (for example, costs of routine visits and procedures). They will also determine doctors' and patients' satisfaction with tele-surveillance.