Radiotherapy With Immunotherapy for Systemic Effect in Myeloma (RISE-M)
Eligible patients have multiple myeloma with measurable disease in the blood and a targetable soft tissue or bony lesion with radiotherapy. All eligible patients will receive immunotherapy (Nivolumab) plus radiotherapy, 6 Gy x 5 fractions, to a targetable lesion. Immunotherapy treatment starts with the first radiotherapy fraction. Nivolumab will be given every 2 weeks. Patients will have specified laboratory values measured bi-monthly and evaluated for response at 12 weeks as defined by International Myeloma Working Group Criteria. Patients will continue to receive their respective immunotherapy until disease progression or dose limiting toxicity is reached.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Nivolumab 240mg|RADIATION: Radiation therapy
To Determine Overall Response at 12 Weeks Using International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Criteria in Patients Will be Measured, The primary aim is to estimate the overall response at 12 weeks using IMWG criteria. Per IMWG response criteria, Complete Response (CR) is defined as negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and \< 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) is defined as serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or \> 90% reduction in serum M-protein plus urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 h; Partial Response (PR) is defined as \> 50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24 hours urinary M-protein by \>90% or to \< 200 mg/24 h, No change/Stable disease is defined as not meeting criteria for CR, VGPR, PR, or progressive disease; Progressive disease (PD) is defined as an increase of \> 25% from lowest response value; Relapse is define as development of new soft tissue plasmacytomas or Definite increase in the size of existing plasmacytomas or bone lesions., 12 weeks
To Determine the Median Progression Free Survival (PFS) Will be Assessed in Patients Treated With Immunotherapy and Radiotherapy., Median progression free survival for patients treated with immunotherapy and radiotherapy will be assessed. Progression free survival (PFS) will be defined as the time from first treatment day until objective or symptomatic progression. PFS will be defined as the time from first treatment day until objective or symptomatic progression and PFS will be assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence interval., through study completion|To Determine the Median Overall Survival for Patients Treated With Immunotherapy and Radiotherapy Will be Assessed., Median overall survival for patients treated with immunotherapy and radiotherapy will be assessed. overall survival will be defined as the time from first treatment day until death. Overall survival will be assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence interval., through study completion
All eligible patients will receive immunotherapy (Nivolumab) plus radiotherapy, 6 Gy x 5 fractions, to a targetable lesion. Immunotherapy treatment starts with the first radiotherapy fraction. Nivolumab will be given every 2 weeks. Patients will have specified laboratory values measured bi-monthly and evaluated for response at 12 weeks as defined by International Myeloma Working Group Criteria. Patients will continue to receive their respective immunotherapy until disease progression or dose limiting toxicity is reached.