Single Arm Study of Azacitidine and Venetoclax for Treatment of Newly Diagnosed Fit Acute Myeloid Leukemia Patients
The goal of this clinical research study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Azacytidine in combination with Venetoclax in patients with newly diagnosed fit acute myeloid leukemia.
Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Venetoclax
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve the CR + CRi + Partial Remission (PR) as evaluated by the investigator., Up to 36 months
Minimal residual disease (MRD) negative response rate, The number of subjects who obtained MRD negative as a percentage of all evaluable subjects., Up to 36 months|Duration of Remission (DOR), From the first achievement of PR, CR, or CRi to time of disease progression, Up to 36 months|Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Rate, Proportion of subsequent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in intermediate-risk and adverse-risk patients, Up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS), From start of protocol treatment to time of death due to any cause, or until last follow-up, Up to 36 months|Event-Free Survival (EFS), From start of protocol treatment to time of disease relapse/progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier; or until last follow-up, Up to 36 months
The Study Drug:

Azacitidine is a DNA Demethylated drug, which is approvd for treatment of elderly AML patients Venetoclax targets the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 and the process of oxidative phosphorylation to induce apoptosis of leukemia cells and exhibits anti-tumor activity.

Study Group:

single arm: AZA plus Venetoclax

Study Drug Administration:

Each course is 28 days long. Venetoclax is taken once daily by oral. The doses of Venetoclax is 100 mg on Day 1, 200 mg on Day 2, reaching a target dose of 400 mg on Day 3 and continuing through Day 28. If concomitantly receiving azoles, the dose of Venetoclax will be adjusted according to the instructions. Azacitidine is taken 75mg/m2 on Days 1-7. Subjects would received 1-2 cycles induction therapy. Once get remission, subjects would received the same indution therapy of middle to high dose of cytarabine based chemotherapy at the discretion of the physician for consolidation. Allo-HSCT is suggested for subjects with the moderate to adverse ELN2017 risk.

Study Visit:

After treatment, relapse and survival will be followed monthly by telephone, on-site visits, and/or study medical records for up to two years (calculated from the first day of induction therapy); Thereafter follow-up every 3 months for one year.