A Study of Chemoradiation Plus Pembrolizumab for Locally Advanced Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and the benefit of adding pembrolizumab (a therapy that activates the immune system to fight cancer) to standard of care treatment for larynx cancer. The standard of care treatment will include chemotherapy and radiation for 7 weeks.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Cisplatin
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE V4.0, Greater than 2 grade 3 or 4 adverse events that are definitely, probably or possibly related to the pembrolizumab in the first cohort of 6 participants, 30 days following completion of treatment for the first 6 participants|Laryngectomy-free Survival in Locally Advanced Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma, This is the number of subjects that are laryngectomy-free at 18 months., 18 months
Laryngectomy-free Survival in Locally Advanced Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma, This is the number of subjects that are laryngectomy-free at 12 months., 12 months
This study is an open label, single arm study which will enroll patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx. Positive tumor PDL1 expression by IHC will not be required for enrollment.

All patients with receive Pembrolizumab and cisplatin in combination with radiation. Pembrolizumab 200 mg flat dose given Q21 days will begin 3 weeks prior to initiation of chemoradiation and continued through the 21-day cycle until completion of chemoradiation. Cisplatin will be given 100 mg/m2 every 21 days during radiation as per standard of care.

Pembrolizumab has well defined toxicities as single agent and has non-overlapping mechanisms of action with cisplatin and radiation. The safety of these agents used in combination has not been previously described, therefore the study will begin with a safety run-in phase 1 followed by the phase II design. See statistical section for details.