Chlorhexidine Gluconate Cleansing in Preventing Central Line Associated Bloodstream Infection and Acquisition of Multi-drug Resistant Organisms in Younger Patients With Cancer or Undergoing Donor Stem Cell Transplant
This randomized phase III trial studies chlorhexidine gluconate cleansing to see how well it works compared to control cleansing in preventing central line associated bloodstream infection and acquisition of multi-drug resistant organisms in younger patients with cancer or undergoing donor stem cell transplant. Chlorhexidine gluconate may help reduce bloodstream infections and bacterial infections associated with the central line.
Bacterial Infection|Benign Neoplasm|Malignant Neoplasm|Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus Infection|Myeloid Neoplasm|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Chlorhexidine Gluconate Skin Cleanser|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Mild Soap Skin Cleanser|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Central Line-associated Bloodstream Infections (CLABSI) Events During the At-risk Days, Rate of CLABSI per 1000 at-risk days. CLABSI outcome is defined according to the January 2015 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) criteria. At risk days are defined as days with eligible central lines in place., Up to 90 days post enrollment date
Percentage of Patients With Multi-drug Resistant Organisms (MDRO), MDROs are defined as Staphylococcus aureus resistant to oxacillin, Enterococcus spp. resistant to vancomycin, Klebsiella pneumoniae or Escherichia coli non-susceptible (intermediate or resistant) to ceftriaxone, ceftazidime, cefepime or any carbapenem, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Acinetobacter baumannii resistant to any carbapenem or ceftazidime, and either an aminoglycoside or fluoroquinolone. Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) is included as an MDRO and is defined as a positive lab test for C. difficile and \> 3 unformed stools in \< 24 hours., Up to 90 days post enrollment date|Percentage of Patients Who Acquire Cutaneous Bacterial Isolates With Reduced Susceptibility to Chlorhexidine Gluconate (CHG), Susceptibility to CHG is defined by MIC cutoff that is cutaneous staphylococcal isolate isolated from a follow-up swab with CHG MIC \> 4 ug/mL in patient without a resistant staphylococcal isolate isolated from a baseline swab., Up to 90 days post enrollment date|Rate of Bacteremia Per 1000 At-risk Days, A bacteremia episode is defined any positive blood culture. At risk days are defined as days with eligible central lines in place., Up to 90 days post enrollment date
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) cleansing decreases central line associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI) in children with cancer or those receiving an allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether CHG cleansing decreases acquisition of multi-drug resistant organisms (MDRO: vancomycin resistant enterococci \[VRE\], methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus \[MRSA\], etc.) in children with cancer or those receiving allogeneic HCT.

II. To determine whether CHG cleansing in children with cancer or those receiving allogeneic HCT is associated with cutaneous bacterial isolates with reduced susceptibility to CHG.

III. To determine whether CHG cleansing decreases positive blood cultures in children with cancer or those receiving allogeneic HCT.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive CHG cleansing with topical skin wipes once daily (QD) for 90 days.

ARM II: Patients receive control cleansing with topical skin wipes QD for 90 days.