Efficacy and Safety Comparison of RAD001 Versus Sunitinib in the First-line and Second-line Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
This study assessed the efficacy and safety of first-line RAD001 followed by second-line sunitinib versus the opposite sequence: first-line sunitinib followed by second-line RAD001 for the treatment of patients with MRCC.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: everolimus|DRUG: sunitinib
Progression Free Survival First-Line (PFS 1-L), PFS_1L based on investigator assessment of radiology data by RECIST 1.0, was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause during or after first-line treatment with everolimus or sunitinib. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., based on radiological assessments every 3 months until disease progression, start of another antineoplastic therapy or for any other reason up to 35 months
Progression-free Survival Combined (PFS-C), PFS-C (1L and 2L study drugs combined) was a composite endpoint which combined both lines of study treatment. It was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first of the following: date of death due to any cause, or date of the first radiologically documented progression disease during or after the second-line treatment period for patients with a radiologically documented progression disease in the first-line treatment period and who had crossed-over to second-line treatment no more than 6 weeks after progression., based on radiological assessments every 3 months until disease progression, start of another antineoplastic therapy or for any other reason up to about 56 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. The analysis of OS included all deaths in the FAS regardless of when they were observed., Every 2 months from randomization up to 3 years after last patient randomized|Overall Response Rate (ORR) - First -Line (1-L), ORR was defined as the number of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and was based on investigator assessment of radiology data per RECIST. Participants with best overall response of 'Unknown' were treated as non-responders in the calculation of the ORR. Confirmed CR = at least two determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart before progression. Confirmed PR = at least two determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart before progression. CR required a disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. PR required at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of all target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters. Radiological assessments : every 12 weeks until disease progression, the start of another antineoplastic therapy or for any other reason., based on radiological assessments every 3 months until disease progression, start of another antineoplastic therapy or for any other reason up to 35 months|Duration of Response (DoR) - First-Line (1-L), Duration of overall response (CR or PR) applies only to patients whose Best Overall Response (BOR) was Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) during the first-line treatment period. The start date was the date of first documented response (CR or PR) during the first-line treatment and the end date was the date of the event defined as the first documented progression or death due to underlying cancer during or after the same treatment line., based on radiological assessments every 3 months until disease progression, start of another antineoplastic therapy or for any other reason up to 35 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of the FKSI-DRS Risk Score by at Least 3 Score Units by First-line Drug, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Kidney Symptom Index, Disease Related Symptoms (FKSI-DRS) is a set of items to assess symptoms experienced by patients with advanced kidney cancer. These symptoms include fatigue, pain, weight loss, dyspnea, cough, fever and hematuria. Each item is scored on a 5-point scale (0 = not at all; 4 = very much). The FKSI-DRS total score ranges from 0 (most severe symptoms) to 36 (no symptoms). Definitive deterioration was defined as a decrease by at least 3 units compared to baseline, with no later increase above this threshold observed during the 1-L of treatment. A single measure reporting a decrease of at least 3 units was considered definitive only if it was the last one available for the patient., <=14 days prior to the first dose of study medication, on day 1, day 28 of every cycle, at the end of treatment visit, at the 28 day FUP visit and monthly thereafter for up to 3 months or until initiation of another anticancer therapy up to 35 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of the FKSI-DRS Risk Score by at Least 3 Score Units by First and Second-line Drugs Combined, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Kidney Symptom Index, Disease Related Symptoms (FKSI-DRS) is a set of items to assess symptoms experienced by patients with advanced kidney cancer. These symptoms include fatigue, pain, weight loss, dyspnea, cough, fever and hematuria. Each item is scored on a 5-point scale (0 = not at all; 4 = very much). The FKSI-DRS total score ranges from 0 (most severe symptoms) to 36 (no symptoms). Definitive deterioration was defined as a decrease by at least 3 units compared to baseline, with no later increase above this threshold observed during the 1-L or 2-L treatment. A single measure reporting a decrease of at least 3 units was considered definitive only if it was the last one available for the patient., <=14 days prior to the first dose of study medication, on day 1, day 28 of every cycle, at the end of treatment visit, at the 28 day FUP visit and monthly thereafter for up to 3 months or until initiation of another anticancer therapy up to 35 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of the Physical Functioning (PF) Scale of the EORTC QLQ-C30 - by First-Line (1L) Drug, The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) contains 30 items. These include a global health status/QoL scale, five functional scales, three symptom scales, and six single items. The standardized score for the PF, fatigue subscales and global health status ranges from 0 to 100, with a higher score representing a high level of functioning/high level of symptom/high quality of life. Definitive deterioration by at least 10% was defined as a decrease in score by at least 10% compared to baseline, with no later increase above this threshold observed during the first line of treatment. A single measure reporting a decrease of at least 10% was considered definitive only if it was the last one available for the participant., <=14 days prior to the first dose of study medication, on day 1, day 28 of every cycle, at the end of treatment visit, at the 28 day FUP visit and monthly thereafter for up to 3 months or until initiation of another anticancer therapy up to 35 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of the Physical Functioning Scale of the EORTC QLQ-C30 - by First and Second-Line Drugs Combined, The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) contains 30 items. These include a global health status/QoL scale, five functional scales, three symptom scales, and six single items.The standardized score for the PF, fatigue subscales and global health status ranges from 0 to 100, with a higher score representing a high level of functioning/high level of symptom/high quality of life. Definitive deterioration by at least 10% was defined as a decrease in score by at least 10% compared to baseline, with no later increase above this threshold observed during the first line or second line treatment. A single measure reporting a decrease of at least 10% was considered definitive only if it was the last one available for the participant., <=14 days prior to the first dose of study medication, on day 1, day 28 of every cycle, at the end of treatment visit, at the 28 day FUP visit and monthly thereafter for up to 3 months or until initiation of another anticancer therapy up to 35 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of the Global Health Status/QoL Scores of the EORTC QLQ-C30 by First-Line Drug, The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) contains 30 items. These include a global health status/QoL scale, five functional scales, three symptom scales, and six single items.The standardized score for the PF, fatigue subscales and global health status ranges from 0 to 100, with a higher score representing a high level of functioning/high level of symptom/high quality of life. Definitive deterioration by at least 10% was defined as a decrease in score by at least 10% compared to baseline, with no later increase above this threshold observed during the first line of treatment. A single measure reporting a decrease of at least 10% was considered definitive only if it was the last one available for the participant., <=14 days prior to the first dose of study medication, on day 1, day 28 of every cycle, at the end of treatment visit, at the 28 day FUP visit and monthly thereafter for up to 3 months or until initiation of another anticancer therapy up to 35 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of the Global Health Status/QoL Scores of the EORTC QLQ-C30 by First and Second-Line Drugs Combined, The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) contains 30 items. These include a global health status/QoL scale, five functional scales, three symptom scales, and six single items. The standardized score for the PF, fatigue subscales and global health status ranges from 0 to 100, with a higher score representing a high level of functioning/high level of symptom/high quality of life. Definitive deterioration by at least 10% was defined as a decrease in score by at least 10% compared to baseline, with no later increase above this threshold observed during the first line or second line treatment. A single measure reporting a decrease of at least 10% was considered definitive only if it was the last one available for the participant., <=14 days prior to the first dose of study medication, on day 1, day 28 of every cycle, at the end of treatment visit, at the 28 day FUP visit and monthly thereafter for up to 3 months or until initiation of another anticancer therapy up to 35 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of the Fatigue Scale of the EORTC QLQ-C30 by First-Line Drug, The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) contains 30 items. These include a global health status/QoL scale, five functional scales, three symptom scales, and six single items.The standardized score for the PF, fatigue subscales and global health status ranges from 0 to 100, with a higher score representing a high level of functioning/high level of symptom/high quality of life. Definitive deterioration by at least 10% was defined as a decrease in score by at least 10% compared to baseline, with no later increase above this threshold observed during the first line of treatment. A single measure reporting a decrease of at least 10% was considered definitive only if it was the last one available for the participant., <=14 days prior to the first dose of study medication, on day 1, day 28 of every cycle, at the end of treatment visit, at the 28 day FUP visit and monthly thereafter for up to 3 months or until initiation of another anticancer therapy up to 35 months|Time to Definitive Deterioration of the Fatigue Scale of the EORTC QLQ-C30 by First and Second-Line Drugs Combined, The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) contains 30 items. These include a global health status/QoL scale, five functional scales, three symptom scales, and six single items. The standardized score for the PF, fatigue subscales and global health status ranges from 0 to 100, with a higher score representing a high level of functioning/high level of symptom/high quality of life. Definitive deterioration by at least 10% was defined as a decrease in score by at least 10% compared to baseline, with no later increase above this threshold observed during the first line or second line treatment. A single measure reporting a decrease of at least 10% was considered definitive only if it was the last one available for the participant., <=14 days prior to the first dose of study medication, on day 1, day 28 of every cycle, at the end of treatment visit, at the 28 day FUP visit and monthly thereafter for up to 3 months or until initiation of another anticancer therapy up to 35 months
This study assessed the efficacy and safety of first-line RAD001 followed by second-line sunitinib versus the opposite sequence: first-line sunitinib followed by second-line RAD001 for the treatment of patients with MRCC.