Asciminib in Monotherapy for Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in Chronic Phase (CML-CP) With and Without T315I Mutation
This study will be a multicenter Phase IIIb open-label, three-cohort study of asciminib in patients with CML-CP without T315I mutation who have had at least 2 prior TKIs and CML-CP harboring the T315I mutation with at least 1 prior TKI
Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia - Chronic Phase
DRUG: ABL001
Number of Participants With Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events for Cohorts A and B up to 24 Weeks, Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) are summarized by cohort. Clinically significant findings for vitals, laboratory values and electrocardiogram (ECG) are reported as adverse events and or serious adverse events as determined by the investigator., Baseline to up to 24 Weeks
Number of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events for Cohorts A, B and C, Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) will be summarized by cohort. Clinically significant findings for vitals, laboratory values and electrocardiogram (ECG) will be reported as adverse events and or serious adverse events as determined by the investigator., Baseline up to 48 and 72 weeks|Percentage of Patients Achieving Complete Hematologic Response (CHR) for Cohorts A, B and C, A complete hematologic response (CHR) is defined as all of the following present for ≥ 4 weeks: white blood count (WBC) \<10 x 109/L, platelet count \<450 x 109/L, basophils \<5%, no blasts and promyelocytes in peripheral blood, myelocytes + metamyelocytes \< 5% in peripheral blood, no evidence of extramedullary disease, including spleen and liver, Baseline to 12, 24, 48, 72 weeks|Percentage of Patients Achieving Molecular Response (MR2), Major Molecular Response (MMR) and Molecular Response of MR4 and MR4.5 for Cohorts A, B and C, The rate of molecular response (MR2) by 12, 24, 48 and 72 weeks after the start of first study medication is defined as ≥ 2 log reduction of BCR-ABL (transcript from standardized baseline or ≤ 1% BCR-ABL/ABL % by international scale, measured by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR). BCR-ABL fusion gene is also called the Philadelphia chromosome. Rate for MMR is defined as ≥ 3 log reduction, MR4 is defined as ≥ 4 log reduction and MR4.5 is defined as ≥ 4.5 log reduction., Baseline up to 12, 24, 48, 72 weeks|Time to Achieve CHR, MR2, MMR, MR4, MR4.5 for Cohorts A, B and C, Time to achieving a response level is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study medication to the first documented achievement of a each defined response level. Time to achieve a specific response level will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier Product-Limit method. Patients who are known to be without achieving that response level will be censored at the last adequate assessment., Baseline up to 72 weeks|Duration of CHR, MR2, MMR, MR4 and MR4.5 for Cohorts A, B and C, Duration of Response (DOR) is the time from the date of the first documented a molecular response level to the date of first documented loss of the response level or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. DOR for each response level will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier Product-Limit method. Participants continuing without that event will be censored at the date of their last adequate response assessment., Baseline up 72 weeks|Progression Free Survival (PFS) for Cohorts A, B and C, Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as time from the first dose of study medication to disease progression to accelerated phase/blast crisis (AP/BC) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier Product-Limit method, Baseline up to 72 weeks|Overall Survival Overall Survival (OS) for Cohorts A, B and C, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from the first dose of study medication to death due to any cause during study. If a patient is not known to have died, then OS will be censored at the latest date the patient was known to be alive. OS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier Product-Limit method, Baseline up to 72 weeks
This trial consists of three periods: screening and baseline for up to 21 days, active treatment for up to 72 weeks and a safety follow up period for 30 days.

One hundred and fifteen (115) patients with chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase (CML-CP) without T315I mutation who have had at least 2 prior Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors (TKIs) and CML-CP with the T315I mutation with at least 1 prior TKI will be considered for the current study

Informed consent will be obtained before any procedures are performed for the study including eligibility assessments. The results of the real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) must be available prior to randomization and first dose of study treatment.

Patients with CML-CP without T315I mutation will be randomly assigned to either cohort A or B. Patients with the T315I mutation will be enrolled in cohort C. During treatment period asciminib will be taken orally: Cohort A will be administered 40 mg twice a day, Cohort B will be administered 80 mg once a day and Cohort C will be administered 200 mg twice a day. The patients will be treated up to end of study treatment period defined as up to 72 weeks after the last patient receives the first dose. Patients may be discontinued from treatment with the study drug at any time due to unacceptable toxicity, disease progression and/or at the discretion of the investigator or the patient.