Bevacizumab, Fluorouracil, and External-Beam Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage II or Stage III Rectal Cancer
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of bevacizumab when given together with fluorouracil and external-beam radiation therapy in treating patients with stage II or stage III rectal cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining monoclonal antibody therapy with chemotherapy and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Stage II Rectal Cancer|Stage III Rectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: fluorouracil|RADIATION: external beam radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose of bevacizumab when administered concurrently with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) in patients with cT3 and T4 rectal cancer prior to surgery, 29 days
Pathological response rate after preoperative bevacizumab, 5-FU, EBRT, and surgery, Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, The progression-free survival curve will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier methods., From protocol entry until documented progression of disease or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Local control, Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) neutralizing antibody, bevacizumab, when administered concurrently with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) in patients with clinical stage T3 or T4 rectal cancer prior to surgery.

II. To obtain preliminary data of the pathological response rate after preoperative therapy.

III. To obtain preliminary data regarding progression free survival, local control, and overall survival.

IV. To obtain preliminary data of the changes in the angiogenic profile of rectal cancer induced by this therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of bevacizumab.

Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 (courses 1-4). Beginning with course 2, patients also receive fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-14 and undergo external beam radiotherapy on days 1-5 and 8-12. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo surgery 7 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy.

Cohorts of 6 patients receive escalating doses of bevacizumab until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, 20 additional patients are treated at the MTD.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 2 years.