Evaluation of 18F-fluciclovine (FACBC) PET/MR Uptake in Participants With Glioma
This is a pilot study to assess the ability of \[F-18\]fluciclovine to differentiate pseudoprogression from progression in participants after therapy, at imaging time points within the 12 week interval post chemoradiation. \[F-18\]fluciclovine. PET will be obtained at the time point in the 12 week interval in which MRI demonstrates increase in enhancing volume with the differential diagnosis of pseudoprogression versus tumor progression. At the same time point (at least 6 hours after \[F-18\]fluciclovine or up to 3 days) F-18 FDG will also be performed consistent with standard clinical practice. The verification of pseudoprogression versus tumor progression will be determined by the regression of enhancing lesion on subsequent MRI imaging obtained as part of standard care.
Glioma
DRUG: 18F-fluciclovine
To assess the ability of [F-18]fluciclovine to differentiate radionecrosis (pseudoprogression) from tumor recurrence (progression) in patients after therapy, at imaging time points within the 12 week interval post chemoradiation., To assess the ability of \[F-18\]fluciclovine to differentiate pseudoprogression from progression as compared to F-18 FDG, regions of interest will be drawn around MRI anatomically defined enhancing tumor regions and translated to both the F-18 FDG and F-18 fluciclovine PET scans to obtain SUV for each tracer. The SUV values will be correlated with the diagnosis of pseudoprogression versus tumor progression as determined by the regression of lesion enhancement on subsequent standard clinical follow up MRI imaging, as described in the protocol., 90 minutes
In this pilot study the investigators propose to image 10 participants who have been previously diagnosed by resection or biopsy with grade 3 or 4 glioma.

All glioma cases undergoing resection at UPMC are evaluated by immunohistochemistry for mutations in p53, nuclear localization of ATRX, and the presence of IDH1R132H mutation as part of standard neuropathologic integrated diagnosis using the WHO 2016 diagnostic criteria. All glioma cases resected at UPMC undergo genetic profiling using next generation sequencing.

MRI imaging will be obtained as part of standard clinical care. The MRI sequences include T1 pre and post contrast, T2 FLAIR, DWI, ADC and perfusion sequences using the imaging algorithm for evaluating treatment response in glioma treatment trials. Radiogenomic analysis will be performed using the MRI imaging sequences obtained as standard clinical care.