Self-Care for Head and Neck Cancer Survivors With Lymphedema and Fibrosis
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies how well the self-care program works in head and neck cancer survivors with lymphedema and fibrosis. A self-care program may promote self-care activities for managing chronic swelling and tough/tight tissues in the head and neck region.
Head and Neck Cancer|Lymphedema|Fibrosis
OTHER: Usual Care|OTHER: Usual Care plus LEF-SCP|OTHER: Usual Care plus LEF-SCP plus Follow-up
Feasibility of the LEF-SCP (Self-Care Skill Training Sessions), Feasibility of the LEF-SCP was evaluated by number of participants that completed the self-care skill training sessions (at least 2 out of 3 sessions). This measure was applicable to Group II and Group III only., Following 3 weeks of the LEF-SCP sessions|Feasibility of the LEF-SCP (Motivational Interviewing Sessions), Feasibility of the LEF-SCP was evaluated by number of participants that completed the motivational interviewing sessions (at least 2 out of 3 sessions). This measure was applicable to Group II and Group III only., Following 3 weeks of motivational interviewing sessions|Preliminary Efficacy of the LEF-SCP (Total Severity of External LEF), Change in total severity of external LEF from baseline to 12 months post-intervention. A larger change in this score means more reduction in the severity of external LEF,

External LEF is measured by HN-LEF Assessment Criteria. The total external LEF severity score is calculated by summing the severity score of each site (total 9 sites, severity score ranging from 0-27). For each site, the severity of LEF includes no LEF (=0), mild (=1), moderate (=2), and severe (=3)., at 12 months post-intervention|Preliminary Efficacy of the LEF-SCP (Symptom Burden), Change in symptom burden score from baseline to 12 months post-intervention. A larger change in this score means decreased symptom burden.

Symptom burden is assessed by Head and Neck Lymphedema and Fibrosis Symptom Inventory (HN-LEF SI). Higher scores (score ranging from 0-5) indicate increased symptom burden. There are 7 subscales and only one subscale (soft tissue and neurologic toxicity) score is reported here., at 12 months post-intervention|Preliminary Efficacy of the LEF-SCP (Self-Efficacy), Change in self-efficacy score from baseline to 12 months post-intervention. A larger change in this score means increased self-efficacy.

Self-efficacy is assessed by Perceived Medical Condition Self-Management Scale (PMCSMS) (8-item). Higher scores (score ranging from 8-40) indicate greater self-efficacy., at 12 months post-intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To complete development of a self-care program focusing on lymphedema and fibrosis (LEF) in head and neck cancer (HNC) survivors (LEF-self-care program \[SCP\]) with the goal of improving LEF associated outcomes when compared to usual care alone. (Stage I)

II. To determine the feasibility of a program of LEF-SCP with or without follow-up to usual care for HNC survivors with LEF, specifically to: 1) obtain recruitment estimates and determine barriers to recruitment; 2) identify barriers to implementation; 3) assess safety; and 4) evaluate patient satisfaction. (Stage II)

III. To determine if the LEF-SCP with or without follow-up enhances self-efficacy and adherence compared to usual care in HNC survivors with LEF. (Stage II)

IV. To determine the preliminary efficacy of the LEF-SCP with or without follow-up as compared to usual care for the following outcomes: 1) LEF progression; 2) symptom burden; and 3) functional status. (Stage II)

OUTLINE:

Project Stage I: Patients undergo a training session with the study lymphedema therapist and review the educational manual and videos for the development of all three components of the LEF self-care program.

Project Stage II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 groups.

GROUP I: Patients will receive usual care only, without any additional interventions.

GROUP II: Patients undergo LEF-SCP training comprising of motivational interview (MI) session over 1 hour and LEF self-care training session over 1 hour weekly for 3 weeks. Patients also review LEF self-care educational manual and watch self-care videos monthly or more frequently as needed.

GROUP III: Patients undergo LEF-SCP training comprising of MI session over 1 hour and LEF self-care training session over 1 hour weekly for 3 weeks. Patients review LEF self-care educational manual and watch self-care videos monthly or more frequently as needed. Patients also meet with the study lymphedema therapist over 1 hour at 3, 6, and 9 months.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.