Yoga for Aromatase Inhibitor-related Knee Pain Relief in Breast Cancer Patients
The purpose of the study was to investigate the therapeutic effect of Yoga on aromatic inhibitor-induced chronic knee pain in patients with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Aromatase Inhibitor|Yoga|Knee Pain
OTHER: yoga
womac questionnaire, The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC) is widely used in the evaluation of Hip and Knee Osteoarthritis., 3 minutes
M.E.A.D (Meridian Energy Analysis Device), The instrument mainly detects 24 representative points of the twelve meridians around the human body. The bioelectrical resistance of each meridian is measured by the test rod to evaluate the conductivity of each meridian, and the physiology of the subject is analyzed by computer. situation., 5minutes
Estrogen plays a critical role in breast cancer growth in pre-and post-menopausal women. The aromatic catalyzer has relationship with biosynthesis of estrogen, therefore, aromatic inhibitors became as a standard therapy of breast cancer in post-menopausal women. Arthralgia and joint stiffness are most common side effect in aromatic inhibitor treatment. Yoga is benefit for the patients with chronic pain improvement, and also can improve quality of life. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the therapeutic effect of Yoga on aromatic inhibitor-induced chronic knee pain in patients with breast cancer.The investigators designed a crossover study, a total of 60 patients divided equally to control group (massage for 6 weeks in home care) and treatment group (Yoga treatment for 12 times/6 weeks). There is two weeks wash out period after finishing 6 weeks treatment, and then the patients in control group changed to treatment, in contrast, the patients in the treatment changed to control group. The assessment time was pre-treatment (vision 1), finishing 6 weeks treatment (vision), finishing 6 weeks treatment after crossover (vision 3). The major assessment was brief pain inventory scores changed The results in the present study predict Yoga treatment for 6 weeks can improve aromatic inhibitor-induced knee pain and also can improve quality of life in patients with breast cancer.