DETERMINE Trial Treatment Arm 06: Capmatinib in Adult Patients With Cancers Harbouring MET Dysregulations
This clinical trial is looking at a drug called capmatinib. Capmatinib is approved as standard of care treatment for adult patients with certain types of lung cancer. This means it has gone through clinical trials and been approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the UK.

Capmatinib works in lung cancer patients with a particular mutation in their cancer known as a METex14 skipping mutation.

Investigators now wish to find out if it will be useful in treating patients with other cancer types which have the same mutation or other specific mutations or changes which take place in the MET gene. If the results are positive, the study team will work with the NHS and the Cancer Drugs Fund to see if these drugs can be routinely accessed for patients in the future.

This trial is part of a trial programme called DETERMINE. The programme will also look at other anti-cancer drugs in the same way, through matching the drug to rare cancer types or ones with specific mutations.
Solid Tumour|Haematological Malignancy|Malignant Neoplasm|Neoplasms by Histologic Type|Neoplasms by Site|Cancer|Malignancy|Glioma|Neuroblastoma|Gastric Cancer|Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: Capmatinib
Objective Response (OR), OR is defined as the confirmed occurrence of either a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) Version 1.1 criteria (or immune related \[ir\]-RECIST or standard imaging criteria for specific disease e.g. Response Evaluation in Neuro Oncology criteria \[RANO\]). In patients with leukaemia, OR will be defined as the occurrence of CR, CRi (CR incomplete neutrophil recovery) or CRp (CR with incomplete platelet recovery). The trial will report the proportion of patients with an OR and 95% credible interval., Disease assessments to be performed up to 24 weeks from the start of trial treatment.|Durable Clinical Benefit (DCB), DCB is defined as the absence of disease progression for at least 24 weeks from the start of trial treatment according to RECIST Version 1.1 criteria (or ir-RECIST or standard imaging criteria for specific disease e.g. RANO criteria) and, where relevant (e.g. for haematological malignancies), by standard bone marrow response assessment criteria. Alternative definitions of DCB based on different time points may be pre-specified for particular sub-cohorts if 24 weeks is not clinically relevant. The trial will report the proportion of patients with a DCB and 95% credible interval., Disease assessments to be performed up to 24 weeks from the start of trial treatment.
Duration of response (DR), DR is defined as the time from the date of the first confirmed CR or PR according to RECIST 1.1 or ir-RECIST or standard imaging criteria for specific disease, e.g. RANO criteria to the date of disease progression. The trial will report the median DR and 95% credible interval., Disease assessment performed every 2 cycles of capmatinib (each cycle is 28 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of capmatinib for up to 2 years.|Best percentage change in sum of target lesion / index lesion diameters (PCSD), PCSD is defined as the greatest decrease or least increase in the sum of target lesion diameters (RECIST) or index lesion diameters (irRECIST) as a percentage compared to the baseline measurement. The trial will report the mean PCSD and 95% credible interval., Disease assessment performed every 2 cycles of capmatinib (each cycle is 28 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of capmatinib for up to 2 years.|Time to treatment discontinuation (TTD), TTD is defined as the time from date of starting trial treatment to date of discontinuing trial treatment, in days estimated by the median of the posterior inverse gamma probability distribution. The trial will report the median TTD and 95% credible interval., From first dose of capmatinib to discontinuation of trial treatment up to 5 years with an average calculated and presented with results entry.|Progression-Free Survival time (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from date of starting trial treatment to date of progression or date of death without a previous progression recorded estimated by the median of the posterior inverse gamma probability distribution., Disease assessment performed every 2 cycles of capmatinib (each cycle is 28 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of capmatinib for up to 2 years.|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time from date of starting trial treatment to date of progression or date of death without recorded progression censored rather than events. The trial will report the median TTP and 95% credible interval., Disease assessment performed every 2 cycles of capmatinib (each cycle is 28 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of capmatinib for up to 2 years.|Growth Modulation Index (GMI), GMI is defined as the ratio of TTP with the trial protocol treatment to TTP on the most recent prior line of therapy. The trial will report the mean GMI and 95% credible interval., Disease assessment performed every 2 cycles of capmatinib (each cycle is 28 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of capmatinib for up to 2 years.|Overall Survival time (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of starting trial treatment to date of death from any cause estimated by the median of the posterior normal probability distribution., Time of death or up to 2 years after the EoT visit.|Occurrence of at least one Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reaction (SUSAR), The trial will report the number of patients who experience at least one SUSAR to capmatinib., From the time of consent until 28 days after last dose of capmatinib (up to 5 years) or until patient starts another anti-cancer therapy, whichever came first. An average time frame will be presented with results entry.|Occurrence of at least one Grade 3, 4 or 5 capmatinib related AE, Number of patients who experience at least one capmatinib related Grade 3, 4 or 5 AE according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 5.0, From the time of consent until 28 days after last dose of capmatinib (up to 5 years) or until patient starts another anti-cancer therapy, whichever came first. An average time frame will be presented with results entry.|EORTC-QLQ-30-Standardised Area Under Summary Score Curve (QLQSAUC), Multiple measures of Quality of Life (QoL) will be generated from patient completion of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer QLQC30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30) questionnaire (15 measures). For each patient the Summary Score from the questionnaire will be generated at each time point and the area under the curve generated by these scores over time will be calculated and standardised by the time frame. The trial will report the mean QLQSAUC and 95% credible interval., QoL surveys performed at baseline every cycle (every cycle is 28 days) and after interrupting treatment (up to 5 years).|EQ-5D Standardised Area Under Index Value Curve (EQ5DSAUC), Two measures of QoL will be generated from patient completion of the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire. For each measure, scores based on responses from the questionnaire will be generated at each time point and the area under the curve generated by these scores over time will be calculated and standardised by the time frame. The trial will report the mean EQ5DSAUC and 95% credible interval., QoL surveys performed prior to inclusion, every cycle (each cycle is 28 days) and at EoT visit (up to 5 years).
DETERMINE Treatment Arm 06 (capmatinib) aims to evaluate the efficacy of capmatinib in adult patients with rare\* cancers harbouring MET dysregulations and in common cancers where MET dysregulations are considered to be infrequent.

\*Rare is defined generally as incidence less than 6 cases in 100,000 patients (includes paediatric and teenagers/young adult cancers) or common cancers with rare alterations.

This treatment arm has a target sample size of 30 evaluable patients. Sub-cohorts may be defined and further expanded to a target of 30 evaluable patients each.

The ultimate aim is to translate positive clinical findings to the NHS (Cancer Drugs Fund) to provide new treatment options for rare adult cancers.

OUTLINE:

Pre-screening: The Molecular Tumour Board makes a treatment recommendation for the patient based on molecularly-defined cohorts (See information on Master Screening Protocol below).

Screening: Consenting patients undergo biopsy and collection of blood samples for research purposes.

Treatment: Patients will receive capmatinib until disease progression without clinical benefit, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent. Patients will also undergo collection of blood samples at various intervals while receiving treatment and at End of Treatment (EoT).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.

THE DETERMINE TRIAL MASTER (SCREENING) PROTOCOL:

Please see DETERMINE Trial Master (Screening) Protocol record (NCT05722886) for information on the DETERMINE Trial Master Protocol and applicable documents.