Fezolinetant for Treating Hot Flashes in Men With Prostate Cancer
This study is for men with prostate cancer who are experiencing hot flashes due to treatments that lower testosterone. Hot flashes can affect your quality of life and make it harder for patients to continue their treatment, so researchers want to find a better way to manage them. The study is testing a drug called fezolinetant, which might help reduce hot flashes without using hormones. Fezolinetant is a drug that is currently approved for the treatment of hot flashes in menopausal women.
Prostate CA|Androgen Deprivation Therapy
DRUG: Fezolinetant
Reduction in Hot Flash Score, Assess the effect of fezolinetant 45 mg daily on the 7-day period participant-reported Hot Flash Score (HFS) at 4 weeks relative to baseline. The HFS sums the number of hot flashes multiplied by the intensity of each hot flash to estimate the overall hot flash burden during a 24 hour period, averaged over a 7 day period., 28 day
To characterize the safety and adverse event profile of fezolinetant in the study population., To characterize the safety and adverse event profile of fezolinetant in the study population by monitoring adverse events., 28 day|Measure Compliance of Fezolinetant Therapy in Men, Compliance will be assessed based on a combination of the Hot Flash diary (HFD) responses, the weekly phone calls during the Treatment Phase, and the participant visit at the end of the Treatment Phase., 28 day|Hot Flash Frequency, To assess the effect of fezolinetant on participant-reported Hot Flash Frequency (HFF) at 4 weeks relative to baseline., 28 day|Patient Reported Quality of Life, To measure the impact of fezolinetant treatment participant-reported quality of life and hot flash interference, as measured by the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS) after 4 weeks compared to baseline. The HFRDIS is a 10-item instrument developed and validated to assess the interference of hot flashes on multiple specific important quality of life dimensions in this patient population., 28 day
This study is for men with prostate cancer who are experiencing hot flashes due to treatments that lower testosterone. Hot flashes can affect your quality of life and make it harder for patients to continue their treatment, so researchers want to find a better way to manage them. The study is testing a drug called fezolinetant, which might help reduce hot flashes without using hormones. Fezolinetant is a drug that is currently approved for the treatment of hot flashes in menopausal women.