Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b in Treating Patients With Melanoma
This pilot clinical trial studies recombinant interferon alfa-2b in treating patients with melanoma. Recombinant interferon alfa-2b may interfere with the growth of tumor cells and slow the growth of melanoma
Stage IA Skin Melanoma|Stage IB Skin Melanoma|Stage IIA Skin Melanoma|Stage IIB Skin Melanoma|Stage IIC Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIA Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIB Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIC Skin Melanoma|Stage IV Skin Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interferon alfa-2b|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Level of Activated STAT1(Phospho-STAT1), Mean and 95% confidence interval will be summarized for phospho-STAT1 at a lower dose and the standard dose. The phospho-STAT1 will also be compared between the dose levels., up to 4 weeks
Number of Patients With Adverse Events, Determine the tolerability of adjuvant IFN-α-2b administered at an optimized dose in terms of the toxicities that are observed and the ability of patients to receive a full year of therapy., up to 1 year|Percentage of Patients With Correlation Between STAT1 Phosphorylation and Interferon Alfa Gene Regulation, Levels of p-STAT1 in PBMCs were analyzed just prior to IFN-a-2b administration to determine levels that remained stable or increased over the course of dose reduction., Prior to treatment and 1 and 4 hours post therapy on day 1 every other week during the first 12 weeks, and then every 3 months|Effect of Dose-reduction on Expression of Interferon Alfa Stimulated Genes, Evaluated using microarray analysis of patient PBMCs. Compared using the Wilcoxon signed rank test for the dose 10MU/m2, 1 hour post therapy|Effect of Dose-reduction on Interferon Alfa Gene Expression, Evaluated using microarray analysis of patient PBMCs. Compared using the Wilcoxon signed rank test for the dose 4MU/m2, 1 hour post therapy|Effect of Dose-reduction on Interferon Alfa Gene Expression Through Marker CD69, Evaluated using microarray analysis of patient PBMCs. Compared between doses using the Wilcoxon signed rank test., 4 hours post therapy|Effect of Dose-reduction on Interferon Alfa Gene Expression at Dose Level 4MU, Evaluated using microarray analysis of patient PBMCs. Compared between doses using the Wilcoxon signed rank test., 4 hours post therapy|Clinical Role of Tumor Sensitivity to Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b Using Cellular Levels of Jak-STAT Signaling Intermediates, Define the clinical role of tumor sensitivity to IFN-α, patient tumor biopsies taken prior to the administration of IFN-α will be systematically evaluated for cellular levels of Jak-STAT signaling intermediates., Baseline and every other week prior to recombinant interferon alfa-2b administration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether selection of the optimal IFN-alpha-2b (recombinant interferon alfa-2b) dose can be made using signal transduction data.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the tolerability of adjuvant IFN-alpha-2b administered at an optimized dose in terms of the toxicities that are observed and the ability of patients to receive a full year of therapy.

II. The transcription of a panel of IFN-alpha-induced genes previously identified by microarray analysis will be determined by Real-Time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) in order that the correlation between signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) phosphorylation and IFN-alpha gene regulation can be evaluated.

III. Microarray analysis of patient peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) will be used to evaluate the effect of dose-reduction on IFN-alpha gene expression.

IV. In order to define the clinical role of tumor sensitivity to IFN-alpha, patient tumor biopsies taken prior to the administration of IFN-alpha will be systematically evaluated for cellular levels of janus kinase (Jak)-STAT signaling intermediates.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive recombinant interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously (SC) thrice weekly. Treatment continues for 11 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 2 years.