A Phase 2 Study of Durvalumab (MEDI4736) and Oleclumab (MEDI9447) in Multi-Cancer Populations With Correlation to Clinical, Molecular and Immunologic Parameters With DNA MethylaTION
This is a Phase II, prospective, non-randomized, open-label trial involving cancer patients with known inflamed tumor types. Patients with previously treated advanced/metastatic non-small cell lung cancer or renal cell cancer will be recruited in near equal distribution. All patients must have documented response or prolonged stable disease to previous immunotherapy. At present, we plan to enrol 55 patients, to be treated with durvalumab and oleclumab. The regimen will consist of durvalumab 1500 mg given by vein every 4 weeks and oleclumab 3000 mg given by vein every 2 weeks x 4 doses then IV every 4 weeks till disease progression, withdrawal of subject consent, or another reason for discontinuation. Estimated total duration from time to first subjects consent to last subject's last visit is approximately 36 months.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Renal Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|BIOLOGICAL: Oleclumab
Association between cfMeDIP and Response (defined as either complete response, partial response, or stable disease ≥ 4 cycles, as per RECIST 1.1. Association between cfMeDIP and Toxicity (defined as ≥ Grade 2 immune- adverse event (AE) as per CTCAE 5.0)., To identify cfMeDIP-seq-based predictive signature(s) that are correlated with specific outcome to durvalumab and oleclumab such as response/resistance or occurrence of toxicity in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and renal cell carcinoma (RCC), 3 years|Objective response rate (ORR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, 3 years|Disease control rate (DCR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, 3 years|Duration of response (DoR), 3 years
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs), To assess the safety and tolerability of durvalumab and oleclumab in specific disease states in NSCLC and RCC, 3 years|Overall survival (OS) or progression-free survival (PFS), 3 years
Study Hypotheses:

1. Circulating free methylated DNA immunoprecipitation and high-throughput sequencing (cfMeDIP-seq) can yield cancer type-agnostic predictive biomarker(s) of response and/or toxicity in subjects receiving this combination.
2. The combination of oleclumab (anti-cluster of differentiation \[CD\]73 monoclonal antibody) with durvalumab (anti programmed cell death ligand 1 \[PD-L1\]) will demonstrate adequate safety, tolerability, and antitumor activity in subjects with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and renal cell cancer (RCC) previously treated with checkpoint inhibitors.