Pembrolizumab Followed by Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Patients With Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial tests how well giving pembrolizumab followed by chemotherapy with doxorubicin, vinblastine and dacarbazine works to treat patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma. Pembrolizumab is a type of drug called a "monoclonal antibody (mAb)" that uses the body's immune system to help fight and kill cancer cells. Chemotherapy drugs, such as doxorubicin, vinblastine and dacarbazine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing or by stopping them from spreading. Giving pembrolizumab followed by chemotherapy may work to treat patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma.
Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Doxorubicin|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Vinblastine
Rate of complete response (CR), Assessed by position emission tomography (PET)-computed tomography (CT). CR defined as 1-3 on the five-point scale per Lugano (Lugano 2014 Response Criteria). Patients with 1-3 per Deauville criteria will be considered a complete response. Response will be determined, using a proportion and an exact binomial 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years
Efficacy of reduced cycles of treatment with doxorubicin (adriamycin) vinblastine, doxorubicin (AVD) for patients with CR, Patients that are identified as CR will be treated with AVD for 2-4 cycles and are evaluated again. Similarly, CR rate will be determined using a proportion and an exact binomial 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Frequency and severity of adverse events by type, severity (grade), timing, and attribution to pembrolizumab will be assessed according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan Meier curves will be used and 6-month, 1-year, and 2-year OS if applicable, will be calculated., From start of treatment administration per protocol until death, up to 5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Kaplan Meier curves will be used and 6-month, 1-year, and 2-year PFS if applicable, will be calculated., From the start of treatment administration per protocol until the first occurrence of disease relapse, progression, re-initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy, or death due to disease, up to 5 years|Assess the CR rate at the end of PEM induction by PET-CT i, The CR rate at the end of the PEM treatment, using a proportion and an exact binomial 95% confidence interval, will be estimated for all patients that were treated with PEM., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the percent of patients that achieve a complete response (CR) after frontline pembrolizumab monotherapy induction, among classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) patients with early unfavorable or advanced stage disease, per Lugano 2014 response criteria at positron emission tomography (PET) #2.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of a reduced number of cycles (2-4) of doxorubicin (adriamycin), vinblastine, and dacarbazine (AVD) when used following treatment with frontline pembrolizumab monotherapy in classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL), per Lugano 2014 Response Criteria.

II. To assess the safety and tolerability of sequential immunotherapy with upfront pembrolizumab followed by AVD chemotherapy in cHL per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (ver.) 5.0.

III. To assess progression-free-survival (PFS) of cHL patients who received sequential immunotherapy with upfront pembrolizumab followed by AVD chemotherapy, assessed by central review, according to Lugano 2014 Response Criteria.

IV. To assess overall survival (OS) of cHL patients who received sequential immunotherapy with upfront pembrolizumab followed by AVD chemotherapy.

V. To assess the CR rate at the end of pembrolizumab (PEM) induction by PET-computed tomography (CT) in all treated patients, regardless of number of cycles of PEM received, per Lugano 2014 Response Criteria.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats repeat every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo disease assessment. Patients with a response complete 3 additional cycles of pembrolizumab, undergo disease assessment and proceed to consolidation. Patients without response or with progressive disease proceed to consolidation.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive doxorubicin IV, vinblastine IV and dacarbazine IV on days 1 and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity for 2 to 6 cycles dependent upon response and disease type. Patients undergo echocardiography/ multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan, CT scan, PET scan and blood sample collection throughout the study and may undergo tumor biopsy during screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for 1 year, and every 6 months for 4 years.