A Study of Vemurafenib in Metastatic Melanoma Participants With Brain Metastases
This open-label, single-arm, multicenter study will evaluate the efficacy and safety in participants with metastatic melanoma who developed brain metastases. Participants may or may not have received prior systemic treatment for metastatic melanoma \[except treatment with v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF) or mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK) inhibitors\]. Participants will receive oral doses of 960 mg vemurafenib twice daily until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or consent withdrawal.
Malignant Melanoma
DRUG: Vemurafenib
Best Overall Response Rate (BORR) Within Brain of Previously Untreated Participants (Assessed by Independent Review Committee [IRC] Using Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]), BORR assessed by IRC is defined as percentage of participants who were responders \[with best overall response (BOR) documented as confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)\]. The RECIST v1.1 criteria modified for independent review of body and brain lesions was based on current radiology practices. The modifications to RECIST v1.1 included allowing target lesions in the brain to be \>=5 mm by contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scan (in traditional RECIST v1.1 this is \>=10 mm), allowing up to 5 target lesions in the brain (in traditional RECIST v1.1 only 2 target lesions), and examining the lesions within the brain and outside the brain separately for analytical purposes. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<) 10 millimeters (mm), PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)
Best Overall Response Rate (BORR) in the Brain of Participants With Previously Treated or Untreated Brain Metastases as Assessed by the IRC Using RECIST v1.1, Percentage of participants who were responders with BOR documented as confirmed CR or PR, stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD). CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)|Best Overall Response Rate (BORR) in the Brain of Participants With Previously Treated Brain Metastases as Assessed by the IRC Using RECIST v1.1, BORR within brain assessed by IRC is defined as percentage of participants who were responders (with BOR documented as confirmed CR or PR). According to RECIST v1.1 criteria modified for brain metastases, CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm, PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)|Best Overall Response Rate Outside the Brain (Assessed by IRC), BORR outside of brain assessed by IRC is defined as percentage of participants who were responders (with BOR documented as confirmed CR or PR). According to RECIST v1.1 criteria modified for brain metastases, CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm, PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)|Duration of Response (DOR) (Assessed by Investigator and IRC), Duration of response was defined as the time interval between the date of the earliest qualifying response and the earliest date of PD or death from any cause. For participants who were alive without progression following the qualifying response, DOR were censored on the date of last available tumor assessment on or before the data cutoff date., Date of the earliest qualifying response until the earliest date of PD or death from any cause (approximately up to 4 years)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Based on Overall Tumor Response (Assessed by Investigator), Progression-free survival was defined as the time between enrollment on Day 1 and the date of first radiographically documented progressive disease (within or outside the brain), clinical progressive disease, as assessed by the investigator or death whichever occurred first., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Based on Tumor Assessment Within Brain Only (Assessed by Investigator ), Progression-free survival was defined as the time between enrollment on Day 1 and the date of first radiographically documented progressive disease (within brain), clinical progressive disease, as assessed by the investigator or death whichever occurred first., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)|Time to Development of New Brain Metastases in Responders, Time to development of new lesions within the brain was defined as the interval between the date of first treatment and the earliest date of documentation of new brain lesions. Participants who were known to be free of new lesions were censored on the date of last tumor assessment., Date of first treatment and the earliest date of documentation of new brain lesions (approximately up to 4 years)|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as time between enrollment on Day 1 and date of death, irrespective of the cause of death. Participants for whom no death was captured on the clinical database were censored at the latest date they were known to be alive prior to or on the cutoff date., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)|Best Overall Response Rate (BORR) Within the Brain and Outside Brain (Assessed by Investigator), Percentage of participants who were responders with BOR documented as confirmed CR or PR, stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD). CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)|Best Overall Response Rate (BORR) Within the Brain and Outside Brain (Not Necessarily Follows the RECIST Criteria - as Assessed by Investigator), Percentage of participants who were responders (with best overall response (BOR) documented as confirmed complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\]) were reported., Baseline up to the disease progression or death from any cause (approximately 4 years)|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AE), An AE was considered any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug., From signing of informed consent form up to 28 days after the last dose of study drug (approximately up to 4 years)
This open-label, single-arm, multicenter study will evaluate the efficacy and safety in participants with metastatic melanoma who developed brain metastases. Participants may or may not have received prior systemic treatment for metastatic melanoma \[except treatment with v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF) or mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK) inhibitors\]. Participants will receive oral doses of 960 mg vemurafenib twice daily until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or consent withdrawal.