Trastuzumab Deruxtecan in First-line HER2-positive Locally Advanced/MBC Patients Resistant to Trastuzumab+Pertuzumab
The goal of this national, multicenter single arm phase II clinical trial is to study the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the administration of Trastuzumab Deruxtecan (T-DXd) in HER2-positive locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients resistant to trastuzumab plus pertuzumab plus taxane due to early relapse.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* To evaluate the antitumor activity of T-DXd in the first-line treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer patients resistant to trastuzumab-pertuzumab based therapy.
* To assess other efficacy measures.
* To evaluate safety and tolerability in all patients enrolled in the study.
* To evaluate health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Forty-one evaluable patients will be treated with trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) 5.4 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks (± 3 days). Patients will receive T-DXd until unacceptable toxicity, progressive disease, informed consent withdrawal, or other discontinuation criterion is met.
Locally Advanced Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab deruxtecan
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the rate of complete response (CR) plus partial response (PR) based on the investigator's assessment using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., out of the patients who received at least 1 dose of treatment (efficacy population).

Per RECIST, CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as an \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions.

The ORR will be reported, including a 95% Confidence Interval (CI) using the Clopper-Pearson method.

A sensitivity analysis will be performed using the Intent to treat population (ITT) population., Through study treatment, and average of 18 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of disease progression, based on the investigator's assessment using RECIST version 1.1., or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.

PFS data will be censored on the date of the last tumor assessment on study for patients who do not have objective tumor progression and who have not died due to any cause while on study. Additionally, patients who start a new anti-cancer therapy prior to documented progression disease (PD) will be censored at the date of the last tumor assessment prior to the start of the new therapy. PD is defined using RECIST, as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions.

PFS analysis will be performed in the safety population. PFS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median event time and 95% CI will be estimated if reached., Through study treatment, and average of 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of death from any cause.

OS data will be censored on the last date the patient is known to be alive. OS analysis will be performed in the safety population. OS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median event time and 95% CI will be estimated if reached., Through study, and average of 36 months|Time to treatment response (TTR), Time to treatment response (TTR) is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR).

TTR analysis will be performed in the efficacy population in patients with an Objective Response (OR).

TTR will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median event time and 95% CI will be estimated., Through study treatment, and average of 18 months|Duration of response (DoR), Duration of response (DoR) is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR) to the date of first documented progressive disease based on the investigator's assessment using RECIST version 1.1., or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.

DoR will be censored on the date of the last tumor assessment on study for patients who do not have objective tumor progression and who have not died due to any cause while on study. Additionally, patients who start a new anti-cancer therapy prior to documented PD will be censored at the date of the last tumor assessment prior to the start of the new therapy.

DoR analysis will be performed in the efficacy population in patients with an OR.

DoR will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. The median event time and 95% CI will be estimated if reached., Through study treatment, and average of 18 months|The Number of Participants Who Experienced Adverse Events (AE) Related to Study Treatment, Safety assessments will be performed at baseline and during the study: Vital signs assessments (blood pressure, pulse and body temperature), measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction, triplicate 12-lead electrocardiogram, laboratory assessments (hemoglobin, White Blood Cell, Absolute Neutrophil Count, Lymphocytes, platelet count, alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, total bilirubin, serum creatinine, creatinine clearance, sodium, potassium, total calcium, blood urea nitrogen (or urea), albumin, Troponin Test, Coagulation testing (International Normalized Ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time), pregnancy test , ophthalmologic assessments (visual acuity testing, slit lamp examination, fundoscopy), Viral serology.

AEs will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0.

The toxicity of study treatments will be evaluated in the safety population., Through study treatment, and average of 18 months|Changes from baseline in the global health status score (GHS), Change from baseline in the GHS and each scale of the EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) will be presented at each scheduled time point for the GHS score and each of the functionals and symptoms scales from the QLQ-C30 questionnaires. Longitudinal analysis of scores will be performed using linear mixed models.

QLQ-C30 is composed of both multi-item scales and single-item measures. These include 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales, a global health status/QoL scale, and 6 single items.

Each of the multi-item scales includes a different set of items - no item occurs in more than one scale.

All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level.

Thus a high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status/QoL represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptomatology/problems., Through study treatment, and average of 18 months|Time to deterioration (TTD) in quality of life (QoL), Time to deterioration (TTD) in QoL is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of first detection of a deterioration event. A deterioration event is defined as an increase of ≥ minimally important difference (MID) from baseline for the EORTC QLQ-C30 symptom scales and a decrease of ≥ MID from baseline for the EORTC QLQ-C30 functional scales and GHS scale. It will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier. Method. The median event time and 95% CI for the median will be estimated if reached. TTD will be censored at the date of the last QoL assessment prior to the start of a new therapy., Through study treatment, and average of 18 months
Progression-Free Survival 2 (PFS2), PFS2 is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of disease progression to the second line of therapy. PFS2 data will be censored on the last date in which the patient was known not to have tumor progression or death due to any cause within the second line of therapy. Additionally, patients who start a third line therapy prior to progression to the second line will be censored at the date of the start of the third line therapy.

PFS2 will be performed in the safety population. PFS2 will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median event time and 95% CI will be estimated if reached., Through study, and average of 36 months|Progression-Free Survival 3 (PFS3), PFS3 is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of disease progression to the third line of therapy. PFS2 data will be censored on the last date in which the patient was known not to have tumor progression or death due to any cause within the second line of therapy. Additionally, patients who start a third line therapy prior to progression to the second line will be censored at the date of the start of the third line therapy.

PFS3 will be performed in the safety population. PFS3 will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median event time and 95% CI will be estimated if reached., Through study, and average of 36 months
This is a national, multicenter single arm phase II clinical trial to study the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the administration of Trastuzumab Deruxtecan (T-DXd) in HER2-positive locally advanced or MBC patients resistant to trastuzumab plus pertuzumab plus taxane due to early relapse.

Eligible patients will be enrolled and treated with T-DXd 5.4 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks.

The T-DXd dose will be recalculated in the event that patients experience body weight variations greater than 10% during the treatment period.

All patients enrolled will receive study therapy until radiographic or symptomatic progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity or withdraw of the informed consent, whatever occurs first.

Study population:

HER2-positive locally advanced or MBC patients who have not received prior chemotherapy or HER2 targeted therapy for advanced disease and with a Disease-Free Interval (DFI) of \<12 months from the end of prior (neo)adjuvant anti-HER2 therapy.

Study Duration: The start date of the study is the date of the first site activation. Recruitment period will occur during approximately 24 months from the first patient in.

The end date of the study is the date of the last visit of the last patient (LPLV), including follow-up. The duration of the study will be approximately 68 months from the first patient in.

Performing exploratory objectives will be independent of the date of the end of the study.