Durvalumab in Combination With Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors, (DURVA+ Study)
This phase II trial studies the side effects of durvalumab when given together with chemotherapy in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body (advanced). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride, capecitabine, carboplatin, paclitaxel, and nab-paclitaxel work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy with durvalumab may improve how immune cells respond and attack tumor cells.
Locally Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride
Incidence of adverse events, Up to 2 cycles (Arms 1-3) or 4 cycles Arms (4-7)
Changes in the immune microenvironment, Will assess how these changes alter the pharmacodynamic effects of a checkpoint inhibitor., Baseline up to 3 months after the last dose of study drug|Immunotherapy response of tumor-infiltrating and circulating T cells, Will investigate whether the response to immunotherapy correlates with patients' genetic aberrations and/or the activation status of tumor-infiltrating and circulating T cells., Up to 3 months after the last dose of study drug|Immune status of the tumor and overall tumor mutational load, Will explore the relationship between immune status of the tumor and overall tumor mutational load., Up to 3 months after the last dose of study drug|Cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA), Will be analyzed by MoCha with the TSO500 targeted sequencing assay (or similar assay) to quantitatively assess longitudinal changes (such as changes in circulating tumor DNA levels as a percentage of total circulating, cell-free DNA) and to identify any mutations that may be associated with study treatment sensitivity or resistance., On day 1 of each treatment cycle and at the time of disease progression
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety of adding durvalumab to standard chemotherapy regimens.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the changes that occur in the immune microenvironment in response to chemotherapy and assess how these changes alter the pharmacodynamic effects of a checkpoint inhibitor.

II. Investigate whether the response to immunotherapy correlates with patients' genetic aberrations and/or the activation status of tumor-infiltrating and circulating T cells.

III. Explore the relationship between immune status of the tumor and overall tumor mutational load.

IV. Assess preliminary antitumor activity of the durvalumab and chemotherapy combinations.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess whether changes in cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) correlate with response or resistance to the study regimens.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 7 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of cycles 1 and 2 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on days 8 and 22 of cycles 1 and 2 and day 8 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who discontinue gemcitabine hydrochloride continue receiving durvalumab alone as in Arm I. Patients undergo CT throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

ARM III: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on days 8 and 22 of cycles 1 and 2 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) during screening. Patients undergo CT throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

ARM IV: Patients receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14, and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on days 8 of cycle 1, day 8 and 15 of cycle 2, day 8 of cycles 3, and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

ARM V: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 8 of cycle 1, days 8 and 15 of cycle 2, day 8 of cycles 3, and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

ARM VI: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 8 of cycle 1, days 8 and 15 of cycle 2, day 8 of cycles 3, and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

ARM VII: Patients receive nab-paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 8 of cycle 1, days 8 and 15 of cycle 2, day 8 of cycles 3, and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 3 months.