REFUEL PCOS Study 1
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) affects 10% of all women, and it usually co-exists with high levels of male pattern hormones (also termed androgens). Women with PCOS are at increased risk of metabolic complications such as diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, high blood pressure and heart disease. However, very little is understood about how androgen excess results in increased metabolic complications observed in women with PCOS.

The main aims of the REFUEL PCOS study are to compare markers of energy metabolism in women with PCOS to those without PCOS. This will allow the investigators to better understand metabolic risk by examining the relationship between androgen excess and energy metabolism. Skeletal muscle is an important site of energy metabolism, and emerging theories are that androgen excess impairs skeletal muscle energy balance and increases the risk of complications. Based on these emerging theories, the investigators want to investigate the effects of androgens on muscle energy metabolism. The investigators will also examine whether certain blood and urine result patterns can help identify differences in muscles energy metabolism and which women are at the highest risk of metabolic complications. This research will give insight into the metabolic risk associated with PCOS and treat and, where possible, prevent the development of metabolic disease in affected women.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
To delineate the relationship between androgen excess and skeletal muscle energy metabolism in women, Baseline differences in the skeletal muscle proteome and differentially regulated pathways relating to mitochondrial function in hyperandrogenic women with PCOS compared to healthy controls, 2.5 years
Proteomic profiling of skeletal muscle biopsies will be integrated with serum steroid and non-targeted metabolome data to delineate the relationship between androgens and skeletal muscle energy metabolism in women, Differences in the non-targeted serum metabolome at baseline between women with PCOS and controls and Identification of differentially regulated pathways to facilitate targeted pathway analysis in future studies, 2.5 years
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a lifelong metabolic disorder, affecting 10-13% of all women, and is associated with a major healthcare and economic burden, estimated at $8 billion annually the US in 2020 (1, 2). Traditionally considered a reproductive disorder only, it is now increasingly clear that PCOS is associated with severe metabolic health consequences across the entire life course of women (3, 4). There is a two-fold increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, as well as emerging evidence of increased incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) (5-7). There are no disease-specific therapies to mitigate or treat metabolic risk in women with PCOS. This is consistently highlighted as the priority concern amongst PCOS patient advocacy groups.

Androgen excess is a cardinal feature of PCOS and circulating androgen burden is closely correlated with metabolic complications (5, 8-12). In women with PCOS, the risk of developing metabolic dysfunction is above that conferred by simple obesity, suggesting that androgen excess is a key player; however, a distinct mechanistic role for androgens in this process remains to be elucidated (13, 14). Androgen excess is associated with metabolically deleterious visceral fat accumulation and circulating testosterone levels correlate directly with the risk of T2DM and NAFLD. Muscle is a critical metabolic target tissue that plays a central role in energy metabolism through processes such as glucose uptake and oxidation, as well as oxidation of fatty acids to generate ATP in the mitochondria (15). Recent mechanistic data have shown that androgen excess is associated with changes in the transcriptional profile of skeletal muscle genes linked with metabolism and energy balance (15-17). Therefore, skeletal muscle is likely to represent an important site of crosstalk between androgen excess, disturbances in energy metabolism and risk of metabolic disease in PCOS.

Defective skeletal muscle glucose uptake is a key early step in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance in PCOS, and an early predictor of progression to overt type 2 diabetes mellitus. Impaired mitochondrial oxidation of free fatty acids in skeletal muscle, as well as other disturbances in skeletal muscle mitochondrial function such as oxidative phosphorylation, are increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of metabolic disease such as T2DM (18-20). Abnormalities in skeletal muscle mitochondrial function have also been identified in small scale studies in women with PCOS, and were associated with impaired fatty acid oxidation, weight gain and an increased risk of diabetes (21, 22).

The investigators hypothesise that androgen-mediated disturbances in skeletal muscle energy balance play a major role in the pathogenesis of metabolic disease in women with PCOS. The investigators propose to test this using cross-sectional and interventional approaches utilising state-of-the-art metabolic phenotyping tools.