Treatment of Myelodysplastic Syndromes Comparing Hydralazine/Ac. Valproic and Supportive Care in Patients Not Candidates, Refractory and/or Intolerant to Intensive Chemotherapy
Transfusional dependence has been associated closely and independently with low survival in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), especially in patients at low risk according to IPSS. Treatment of patients with hydralazine + valproic acid as an alternative to treatment with 5-azacytidine has lower cost and possibly as effective with fewer side effects. The objective of this phase II study is to determine the effectiveness of combination therapy with hydralazine + Ac. Valproic compared with best supportive care. The investigators will select 42 patients per group, and after 14 weeks of treatment the investigators will study in both groups the hematological response (transfusion-dependent, hemoglobin, cytogenetics and morphology) and treatment safety (adverse reactions and vital signs) to 1 year after starting treatment. The concentration of hemoglobin, the number of transfusions, platelets, neutrophils and other continuous variables in both groups will be compared by Student t or Mann-Whitney, as appropriate. For comparison of cytogenetic and morphological response and other categorical variables between groups Chi square will be used. And within each group the investigators will compare each of these variables before and after treatment by t-test for paired data or Wilcoxon test.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: BSC|DRUG: HIDRA/VPA
change in hemoglobin from baseline in patients who express an erythroid response., Independence RBC transfusion requirement for ≥ 8 weeks (56 days) followed by treatment at any time., 8 weeks
Erythroid response according to the criteria of the international working group of SMDs at 24 weeks, Number and type of administered blood transfusions, time between the last transfusion prior to inclusion in the study and the first transfusion after the 8 weeks of treatment., 24 weeks
Transfusional dependence has been associated closely and independently with low survival in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), especially in patients at low risk according to IPSS. Treatment of patients with hydralazine + valproic acid as an alternative to treatment with 5-azacytidine has lower cost and possibly as effective with fewer side effects. The objective of this phase II study is to determine the effectiveness of combination therapy with hydralazine + Ac. Valproic compared with best supportive care. The investigators will select 42 patients per group, and after 14 weeks of treatment the investigators will study in both groups the hematological response (transfusion-dependent, hemoglobin, cytogenetics and morphology) and treatment safety (adverse reactions and vital signs) to 1 year after starting treatment. The concentration of hemoglobin, the number of transfusions, platelets, neutrophils and other continuous variables in both groups will be compared by Student t or Mann-Whitney, as appropriate. For comparison of cytogenetic and morphological response and other categorical variables between groups Chi square will be used. And within each group the investigators will compare each of these variables before and after treatment by t-test for paired data or Wilcoxon test.