Trametinib in Treating Patients With Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma That is Metastatic, Locally Advanced, or Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well trametinib works in treating patients with epithelioid hemangioendothelioma that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic), nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced), or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Locally Advanced Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma|Metastatic Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma|Unresectable Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma
OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Trametinib
Objective Response Rate, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. A Simon minimax sampling two-stage design will be used to estimate the objective response rate. Will be calculated along with 95% confidence intervals., 6 months
6 Month Progression-free Survival, Will be calculated along with 95% confidence intervals and estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From time of first dose of study medication to occurrence of radiologic tumor progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1, clinical progression based on treating physician assessment or death from any cause, assessed at 6 months|Overall Survival, Will be calculated along with 95% confidence intervals and estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From the time of first dose of study drug to occurrence of death from any cause, assessed at 2 years|Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria of Adverse Events version 5.0. The rates of adverse events occurring in at least 5% of subjects and rates of grade 3-5 adverse events will be tabulated by system and term., at 6 months|Change in Patient Reported Symptoms, Will be assessed by the National Institutes of Health Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System questionnaire. Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System questionnaires will be scored according to recommended standardized system and t-scores generated. A mixed model will be used to analyze change in t-scores over time. PROMIS questionnaires were scored according to recommended standardized system and T-scores. A Wilcoxon signed rank test was used to assess the change in scores/T-scores over time. Determination of change in score between timepoints only included patients that had scores at those timepoints.

Pain Intensity - 3a Scale: 36.3 (no pain) - 81.8 (severe pain) Pain Interference - 4a Scale: 41.6 (no interference) - 75.6 (large interference) Pain Behavior - 7a Scale: 34.1 (had no pain) - 78.9 (always in pain) Global Mental Heath Scale: 21.2 (severe) - 67.6 (none) Global Mental Physical Scale: 16.2 (severe) - 67.7 (none), Baseline and at 6 months|Median Progression-free Survival, Will be calculated along with 95% confidence intervals and estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From time of first dose of study medication to occurrence of radiologic tumor progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1, clinical progression based on treating physician
Change in Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma Growth Rate, McNemar test will be used to compare the number of patients with epithelioid hemangioendothelioma progression prior to starting trametinib to the number of patients with epithelioid hemangioendothelioma progression during treatment., Baseline up to 6 months|Change in CRP Level, Will be used as time-dependent variables in a Cox model to determine the association with epithelioid hemangioendothelioma survival., Baseline up to 6 months|Change in ESR Level, Will be used as time-dependent variables in a Cox model to determine the association with epithelioid hemangioendothelioma survival., Baseline up to 6 months|Change in Plasma CTGF Level, Will be analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Will be used as time-dependent variables in a Cox model to determine the association with epithelioid hemangioendothelioma survival., Baseline up to 6 months|Change in Tumor Volume, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. Will be summarized with a scatterplot. The Pearson correlation coefficient (or Spearman, if more appropriate) will be assessed to determine the strength of the agreement. Agreement of the tumor classifications (response versus no response) will be summarized as the raw agreement and with a Kappa Statistic. The association of the change in tumor volume with survival will be evaluated in two ways. The first will be to use the change in tumor volume as a time dependent variable in a Cox model. The second will be a landmark analysis (done at either the first radiographic assessment or at the second radiographic assessment) to compare the survival of patients classified as a responder (based on tumor volume) to those who have not responded by the selected landmark time. Patients who died prior to the landmark time point will be omitted from analysis., Baseline up to 6 months|Number of TAZ-CAMTA1 Gene Fusion, Will be evaluated by fluorescence in situ hybridization., Up to 6 months|Percent of TAZ-CAMTA1 Gene Fusion, Will be evaluated by fluorescence in situ hybridization., Up to 6 months|MAP Kinase Activation, Will be analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Descriptive statistics will be generated, and estimates for the proportion of samples with demonstrated inhibition of MAPK signaling post-treatment compared to pre-treatment will be generated along with 95% confidence intervals. Likewise, the proportion of patients with demonstrated MAPK signaling inhibition at time of disease progression will be determined with the corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Estimate the objective response rate (ORR) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the 6-month and median progression free survival (PFS) rates. II. Estimate the 2-year and median overall survival (OS) rates. III. Evaluate the safety of trametinib in patients with epithelioid hemangioendothelioma.

IV. Evaluate patient-reported symptoms using National Institutes of Health Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (NIH PROMIS) global health; pain intensity, interference and behavior short form inventories prior to, after 4 weeks and after 6 months (if stable or better disease) of treatment, and on evidence of disease progression.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the rates of epithelioid hemangioendothelioma progression prior to starting trametinib to rates on treatment by central review of radiology images.

II. Evaluate the effect of trametinib on change in tumor volume and compare to RECIST 1.1 response through central imaging review.

III. Evaluate the effect of trametinib on markers of inflammation including c-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and plasma connective tissue growth factor (CTGF).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 52 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 6 months.