Study of Sintlimab Maintenance Therapy in Patients With Extensive Small Cell Lung Cancer
Small cell lung cancer is a highly aggressive malignancy. Currently, there is no effective regimen for patients after the progression offirst-line chemotherapy. The prognosis of patients with extensive disease is very poor, and the improved therapeutic efficacy is urgently needed. Most patients with small cell lung cancer have a long history of smoking, and the tumor mutation burden is relatively high, which provides potential for immunological checkpoint inhibitors represented by PD-1 antibodies. A number of studies have shown that chemotherapy combined with adoptive cellular immunotherapy could prolong the survival of patients. This study is a clinical study to explore the efficacy and safety of maintenance therapy with sintilimab after 4-6 cycles of first-line chemotherapy combined with adoptive cellular immunotherapy in patients with advanced small cell lung cancer.
Small Cell Lung Cancer|Extensive Disease|Adoptive Cellular Immunotherapy|Chemotherapy|Maintenance
DRUG: sintilimab maintenance
median survival time, the period from the day of enrollment to the date of death, two years.
progression-free survival, the period from the day of enrollment to the date of confirmed progression or death depending on which one occurs first., six months|objective response rate of sintilimab, from the date of first dose of sintilimab to the date of confirmed progression following, six month|adverse events rate of sintilimab, the rate of adverse events during the maintenance therapy of sintilimab, one year
Small cell lung cancer is a highly aggressive malignancy. Currently, there is no effective regimen for patients after the progression offirst-line chemotherapy. The prognosis of patients with extensive disease is very poor, and the improved therapeutic efficacy is urgently needed. Most patients with small cell lung cancer have a long history of smoking, and the tumor mutation burden is relatively high, which provides potential for immunological checkpoint inhibitors represented by PD-1 antibodies. A number of studies have shown that chemotherapy combined with adoptive cellular immunotherapy could prolong the survival of patients. This study is a clinical study to explore the efficacy and safety of maintenance therapy with sintilimab after 4-6 cycles of first-line chemotherapy combined with adoptive cellular immunotherapy in patients with advanced small cell lung cancer.