Impact of Augmented Reality During Robot-assisted Radical Prostatectomy
Accurate preservation of neuro-vascular bundles is crucial in guaranteeing erectile function recovery after robot assisted radical prostatectomy (RARP). However, the nerve sparing approach is associated with higher rates of positive surgical margins (PSM) at final pathology. Augmented reality (AR) RARP was previously associated with a 10-15% reduction in the rates of PSMs in two retrospective series. However, prospective studies are needed to demonstrate clinical utility and to validate these technologies. The hypotheses of this study are that: 1) AR RARP reduces the rates of PSMs, if compared to standard approach; 2) AR RARP can guarantee a more accurate preservation of neurovascular bundles and, in consequence, a greater recovery of erectile function; 3) the lower rates of PSMs will translate in greater oncological control of the disease.
Prostatic Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Augmented reality robot-assited radical prostatectomy|DEVICE: Mixed reality intraoperative frozen section analysis|PROCEDURE: Robot-assited radical prostatectomy
Positive surgical margins, Pathological examination of positive surgical margins according to the criteria of the prostate consensus working group, Time zero
Surgical time, Total operative time (mins) will we measured from skin incision to skin closure, Time zero|Nerve-sparing approach, Rates of nerve-sparing approaches between groups will be evaluated according to the Tewari et al. scale, Time zero|Erectile function, Erectile function recovery will be measured with the International Index of Erectile Function-5 questionnaire, 3-6-12 months after surgery
This is a Phase III, monocentric, prospective trial in which patients will be randomized to AR RARP vs. standard approach (standard RARP). Patient population is defined as: patients≥18 years old, untreated biopsy-proven adenocarcinoma of the prostate classified as European Association of Urology (EAU) low or intermediate risk (PSA≤20 ng/ml and cT≤2b and International Society for Urological Pathology \[ISUP\] grade group≤III), pre-operative International Index of Erectile Function-5 (IIEF-5)≥20, no contraindications for multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI). The primary objective of this study is to compare the rates of PSMs with AR RARP vs. standard RARP. Secondary objectives are the rates of nerve sparing approaches and erectile function recovery at 3-, 6- and 12-months after surgery in AR RARP vs. standard RARP. Subgroup analyses will tested for a specific subgroup of patients in which AR RARP should be particularly indicated. Longer-term follow-up will also assess the percentages of biochemical recurrences (BCR) in the two groups.