Psyco Quality of Life and Procreation BRCA1/2
Women with breast and/or ovarian cancer or with a family history carried these pathologies can makeo genetic counseling in order to investigate whether they are carriers of the BRCA1/2 genetic mutation. This mutation exposes them to develop breast cancer from 50 to 80% and from 27 to 65% of developing ovarian cancer. BRCA1/2 mutations are inherited as an autosomal dominant manner and therefore there is a 50% probability of transmitting the mutation to the progeny. For this reason, women who have BRCA 1/2 mutation may be less likely to want children than those who test negative. The decision to have children could worry both for the probability to transfer the genetic mutation or because the parenthood could be compromised by the illness and/or by premature death. In previous studies, the psychological condition of patients with BRCA 1/2 mutations, with or without children, was only partially investigated. For this reason the main goal of the study is to deeply investigate the specific psychological condition, with particular attention to the guilt feelings on the possibility to transfer the genetic mutation to the progeny. In this wai it could be useful to development a therapeutic strategies aimed at the best adaptation of the patients to the new health condition.
Breast Cancer|Genetic Predisposition
BEHAVIORAL: Genetic predisposition to breast cancer
Evaluation of feeling guilting, * ISGR-15s
* Il PFQ-2
* PHQ-9, 24 monts
Women with breast and/or ovarian cancer or with a family history carried these pathologies can makeo genetic counseling in order to investigate whether they are carriers of the BRCA1/2 genetic mutation. This mutation exposes them to develop breast cancer from 50 to 80% and from 27 to 65% of developing ovarian cancer. BRCA1/2 mutations are inherited as an autosomal dominant manner and therefore there is a 50% probability of transmitting the mutation to the progeny. For this reason, women who have BRCA 1/2 mutation may be less likely to want children than those who test negative. The decision to have children could worry both for the probability to transfer the genetic mutation or because the parenthood could be compromised by the illness and/or by premature death. In previous studies, the psychological condition of patients with BRCA 1/2 mutations, with or without children, was only partially investigated. For this reason the main goal of the study is to deeply investigate the specific psychological condition, with particular attention to the guilt feelings on the possibility to transfer the genetic mutation to the progeny. In this wai it could be useful to development a therapeutic strategies aimed at the best adaptation of the patients to the new health condition.