A Study of Ridaforolimus in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Patients With Kirsten Rat Sarcoma Viral Oncogene Homolog (KRAS) Mutations (MK-8669-021 AM1)
This is a randomized discontinuation study of ridaforolimus in patients with advanced NSCLC who have failed at least 1 but no more than 3 prior treatment regimens and who have KRAS mutant lung cancer. Following 8 weeks of open-label ridaforolimus lead-in there will be an assessment of disease status. Patients assessed by the investigator to have stable disease after 8 weeks will be randomized to double-blind treatment with ridaforolimus or placebo. Patients assessed to have partial or complete response will continue on open-label ridaforolimus. Patients assessed to have disease progression will be discontinued from study.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Lead-In Ridaforolimus|DRUG: Comparator: Blinded Ridaforolimus|DRUG: Comparator: Blinded Placebo
Progression-free survival (PFS) in the randomized population, Randomization (Week 8) and every 8 weeks until progressive disease or death
Overall response rate (ORR) in the full analysis population, Study entry (Visit 1) and every 8 weeks until progressive disease or death|Overall survival (OS) in the full analysis population, From study entry (Visit 1) to death due to any cause|OS in the randomized population, From study entry (Visit 1) to death due to any cause|PFS in the full analysis population, Study entry (Visit 1) and every 8 weeks until progressive disease or death
Allocation and Arms Additional Information: All Patients will receive an 8-week

open-label lead-in treatment of ridaforolimus. After this 8 week period patients will be re-assessed for disease status. Patients who are stable after 8 weeks are randomized in a double-blind fashion to continue treatment with ridaforolimus or to a placebo until disease progression. (Those patients who have stable disease but are randomized to placebo may cross-over to open-label ridaforolimus at the time of disease progression.)

Those patients with tumor shrinkage during the open-label lead-in treatment will continue on open-label ridaforolimus, while those patients who have disease progression at 8-weeks are taken off-study.