Methotrexate, Mannitol, Rituximab, and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of methotrexate, mannitol, rituximab, and carboplatin and to see how well they work in treating patients with primary central nervous system lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as methotrexate and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Osmotic blood-brain barrier disruption uses mannitol to open the blood vessels around the brain and allow cancer-killing substances to be carried directly to the brain. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may block cancer growth in different ways by targeting certain cells. Giving methotrexate, mannitol, rituximab, and carboplatin together may be an effective treatment for primary central nervous system lymphoma.
Central Nervous System Lymphoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Mannitol|DRUG: Methotrexate|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Sodium Thiosulfate
Incidence of toxicities, assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (Phase I), Within 2 months of completion of study treatment|CR rate (Phase II), Within the first 3 months of treatment
Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates of these survival distributions will be plotted. Descriptive stratifications of these survival distributions by baseline characteristics will be evaluated using the log-rank statistic. If there are multiple predictors of these outcomes, Cox proportional hazard models will be fit to these data to determine which predictors are independent of others in a multi-variable model., From entry onto study until death from any cause, assessed at 2 years|Event-free survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates of these survival distributions will be plotted. Descriptive stratifications of these survival distributions by baseline characteristics will be evaluated using the log-rank statistic. If there are multiple predictors of these outcomes, Cox proportional hazard models will be fit to these data to determine which predictors are independent of others in a multi-variable model., From entry onto study until death or progression of disease, assessed at 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and toxicities of a treatment regimen consisting of rituximab (intravenously \[IV\]) the day prior to methotrexate (intra-arterially \[IA\]), and carboplatin (IA) in conjunction with blood-brain barrier disruption (BBBD) and delayed sodium thiosulfate (IV).

II. To demonstrate, adding a monoclonal antibody and carboplatin to methotrexate BBBD, that a 45% rate of complete response (CR) within the first 3 months of treatment is achieved, while excluding a CR rate as low as 30%.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the response rate (counting all CRs), the two-year overall survival and the two-year event-free survival, as baselines for subsequent trials.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive rituximab IV over 5 hours on day 1, mannitol IA, methotrexate IA over 10 minutes, and carboplatin IA over 10 minutes on days 2 and 3. Patients then receive sodium thiosulfate IV over 15 minutes at 4 and 8 hours after carboplatin. Treatment repeats monthly for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 months, then every 2 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually for at least 2 years.