Randomized Study Of CP-675,206 or Best Supportive Care Immediately After Platinum-Based Therapy For Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The purpose of this trial is to study how long patients can remain progression free when they receive CP-675,206, compared to how long patients can remain progression free when they receive best supportive care. If you choose to take part, you will be randomized to receive either CP-675,206 as maintenance therapy or best supportive care. Best supportive care means you will not receive any study drug or other treatment for your cancer. Best supportive care could include treatment with antibiotics, analgesic drugs (medicine for pain), blood transfusions or psychosocial and nutritional support, depending on your needs. You have a 50% chance of being randomized to receive CP-675,206.
Carcinoma, Non-small-cell Lung
DRUG: CP-675,206|DRUG: best supportive care
The length of time until there is evidence of disease progression in patients treated with CP-675,206 and in patients receiving best supportive care., 3 months to 2 years from randomization
Survival, 2 years|Levels of study drug in blood samples taken at specified time points., up to 2 years|Whether polymorphisms of certain genes influence safety., up to 2 years|Health-related quality of life outcomes., up to 2 years|Tumor response, up to 2 years|Number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety of CP-675,206 when administered to patients with NSCLC, up to 2 years|Blood levels of any human anti-human antibody response, up to 2 years|Immune response., up to 2 years|Efficacy, up to 2 years
The purpose of this trial is to study how long patients can remain progression free when they receive CP-675,206, compared to how long patients can remain progression free when they receive best supportive care. If you choose to take part, you will be randomized to receive either CP-675,206 as maintenance therapy or best supportive care. Best supportive care means you will not receive any study drug or other treatment for your cancer. Best supportive care could include treatment with antibiotics, analgesic drugs (medicine for pain), blood transfusions or psychosocial and nutritional support, depending on your needs. You have a 50% chance of being randomized to receive CP-675,206.