Integrating Palliative Care Into Self-Management of Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to test a psycho-educational intervention, Managing Cancer Care: A Personal Guide (MCC), that is intended to improve patients' knowledge of palliative care and to facilitate its timely integration into self-management of their breast cancer. The MCC will be tested with patients with Stage I-IV breast cancer at baseline, one, and three months following enrollment. The intervention group will receive the MCC, and the attention-control group will receive a symptom management toolkit. Participants' family caregivers will also be enrolled to provide information on patients' self-management. Investigators hypothesize that users of MCC, as compared to attention-control participants, will demonstrate improved knowledge, feelings, and behaviors related to self-management of their cancer care. This innovative research can help to establish palliative care as a mainstay of self-management interventions that target serious illnesses.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Self-Management Group|BEHAVIORAL: Symptom Management Group
Knowledge of Care Options Test, 1 month|Knowledge of Care Options Test, 3 months|Knowledge of Care Options Test, baseline
Control Preferences Scale, 1 month|Medical Communication Competence Scale, 1 month|Measurement of Transitions Scale, 1 month|Chronic Disease Self-Efficacy Scale, 1 month|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, 1 month|Uncertainty in Illness Scale, 1 month|Health Care Utilization Form, 3 months|Goals of Care Conversations Form, 1 month|Control Preferences Scale, 3 months|Medical Communication Competence Scale, 3 months|Measurement of Transitions Scale, 3 months|Chronic Disease Self-Efficacy Scale, 3 months|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, 3 months|Uncertainty in Illness Scale, 3 months|Goals of Care Conversations Form, 3 months|Control Preferences Scale, baseline|Medical Communication Competence Scale, baseline|Measurement of Transitions Scale, baseline|Chronic Disease Self-Efficacy Scale, baseline|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, baseline|Uncertainty in Illness Scale, baseline|Goals of Care Conversations Form, baseline
The purpose of this study is to test a psycho-educational intervention, Managing Cancer Care: A Personal Guide (MCC), that is intended to improve patients' knowledge of palliative care and to facilitate its timely integration into self-management of their breast cancer. The MCC will be tested with patients with Stage I-IV breast cancer at baseline, one, and three months following enrollment. The intervention group will receive the MCC, and the attention-control group will receive a symptom management toolkit. Participants' family caregivers will also be enrolled to provide information on patients' self-management. Investigators hypothesize that users of MCC, as compared to attention-control participants, will demonstrate improved knowledge, feelings, and behaviors related to self-management of their cancer care. This innovative research can help to establish palliative care as a mainstay of self-management interventions that target serious illnesses.