Phase I/II Study to Reduce Post-transplantation Cyclophosphamide Dosing for Older or Unfit Patients Undergoing Bone Marrow Transplantation for Hematologic Malignancies
Background:

Certain blood cancers can be treated with blood or bone marrow transplants. Sometimes the donor cells attack the recipient's body, called graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The chemotherapy drug cyclophosphamide helps reduce the risk and severity of GVHD. Researchers want to learn if using a lower dose of cyclophosphamide may reduce the drug's side effects while maintaining its effectiveness. Such an approach is being used in an ongoing clinical study at the NIH with promising results, but this approach has not been tested for transplants using lower doses of chemotherapy/radiation prior to the transplant.

Objective:

To learn if using a lower dose of cyclophosphamide will help people have a successful transplant and have fewer problems and side effects.

Eligibility:

Adults ages 18-85 who have a blood cancer that did not respond well to standard treatments or is at high risk for relapse without transplant, and their donors.

Design:

Participants may be screened with the following:

Medical history

Physical exam

Blood and urine tests

Heart and lung tests

Body imaging scans (they may get a contrast agent)

Spinal tap

Bone marrow biopsy

Participants will be hospitalized for 4-6 weeks. They will have a central venous catheter placed in a chest or neck vein. It will be used to give medicines, transfusions, and the donor cells, and to take blood. In the week before transplant, they will get 2 chemotherapy drugs and radiation. After the transplant, they will get the study drug for 2 days. They will take other drugs for up to 2 months.

Participants must stay near NIH for 3 months after discharge for weekly study visits. Then they will have visits every 3-12 months until 5 years after transplant.

Participants and donors will give blood, bone marrow, saliva, cheek swab, urine, and stool samples for research.
Hematologic Neoplasms
DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic HSCT|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Sirolimus|DRUG: Filgrastim|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Mesna|PROCEDURE: Total Body Irradiation (TBI)
determine if optimal dose of PTCy to prevent grade III-IV acute GVHD (aGVHD) at day +60, The fraction of evaluable patients who experience grade III-IV aGVHD at day +60 will be determined and reported along with 80% and 95% two-sided confidence intervals. In addition, a cumulative incidence curve for this endpoint will be constructed., 60 days
Grade III-IV acute GVHD at day 100 and 200, Estimates will be determined using competing risk-based cumulative incidence curves. Graft failure, relapse, donor lymphocyte infusion, non-relapse mortality, and chronic GVHD will be competing risks for acute GVHD. Grade III-IV aGVHD also will be evaluated descriptively including fractions who attain each condition at day 100 and 200 days, and 95% confidence intervals., 100 days/200 days|Grade II-IV acute GVHD at day 100 and 200, Estimates will be determined using competing risk-based cumulative incidence curves. Grade II-IV aGVHD also will be evaluated descriptively including fractions who attain each condition at day 100 and 200 days, and 95% confidence intervals., 100 days/200 days|Rate of Fried s Frailty Phenotypes (FP), Frequency of different phenotypes, 1 year|Chronic GVHD at one year, Estimates will be determined using competing risk-based cumulative incidence curves. Graft failure, relapse, donor lymphocyte infusion, and non-relapse mortality will be competing risks for chronic GVHD., 1 year|Progression/relapse at one year, Estimates will be determined using Kaplan-Meier curves. Relapse and non-relapse mortality will be competing risks for each other., 1 year|Non-relapse mortality at 100 days and one year, Estimates will be determined using competing risk-based cumulative incidence curves. Relapse and non-relapse mortality will be competing risks for each other., 100 days and 1 year|Overall survival, progression-free survival, and disease-free survival at one year, Estimates will be determined using Kaplan-Meier curves., 1 year|Estimation of platelet engraftment, neutrophil engraftment., Rate and timing will be evaluated descriptively, including fractions who attain each condition at day 28 and 100, along with 95% confidence intervals. Ranges and medians will be calculated only in engrafting participants., day 28 and day 100
Background:

With novel therapies for hematologic malignancies, an increasing number of older and/or less fit patients are achieving remissions, but these new therapies are not curative, making consolidation approaches with curative intent such as allogeneic transplantation necessary.

Frailty is a phenotype that predicts a patient s intolerance of physiologic stressors and may predict a patient s tolerance of intensive consolidative strategies.

Frailty phenotype, though increasing in incidence in older patients, can occur in younger patients and may predict poor survival after allogeneic transplantation.

We have yet to define the ideal allogeneic transplantation regimen for older patients or those with frailty or pre-frail phenotypes.

Post-transplantation cyclophosphamide (PTCy) reduces rates of severe acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) and safely facilitates human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched-related, HLA-matched-unrelated, HLA-mismatched-unrelated, and HLA-haploidentical HCT; it has become the most widely adopted change to transplantation platforms over the last decade.

When clinically translated, the dose (50 mg/kg/day) of PTCy used was partly extrapolated from murine major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-matched skin allografting models and was partly empirical.

In both MHC-haploidentical and MHC-disparate murine HCT models, a dose of 25 mg/kg/day was superior to 50 mg/kg/day on days +3 and +4 in terms of GVHD severity and mortality. Lower dosing of PTCy also was associated with less broad reductions of T-cell numbers after PTCy and lower toxicity than higher dosing.

In patients on an NIH study using myeloablative conditioning, a dose of 25 mg/kg/day has been associated with more rapid engraftment and potentially better immune function without an increase in severe acute GVHD.

Objectives:

Determine whether PTCy 25 mg/kg on days +3 and +4 can maintain adequate protection against grade III-IV acute GVHD and reduce toxicity associated with transplantation in older and/or unfit transplant recipients receiving reduced intensity conditioned allogeneic HCT.

Determine the frailty measures associated with outcomes after allogeneic transplantation.

Eligibility:

Histologically or cytologically confirmed hematologic malignancy with standard indication for allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation.

Age 60-85 years, or age 18-60 years and unfit for myeloablative conditioning (MAC).

At least one potentially suitable HLA-matched related, HLA-haploidentical donor, HLA-matched unrelated, or \>=5/10 HLA-mismatched unrelated donor.

Karnofsky performance score \>=60

Adequate organ function

Design:

Open-label, multi-center, non-randomized, phase I/II study

There will be four separate arms: HLA-matched elderly, HLA-matched young/infirm, HLA-partially matched elderly, and HLA-partially matched young/infirm

All subjects will receive nonmyeloablative conditioning consisting of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and total body irradiation; GVHD prophylaxis with PTCy 25 mg/kg on days +3 and +4, MMF, and sirolimus; and bone marrow as the stem cell source

Subjects will be evaluated for development of grade III-IV acute GVHD (aGVHD) at day +60 as the dose-limiting toxicities for the Simon two-stage design. Dose escalation of PTCy will be permitted within each arm if stopping rules are met at the 25 mg/kg/day on days +3 and +4 dose.

Frailty assessments will be performed prior to transplantation conditioning and serially after allogeneic transplantation.