Avastin and Temsirolimus Following Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Failure in Patients With Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma
This is a single-arm phase II trial evaluating the combination of avastin and temsirolimus in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer (RCC) including both histologically confirmed clear cell (cc) or non-clear cell (ncc) subtypes. Patients must have experienced disease progression or intolerable toxicity with a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) (e.g. sorafenib, sunitinib, pazopanib). Only 2 prior VEGF therapies are allowed. The purpose of this research study is to evaluate efficacy of the combination against an historical control. Temsirolimus has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. Avastin has been approved by the FDA for other types of cancers but not renal cell carcinoma.
Renal Cell Carcinoma|Kidney Cancer
DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: temsirolimus
4-month Progression-Free Survival Rate, 4-month progression-free survival rate was defined as the percentage of participants absent death or progression based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) before 4 months. Per RECIST 1.0 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease evaluations occurred every 8 weeks (+/- 1 wk) on treatment. Relevant for this endpoint was disease status at 4 months.
Objective Response Rate, Objective response (OR) rate is the percentage of participants achieving partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) based on RECIST 1.0 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.0 for target lesions, CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. To be assigned a status of CR or PR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no fewer than 4 weeks after the response criteria are first met. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Disease evaluations occurred every 8 weeks (+/- 1 wk) on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Median (range) of treatment duration for this study cohort was 5 cycles (1-39) [1 cycle=28days].|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined from the date of registration to date of death, or censored at the date the participant was last known alive. OS is estimated based on the Kaplan-Meier method., Median follow-up for survival in this study cohort is 56 months.
Avastin, a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody (MAb), inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). VEGF is one of the most potent and specific proangiogenic factors and has been identified as a crucial regulator of both normal and pathological angiogenesis. Temsirolimus specifically inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a highly conserved serine/threonine kinase which regulates cell growth and metabolism in response to environmental factors. The combination avastin and temsirolimus has already demonstrated efficacy in the phase I setting

STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS:

The primary endpoint is 4-month PFS. The null and alternative hypotheses are 50% vs. 70%. Assuming 2 ineligible patients, the target sample size is 41 patients (39 eligible patients). The probability of concluding that the treatment is effective was \>0.90 if the true rate is at least 70%. The probability of concluding that the treatment is effective was ≤ 0.10 if the true rate was 50% or less. If 24 or more patients are alive and progression-free at 4 months, then this regimen would be considered for further study.