The Effect of Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug Naproxen on Pleural Effusion Formation After Lung Resection
Following a lung resection procedure, patients have their pleural space drained of fluid that accumulates due to the severing of proximal vessels like lymph nodes. The volume of fluid pumped depends on the severity of the inflammation. The investigators are conduction this study to attempt to use painkillers with intrinsic anti-inflammatory action to try and reduce the degree of inflammation in patients' pleural cavity, thus ensuring patients are discharged faster, with a greater comfort level, and a hopefully lower rate of admission.
Pleural Effusion|Pleural Effusion Malignant
DRUG: Naproxen|DRUG: Placebo
Change in volume of pleural effusion collected, The investigators are looking to measure the volume of pleural effusion collected from in-situ chest tubes in patients following a lung resection, measured in mL, 4 weeks
Hospital length of stay; compared between intervention and control arms, The length of stay will be measured from the admitting day to the day of discharge to home., 4 weeks|Gastrointestinal complications, Recorded as a binary event, adverse events related to the gastrointestinal tract may occur in participants undergoing treatment. The extent of this occurrence will determine whether or not further intervention by the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee is necessary., 4 weeks|General re-admission rates, Participants recently discharged following a lung resection have a chance to be re-admitted for a post-operative complication. This will be measured as a binary event and the total associated length of stay associated with the episode., 4 weeks|Total number of days chest tubes remain in-situ, This outcome is related to the volume of pleural effusion produced and will measure the time chest tubes remain in place following surgery, measured in days., 4 weeks
In this study the investigators will attempt to reduce the degree of inflammation (and thus polymorphonuclear leukocyte counts) in the pleural space following a lung resection procedure by administering the Non Steroid Anti-Inflammatory Drug (NSAID) Naproxen in tandem with Proton Pump Inhibitor (PPI) Pantoprazole, ideally leading towards a significantly reduced volume of transudate and exudate generated.

This will be achieved by running a placebo-controlled double blinded randomized control trial where investigators and participants will be blinded so as to eliminate experimenter bias. After screening for suitable participants using stringent inclusion and exclusion criteria, patients will be administered by allied health professionals 500mg Naproxen twice daily and 40mg Pantoprazole once daily, or an identical placebo for four weeks following resection surgery. Patients will undergo a thorough examination during their scheduled follow-up appointments to monitor general vitals as well as possible gastrointestinal complications. The primary outcome is a significant reduction (Δ100ml) of chest fluid extracted in the intervention arm of the study in comparison to that of the control arm. Secondary outcomes will include a reduction in length of stay measured in days between control and intervention arms as well as a reduction in the total number of days chest tubes are retained in-situ. Conditions such as mortality and morbidity, the onset of complications, and general re-admission rates will also be recorded.