Fluorine F 18 Sodium Fluoride Positron Emission Tomography in Evaluating Response to Dasatinib in Patients With Prostate Cancer and Bone Metastases
This phase II trial is studying how well fluorine F 18 sodium fluoride positron emission tomography (PET) works in evaluating response to dasatinib in patients with prostate cancer and bone metastases. Diagnostic procedures, such as fluorine F 18 sodium fluoride PET, may help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment and help plan the best treatment.
Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Fluorine F 18 Sodium Fluoride
Changes in 18F-fluoride PET (SUV) - Tumor Bone, Investigation of changes between baseline and 12 weeks in regional fluoride incorporation as measured by 18F-fluoride PET in tumor bone as measured by SUVmax, Baseline and 12 weeks|Changes in 18F-fluoride PET SUV - Normal Bone, Investigation of changes between baseline and 12 weeks in regional fluoride incorporation as measured by 18F-fluoride PET (SUV) in normal bone as measured by SUVmax, Baseline and 12 weeks|Changes in 18F-fluoride Ki - Tumor Bone, Investigation of changes between baseline and 12 weeks in regional fluoride incorporation as measured by 18F-fluoride PET (Ki) in tumor bone. Ki represents the net uptake of fluoride to the bone mineral compartment and reflects the level of osteoblastic activity in bone, Baseline and 12 weeks|Changes in 18F-fluoride Ki - Normal Bone, Investigation of changes between baseline and 12 weeks in regional fluoride incorporation as measured by 18F-fluoride PET (Ki) in normal bone. Ki represents the net uptake of fluoride to the bone mineral compartment and reflects the level of osteoblastic activity in bone, Baseline and 12 weeks
Changes in 18F-fluoride Transport (by Patlak Flux) - Tumor, Investigation of changes in regional fluoride incorporation as measured by 18F-fluoride transport (Patlak flux) in Tumor. This measurement uses the Patlak method for determining the influx constant., Baseline and 12 weeks|Changes in 18F-fluoride Transport (by Patlak Flux) - Normal, Investigation of changes in regional fluoride incorporation as measured by 18F-fluoride transport (Patlak flux) in normal bone. Palak flux is an indicator of blood flow and an indirect marker of angiogenesis., Baseline and 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine if changes in regional fluoride incorporation, measured by 18F-fluoride PET (SUV and Ki), occur in both castration-resistant prostate cancer bone metastases and normal bone as a response to treatment with dasatinib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine if changes in 18F-fluoride transport (K1), an indicator of blood flow, and therefore, an indirect marker of angiogenesis, occur in both castration-resistant prostate cancer bone metastases and normal bone as a response to treatment with dasatinib.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo fluorine F 18 sodium fluoride PET scan at baseline and then at 12 weeks after initiation of treatment with dasatinib. PET parameters (SUV, Ki, and Kl) are also analyzed.