Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone With or Without Thalidomide in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This randomized phase III trial studies lenalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone to see how well it works compared to lenalidomide and standard-dose dexamethasone, given with or without thalidomide, in treating patients with multiple myeloma. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Lenalidomide and thalidomide may also stop the growth of multiple myeloma by blocking blood flow to the cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving lenalidomide, thalidomide, and dexamethasone together may kill more cancer cells.
DS Stage I Multiple Myeloma|DS Stage II Multiple Myeloma|DS Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Thalidomide
Proportion of Patients With Objective Response (First Phase, Step 1), Objective response is defined as either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Patients who have complete disappearance of an M-protein and no evidence of myeloma in the bone marrow are considered to have CR. PR requires all the following: (1) ≥50% reduction in the level of the serum monoclonal paraprotein. (2) Reduction in 24-hour urinary light chain excretion either by ≥90% or to \<200 mg. (3)For patients with non-secretory (or oligosecretory) myeloma only, a ≥50% reduction in plasma cells in a bone marrow aspirate and on trephine biopsy must be documented. (4)50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytoma (by radiography or clinical examination). (5) No increase in the number or size of lytic bone lesions (development of a compression fracture does not exclude response).

As the expansion phase was a substudy terminated early with only 7 patients enrolled, the clinical results presented are mainly for the first phase only., Assessed every 4 weeks for 16 weeks during Step 1
Proportion of Patients With Objective Response (First Phase, Step 2), Objective response is defined as either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Patients who have complete disappearance of an M-protein and no evidence of myeloma in the bone marrow are considered to have CR. PR requires all the following: (1) ≥50% reduction in the level of the serum monoclonal paraprotein. (2) Reduction in 24-hour urinary light chain excretion either by ≥90% or to \<200 mg. (3)For patients with non-secretory (or oligosecretory) myeloma only, a ≥50% reduction in plasma cells in a bone marrow aspirate and on trephine biopsy must be documented. (4)50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytoma (by radiography or clinical examination). (5) No increase in the number or size of lytic bone lesions (development of a compression fracture does not exclude response).

As the expansion phase was a substudy terminated early with only 7 patients enrolled, the clinical results presented are mainly for the first phase only., Assessed every 4 weeks for 16 weeks during Step 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the response rate and toxicity of lenalidomide (CC-5013) plus dexamethasone (standard dose) versus CC-5013 plus low dose dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma at any time in the first 4 cycles of treatment and to determine if CC-5013 plus low dose dexamethasone will have similar response rate with lower toxicity (First Phase).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate of thalidomide plus dexamethasone (Thal/Dex) in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma who do not achieve a complete or partial response at any time in the first 4 cycles with the CC-5013 and dexamethasone combination in either of the two arms (First Phase).

II. To study the effect of CC-5013 on bone marrow microvessel density and angiogenesis grade, on plasma cell labeling index (PCLI), and on the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in the marrow (First Phase).

III. To study the effect of CC-5013 and dexamethasone on bone marrow mesenchymal progenitor cells (MPCs) (First Phase).

IV. To evaluate in a separate expansion phase the efficacy of aspirin (325 mg/day) versus Coumadin (dose adjusted to maintain a target international normalized ratio \[INR\] of 2-3) in preventing deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma receiving CC-5013 plus standard dose dexamethasone.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and standard-dose dexamethasone PO QD on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20.

Arm II: Patients receive lenalidomide as in Arm I and low-dose dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

In both arms, cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Patients not responding at any point during the first 4 cycles of lenalidomide and dexamethasone are assigned to 1 of 2 salvage therapy arms. Patients who progress during treatment on Arms I or II have the option to register on salvage therapy Arms III or IV respectively.

Arm III (patients with no response after treatment on Arm I): Patients receive thalidomide PO QD on days 1-28 and standard-dose dexamethasone PO QD on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20.

Arm IV (patients with no response after treatment on Arm II): Patients receive thalidomide as in Arm III and low-dose dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

In both salvage therapy arms, cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. After completion of 4 cycles of therapy, patients may undergo stem cell harvest (using growth factors only) for cryopreservation.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 2 years.