Hematopoietic Stem Cell-containing Autologous Blood Transfusion for Bone Marrow Protection in Patients With Cervical Cancer
The aim of this project is to promote the reconstruction of haematopoietic function after chemoradiotherapy for cervical cancer with the innovative use of autologous haematopoietic containing stem cell blood transfusion support.To explore the effect of stored hemopoietic stem cell support therapy on bone marrow protection after concurrent chemoradiotherapy, in order to promote its clinical application.
Cervical Cancer
OTHER: Autologous blood transfusion with haematopoietic stem cells
Incidence of Grade 3-4 neutropenia, Incidence of Grade 3-4 neutropenia, 6 months|Time to reconstruct haematopoietic function, Time to reconstruct haematopoietic function, 6 months
the rate of postponement of the course of chemoradiotherapy, the rate of postponement of the course of chemoradiotherapy, 3 months|reduction in chemotherapy dose, reduction in chemotherapy dose, 3 months|Incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN), Incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN), 3 months|Incidence of hematopoietic stem cell reinfusion treatment Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability]), Incidence of hematopoietic stem cell reinfusion treatment Adverse Events \[Safety and Tolerability\]), 1 months
Study design:In this prospective, single-center,non-randomised controlled study, patients with cervical cancer are divided into two groups. Patients in the autologous blood transfusion support therapy group will receive autologous blood transfusion containing haematopoietic stem cells after completion of concurrent chemoradiotherapy, whereas the conventional treatment group receive concurrent chemoradiotherapy only. Frozen stored autologous peripheral blood transfusion 1 day after completion of chemoradiotherapy.Monitor peripheral blood after transfusion. If peripheral blood leukocyte count does not reach 1.0 x 109/L, administer G-CSF 150 μg subcutaneously daily until peripheral blood leukocyte count reaches 1.0 x 109/L.

Case selection: Patients with primary cervical cancer,squamous, adenocarcinoma or adenosquamous carcinoma cell carcinoma confirmed by histopathology, and three-week regimen of paclitaxel and platinum chemotherapy with concurrent radiotherapy.

Primary end point: 1)incidence and duration of grade 3/4 neutropenia in patients;2)hematopoietic reconstitution time in patients. Secondary endpoints: 1)the rate of postponement of the course of radiotherapy, reduction in chemotherapy dose and postponement of the course of chemotherapy;2) Incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN);3)Safety of hematopoietic stem cell reinfusion therapy (adverse events).

Safety assessment: laboratory safety testing, including platelet count,white blood cell and hemoglobin. Evaluation of adverse events: infection, neutropenic fever, hypocalcemia,anemia and thrombocytopenia,bone pain, etc.