PD-1 Combined With Chemotherapy and PULSAR in LAPC and Local Recurrence Patients
This trial is a phase II clinical trial of the safety and efficacy of PD-1 antibody (Toripalimab) in combination with paclitaxel (albumin-bound type) and gemcitabine and PULSAR radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer and patients with only local recurrence after pancreatic cancer surgery, to observe the safety and efficacy of PD-1 antibody (Toripalimab) in combination with paclitaxel (albumin-bound type) and gemcitabine and PULSAR in the treatment of patients with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: PD-1|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|RADIATION: PULSAR
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization until the date of first occurrence of investigator-assessed radiological disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever came first., up to approximately 1 years
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by investigator assessment per RECIST criteria, version 1.1., up to approximately 1 years|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause., up to approximately 1 years|Surgical Conversion Rate, The surgery is scheduled to take place after a minimum of 4 weeks from the last dose to allow the effects of the drug to wear off. The eligible subjects can undergo surgery within 8 weeks from the last dose. A successful resection is achieved when a patient achieves R0 or R1 resection. However, if a patient has R2 resection or unresectable, then it is considered as resection failure. The pathology committee of our center determines the surgical results of R0, R1, and R2 based on the tissue obtained during the operation., 18 weeks
This trial is a phase II clinical trial of the safety and efficacy of PD-1 antibody (Toripalimab) in combination with paclitaxel (albumin-bound type) and gemcitabine and PULSAR radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer and patients with only local recurrence after pancreatic cancer surgery, to observe the safety and efficacy of PD-1 antibody (Toripalimab) in combination with paclitaxel (albumin-bound type) and gemcitabine and PULSAR in the treatment of patients with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer.

Progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR), overall survival (OS), surgical conversion rate, and quality of life were observed in subjects with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer with precise histological or cytological diagnosis and patients with only local recurrence after surgery. This is a single-center study. A total of 46 subjects with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer and 35 subjects with locally recurrent pancreatic cancer after surgery were planned to be enrolled.

The estimated enrollment time is 18 months, with at least 18 months of follow-up for each subject.

This trial will evaluate the safety data of all subjects who have received at least one dose of study treatment for analysis. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Adverse Event Evaluation Criteria (CTCAE version 5.0) were used. The efficacy evaluation was done according to the clinical diagnosis and treatment routine-follow-up patients combined with follow-up records.