Strategic Intervention on Preserving Language Function During Awake Craniotomy
This study is designed to compare the language function after traditional or a new surgical plan during awake craniotomy for glioma resection.
Glioma
PROCEDURE: Awake craniotomy
Change of the language impairment rate, The ratio of language function recovery in patients with new surgical plan would higher than those receive traditional surgical plan. The main tool is to use Western Aphasia Battery (WAB) language evaluation form to record each patient's language ability in 4-7days after surgery and every other 3 months. The executive function and attention would also be evaluated by cognitive assessment (MoCA) and Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE). Each patient's scores and reponse time would be used to compare the differences between two surgical plans., From date of the first tumor resection until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 500 months.|Change of the survival rate, The new surgical plan preserves the language function to improve the quality of life, in order to influence the patient's length of life after surgery. Hence, the overall survival days of patients in two surgical plans would be compared by recording patients' date of death from any cause., From date of the first tumor resection until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 500 months.
This study concentrates on patient who has type II language area glioma occupation. The investigators designed new surgical plan which is using monopolar stimulator to determine and retain the tumor margin within 5 mm from the posterior superior longitudinal fasciculus or posterior arcuate fasciculus. For the tradiitional surgical plan, the investigators use bipolar stimulator according to the current standard surgery plan. After they positive points are identified by stimulator, the positive points are retained to preserve the motor function while all the negative points of the tumor are resected. This study is to determine whether the new surgical plan is more suitable for type II language area glioma occupation.