Testing CC-486 (Oral Azacitidine) Plus the Standard Drug Therapy in Patients 75 Years or Older With Newly Diagnosed Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
This phase II/III trial compares the side effects and activity of oral azacitidine in combination with the standard drug therapy (reduced dose rituximab-cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone \[R-miniCHOP\]) versus R-miniCHOP alone in treating patients 75 years or older with newly diagnosed diffuse large B cell lymphoma. R-miniCHOP includes a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein), called rituximab, which attaches to the lymphoma cells and may help the immune system kill these cells. R-miniCHOP also includes prednisone which is an anti-inflammatory medication and a combination of 3 chemotherapy drugs, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine. These 3 chemotherapy drugs, as well as oral azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Combining oral azacitidine with R-miniCHOP may shrink the cancer or extend the time without disease symptoms coming back or extend patient's survival when compared to R-miniCHOP alone.
Ann Arbor Stage III Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IIX (Bulky) Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Activated B-Cell Type|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Associated With Chronic Inflammation|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Germinal Center B-Cell Type|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|EBV-Positive Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|HHV8-Positive Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 and/or BCL6 Rearrangements|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Intravascular Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant B-Cell Lymphoma|Primary Cutaneous Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Leg Type|T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Transformed Marginal Zone Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Oral Azacitidine|DRUG: Prednisone|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Excess toxicity as a result of adding oral azacitidine (CC-486) to reduced dose rituximab-cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-miniCHOP) (Safety run-in), Will determine if the addition of CC-486 to R-miniCHOP results in excess toxicity compared to R-miniCHOP alone that would preclude the combination from being studied further., Up to completion of cycle 6|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), Will determine if the CC-486 + R-miniCHOP regimen should be tested further (Phase III) against the control R-miniCHOP alone based on PFS. After accruing 130 patients (65 per arm, 21 months of accrual and potentially pausing accrual for 6 months follow-up to reach a target 63 events across arms), a one-sided stratified .10 log-rank test will inform a go/no-go decision based on sufficient evidence of efficacy to continue to the Phase III portion of the study., From date of registration to date of first observation of progressive disease according to the 2014 Lugano classification, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival (Phase III), Will compare overall survival in the control arm of R-miniCHOP to the experimental arm of CC-486 (oral azacitidine) + R-miniCHOP. Will be evaluated using a 1-sided .025 level stratified logrank test., From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Metabolic complete response (CR), Will be defined using 2014 Lugano classification. Fisher's exact test will be used to compare CR rates between the experimental arm of CC-486 + R-miniCHOP and the control arm of R-miniCHOP alone., Up to end of cycle 6 or end of treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5. The maximum Grade for each toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns. Treatment-related toxicities between arms will be compared using Fisher's exact test., Until disease progression, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival (Phase III), An additional secondary analysis of overall survival of the Phase III comparison will adjust for patients with identified double-hit phenotype in addition to the pre-specified stratification factors. Will also prospectively collect the number of days between diagnostic biopsy and cycle 1 day 1 of therapy for a pre-planned secondary analysis., From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Changes in function (Integrated Correlative Geriatric Assessments Substudy), Will be assessed by a Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (Carolina Frailty Index \[CFI\] Score) between patients treated with CC-486 + R-miniCHOP and those treated with R-miniCHOP alone. Linear regression will be used for each examination, adjusting for the stratification factors from the clinical study and the baseline score (for the examination of change from 12 to 24 months, the 12-month score will be considered the baseline score). Although the number of timepoints is limited to 3, longitudinal assessments of the CFI Score over time will also be conducted using linear mixed models, adjusting for the stratification factors and the baseline score, with patient considered a random effect., From time of randomization up to 24 months after date of registration|Frailty status (fit/unfit vs frail) (Integrated Correlative Geriatric Assessments Substudy), Will evaluate if frailty status (fit/unfit versus frail) as assessed by the Italian Lymphoma Foundation (FIL) tool is associated with overall survival. Multivariable Cox regression will be conducted, adjusting for the stratification variables and the randomized treatment arm as covariates. Will also examine whether randomization to CC-486 + R-miniCHOP is associated with better overall survival compared to treatment with R-miniCHOP alone in the subset of fit and unfit patients. Multivariable Cox regression will be conducted, adjusting for the stratification variables as covariates., Baseline|Frailty status (Integrated Correlative Geriatric Assessments Substudy), Will evaluate if frailty status (fit/unfit versus frail) as assessed by the FIL tool correlates with the summary frailty indexed as measured by the S1918 Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA). In particular, agreement between the FIL and CGA will measured using an unweighted Kappa statistic; moderate or better agreement is defined as a Kappa coefficient of \>= 0.41., Up to 24 months after date of registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the addition of CC-486 (oral azacitidine) to R-miniCHOP results in excess toxicity compared to R-miniCHOP alone that would preclude the combination from being studied further. (Safety run-in) II. To determine if the CC-486 + R-miniCHOP regimen should be tested further (Phase III) against the control R-miniCHOP alone based on progression-free survival (PFS). (Phase II component) III. To compare the overall survival (OS) between CC-486 + R-miniCHOP and R-miniCHOP alone. (Phase III component)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility of delivering at least 4 cycles of CC-486 with R-miniCHOP in this population.

II. To assess toxicity for CC-486 + R-miniCHOP and for R-miniCHOP. III. To compare complete response rates, as defined by Lugano 2014 classification, between CC-486 + R-miniCHOP and R-miniCHOP alone.

INTEGRATED CORRELATIVE GERIATRIC ASSESSMENTS:

I. To compare functioning as assessed by the S1918 Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (S1918 CGA) between participants treated with CC-486 + R-miniCHOP versus R-miniCHOP alone.

II. To evaluate if frailty status (fit/unfit versus \[vs\] frail/superfrail) as assessed by the FIL tool is associated with OS.

III. To evaluate if frailty as measured by the FIL tool correlates with the summary frailty index as measured using components of the S1918 CGA.

BANKING OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE:

Beginning 7 days prior to starting \[protocol treatment, all patients receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) on day 1, and prednisone orally (PO) daily on days 1-7.

Patients are then randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive CC-486 PO for 7 days prior to cycle 1. Patients then receive CC-486 PO on days 8-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for cycles 1-5 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive rituximab IV (or subcutaneously \[SC\] for cycles 2-6), cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone PO on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for cycles 1-6 (6 cycles total) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.

ARM II: Patients receive rituximab IV (or SC for cycles 2-6), cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone PO on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically until 5 years from the date of registration.