Testing the PD-1 Antibody, MK3475, Given With Ziv-aflibercept in Patients With Advanced Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ziv-aflibercept when given together with pembrolizumab in treating patients with solid tumors that that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced). Ziv-afibercept works by decreasing blood and nutrient supply to the tumor, which may result in shrinking the tumor. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving ziv-aflibercept together with pembrolizumab may be a better treatment for patients with advanced solid tumors.
Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Melanoma|Metastatic Ovarian Carcinoma|Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Recurrent Renal Cell Carcinoma|Refractory Melanoma|Refractory Renal Cell Carcinoma|Sarcoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Elastography|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Ziv-Aflibercept
Recommended combination dose of ziv-aflibercept and pembrolizumab, Will be assessed by dose-limiting toxicities. Safety will be evaluated for all treated patients using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. All adverse events recorded during the trial will be summarized and presented by dose level. For patients enrolled in the dose expansion phase of the trial, adverse events summaries will also be summarized according to disease cohort. The proportion of patients with grade-3 or higher adverse events will be presented with 90% exact binomial confidence interval., 4 weeks
Objective response rate (ORR), The ORR will be the proportion of patients achieving complete or partial response as their best response to therapy. The analysis will be descriptive and will be used to assess for early indications of efficacy. Will be summarized by disease type and in the aggregate, if appropriate. ORR will be estimated and will be summarized with 90% confidence intervals estimated using exact binomial methods., Between the date of first dose of trial therapy and the date of objectively documented disease progression or cessation of trial therapy, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 12 weeks|Progression-free survival, The analysis will be descriptive and will be used to assess for early indications of efficacy. Will be summarized by disease type and in the aggregate, if appropriate. Will be summarized using the product-limit method of Kaplan-Meier; 90% confidence intervals will be based on log(-log\[outcome\]) methodology., Time from start of trial treatment until objective disease progression (per RECIST) or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 6 months|Overall survival, The analysis will be descriptive and will be used to assess for early indications of efficacy. Will be summarized by disease type and in the aggregate, if appropriate. Will be summarized using the product-limit method of Kaplan-Meier; 90% confidence intervals will be based on log(-log\[outcome\]) methodology., Time from start of trial treatment to death from any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Time-to-progression, The analysis will be descriptive and will be used to assess for early indications of efficacy. Will be summarized by disease type and in the aggregate, if appropriate. Will be summarized using the product-limit method of Kaplan-Meier; 90% confidence intervals will be based on log(-log\[outcome\]) methodology., Time interval between the dates of the start of trial treatment and first documentation of progressive disease, assessed up to 12 weeks
Phenotype changes in cell populations, Will be assessed by flow cytometry. Will be determined as a function of treatment. Subpopulations of peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be isolated, including but not limited to dendritic cells, T cells, and B cells. These include regulatory and effector immune panels, naïve and memory CD4, CD8 and natural killer lymphocyte populations., Baseline to up to 12 weeks|Tie-2 expressing monocytes, Will be examined., Up to 12 weeks|Changes in antigen specific responses to known melanoma antigen epitopes (melanoma antigen recognized by T cells 1, NY-ESO-1), Will be determined utilizing HLA-A20201 peptide system for antigen-presenting cells (including dendritic cell maturation and presentation) and targets., Baseline to up to 12 weeks|Humoral and cellular immune responses, Will be investigated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, enzyme-linked immunospots, and cytotoxic T cell chromium release assays., Up to 12 weeks|Effects on tumor vasculature and vascular active molecules, Will investigate the effects on tumor vasculature and vascular active molecules as a function of treatment with the two-drug combination. Studies will include monitoring VEGF, basic fibroblast growth factor, and hepatocyte growth factor levels. Circulating endothelial cells and progenitors will be studied as a function of treatment., Up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety, tolerability and recommended phase II dosing for the combination of ziv-aflibercept plus MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in patients with unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma, renal cell cancer, ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, or sarcoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain preliminary estimates of progression-free survival at 6 months. II. To obtain preliminary estimates of the rate of 1-year overall survival. III. To obtain preliminary estimates of the response rate. IV. To obtain preliminary estimates of time to progression. V. To perform correlative sciences that provide information regarding the mechanisms of action for this combination treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation and dose expansion study of ziv-aflibercept.

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over approximately 30 minutes and ziv-aflibercept IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Cycles repeat every 2 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), blood sample collection and tumor biopsy throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 12 weeks.