Sintilimab (IBI308) Combined With Bevacizumab + XELOX Regimen in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
A phase II clinical study of Sintilimab (IBI308) combined with Bevacizumab, Oxaliplatin and Capecitabine regimen as first-line treatment in patients with RAS-mutant and microsatellite stable metastatic colorectal cancer. A total of 25 patients are planned to be enrolled.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer|RAS Mutation|Microsatellite Stable
DRUG: Sintilimab (IBI308)+bevacizumab+oxaliplatin+capecitabine
Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate was defined as the proportion of patients with a best objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST criteria (version 1.1)., From Baseline to disease progress, up to 18 months|Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, Safety and tolerance will be evaluated by incidence, severity and outcomes of adverse events (AEs) and categorized by severity in accordance with the NCI CTC AE Version 5.0., From Baseline to primary completion date, about 2 years
Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate was defined as the proportion of patients with CR, PR, or SD according to RECIST criteria (version 1.1), From Baseline to disease progress, up to 18 months|Progression free survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented disease progression according to RECIST version 1.1, or to death from any cause, whichever occurred first., From Baseline to primary completion date, about 2 years
This study is a phase II clinical study of Sintilimab (IBI308) combined with bevacizumab + XELOX regimen as first-line treatment in patients with RAS-mutant and microsatellite stable metastatic colorectal cancer. The study treatment took 21 days as a treatment cycle. Sintilimab (IBI308), bevacizumab and oxaliplatin were given intravenously on the first day of each cycle, and capecitabine was given from the first day to the 14th day. All adverse events will be graded according to NCI CTCAE (version 5.0). Up to 8 courses of inductive therapy would be given. During the treatment, CT was rechecked every 2 courses to evaluate the curative effect. Patients with objective response or stable disease (SD) would continue to receive sintilimab plus bevacizumab and oral capecitabine in each 21-day cycle as maintenance therapy until the confirmation of disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.

A total of 25 patients are planned to be enrolled. When the number of subjects reaches 25 respectively, the enrollment ends to inquire about the safety and efficacy of Sintilimab (IBI308) combined with bevacizumab + XELOX.