Irradiated Donor Lymphocytes and Rituximab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Lymphoproliferative Disease
RATIONALE: When irradiated lymphocytes from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's immune system kill cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Giving irradiated donor lymphocytes together with rituximab may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying the side effects and how well giving irradiated donor lymphocytes together with rituximab works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoproliferative disease.
Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic allogeneic lymphocytes
Toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0, 4 years
Efficacy, 4 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the toxicity of irradiated HLA-partially matched related donor lymphocytes when administered with rituximab in patients with relapsed or refractory CD20-positive lymphoproliferative disease.
* Determine the efficacy of this regimen in these patients.

Secondary

* Correlate response with Fc receptor FcγIIIA polymorphisms or predicted HLA-directed natural killer cell reactivity.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

* Rituximab therapy: Patients receive rituximab IV on days -1, 6, 13, and 20. Treatment repeats approximately every 4 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Donor lymphocyte infusion: Patients receive irradiated donor lymphocytes IV over 1 hour on day 0. Treatment repeats every 8-16 weeks (alternating with courses of rituximab therapy) for up to 6 donor lymphocyte infusions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Peripheral blood is collected periodically during study for correlative laboratory studies. Blood samples are analyzed for FcγIIIA polymorphism by fluorescent in situ hybridization or by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Survival of donor lymphocytes is assessed by chimerism studies.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients will be accrued for this study.