Bintrafusp Alfa and Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy for the Treatment of Recurrent or Second Primary Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and how well bintrafusp alfa and stereotactic body radiation therapy work in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell cancer that has come back (recurrent) or has occurred after having cancer in the past (second primary). Immunotherapy with bintrafusp alfa may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Stereotactic body radiation therapy uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. This method can kill tumor cells with fewer doses over a shorter period and cause less damage to normal tissue. Giving bintrafusp alfa and stereotactic body radiation therapy may help to control recurrent head and neck squamous cell cancer.
Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Second Primary Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Bintrafusp Alfa|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), For the phase I part of this phase I/II study, the primary endpoint was DLT defined as any grade 3 or above AE resulting in inability to complete radiotherapy due to toxicity related to M7824 or the combination of M7824 and SBRT., The DLT window is from first M7824 dose (D0) until 14 days post SBRT (D28).
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate at 1 Year, For the phase II part of this phase I/II study, the primary endpoint was to evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) at 1 year. Progression-free survival was defined as from treatment start to progression, or death, whichever occurred first, or to the last follow-up., Up to 1 year|Overall Response by RECIST, Best overall response by RECIST 1.1, Tumor reassessment during treatment|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined was from treatment start to death or to the last follow-up, Up to 1 year|To Evaluate Acute and Late Toxicity Using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)-v5.0, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)-v5.0, Up to 1 year|To Evaluate Fibrosis-related Toxicities and Functional Outcomes, up to 1 year|To Evaluate Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) Measures of Symptoms Using MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI), up to 1 year|To Evaluate Volumetric Tumor Regression Rate and MRI Kinetic Biomarkers After M7824 Plus SBRT, up to 1 year|To Compare Quality-Adjusted-Life-Years (QALY) Between M7824 Plus SBRT Reirradiation and Historic SBRT Reirradiation Control, up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety, tolerability and feasibility of bintrafusp alfa (M7824) when administered together with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) reirradiation. (Lead In) II. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) rate of M7824 plus SBRT reirradiation at 1 year. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST).

II. To evaluate the 1-year locoregional control (LRC), locoregional failure-free survival (LFFS), distant metastasis (DM) and overall survival (OS) rates.

III. To evaluate acute and late toxicity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) - version (v) 5.0.

IV. To evaluate fibrosis-related toxicities and functional outcomes. V. To evaluate patient reported outcome (PRO) measures of symptoms using MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI).

VI. To evaluate volumetric tumor regression rate and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) kinetic biomarkers after M7824 plus SBRT.

VII. To compare quality-adjusted-life-years (QALY) between M7824 plus SBRT reirradiation and historic SBRT reirradiation control.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Biomarkers will be accessed in the tumor and blood samples and correlated with clinical outcomes and toxicity.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bintrafusp alfa intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning day 15 of cycle 1, patients also undergo SBRT over 5 fractions once every other day (QOD) for 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 days and then every 6 months for 3 years.