Study of Participants With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to compare the regimens of pemetrexed, carboplatin with pemetrexed maintenance and paclitaxel, carboplatin, bevacizumab with bevacizumab maintenance in participants with Stage IV nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer.
Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab
Progression Free Survival Without Grade 4 Toxicity (G4PFS) as Measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0, G4PFS was defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the earliest occurrence date of one of the following three events: Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) grade 4 adverse events (G4AEs), or progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurred earlier. PD was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.0. PD is ≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions or the appearance of new lesions. For participants who had no G4AEs, or PD, or death at the time of the data inclusion cutoff, PFS was censored at their last objective progression-free disease assessment prior to the cutoff date or the date of initiation of subsequent systemic anticancer therapy., Randomization to measured progressive disease or treatment discontinuation up to 39.49 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause. PD was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.0. PD was ≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions or the appearance of new lesions. For participants who had no PD or death at the time of the data inclusion cutoff, PFS was censored at their last objective progression-free disease assessment prior to the cutoff date or the date of initiation of subsequent systemic anticancer therapy., Randomization to measured progressive disease up to 39.49 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. For participants who were alive at the time of the data inclusion cutoff, OS was censored at the last date the participant was known to be alive., Randomization to date of death from any cause up to 39.49 months|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response or Partial Response (Overall Tumor Response Rate), Overall Response rate (ORR) was the percentage of participants with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as classified by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.0. CR was the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR was a ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions without new lesion and progression of non-target lesions. ORR was calculated as a total number of participants with CR or PR from the start of study treatment until disease progression or recurrence divided by the total number of participants treated, then multiplied by 100., Baseline to date of objective progressive disease up to 39.49 months|Disease Control Rates Defined as Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), and Stable Disease (SD), Disease control rate was the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, PR or SD, as classified by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.0. CR was the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR was a ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions without new lesion and progression of non-target lesion; SD was neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. Disease control rate was calculated as a total number of participants with CR or PR or SD divided by the total number of participants treated, then multiplied by 100., Baseline to date of objective progressive disease up to 39.49 months
This is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, Phase III trial. Eligible participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive pemetrexed and carboplatin followed by pemetrexed or paclitaxel, carboplatin, and bevacizumab followed by bevacizumab as their study treatment. Participants randomized to Pemetrexed + Carboplatin + Pemetrexed will receive folic acid, vitamin B12, and dexamethasone as stated in the pemetrexed label. Before administration of paclitaxel, participants randomized to Paclitaxel + Carboplatin + Bevacizumab will receive premedication (dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, and cimetidine or ranitidine) as recommended in the paclitaxel label.