Systematic Evaluation by an Intensivist of Hematological Malignancy Patients Presenting With Acute Respiratory or Hemodynamic Failure
Over the last two decades, the number of patients with hematological malignancies (HMs) admitted to the ICU increased and their mortality has dropped sharply. Patients with HMs increasingly require admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) for life-threatening events related to the malignancy and/or treatments, with immunosuppression being a major contributor. Whether the increase in ICU admissions is related to increased referrals by hematologists and/or to increased admissions by intensivists is unknown. The criteria used for ICU referral and admission decisions have not been extensively evaluated. Finally, the links between admission policies and treatment-limitation decisions are unclear, but ICUs with broad admission policies may change the treatment goals based on the response to several days of full-code management.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of a systematic evaluation by an intensivist of HMs patients presenting with acute respiratory and/or hemodynamic failure.
Respiratory Insufficiency|Hematologic Malignancy
OTHER: Systematic evaluation by an intensivist
delta Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, difference between the Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment score between 48h and 72h after ICU admission and the SOFA score during the first 24h.

SOFA score ranges from 0 to 20 delta SOFA= SOFA day 3 - SOFA day1, up to 72 hours
survival status after one year, survival status (alive/dead) at one year after ICU admission, one year after ICU admission|survival status at the end of the ICU stage, survival status (alive/dead) at the end of the ICU stage, up to Day 45|survival status at the end of the hospitalization, survival status (alive/dead) at the end of the hospitalization, up to Day 120|ICU admission, Delay between the start of critical care illness and ICU admission Delay is measured in minutes, up to 72h|Invasive mechanical ventilation, Number of days with mechanical ventilation, up to Day 45|Non-invasive ventilation, Number of days with non-invasive ventilation, up to Day 45|Vasopressive support, Number of days with vasopressive support, up to Day 45|renal replacement therapy, Number of days with renal replacement therapy, up to Day 45|hematological disease evolution, status of hematological primary disease at death or after one year of evolution if the patient is still alive. Possible status of hematology disease : complete remission, partial remission, stability, relapsed/refractory., up to one year|Life quality for patients, EQ5-D assessment of patients' quality of life one year after Intensive care unit admission, up to one year
Over the last two decades, the number of patients with hematological malignancies (HMs) admitted to the ICU increased and their mortality has dropped sharply. Patients with HMs increasingly require admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) for life-threatening events related to the malignancy and/or treatments, with immunosuppression being a major contributor. Whether the increase in ICU admissions is related to increased referrals by hematologists and/or to increased admissions by intensivists is unknown. The criteria used for ICU referral and admission decisions have not been extensively evaluated. Finally, the links between admission policies and treatment-limitation decisions are unclear, but ICUs with broad admission policies may change the treatment goals based on the response to several days of full-code management.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of a systematic evaluation by an intensivist of HMs patients presenting with acute respiratory and/or hemodynamic failure.