Effect of Acupuncture vs Chinese Medicine vs Combined Therapy on Aromatase Inhibitor-related Arthralgia Among Women With Early-Stage Breast Cancer
Aromatase inhibitors have been used to treat hormone receptor positive breast cancer women in menopause, but side effects, such as joint pain, would affect their qualities of life. Chinese herbs or acupuncture provides promising clinical effects and plays an important role on alleviating the side effects of cancer treatment. This clinical trial will evaluate the effect of the acupuncture, Chinese medicine, and the combination of both on joint pain related to aromatase inhibitors among women with early-stage breast cancers.
Arthralgia
DEVICE: acupuncture|DRUG: Guizhi-Shaoyao-Zhimu decoction
Brief Pain Inventory-Worst Pain Item (BFI-WP), a 0- to 10-point scale (0 \[no pain\] to 10 \[pain as bad as you can imagine), Change from baseline at 6 weeks
Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF), The Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) was used to evaluate the worst pain, pain severity, and pain- related interference scores. (0 \[no pain\] to 10 \[pain as bad as you can imagine), Change from baseline at 6 weeks|Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) was used in the evaluation of pain (score range, 0-20), stiffness (score range, 0-8), physical function of lower limb (score range, 0-68)., Change from baseline at 6 weeks|Modified Score for the Assessment and Quantification of Chronic Rheumatoid Affections of the Hands (M-SACRAH), Affections of the Hands (M-SACRAH) was used in the evaluation of pain, stiffness, physical function of upper limb., Change from baseline at 6 weeks|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Endocrine Symptoms (FACT-ES), The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Symptoms (FACT-ES) measured physical and functional well- being and endocrine symptoms (score range, 0-128), Change from baseline at 6 weeks
Reduce estrogen exposure can lower the risk of breast cancer recurrence. Aromatase inhibitors have been used to treat hormone receptor positive breast cancer women in menopause for years. It can increase the survival rate and decrease the chance of recurrence. However, many patients suffered from the side effects of medication, including joint pain, is the main reason for decreasing medication adherence and influencing patients' quality of life. Based on previous phase III clinical trial study, acupuncture may relieve aromatase inhibitor associated joint pain, and experts believe that acupuncture could also be considered as an effective adjuvant treatment. Chinese herbs or acupuncture provides promising clinical effects and plays an important role in alleviating the side effects of cancer treatment. Guizhi-Shaoyao-Zhimu decoction has frequently being prescribed to treat joint pain in traditional Chinese medicine practice. The design of this clinical trial will evaluate the effects of the acupuncture, Chinese medicine, and the combination of both on joint pain related to aromatase inhibitors among women with early-stage breast cancer. The goal of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety with regards to utilizing acupuncture and Chinese herbs in treating joint pain related to the usage of aromatase inhibitors.