Nintedanib in Treating Patients With Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma That Is Recurrent
This phase II trial studies how well nintedanib works in treating patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma that has come back. Nintedanib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma|Stage IV Pleural Mesothelioma
DRUG: Nintedanib
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using standard Kaplan-Meier methods for censored data, from which the median and other statistics of interest will be calculated (e.g., rates at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months)., From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause; assessed up to 4 months
Incidence of Grade 3-4 Toxicity, Number of participants with grade 3 or grade 4 for each type of toxicity encountered, using all toxicity evaluable patients., Up to 1 year|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be estimated using standard Kaplan-Meier methods for censored data, from which the median and other statistics of interest will be calculated (e.g., rates at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months)., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants Responded (Complete Response, Partial Response, Stable Disease, Progressive Disease, Not Evaluable), number of participants responded (complete response, partial response, stable disease, progressive disease, not evaluable) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the 4-month progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with recurrent, unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma (MAM) treated with nintedanib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses) and disease control rate (response or stable disease) in the subset of patients with measurable disease by both RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) 1.1 criteria and Modified RECIST criteria for pleural tumors.

II. To assess overall survival.

III. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with this treatment regimen.

IV. To collect tissue samples for future correlative studies related to overall study objectives.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nintedanib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.