Anesthetic Effect on Immune Cell in Patients With Cancer
Anesthetics agents has an effect on immune response during the cancer surgery.This influence can regulatory to immune activity or cancer cell survival.

The purpose of this study is to prove the variation of immune cell activity between preoperative and postoperative period.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Sevoflurane|DRUG: propofol
immune cell (NK cell and CD8+ T cell), Patients blood sample are collect up to 24 hours postoperatively. These blood sample are collect in EDTA tube for NK cell and CD8+ T cell isolation from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Isolation for NK cell, Ab stain with CD16 and CD56. Also, isolation for CD8+ T cell, Ab stain with CD8, that are purified from PBMCs, using FACSAria according to the manufacturer's protocol. These cell are culture with MCF-7 cancer cell line for 24 hours. After 24h, the degree of apoptosis of NK cell and CD8+ T cell was determined by flow cytometry. Suspension cell is NK cell or CD8+ T cell, these cells were harvest and washed with cell staining buffer. After washing, cell resuspended with Annexin-V binding buffer and stained with FITC-Annexin-V according to the manufacturer's protocol with analysis, up to 24 hours
cancer cell (MCF-7) apoptosis, Patients blood sample are collect before and 1h after anesthesia induction and at 24h postoperatively. These blood sample are collect in EDTA tube for NK cell and CD8+ T cell isolation from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Isolation for NK cell, Ab stain with CD16 and CD56. Also, isolation for CD8+ T cell, Ab stain with CD8, that are purified from PBMCs, using FACSAria according to the manufacturer's protocol. These cell are culture with MCF-7 cancer cell line for 24 hours. After 24h, the degree of apoptosis of cancer cell was determined by flow cytometry. Adherent cell is cancer cell, these cells were harvest and washed with cell staining buffer. After washing, cell resuspended with Annexin-V binding buffer and stained with FITC-Annexin-V according to the manufacturer's protocol with analysis, Baseline. postoperative 1 hours and 24 hours
The patients were allocated randomly to receive propofol or sevoflurane. Also, a total of 18ml of blood sample was obtained for total 3 times in consecutive order.

1. immediate before anesthesia induction
2. postoperative 1 hours
3. postoperative 24 hours

Immune cells isolation from patients peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Next, immune cell were co-culture with human cancer cell line (MCF-7) for 24 hours. investigation for immune cell or cancer cell survival by flow cytometry.