Targeting CD276 (B7-H3) Positive Solid Tumors by 4SCAR-276
Patients with refractory and/or recurrent solid tumor have poor prognosis despite complex multimodel therapy and therefore, novel approaches are urgently needed. This study attempts to treat these diseases using T cells genetically modified with a 4th generation lentiviral chimeric antigen receptor (4SCAR fused with an inducible apoptotic caspase 9 domain) targeting CD276 (B7-H3). The 4SCAR-CD276-modified T cells (4SCAR-276) can recognize and kill tumor cells through the recognition of CD276, a surface protein expressed at high levels on many types of tumors but at low levels on normal tissues. This study will evaluate the side effects and effective doses of 4SCAR-276 in treating refractory and/or recurrent tumors.
Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: 4SCAR-276
Number of patients with adverse events, Determine the toxicity profile the 4SCAR-276-modified T cells with Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects version 4.0, 3 years
Anti-tumor effects, Defined as the proportion of patients who achieved complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) based on imaging analysis., 1 year|Survival time of the patients, Evaluate the survival time of the patients treated with the 4SCAR-276 T cells, including progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)., 3 years
Background: Patients with refractory and/or recurrent solid tumors have poor prognosis despite complex multimodal therapy; therefore, novel curative approaches are needed. The investigators are attempting to use T cells obtained directly from the patient, which can be genetically modified to express a 4th generation CD276-specific chimeric antigen receptor (4SCAR-276). The CAR molecules enable the T cells to recognize and kill tumor cells through the recognition of the surface CD276, which is expressed at high levels on tumor cells including brain tumors, Ewing's sarcoma (PNET) and many other tumors but not at significant levels on normal tissues. This study will evaluate the side effects and the best dose of a novel 4th generation anti-CD276 CAR T cells to target refractory and/or recurrent solid tumors.

Design:

1. Participants will be screened through physical exam and medical history. Blood and tumor tissue samples will be collected. Imaging studies will be performed.
2. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be obtained by apheresis, and T cells will be activated and modified to express the 4SCAR-276 gene.
3. On Day -5 to -7, PBMC will be activated and enriched for T cells, which will be followed by 4SCAR-276 lentiviral transduction. The total culture time is approximately 5-7 days.
4. Participants will receive a preparative conditioning regimen comprising cyclophosphamide/fludarabine to prepare their immune system to accept the modified CAR T cells. The preparative regimen will be based on patient immune condition and consistent with standard chemotherapy conditioning regimen.
5. The patients will receive \~10\^6 CART cells/kg body weight per infusion, and may receive additional booster CART infusions if positive outcome is recorded.