Prospective Pilot Study Identifying Clinically Relevant Biological Targets for Medical Therapy
New data suggests that the current treatment for pediatric adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma (CPA) may not be as effective as it could be.
Craniopharyngioma, Child
PROCEDURE: Tumor and Blood Specimens
Identification of Potential Therapeutic Targets, Investigators will identify potential therapeutic targets through mRNA expression., Beginning of study to end of study, up to 1 year.|Identification of Potential Therapeutic Targets, Investigators will identify potential therapeutic targets through microarray analysis., Beginning of study to end of study, up to 1 year.|Identification of Potential Therapeutic Targets, Investigators will identify potential therapeutic targets immunohistochemistry., Beginning of study to end of study, up to 1 year.|Identification of Potential Therapeutic Targets, Investigators will identify potential therapeutic targets through quantitative PCR., Beginning of study to end of study, up to 1 year.|Identification of Potential Therapeutic Targets, Investigators will also perform immunostaining for beta-catenin and use DNA SNaPshot analysis to determine what parts of the tumor are responsible for observed gene signatures., Beginning of study to end of study, up to 1 year.
Survival, The amount of time the patient survives with or without the disease., Beginning of study up to age 21 or death, whichever comes first.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The amount of time the patient survives without advancement of disease., Beginning of study up to age 21 or death, whichever comes first.|Visual Deficit Assessment, With regard to visual deficits, investigators will compare the rates of functional blindness, unilateral blindness, and visual field deficit., At 6 and 12 months after the specimen sample was taken.|Pituitary Function Assessment, With regard to pituitary function, investigators will assess patients based on the quality of life impairment that is associated with their dysfunction. Assessment will be divided among 4 groups:

1. No dependence on hormone supplementation or evidence of diabetes insipidus
2. Dependence on 1 or 2 hormone supplements without diabetes insipidus
3. The presence of diabetes insipidus with or without the need for 2 or fewer hormone supplements
4. Diabetes Insipidus with panhypopituitarism, At 6 and 12 months after the specimen sample was taken.
Current treatment regimens for pediatric CPA are limited to surgery and radiation therapy. This pilot study seeks to identify biologically rational therapeutics for the medical treatment of adamantinomatous CPA by confirming the overexpression of specific molecules.