SGI-110 Plus Durvalumab/Tremelimumab in SCLC
The purpose of this study is to determine if a combination of investigational agents is safe to give to people with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) after standard chemotherapy has been attempted. Subjects enrolled in this trial will receive 3 investigational drugs: SGI-110 (guadecitabine), durvalumab (MEDI4736) and tremelimumab.
Extensive-stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab|DRUG: SGI-110
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of SGI-110, Defined as the highest dose cohort for SGI-110 with a rate of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) \<33%., Approximately 24 to 48 weeks
Rate of treatment related adverse events, Defined by the percentage of patients receiving study treatment and experiencing grade 3-4 treatment related adverse events., Up to 90 days after last study dose|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Defined by the proportion of patients with tumor size reduction of a predefined amount and for a minimum time period., Up to 12 months after last study dose|Median Progression Free Survival (mPFS), The length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse. Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method in number of weeks., Up to 24 months after last study dose|Median Overall Survival (mOS), The length of time from the start of treatment for a disease, such as cancer, that half of the patients in a group of patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive. Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method in number of weeks., Up to 24 months after last study dose|Median Duration of Response (mDOR), Duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for complete response or partial response (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Up to 12 months after last study dose
SCLC accounts for approximately 15% of new cases of lung cancer, and an estimated 33,000 cases are expected to be diagnosed in the United States in 2016. Compared to NSCLC, SCLC typically has a more rapid doubling time, a higher growth fraction, and earlier development of distant metastases. Patients with limited stage (LS) disease are treated with curative intent using definitive, concurrent chemotherapy and thoracic radiotherapy. For patients with extensive stage (ES) disease, systemic chemotherapy can prolong survival in most cases, however long-term survival is rare. Despite the activity of several agents in SCLC, an etoposide plus platinum (i.e. cisplatin) doublet regimen remains the standard of care in the first-line setting because of its higher activity compared to other chemotherapy regimens, as well as the ease of combining it with radiation. Initial response rates may be as high as 70-90% in LS-SCLC and 50-70% in ES-SCLC. However, the disease typically recurs rapidly which is reflected by median survival rates of 9 to 11 months for ES-SCLC and a 2-year survival rate of less than 5%.

This study has a 3 + 3 design that will be used to assess the safety of SGI-110 given prior to flat doses of durvalumab (1500 mg) and tremelimumab (75 mg). The starting dose of SGI-110 will be 30 mg/m2 (dose level 0) and the target dose that is predicted to be safe and most effective will be 45 mg/m2 (dose level 1). These doses have been chosen based on safety and efficacy data from phase 1 clinical trials in other solid tumors, as described above. Patients enrolled in any given dose level will be evaluated for safety (adverse events monitoring) and efficacy. There will be mandatory pre- and on-treatment tumor biopsies performed in alternating fashion on cycle 1 day 8 +/- 2 days or cycle 2 day 8 +/- 2 days. The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) observation period will last for 4 weeks (28 days) and ends on C2D1. Delayed serious immune-mediated adverse events will also be monitored but will not be considered dose limiting toxicities.