Dose-defining Study of Tirapazamine Combined With Embolization in Liver Cancer
This phase 1 study is to determine the optimal dose and tolerability of a hypoxia-activating agent, tirapazamine, when it is combined with embolization in liver cancer. Liver cancer patients who are Child-Pugh score A, suitable for embolization with tumor no more than 4 nodules are eligible. Tirapazamine will be given by intra-arterial injection before embolization. Treatment effect is evaluated by MRI based on mRECIST criteria. Repeat treatment is necessary only if disease progression. Dose escalation cohort has been completed. Expansion cohort is open for metastatic liver dominant neuroendocrine tumor.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Gastrointestinal Cancer Metastatic|Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: Tirapazamine|PROCEDURE: Conventional Transarterial Embolization (TAE)
Overall Response rate (ORR) by RECIST, Overall Response Rate by RECIST criteria, 2 years
Overall Response Rate, Overall Response Rate by mRECIST criteria, 2 years|Duration of Response, Duration of Response by RECIST and mRECIST, 2 years
Response Rate in TATE-treated target lesions, by mRECIST and RECIST, 2 years|Progressive Free Survival, by RECIST and mRECIST, 2 years
The study is a 3+3 design for dose escalation. Each cohort will have 3-6 patients based on tolerability. Patients will receive escalated doses of tirapazamine until maximally tolerated dose. Embolization is performed per standard practice using Lipiodol and Gelfoam under X-ray guidance. Once a suitable dose is determined, an expansion cohort of 15 patients will be treated with the recommended phase 2 dose to determine preliminary efficacy. Expansion cohorts include (1) hepatocellular carcinoma, (2) metastatic solid tumors with liver metastasis, and (3) neuroendocrine tumor. Adverse events are evaluated by CTCAE vs. 5.0 and efficacy is evaluated by MRI using modified RECIST criteria and RECIST criteria.

The dose escalation part has been completed. Only the third cohort or neuroendocrine tumor remains active for future patient enrollment.