Azacitidine, Venetoclax, and Trametinib for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Higher-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase II trial investigates how well azacitidine, venetoclax, and trametinib work in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or higher-risk myelodysplastic syndrome that has come back (relapsed) or has not responded to treatment (refractory). Chemotherapy drugs, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Venetoclax and trametinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. The goal of this study is learn if the combination of azacitidine, venetoclax, and trametinib can help to control acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Refractory Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Trametinib|DRUG: Venetoclax
Participants With a Response, Overall response is defined as the number of participants achieving Complete Remission (CR) or Complete Remission without recovery of counts (CRi) CR is Normalization of the peripheral blood and bone marrow with \</= to 5 % blasts with a granulocyte count of 1 x 10\^9/L or greater and a platelet count of 100 x 10\^9/L and complete resolution of all extramedullary disease. CRi is Peripheral blood and marrow results as for CR, but with incomplete recover of counts (platelets \< 100 x 10\^9/L or neutrophils \< 1 x 10\^9/L)., Up to 2.5 years
Minimal Residual Disease Negativity, Will be assessed by flow cytometry and estimated along with 95% credible intervals., Up to time of relapse, assessed up to 2.5 years|Relapse-free Survival, Relapse-free survival is the time from documented CR/CRi until relapse or death., From documented CR/CRi until relapse or death, assessed until study completion|Event-free Survival, Event-free survival is the time from the first day of treatment until any treatment failure (lack of response within 6 cycles of treatment, relapse, or death)., From the first day of treatment until any treatment failure (lack of response within 6 cycles of treatment, relapse, or death), assessed until study completion|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the first day of treatment to time of death from any cause., From the first day of treatment to time of death from any cause, assessed until study completion|Number of Participants Proceeding to Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, Will be totaled based on the number of participants who continue with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation post treatment., Up to 2.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine overall survival rate at 1 year of the regimen in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML). (Cohort A) II. To determine the complete remission (CR)/complete remission without recovery of counts (CRi) rate of the regimen in patients with relapsed/refractory AML or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). (Cohort B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess other efficacy endpoints (CR rate, minimal residual disease negativity by flow cytometry, relapse-free survival, event-free survival, and overall survival).

II. To assess proportion of patients proceeding to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).

III. To determine the safety of the combination regimen.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the impact of baseline genomic alterations on response and survival of the combination regimen.

II. To evaluate clonal evolution from diagnosis to relapse.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION (CYCLE 1): Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7, venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28, and trametinib PO QD on days 1-28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION (CYCLES 2-24): Patients receive azacitidine IV over 30-60 minutes or SC on days 1-7, venetoclax PO QD on days 1-21, and trametinib PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 23 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 6 months thereafter.