The Efficacy and Safety of Third-generation TKIs Combined With Azacitidine and Bcl-2 Inhibitor in Patients With CML-MBP
This is a prospective multi-center study to investigate efficacy and safety of the third generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) combined with azacitidine and B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) inhibitor in patients with myeloid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML-MBP).
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Ponatinib|DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Olverembatinib
Major hematologic response (MaHR), either a complete hematologic response (CHR) or no evidence of leukemia (NEL)., At the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)
Return to chronic phase, \< 10% blasts in blood and bone marrow with no extra-medullary leukemia and last for ≥ 4 weeks, At the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Major cytogenetic response (MCyR), Ph-positive cells ≤ 35%, Up to 3 years|Complete cytogenetic response (CCyR), no Ph-positive cell, Up to 3 years|Major molecular response (MMR), BCR::ABL1IS ≤ 0.1%, Up to 3 years|Event-free survival (EFS), interval from therapy start to lacking RCP after 1 cycle, MaHR after 2 cycles, loss of hematologic response, progression to blast phase again, or death from any causes, Up to 3 years|CML-related survival, interval from therapy start to death from blast phase, or censored at the last follow-up, Up to 3 years|Survival, interval from therapy start to death from any cause or censored at the last follow-up, Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, Adverse effects (AEs) were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0. and assessed continuously., Up to 3 years
CML-MBP has dismal outcome. Currently, there is no standardized induction treatment approach in CML-MBP. The European LeukemiaNet (ELN) recommendations and NCCN guideline recommended the combination of TKI and chemotherapy in CML-MBP. The previous study revealed that TKI combined with hypomethylating agents had promising efficacy. However, imatinib and second generation TKI are the most widely applied in combination treatment, there is limited data in third generation TKI.

Currently, venetoclax in combination with hypomethylating agents such as azacitidine is standard treatment for patients with AML unsuitable for intensive induction chemotherapy. Maiti et al. reported that TKI combined with venetoclax and detectable had promising efficacy in CML-MBP. Therefore, the investigator conducted a study to explore the efficacy and safety of a third generation TKI in combination with azacitidine and Bcl-2 inhibitor in CML-MBP and multi-omics exploratory analysis was performed to identify potential biomarkers correlated with the outcome.