Robotic Cytoreduction and Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy for Treatment of Gastric Cancer With Limited Peritoneal Metastasis, ROBO-CHIP Study
This phase II clinical trial tests how well robotic cytoreduction and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) in treating patients with gastric cancer that has spread to the tissue that lines the wall of the abdominal cavity (peritoneum). Gastric cancer is the third leading cause of cancer related deaths worldwide and peritoneal metastasis are found in 30% of patients at time of diagnosis. Patients with peritoneal metastasis have poor survival rates. Traditional surgery is done with a large incision and has a high complication rate and longer hospital stays. Robot assisted (robotic) cytoreduction is a surgical option that uses small incisions and there is less risk of complications. HIPEC involves infusing heated chemotherapy into the abdominal cavity during surgery. Robotic cytoreduction together with HIPEC may improve recovery and decrease complications after surgery.
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Peritoneum
DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Gastrectomy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy
Hospital length of stay, Recorded as number of days in hospital following surgery., Up to 30 days post-surgery|30 day readmission rate, Assessed by the number of participants who are re-admitted to the hospital after being discharged post-surgery, Up to 30 days post-surgery|Adverse Events, Assessed by Clavien-Dindo Classification (grade 1-5, grade 1 being least severe and grade 5 being death), Up to 30 days post surgery
Operative time, Recorded as the time from incision to close, Intraoperative|Opioid consumption, Assessed by morphine milligram equivalents during hospitalization and post-surgical recovery., Up to 42 months|Nursing reported pain scores, As recorded (mean and max) during hospitalization and post-surgery follow-up visits, Up to 42 months
This phase II clinical trial tests how well robotic cytoreduction and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) in treating patients with gastric cancer that has spread to the tissue that lines the wall of the abdominal cavity (peritoneum). Gastric cancer is the third leading cause of cancer related deaths worldwide and peritoneal metastasis are found in 30% of patients at time of diagnosis. Patients with peritoneal metastasis have poor survival rates. Traditional surgery is done with a large incision and has a high complication rate and longer hospital stays. Robot assisted (robotic) cytoreduction is a surgical option that uses small incisions and there is less risk of complications. HIPEC involves infusing heated chemotherapy into the abdominal cavity during surgery. Robotic cytoreduction together with HIPEC may improve recovery and decrease complications after surgery.