5-Fluoro-2'-Deoxcyctidine and Tetrahydrouridine to Treat Patients With Advanced Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine when given together with tetrahydrouridine in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine and tetrahydrouridine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Neoplasms
DRUG: 5-Fluoro-2-Deoxycytidine (FdCyd)|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Tetrahydrouridine (THU)
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine (FdCyd) when given with tetrahydrouridine (THU) determined by dose-limiting toxicities, MTD is defined as the highest dose tested in which \< 33% of patients experienced dose limiting toxicity. The toxicities observed at each dose level will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity (by National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 2.0 and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures), time of onset (i.e., cycle number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by cycle., 28 days|Survival, Survival and time to failure will be summarized with Kaplan-Meier plots to describe the outcome of patients treated on this protocol., Time from registration to time of death due to any cause, assessed up to 13 years|Time to treatment failure, Survival and time to failure will be summarized with Kaplan-Meier plots to describe the outcome of patients treated on this protocol., Time from registration to the first observation of disease progression, death due to any cause, or early discontinuation of treatment, assessed up to 13 years
Levels of mRNA's of interest, The relative levels of mRNA's of interest and other biochemical assessments will be tabulated and described. These levels will be compared with clinical response in an exploratory manner. However, the heterogeneity of the patient population and the small number of patients treated at each dose make formal statistical analysis of the molecular studies unlikely., Up to 13 years|Pharmacokinetic parameters of 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine in combination with tetrahydrouridine, The pharmacokinetic data will be analyzed using compartmental and non-compartmental models for each patient. The estimated parameters will be tabulated by dose level with summary statistics (means and standard deviations, or medians and ranges). If appropriate, summary statistics will also be provided for the entire group of patients., Baseline, 15 & 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 9 hours on days 1 & 8; baseline, 15 & 30 minutes, 1, 2, 2.5 hours after infusion start & 15 & 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6 hours after infusion end on day 2; baseline on days 3, 9, & 15; 2.5 hours after infusion on day 12
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of 5-fluoro-2'-deoxycytidine (5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine) (FdCyd) administered by intravenous (IV) infusion over three hours with concomitant infusion of 350 mg/m2 of tetrahydrouridine (THU).

II. To describe the toxicities of FdCyd co-infused with THU.

III. To obtain preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity in patients treated with this combination.

IV. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of FdCyd and THU when co-infused.

V. To evaluate the oral bioavailability of FdCyd when co-administered with THU.

VI. When feasible, to measure the relative levels of the messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA)'s for thymidylate synthase, deoxycytidine kinase, deoxycytidylate (dCMP) deaminase and other relevant enzymes; and the methylation status of p16 and other genes relevant to neoplasia.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine. Patients receive tetrahydrouridine orally (PO) on day 1; 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine PO on days 1 and 8; tetrahydrouridine IV over 3 hours on days 2-5, 8, and 9-12; and 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine IV over 3 hours on days 2-5 and 9-12 of course 1. For all subsequent courses, patients receive tetrahydrouridine IV over 3 hours and 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine IV over 3 hours on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.