A Study of Avastin (Bevacizumab) in Combination With Platinum-Containing Chemotherapy in Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Non-Squamous Cell Lung Cancer.
This single arm study will assess the safety and efficacy of Avastin combined with platinum-containing chemotherapy regimens in patients with advanced or recurrent non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Avastin will be given as first-line treatment in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy or in combination with any standard of care NSCLC first-line chemotherapy used in line with the licensed national prescribing information. Eligible patients will receive Avastin (15mg/kg iv on day 1 of each 3 week cycle) concomitantly with chemotherapy. Avastin treatment will continue after completion of chemotherapy cycles until disease progression, and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.
Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Platinum-based chemotherapy|DRUG: Bevacizumab [Avastin]
Number of Participants With Adverse Events of Special Interest, Participants with adverse events (AEs) of special interest (hypertension, proteinuria, wound healing complications, gastrointestinal perforation, arterial and venous thromboembolic events, hemoptysis, Central Nervous System (CNS) bleeding, other hemorrhage events and congestive heart failure) were reported., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events Related to Bevacizumab, Participants with serious adverse events (SAEs) related to bevacizumab were reported for the duration of the study., Up to 3 years
Duration of Overall Survival, Overall survival time was defined as time between first bevacizumab administration and date of death, irrespective of the cause of death. Participants for whom no death was captured on the clinical database were censored at the most recent date they were known to be alive., Up to 3 years|Time to Disease Progression, Time to disease progression was defined as time between first bevacizumab administration and date of first occurrence of progressive disease. Participants who had not progressed at the time of study completion (including participants who died before progressive disease) or who were lost to follow-up were censored at the last bevacizumab administration date. Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Time to disease progression was assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Central Nervous System Bleeding, The incidence of central nervous system (CNS) bleeding was reported for participants who developed CNS metastases during the study period and who did not have Computed Tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques of the head performed at baseline., Up to 3 years
This single arm study will assess the safety and efficacy of Avastin combined with platinum-containing chemotherapy regimens in patients with advanced or recurrent non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Avastin will be given as first-line treatment in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy or in combination with any standard of care NSCLC first-line chemotherapy used in line with the licensed national prescribing information. Eligible patients will receive Avastin (15mg/kg iv on day 1 of each 3 week cycle) concomitantly with chemotherapy. Avastin treatment will continue after completion of chemotherapy cycles until disease progression, and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.