A Study for Safety and Effectiveness of IMC-A12 by Itself or Combined With Antiestrogens to Treat Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether IMC-A12 offers increased progression-free survival (PFS) associated with IMC-A12 monotherapy and IMC-A12 in combination with an antiestrogen therapy in patients with hormone receptor positive advanced or metastatic breast cancer that have experienced disease progression on antiestrogen therapy.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: IMC-A12 (cixutumumab)|DRUG: tamoxifen|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a ≥20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. Participants without documentation of progression or death will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment. The PFS will be estimated following the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization up to 35.1 Months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the interval between date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. Participants who are alive at the time of study completion will be censored at the time the participants was last known to be alive., From randomization up to 36.5 Months
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) (Objective Response Rate [ORR]), Best overall response of CR or PR was defined using RECIST v 1.0 criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all lesions, pathological lymph node reduction in short axis to \<10 mm, and normalization of tumor marker levels of non-target lesions. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (SOD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameter. PD was defined as ≥20% increase in SOD of target lesions and short axes of target lymph nodes, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameters recorded since treatment started and an absolute increase in sum diameter of ≥5 mm; appearance of ≥1 new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Participants who had no post baseline tumor assessments were considered non-responders and included in the denominator when calculating response rate. Percentage of participants=(number of participants with CR+PR/total number of participants)\*100., Randomization to PD up to 35.1 Months|12-Month Survival Rate, The 12-month survival rate is defined as the percentage of participants who have not died 12 months after the date of randomization., From randomization to until the date of first documented date of death from any cause within 12 months, assessed up to 35.1 months|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) Disease Control Rate [DCR]), DCR is defined as percentage of participants with CR, PR, or SD using RECIST v 1.0 criteria. CR: disappearance of all lesions, pathological lymph node reduction in short axis to \<10 mm, and normalization of tumor marker levels of non-target lesions. PR: ≥30% decrease in SOD of target lesions taking as reference baseline sum diameter. PD: ≥20% increase in SOD of target lesions and short axes of target lymph nodes, taking as reference smallest sum of longest diameters recorded since treatment started and an absolute increase in sum diameter ≥5 mm; appearance of ≥1 new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor increase to qualify for PD. Participants who had no post baseline tumor assessments were considered non-responders and included in the denominator when calculating response rate. Percentage of participants=(number of participants with CR+PR+SD/total number of participants)\*100., Randomization to PD up to 35.1 Months|Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events (AEs) in National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for AE's (NCI-CTCAE) Version 3.0 Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE), The NCI-CTCAE provides descriptive terminology for adverse event reporting. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each adverse event term. Severity will be graded as mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe (grade 3), or very severe (life threatening - grade 4). Clinically significant events were defined as serious and other non-serious adverse events related to study drug regardless of causality. A summary of serious and other non-serious adverse events is located in the Reported Adverse Event module., Randomization to End of Study up to 36.5 Months|Changes in Circulating Tumor Cell Counts (CTS), Approximately 24 months
Breast cancer is the most common form of malignancy affecting women worldwide, with approximately 178,480 new cases of invasive breast cancer and 62,030 new cases of in situ breast cancer expected in the United States (US) in 2007. Approximately 40,460 women are expected to die of breast cancer in the coming year, making the disease the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality among women (trailing only cancers of the lung and bronchus). However, thanks in part to recent advances in treatment, mortality rates associated with breast cancer have declined consistently since 1990.

Surgical resection and other treatments may particularly benefit patients whose disease is identified prior to metastasis; the 5-year survival rate for patients diagnosed with locoregionally advanced disease is 83%. However, women with distant metastases at diagnosis have a much poorer outlook, with a 5-year survival rate of only 26% and a median survival of approximately 2 years. Treatment of advanced disease may include first-line chemotherapy utilizing an anthracycline (eg, doxorubicin or epirubicin), antibody therapy, limited surgery, taxanes, and other cytotoxic agents. As complete responses are rare, these treatments are not generally employed as curative but in an effort to prolong life and provide symptom palliation.

Approximately two-thirds of all breast cancers are positive for expression of the estrogen receptor.For patients whose tumors are positive for this receptor or the progesterone receptor, the preferred first-line treatment comprises blockade of estradiol synthesis or hormone receptor activity using aromatase inhibitors or antiestrogen agents. Although endocrine therapies are useful and well-tolerated, most patients respond to this form of treatment for about 12-18 months before developing refractory disease. New therapies able to provide additional benefit to patients with hormone receptor-positive, antiestrogen-refractory, advanced and metastatic breast cancer are required.