Behavioral Weight Loss for Cancer Survivors in Maryland: A Trial With Adaptive Interventions
The objective of the HELPLINE Weight Loss Program is to determine the comparative effectiveness of two active multi-component, augmented interventions for cancer survivors with overweight or obesity who do not achieve early weight loss goal in the initial intervention period (termed, early non-responders). The core study design is randomized controlled trial with adaptive intervention.

1. CORE Helpline in all participants (first 2 months)
2. Extended Helpline in early responders (additional 6 months)
3. Enhanced Helpline in early non-responders (additional 6 months)
4. Intensive Helpline in early non-responders (additional 6 months)
Weight Loss
BEHAVIORAL: CORE Helpline|BEHAVIORAL: Extended Helpline|BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced Helpline|BEHAVIORAL: Intensive Helpline
Weight (pounds) changes at 8 months from 2-month between Enhanced Helpline and Intensive Helpline arms, Weight change for Enhanced Helpline and Intensive Helpline in early non-responders, 8 months
Weight (pounds) change at 5 and 12 months from 2-month between Enhanced Helpline and Intensive Helpline arms, Weight change for Enhanced Helpline and Intensive Helpline in early non-responders, 12 months
Weight (pounds) change from baseline to 2 months in all participants, Weight change for CORE Helpline over the first 2 months in all participants, 2 months|Within-program weight (pounds) changes from baseline to 5, 8, and 12 months in all programs, Weight change for each program over 12 months, 12 months
All participants will receive

* written Johns Hopkins weight loss material
* instructions for using a smartphone weight loss app to keep track of food and exercise every day (either android or iPhone)
* a weekly weight loss tip by text message and email, and a text message on weight loss progress each week
* a research scale and specific instructions for verifying weights at 5 specific times over the next year.

The participants may also request two 20-minute phone calls during the first 2 months with a weight loss coach.

After the first 2 months, depending on weight loss progress, the participants will be assigned to another program which may include additional assistance for 6 more months.

Additional assistance may include scheduled phone calls with a Johns Hopkins weight loss coach each month, individualized emails from a Johns Hopkins weight loss coach, and the option for daily text message reminders.

After the first 8 months of assistance, the participants will continue the program on the participant's own for 4 more months and provide the study team with final weights 12 months after the start of the program.