Eribulin Mesylate Administered in Combination With Gemcitabine Plus Cisplatin Versus Gemcitabine Plus Cisplatin Alone as First-Line Therapy for Locally Advanced or Metastatic Bladder Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Bladder Cancer who receive Eribulin Mesylate Administered in Combination with Gemcitabine Plus Cisplatin Versus Gemcitabine Plus Cisplatin Alone as First-Line Therapy is safety and tolerable when administered to patients with locally advanced or metastatic bladder cancer and to gain preliminary data on whether patients may benefit from this combination.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: E7389|DRUG: Cisplatin
Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT) as Per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.0, DLTs were clinically significant adverse events within 21 days of treatment judged by investigator at least possibly related to treatment. This included greater than or equal to (\>=) Grade 3 (G3) peripheral neuropathy, \>=G3 nausea and vomiting despite optimal anti-emetic treatment, any other non-hematologic toxicity of \>=G3 (except alopecia, single abnormal laboratory values the Investigator judged unlikely related to study therapy, had no clinical correlate, and resolved within 7 days, and hypersensitivity reaction to any of the compounds), Grade 4 neutropenia lasting over 7 days, febrile neutropenia (defined as fever \>=38.5 degrees Celsius with absolute neutrophil count below 1.0\*10\^9 per liter, G3 thrombocytopenia with nontraumatic bleeding (without therapeutic systemic anticoagulation) requiring platelet transfusion, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia (with or without nontraumatic bleeding), any study drug-related death, any other toxicity the dose escalation committee believed to be DLT., Cycle 1 (Cycle length=21 days)|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), TEAE was defined as an adverse event that had an onset date, or a worsening in severity on or after the first dose of study drug up to the end of the study. Number of participants with TEAEs were reported based on safety assessments of laboratory tests, physical examination, examining bowel movements, regular measurement of vital signs, eastern cooperative oncology group-performance status and electrocardiogram parameter values. SAE was any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: resulted in death; life threatening required inpatient hospitalization; resulted in persistent, significant disability; was congenital anomaly/birth defect or medically important due to other reasons than mentioned criteria. Number of participants with TEAEs and SAEs were reported., From the first dose of study drug up to approximately 6 years 3 months
Phase 2: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the earlier of the following two events: the date of disease progression (PD) or the date of death based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumor (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. PD was defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase or 5 millimeter (mm) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study) recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From the date of randomization until the earlier of the following two events: the date of PD or the date of death (Up to approximately 6 years 3 months)|Phase 2: Percentage of Participants With Overall Response, Overall response rate was defined as the percentage of participants with the best confirmed response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST v1.1. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline summed longest diameters., From the date of randomization until CR or PR (Up to approximately 6 years 3 months)|Phase 2: Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival at Week 12, PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the earlier of the following two events: the date of PD or the date of death based on RECIST v1.1. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase or 5 mm increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study) recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Week 12|Phase 2: Time to Progression (TTP), TTP was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of PD based on RECIST v1.1. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking in reference the smallest summed longest diameters on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of 1 or more new lesions was also considered progression., From the date of randomization until the date of PD (Up to approximately 6 years 3 months)|Phase 2: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death due to any cause., From the date of randomization until the date of death (Up to approximately 6 years 3 months)
This open-label, multicenter, randomized study will consist of 2 phases:

* Phase Ib: a safety run-in period with 3 ascending doses of eribulin;
* Phase II: a randomized 2-arm design. Phase Ib Patients will be recruited into cohorts, with a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 patients per cohort. All patients will receive the same dose of gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2 on Days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle) and cisplatin (70 mg/m2 on Day 1) in combination with eribulin (administered on Days 1 and 8 of the cycle). All patients in a cohort will receive the same dose level of eribulin.

The dose level of eribulin will be escalated for additional cohorts unless greater than 2 dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) are reported at the lower dose level(s) prior to enrollment of the next dose level. If one DLT occurs at any dose level, the cohort will be expanded to include up to a maximum of 6 patients.

A Dose Escalation Committee will determine when no further dose escalation is appropriate and whether the MTD will be defined as a preceding dose or an intermediate dose.

Phase II Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either eribulin in combination with gemcitabine plus cisplatin (Arm 1) or gemcitabine plus cisplatin alone (Arm 2). The eribulin dose will be 1.0 mg/m2 administered on Days 1 and 8 of each 21-day treatment cycle, the recommended Phase II dose for eribulin when administered in combination gemcitabine plus cisplatin, as determined in the Phase Ib portion of the study.

Allocation of patients will be stratified based on metastatic disease status (patients with visceral metastases versus patients with non-visceral metastases). This stratified randomization will be centrally allocated across all centers via an Interactive Voice Activated Response System (IVRS).

For both the Phase Ib and Phase II portions, 1 cycle of therapy will last 21 days, with a maximum number of 6 gemcitabine plus cisplatin cycles. Radiologic examinations including a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis as appropriate (and CT or magnetic resonance imaging \[MRI\] scan as appropriate), will be performed during Screening and after every 6 weeks while on therapy. In the case of dose delays, scans should be performed according to the original Cycle 1 Day 1 schedule (ie, scans should not be delayed). Radiographic assessments should be repeated at withdrawal if the last assessment was obtained greater than 3 weeks from withdrawal of therapy. Patients will be followed until death following completion of therapy. Scans will be required every 2 months until documentation of PD or the start of a next line of therapy, whichever occurs first. In patients experiencing PD, follow-up will be for survival only and radiographic scans are not required.