A Multicenter, Clinical Study of FOLFOXIRI With Bevacizumab As First-line Therapy in Patients With mCRC
The purpose of this study to assess efficacy and tolerability of combination therapy FOLFOXIRI with Bevacizumab (BV) as a first-line therapy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: Leucovorin calcium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Progression-free survival (PFS) at 10 months, PFS by investigator-reported measurements according to CT image. PFS was calculated from the day of treatment start to the first observation of progression disease (PD) or death from any cause.

PD was defined as Overall Response by RECIST criteria v1.1 according to CT image., PFS rate at 10 months from study entry
Response rate (RR) by central review., Response evaluation was performed according to RECIST criteria v1.1., Up to 18 months|Response rate (RR) by investigator-reported measurements., Response evaluation was performed according to RECIST criteria v1.1., Up to 30 months|PFS by central review according to CT image., PFS was calculated from the day of treatment start to the first observation of progression disease (PD) or death from any cause., Up to 18 months|Overall survival (OS), OS was calculated from the day of registration in this study to death from any cause., Up to 30 months|Efficacy by RAS status ; RR,PFS,OS, RR,PFS,OS according to tumor RAS status., Up to 30 months|Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events were evaluated according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0. All adverse events was collected in duration from starting treatment to whichever shorter "after 30 days from withdrawal treatment" or "later treatment was started"., Up to 30 months|Time to treatment-failure, Up to 30 months|Completion rate in Induction treatment, Up to 30 months|Relative Dose Intensity, Up to 30 months|Treatment duration, Up to 30 months
This is a single-arm, multicentre phase II study evaluating the efficacy and safety of Bevacizumab (BV) in combination with oxaliplatin, irinotecan hydrochloride, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium regimen ( FOLFOXIRI +BV ; Falcone et al. ASCO2013) as first-line treatment for Japanese metastatic colorectal cancer patients.

This study is composed two steps because of collecting safety issue in Japanese patient.

As First step (Step 1), It assess on the initial safety information in ten Japanese patients of the end of 2nd cycle. it is evaluated by DMC.

In parallel with the confirmation of the initial safety issue, register up to 65 cases in total and Step 1 patient, to evaluate the efficacy and safety (Step2).