Epcoritamab Plus Ibrutinib for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Aggressive B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase Ib/II trial evaluates the safety, optimal dose, and efficacy of the combination of epcoritamab and ibrutinib in treating patients with aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back (relapsed) or responded to previous treatment (refractory). Epcoritamab, a bispecific antibody, binds to two different types of receptors (proteins present on the cell surface) at the same time. The two receptors that epcoritamab binds to are called CD3 and CD20. CD3 is found on T cells, which are important cells of the immune system that help fight cancer and infections. CD20 is found on the surface of most types of aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma cells. By binding to both CD3 and CD20, epcoritamab brings the two cells close together so the T cells can fight and kill the lymphoma B cells. Ibrutinib, a Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor, binds to a protein on B cells, a type of white blood cell from which the lymphoma developed. By doing this it decreases the ability of the lymphoma B cells to survive and grow. Ibrutinib may also improve the health (or fitness) of T cells thus making epcoritamab safer and/or more effective.
Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent Primary Mediastinal Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Transformed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory Primary Mediastinal Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Epcoritamab|DRUG: Ibrutinib|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be tabulated by type and grade using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 and displayed in summary form. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Up to 60 days after last dose of study drug|Incidence of cytokine release syndrome (CRS), CRS severity will be graded using American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy Cytokine Release Syndrome criteria. The CRS rate will be calculated together with 95% one-sided confidence intervals among evaluable patients., Up to 60 days after last dose of study drug
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as the proportion of patients achieving a complete or partial response and reported with a 95% binomial confidence interval., Up to 24 months|Complete response (CR) rate, Up to cycle 12 (each cycle is 28 days)|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined for all patients who begin treatment therapy to the date of progression or death. PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier, where estimates at time points of interest will be reported with 95% confidence intervals. Median PFS will be evaluated if estimable., From the start of treatment to the time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of response (DOR), Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be defined for all patients who begin treatment therapy to the date of death from any cause. OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier, where estimates at time points of interest will be reported with 95% confidence intervals. Median OS will be evaluated if estimable., From the start of treatment to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and safety of epcoritamab plus ibrutinib.

II. Determine the rate and severity of cytokine release syndrome (CRS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the complete response (CR) rate (Lugano 2014) after cycle 12 or the last dose of treatment if stopped earlier.

II. Determine the overall response rate (ORR) (CR + partial response \[PR\]) (Lugano 2014), progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DOR), and overall survival (OS) of patients treated at the RP2D.

III. Determine the best ORR and CR rate (Lugano 2014).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize cytokine profile following ibrutinib and epcoritamab and explore whether levels of cytokine production correlate with both the appearance of CRS and ORR.

II. Analyze peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected pre-ibrutinib, pre-epcoritamab, and throughout treatment using spectral flow cytometry to assess the effect of ibrutinib on T-cell numbers and function.

III. Examine tumor samples attained before starting treatment and at relapse and explore aspects of the microenvironment that may contribute to epcoritamab failure.

IV. Measure circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) to correlate its presence with response by positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and track the emergence of treatment-resistant clones.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -7 to 28 of cycle 1 and on days 1 to 28 of remaining cycles, as well as epcoritamab subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of cycles 1-3, days 1 and 15 of cycles 4-9, and on day 1 of remaining cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles of ibrutinib and up to 12 cycles of epcoritamab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection, computed tomography (CT) and PET/CT throughout the study. Patients may also undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years then every 6 months for up to 5 years.