PLZ4-Coated Paclitaxel-Loaded Micelles for the Treatment of Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety, tolerability and effectiveness of PLZ4-coated paclitacel-loaded micelles (PPM) in treating patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) or that does not respond to treatment (refractory). PPM is a bladder cancer-specific nanoparticle that can specifically target and deliver treatment to the tumor cells in the bladder. PPM contains paclitaxel, which is a drug that kills tumor cells or keeps them from growing.
Recurrent Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Carcinoma|Stage 0a Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage 0is Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Bladder Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: PLZ4-coated paclitaxel loaded micelles (PPM)
Treatment related adverse events, Number of participants experiencing treatment-related AEs, classified by severity and graded according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0, From first dose of study medication through 12 months after the last dose
Tumor response, Assessment of response will be based on visual evaluation (cystoscopy), biopsy of remaining lesion (where technically feasible) and urine cytology., At 6 weeks after the last dose of study medication|Event-free survival, From first dose of study medication to first documentation of objective tumor progression, disease recurrence, bladder resection or irradiation, other anti-bladder cancer therapy, or to death due to disease progression, assessed at 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of PPM administered through intravesical instillation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate tumor response at 6 weeks after completion of PPM intravesical therapy.

II. Assess event-free survival rate at 12 months.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive PPM intravesically over 1 hour once a week (QW) for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or positron emission tomography (PET), and cystoscopy with biopsy at screening and follow up and undergo collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 weeks, 6 weeks, and then every 3 months per standard of care for 2 years.