Anti-Cancer Effects of Carvedilol With Standard Treatment in Glioblastoma and Response of Peripheral Glioma Circulating Tumor Cells
The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the addition of carvedilol with standard of care treatment to determine if it will improve progression-free survival in the front line setting in patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). In addition, monitoring of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) by a real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) assay to correlate with the clinical findings.
Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: Carvedilol
Survival curve of overall survival, Kaplan-Meier curves for overall survival in order to see if the addition of carvedilol to standard of care appears promising from a clinical standpoint, From start of carvedilol treatment until the date of first documented progression or death which ever comes first (approximately 6-15 months)|Survival curve of progression free survival, Kaplan-Meier curves for progression free survival in order to see if the addition of carvedilol to standard of care appears promising from a clinical standpoint, From start of carvedilol treatment until the date of first documented progression or death which ever comes first (approximately 6-15 months)
Quantify Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs), Quantify CTCs via qRT-PCR assay and to assess how the trend of CTCs correspond to disease status as measured by RANO criteria on neuro-imaging., Baseline (prior to any treatment), Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 4 day 1, End of cycle 6 of Chemotherapy (each cycle is 28 days)
This is a pilot study to assess efficacy of the addition of a non-selective beta-blocker to standard of care treatment in the front-line setting of glioblastoma multiforme. And to also evaluate the level of peripheral glioma circulating tumor cells via TeleomeScan assay to correlate disease response determined by neuro-imaging.

Peripheral blood samples will be collected at baseline, on day 1 of cycle 1 and then after on day 1 of cycle 4 and at the end of cycle 6 of adjuvant chemotherapy. in order to correlate the biological effects of treatment response. The investigators will evaluate the quantity of peripheral glioma circulating tumor cells and want to apply the information seen in the periphery to the status of the cancer on imaging studies.

Subjects will start oral carvedilol at 6.25 mg orally twice daily and will evaluate the patient and vital status if they tolerate this dose at 1-2 weeks after initiation. If tolerated well, will increase the dose to the maximum anticipation of 12.5 mg orally twice daily. Treatment will proceed for 6 cycles and carvedilol will stop at the end of 6 cycles. Patients will be monitored with neuroimaging prior before chemoradiotherapy, before adjuvant temozolomide and every 2 months on adjuvant temozolomide. Following the completion of 6 cycles of adjuvant therapy, patients will continue to receive neuroimaging on every 3 months' basis until disease progression based upon standard of care.