Phase IV Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Everolimus in Adult Patients With Progressive pNET in China
To evaluate safety and efficacy of everolimus (Afinitor®) in Chinese adult patients with local advanced or metastatic, well differentiated progressive pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.
Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: everolimus
Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Number of participants with treatment emergent adverse events (any AE regardless of seriousness), SAEs, AEs and SAEs on grade 3 or 4, and suspected to be related to the study drug., Adverse events were reported from first dose of study treatment until end of study treatment plus follow up period of 30 days, up to a maximum duration of approximately 5 years.
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival is defined as the time from the start of study treatment to death due to any cause. OS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 7 years and 6 months.|Progression Free Survival (PFS) by Investigator Assessment Per RECIST 1.1, Progression free survival is defined as the time from the initiation of study treatment to disease progression or death due to any cause. PFS was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Up to approximately 2 years and 9 months
This was an open-label, multicenter, single-arm clinical study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of everolimus in Chinese adult patients with locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic, well differentiated progressive pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. The inclusion and exclusion criteria, as well as the dosing and dose modification criteria are designed according to the approved Chinese Package Insert. The planned sample size of the study was approximately 60 subjects.

Subjects who were eligible received the treatment with everolimus provided by sponsor to treat pNET and followed the visit schedule in the protocol to collect safety and efficacy data until progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity, death, protocol deviation or other reason that may lead to discontinuation before the end of study. All subjects were followed-up for survival status every 6 months by the investigator until death, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of consent for survival or end of study.

The "End of study" is defined as either at least 75% of subjects have completed survival follow up or all subjects discontinued study treatment or the last subject finished 5-year survival follow up, whichever comes first. Final analysis was conducted at the end of the study.