Y-90 With Durvalumab/Gem/Cis in Intrahepatic Cholangio
This trial is designed to study a combination of interventions (chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and radiation) as a potential new treatment for bile duct cancer that cannot be removed with surgery.

The specific names of the interventions that will be used are:

* Y-90 (a type of radiation microsphere bead)
* Durvalumab (a type of immunotherapy)
* Gemcitabine (a type of chemotherapy)
* Cisplatin (a type of chemotherapy)
Bile Duct Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma|Cholangiocarcinoma Non-resectable|Cholangiocarcinoma Metastatic|Metastatic Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Durvalumab|RADIATION: Yttrium-90
Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from date of entry into the study until the date of disease progression (according to RECIST v1.1 and assessed by an independent central reviewer) or death, whichever occurs first., Enrollment to end of treatment and up to 52 weeks thereafter|Incidence of Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-Related Toxicity, All grade 3 or higher adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 as reported on case report forms. Incidence is the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3 or higher AE of any type during the time of observation., Enrollment to end of treatment and up to 52 weeks thereafter
Median Overall Survival (OS), OS is based on Kaplan-Meier method and defined as the time from date of entry into the study until the date of death., Enrollment to end of treatment and up to 52 weeks thereafter|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants with the best overall response of complete response or partial response according to RECIST v1.1 criteria as assessed by an independent central reviewer", Enrollment to end of treatment and up to 52 weeks thereafter|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of participants with the best overall response of complete response, partial response, or stable disease according to RECIST v1.1 criteria as assessed by an independent central reviewer, Enrollment to end of treatment and up to 52 weeks thereafter
This is a single arm Phase II, non-randomized, open-label clinical trial assessing the safety and efficacy of Y-90 SIRT in combination with durvalumab, gemcitabine and cisplatin in participants with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved durvalumab for bile duct cancer that cannot be removed with surgery, but it has been approved for other uses.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has already approved gemcitabine, cisplatin, and Y-90 microsphere radiation as a treatment option for bile duct cancer that cannot be removed with surgery.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits. Participants will be followed for up to 52 weeks if taken off protocol therapy.

It is expected that about 30 people will take part in this research study.

AstraZeneca, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing one of the study drugs, durvalumab, as well as providing research funding.

Sirtex, a medical device company, is supporting this research by providing the Y-90 radiation microsphere beads.