A Single Arm Pilot Study to Refine a Novel Approach to Exercise Promotion Based on Affect-regulation
The purpose of this study is to refine the use of an affect-regulated exercise prescription for use with survivors of breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Core Exercise Promotion Intervention
Acceptability of the Affect-regulated Exercise Prescription Measured Using the Treatment Acceptability and Preferences (TAP) Measure, A 4-item self-report questionnaire used to measure acceptability of the affect-regulated exercise prescription using a Likert scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total scores range from 0 - 16. Higher scores indicate greater acceptability., 12-weeks follow-up assessment|Percentage of Sample With Valid Accelerometer Data at Baseline, The number of participants with valid accelerometer data out of the total number of participants in the sample at baseline, multiplied by 100%., Baseline assessment|Percentage of Sample With Valid Accelerometer Data at 2-weeks Follow-up, The number of participants with valid accelerometer data out of the total number of participants in the sample during the 2-week follow-up assessment, multiplied by 100%., 2-weeks follow-up assessment|Percentage of Sample With Valid Accelerometer Data at 6-weeks Follow-up, The number of participants with valid accelerometer data out of the total number of participants in the sample during the 6-week follow-up assessment, multiplied by 100%., 6-weeks follow-up assessment|Percentage of Sample With Valid Accelerometer Data at 12-weeks Follow-up, The number of participants with valid accelerometer data out of the total number of participants in the sample during the 12-week follow-up assessment, multiplied by 100%., 12-weeks follow-up assessment|Percentage of Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) Survey Prompt Completion, The percentage of ecological momentary assessment (EMA) survey prompts completed by participants during the study out of the total number of EMA survey prompts delivered to participants., Baseline through 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Number of Participants Who Completed the Exit Interview, Semi-structured interview to assess participants' perceptions regarding their experience participating in the study., 12-weeks follow-up assessment
Average Minutes of Daily Moderate-vigorous Physical Activity Measured Using the ActiGraph wGT3X-BT Accelerometer at 12 Weeks Follow-up, The research grade ActiGraph wGT3X-BT model is a valid measure of physical activity intensity and duration among multiple populations, including breast cancer survivors. Minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity will be collected from the ActiGraph wGT3X-BT every day for 10-days. Average minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day of valid wear time will be calculated., 12-weeks follow-up assessment|Satisfaction With Study Participation as Measured by the Participant Satisfaction Questionnaire, An 8-item self-report questionnaire used to assess participant satisfaction with study participation using a Likert scale ranging from 1 to 4 . Scores are summed and then averaged; total scores range from 1- 4. Higher scores indicate greater satisfaction., 12-weeks follow-up assessment|Study Retention at 2-weeks Follow-up, Number of participants who complete the 2-week follow-up assessment out of the number of participants who enroll in the study., 2-weeks follow-up assessment|Study Retention at 6-weeks Follow-up, Number of participants who complete the 6-week follow-up assessment out of the number of participants who enroll in the study., 6-weeks follow-up assessment|Study Retention at 12-weeks Follow-up, Number of participants who complete the 12-week follow-up assessment out of the number of participants who enroll in the study., 12-weeks follow-up assessment
Change Overtime in Cancer-related Fatigue Measured Using the PROMIS Fatigue Short Form 8a, An 8-item self-report measure with response options ranging from 1 (not at all) to 5 (very much) and fatigue interference ranging from 1 (never) to 5 (always) over the past 7 days. Total scores range from 8 - 40. Higher scores reflect more fatigue., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Change Overtime in Health-related Quality of Life Measured Using the PROMIS Global Health Scale, A 10-item self-report measure with response options ranging from 1 (poor/never/not at all) to 5 (excellent/completely/always) for items 1-9 and 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain imaginable) for the item 10. Total scores range from 9 - 45. Higher scores represent better health-related quality of life., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Change Overtime in Physical Functioning Measured Using The PROMIS Physical Function Short Form 8a, An 8-item self-report measure with response options ranging from 1 (unable to do) to 5 (without any difficulty) and the degree to which health limits specific activities on a scale from 1 (cannot do) to 5 (not at all). Total scores range from 8 - 40. Higher scores reflect better physical function., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Average Minutes of Daily Moderate-vigorous Physical Activity Measured Using The Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire at 2 Weeks Follow up, The Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire is a brief self-report measure that asks participants to report how many minutes they spent participating in moderate and vigorous physical activity on a given day. Participants will report total minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day for 10-days. Average minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day will be calculated., 2-weeks follow-up assessment|Average Minutes of Daily Moderate-vigorous Physical Activity Measured Using The Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire at 6 Weeks Follow up, The Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire is a brief self-report measure that asks participants to report how many minutes they spent participating in moderate and vigorous physical activity on a given day. Participants will report total minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day for 10-days. Average minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day will be calculated., 6-weeks follow-up assessment|Average Minutes of Daily Moderate-vigorous Physical Activity Measured Using The Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire at 12 Weeks Follow up, The Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire is a brief self-report measure that asks participants to report how many minutes they spent participating in moderate and vigorous physical activity on a given day. Participants will report total minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day for 10-days. Average minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day will be calculated., 12-weeks follow-up assessment|Average Minutes of Daily Moderate-vigorous Physical Activity Measured Using the ActiGraph wGT3X-BT Accelerometer at 2 Weeks Follow-up, The research grade ActiGraph wGT3X-BT model is a valid measure of physical activity intensity and duration among multiple populations, including breast cancer survivors. Minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity will be collected from the ActiGraph wGT3X-BT every day for 10-days. Average minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day of valid wear time will be calculated., 2-weeks follow-up assessment|Average Minutes of Daily Moderate-vigorous Physical Activity Measured Using the ActiGraph wGT3X-BT Accelerometer at 6 Weeks Follow-up, The research grade ActiGraph wGT3X-BT model is a valid measure of physical activity intensity and duration among multiple populations, including breast cancer survivors. Minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity will be collected from the ActiGraph wGT3X-BT every day for 10-days. Average minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity completed per day of valid wear time will be calculated., 6-weeks follow-up assessment|Change in Voluntary Exercise Behavior Measured Using The Voluntary Exercise Questionnaire, A 6-item self-report measure of exercise performed over the last month and week. Two items range from 1 (never) to 7 (often) and four items range from 0 (0 days per week) to 7 (7 days per week). Total scores range from 2-21. Higher scores reflect higher levels of voluntary exercise behavior., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Change in Physical Activity Category Completed in the Past Month Measured Using the Stanford Leisure-Time Activity Categorical Item (L-Cat), A single item self-report measure that present six statements describing various levels of monthly physical activity. Response options range from 1 (I did not do much physical activity) to 5 (I did vigorous activities almost daily). Total scores range from 1-5. Higher scores reflect more vigorous, more frequent physical activities completed in the past month., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Change in Intentions to Engage in Physical Activity Measured Using The Exercise Intentions Scale, A 5-item self-report measure of intentions to engage in physical activity. Response options range from 1 (not at all likely) to 7 (very likely). Responses are summed and then averaged; total scores range from 1-7. Higher scores represent stronger intentions to engage in physical activity., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Change in Self-efficacy for Exercise Measured Using The Barriers Specific Self-Efficacy for Exercise Scale, A 13-item self-report measure of one's perceived capability to exercise regularly despite commonly identified barriers to participation. Response options range from 0 (not at all confident) to 100 (highly confident). Responses are summed and then averaged; total scores range from 0% - 100%, higher scores represent greater self-efficacy for exercise., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Change in Intrinsic Motivation for Exercise Measured Using The Behavioral Regulations in Exercise Questionnaire (BREQ-2), A 4-item self-report scale depicting intrinsic motivation for exercise. Response options range from 0 (not true for me) to 4 (very true for me). Responses are summed and then averaged; total scores range from 0-4. Higher scores indicate greater intrinsic motivation for exercise., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Change in Affective Attitudes About Exercise Using The Instrumental and Affective Attitudes About Exercise Scale, A 4-item self-report measure of affective attitudes for exercise. Response options range from -5 to 5. Responses are summed and then averaged; total scores range from -5 to 5. Higher scores more favorable affective attitudes about exercise., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments|Change in Instrumental Attitudes About Exercise Using The Instrumental and Affective Attitudes About Exercise Scale, A 4-item self-report measure of instrumental attitudes for exercise. Response options range from -5 to 5. Responses are summed and then averaged; total scores range from -5 to 5. Higher scores more favorable instrumental attitudes about exercise., Baseline and 12-weeks follow-up assessments
The purpose of this study is to refine the use of an affect-regulated exercise prescription for use with survivors of breast cancer.