Study of MM-398 With or Without 5-FU/LV, Versus 5-FU/LV in Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
The study is an open label, randomized phase 3 study of MM-398 with or without 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) and Leucovorin (also known as folinic acid), versus 5-FU and leucovorin in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients who have progressed on prior gemcitabine based therapy.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: MM-398|DRUG: 5 Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin
Overall Survival, Overall survival was the primary efficacy endpoint of the study and was defined as the time from the date of patient randomization to the date of death or the date the patient was last known to be alive. OS was summarized by Kaplan-Meier methodology for each treatment group. Pairwise treatment group comparisons were carried out using unstratified log rank analyses on the ITT population. Hazard ratio estimates are from Cox regression analysis.

The comparison of Arm C is based only on patients who were randomized under the 3-arm version of the protocol. Consequently, the 5-FU+Leucovorin (Combo Therapy Comparison) group is a subset of all patients randomized to 5-FU+Leucovorin, which is the Mono Therapy Comparison control and contains patients randomized under both the 2-arm and 3-arm versions of the protocol., From randomization to death; until the data cut off 14 Feb 2014. The maximum time in follow up was 25 months.
Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression, or death (any cause) on or prior to the clinical cutoff date, whichever occurred earlier. Participants who did not have disease progression or had not died were censored at the date of the last tumor assessment. Patients with two or more consecutive missing response assessments prior to a visit with documented progression (or death) were censored at the last date of tumor assessment when the patient was documented to be progression free. PFS was summarized using Kaplan-Meier methods.

The comparison of Arm C is based only on patients who were randomized under the 3-arm version of the protocol. Consequently, the 5-FU+Leucovorin (Combo Therapy Comparison) group is a subset of all patients randomized to 5-FU+Leucovorin, which is the Mono Therapy Comparison control and contains patients randomized under both the 2-arm and 3-arm versions of the protocol., Randomization until disease progression or death from any cause; Until the data cut off of 14 Feb 2014. The maximum time in follow up was 25 months.|Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate was a secondary efficacy endpoint of the study and was defined by the percentage of patients in the study population with a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as assessed by the investigator. Best overall response was defined per RECIST (version 1.1) recorded from randomization until progression or end of study. RECIST (v 1.1) criteria does not require confirmation of response, but an additional, more stringent analysis was also conducted, with designation of CR (or PR) requiring confirmation of response at least 4 weeks following the initial assessment of CR (or PR). Stable disease (SD) required an assessment of SD at least 6 weeks after starting treatment. Subjects with insufficient data for response classification were classified as Not Evaluable for best overall response, and as a non-responder for objective response, in the ITT population. Treatment groups are as indicated for the primary outcome of OS., Assessment every 6 weeks after initial response; Day 1 to data cut off of 14 Feb 2014; maximum time on study 25 months.|Time to Treatment Failure, Time from randomization to discontinuation of treatment for any reason, including disease progression, treatment toxicity or death., Randomization to treatment discontinuation (any cause). The maximum time in follow up was 25 months|Percentage of Patients With Clinical Benefit Response, Composite measure based on patient-reported pain (per VAS), patient-reported pain medication, KPS, and weight. Clinical benefit is indicated by either:

(a) improvement in pain (less pain intensity with stable or decreased pain medication; or less pain medication with stable or decreased pain intensity) with stable or improved KPS; or (b) improvement in KPS with stable or improved pain.

With stable for KPS and pain, clinical benefit may be indicated with an observation of positive weight change.

Clinical benefit response (CBR) was classified weekly and a patient was considered a clinical benefit responder if clinical benefit was observed and maintained over a 4 week period., Randomization to treatment discontinuation.The maximum time in follow up was 25 months|Percentage of Patients With Tumor Marker (CA 19-9) Response, Tumor marker response (TMR) was evaluated by the change in CA19-9 serum levels. Response was defined as a decrease of 50% of CA19-9 in relation to the baseline level at least once during the treatment period., Baseline to treatment discontinuation every 6 weeks; The maximum time in follow up was 25 months|EORTC-QLQ-C30, This patient recorded outcome consists of 15 subscales in 3 independent domains: global health-related quality of life (HRQoL), functional scales (cognitive, emotional, physical, role and social functioning), and symptom scales (appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, dyspnea, fatigue, insomnia, nausea and vomiting, and pain). For each subscale, patients were classified as improved, worsened or stable. Improvement is indicated by achievement of subscale score at least 10% improved from baseline and maintained for at least 6 weeks. Worsened is indicated by subscale score at least 10% worse than baseline. Stable is indicated by neither improvement nor worsened. Achievement of improvement prior to worsening was classified as improvement., Baseline to treatment discontinuation every 6 weeks; The maximum time in follow up was 25 months|Pharmacokinetic Measurements of Total Irinotecan, Plasma concentration-time data for MM-398 will be analyzed using population pharmacokinetic methods., 6 weeks after first study drug administration
The study is an open label, randomized phase 3 study of MM-398 with or without 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) and Leucovorin (also known as folinic acid), versus 5-FU and leucovorin in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients who have progressed on prior gemcitabine based therapy.