A Phase 1, Open-label Trial of Oral Azacitidine (CC-486) Plus RCHOP in Subjects With Large B-Cell Lymphoma or Follicular Lymphoma or Transformed Lymphoma
The goal of the study is to identify a dose and schedule of CC-486 that can be safely administered with R-CHOP. To evaluate the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or the maximal administered dose (MAD) of CC-486 in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP) in subjects with high risk (IPI 2 or more) previously untreated DLBCL or Grade 3B FL.

Also, to determine pharmacokinetics (PK) of CC-486 when administered alone and in combination with R-CHOP and to explore preliminary efficacy of CC-486 plus R-CHOP by 2007 International Working Group (IWG) criteria.
Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse|Lymphoma, Follicular
DRUG: Oral Azacitidine|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Prednisone
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The dose level corresponding to the target Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) probability of 0.20., 1 year|Maximal Administered Dose (MAD), The highest recorded dose administered to a subject if the MTD is not reached, 1 Year|Adverse Event (AE), Number of participants with adverse events, 2 Years
Pharmacokinetics- Cmax, Maximum observed concentration in plasma, 2 Years|Pharmacokinetics - AUC, Area under the concentration-time curve, 2 Years|Pharmacokinetics - Tmax, Time to maximum concentration, 2 Years|Pharmacokinetics - t1/2, Terminal half-life, 2 Years|Pharmacokinetics CL/F, Apparent total body clearance, 2 Years|Pharmacokinetics - Vz/F, Apparent volume of distribution, 2 Years|Overall response rate (ORR), Efficacy evaluation of CC-486 plus R-CHOP of the percentage of subjects achieving and clinical response (Complete or Partial Remission) as assessed by 2007 International Working Group (IWG) criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphoma as evaluated by investigator review., 4 Years|Complete response (CR) rate, Efficacy evaluation of CC-486 plus R-CHOP of the percentage of subjects achieving Complete Remission as assessed by 2007 International Working Group (IWG) criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphoma as evaluated by investigator review., 4 Years|Progression free survival (PFS), Efficacy evaluation of CC-486 plus R-CHOP. Progression-free survival is calculated as the time from C1D1 to the first documented progression or death due to any cause. Progression will be assessed by 2007 International Working Group (IWG) criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphoma as evaluated by investigator review., 4 Years
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of oral azacitidine (CC-486) when combined with R-CHOP (the treatment regimen normally used in treating Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma or Grade 3B follicular lymphoma). This study also proposes to explore the pharmacokinetics of oral azacitidine when administered in combination with R-CHOP and to assess the effects the drug can have on the human body, as well as the ability of CC 486 in combination with R CHOP to further effect the response of tumors associated with Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma or Grade 3B follicular lymphoma, .

Oral azacitidine in combination with R-CHOP has not been approved for the treatment of Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma or Grade 3B follicular lymphoma and its use in this study is investigational. Various dose levels of this investigation treatment will be administered to subject enrolled into the study.

This study is separated into three periods: Screening and Registration, Treatment and Follow-up periods. Before the patient can receive the study drug the doctor will perform tests to find out whether he/she can participate in the study. This is done during the Screening Period. If the patient and the treating physician determine that the patient is eligible to participate in the study, the patient will be registered in the study and assigned to receive one of the investigational dose levels of oral azacitidine.

The Treatment period starts when the patient receives their first dose of the study drug. The maximum time the patient will receive study treatment is 5 months. The intent is for the patient to complete 6 cycles of treatment. Each cycle will be 21 days. The Follow-up period starts when the patient's treatment is completed or discontinued for any reason. The patient will have fewer exams, tests and visits once entering the follow-up period. These visits will be every 6 months for up to 2 years.