Standard and Delayed FDG PET/CT After Chemoradiation Therapy in Assessing Patients With Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer
This trial studies how well standard and delayed fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) given after standard radiation and chemotherapy works in assessing patients with head and neck squamous cell cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Diagnostic procedures, such as PET/CT, use radioactive material, such as fludeoxyglucose F-18, to find and diagnose head and neck tumors and may help to find out how far the disease has spread.
Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Spine
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Optimal imaging time, Determined by fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG) positron emission tomography. The optimal time point is defined as the time point that meets the following requirements: 1) it has the largest average lesion/background (L/B) ratio, and 2) if the delayed time point is greater, it must be significantly different from the initial time point at the 0.025 significance level. The acquired PET data will be reconstructed using iterative techniques with resolution recovery. All delayed time points will then be registered using rigid techniques to the standard of care initial PET/CT image. Volumes of interest around the largest nodal metastasis will be drawn and the standard uptake value (SUV) max will be calculated. A corresponding region for largest nodal metastasis will be drawn on the contralateral sternocleidomastoid muscle respective to each lesion to determine L/B ratio, where L is the lesion SUV max and B is the corresponding background SUV max., Up to 6 months|Differences in L/B ratio, Differences in L/B ratio between the initial and delayed time point will be tested via paired t-test after appropriate transformation., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the optimal imaging time using FDG positron emission tomography (PET) with comparison between a standard of care 1-hour scan (early) and the research scan of 3-hours scan (delayed) post radiotracer administration that maximizes separation of activity between lesion and non-lesional parenchyma (measured as lesion/background \[L/B\] ratio) in patients with head and neck primary squamous cell carcinoma following chemoradiation treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive fludeoxyglucose F-18 intravenously (IV) over 1 minute and undergo PET/CT at 70 and 180 minutes after injection at 12-14 weeks following standard chemoradiation (CRT) completion.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 30 days and then periodically for up to 6 months.