Selumetinib and Cixutumumab in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Malignancies
This phase I clinical trial studies the safety and best dose of selumetinib and cixutumumab in treating patients with advanced solid malignancies. Selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cixutumumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry \[cancer/tumor\]-killing substances to them.
Adult Solid Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Cixutumumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Selumetinib
Maximum tolerated dose of selumetinib in combination with cixutumumab defined as the dose produced DLT in =< 1 out of 6 patients, The proportion of patients with serious or life threatening toxicities will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals. Tabulated by dose combination, by toxicity type, and by the severity., Up to 4 weeks
Pharmacokinetics of the combination of selumetinib and cixutumumab, Peak serum level (Cmax), the trough level (Cmin), and the Area Under the serum concentration time Curve (AUC) will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Prior to the dose and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, and 8 hours|The proportion of patients who experience PR, CR, or SD as defined by RECIST criteria, Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and toxicity of the combination of AZD6244 and IMC-A12 in advanced solid tumors that have progressed on standard therapy.

II. Finding the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase II dose of the combination.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore preliminary evidence of efficacy of the combination of AZD6244 and IMC-A12 in advanced solid tumors using RECIST criteria for tumor response.

II. Define pharmacodynamic (PD) profile of the combination of IMC-A12 and AZD6244.

III. Correlate pharmacokinetics (PK) of the combination of IMC-A12 and AZD6244 to pharmacodynamic (PD) endpoints.

IV. Assess the PK/PD (phospho-S6) link with AZD6244 when administered in combination with IMC-A12.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of selumetinib and cixutumumab.

Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and cixutumumab intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.