A Study of Thymidylate Synthase Expression in Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Thymidylate synthase (TS) is a substance the body produces naturally. The purpose of this research is to determine if there is a link between TS production and how well patients respond to treatment of non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The aim for the future is that doctors could have a better understanding in advance about which patients might respond well to pemetrexed based on how much TS they produce.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: pemetrexed|DRUG: cisplatin
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is time from first dose to first observation of disease progression/death (any cause). PFS is reported for participants with thymidylate synthase (TS) scores. For participants not known to have died by the data cut-off date and who do not have progressive disease, PFS will be censored at date of last objective progression-free disease assessment. For participants who receive systemic anticancer therapy after study drug discontinuation and prior to disease progression/death, PFS will be censored at date of last objective progression-free disease assessment prior to chemotherapy., Baseline to measured progressive disease with follow-up every 6 weeks until progression of disease (up to 18 months after the last participant commenced induction therapy)
Percentage of Participants With Tumor Response (Tumor Response Rate), Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.0) criteria. Complete Response=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease=20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease=small changes that do not meet above criteria. Percentage of participants with tumor response was determined by the number of participants with PR or CR (confirmed or not) divided by the total number of treated participants multiplied by 100., Baseline to disease progression (up to 20 months)|Percentage of Participants With Concordance Between Local and Central Histological Diagnosis, A centralized pathology review on all enrolled participants was performed to confirm the histological diagnosis performed at the site. Upon review of the local diagnosis obtained at the respective site, the central reviewer established whether or not there was an agreement between the local and central diagnosis. The percentage of participants with concordance was defined as the number of participants for which there was an agreement divided by the number of treated participants (concordance rate) multiplied by 100., Baseline|Percentage of Participants Surviving at 18 Months (Overall Survival Rate), The percentage of participants surviving at 18 months was defined as the number of treated participants who had not died prior to 18 months from the date of their first dose divided by the total number of treated participants multiplied by 100. For participants who are alive, overall survival was censored at the last contact., Baseline to date of death (up to 24.5 months)
All patients on this study will receive 4 intravenous injections of the chemotherapy drugs pemetrexed and cisplatin (with each injection approximately 3 weeks apart). Patients who complete 4 such injections and respond well to their treatment may continue to receive an injection of chemotherapy drug pemetrexed (approximately every 3 weeks). In general terms, treatment will last until either the patient or the doctor decides that there is no clear benefit in continuing with the treatment.

TS levels will be measured from the tumour sample used to make the original diagnosis of NSCLC.