Support and Outreach to Increase Screening for Lung Cancer in Patients With a History of Smoking
This clinical trial tests how well providing education improves screening for lung cancer in patients with a history of smoking. Screenings may help doctors find lung cancer sooner when it may be easier to treat. Education and counseling may be an effective method to help providers and patients learn about lung cancer screening. Providing education and decision counseling to providers and patients may increase lung cancer screening.
Lung Carcinoma|Tobacco-Related Carcinoma
OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Educational Activity|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Educational Activity|OTHER: Counseling|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Completion of initial lung cancer screening (LCS), LCS will be assessed through an endpoint electronic medical records (EMR) search, supplemented with a question on the participant endpoint survey to capture any LCS performed outside the health system and/or not captured in the EMR., Within 4 months of randomization
Referral for LCS, Referrals for lung cancer screenings will be found by reviewing electronic medical records., Up to 5 years|Tobacco cessation services, Referrals for tobacco treatment services will be found by reviewing medical records., Up to 5 years|Repeat annual lung cancer screenings within 11-16 months of original screening, Number of repeat screenings will be found by reviewing electronic medical records., within 11-16 months of original screening|Diagnostic follow up after initial lung cancer screening, Number of patients that had follow up within 4 months of initial lung cancer screening will be found by reviewing electronic medical records., Up to 4 months of screening
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess intervention impact on lung cancer screening (LCS). II. Assess intervention impact on shared decision making (SDM).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify mediators and moderators of LCS. II. Assess intervention implementation barriers and facilitators.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess intervention impact on:

Ia. LCS referral; Ib. Tobacco treatment services referral; Ic. Repeat annual LCS among participants with a normal initial screening result; Id. Follow-up diagnostic evaluation for participants with an abnormal screening result.

OUTLINE: Providers are randomized to 1 of 2 groups. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

PROVIDERS:

GROUP A: PROVIDER SUPPORT GROUP: Participants complete survey on study. Participants undergo online educational activity on study. Participants undergo distance learning on study.

GROUP B: PROVIDER CONTROL GROUP: Participants complete survey at baseline and end of study survey.

PATIENTS:

GROUP A: Patients undergo electronic health records (EHR) review on study. Patients undergo educational activity on study. Patients also undergo SDM counseling once on study.

GROUP B: Patients undergo EHR review on study and complete telephone survey throughout the trial.