Neoadjuvant Immunotherapy and Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Esophagogastric Junction and Gastric Cancer Trial
For locally advanced esophagogastric junction and gastric cancer (cT3-4aNxM0 or cT2N+M0), neoadjuvant chemotherapy can downstage T and N stage,treated distant micrometastases early before local therapy has begun, and finally improve the long-term survival. Combination of perioperative PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy for locally advanced esophagogastric junction and gastric cancer could be a novel therapy to increase response rate and reduce recurrence rate. JS001 in this study is a Chinese anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody for injection which has been approved for melanoma. This study is a multi-center, open-label, randomized phase II clinical trial to evaluate safety and efficacy of JS001 in combination with perioperative chemotherapy in locally advanced esophagogastric junction and gastric cancer. Differences in gut microbiome and tumor immune microenvironment were detected to screen people who were more sensitive to immunotherapy.
Gastric Cancer|Stomach Neoplasm
DRUG: XELOX or SOX|DRUG: JS001+XELOX or SOX
Major pathologic response (MPR), It is defined as residual tumors less than 10% after neoadjuvant immunotherapy and(or) chemotherapy, From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of operation, an average of 14 weeks
Disease-free survival (DFS), The Kaplan-Meier survival from the initiation date of first cycle until the date of first documented recurrence., From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival(OS), From date of randomization until the date of first documented date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months|pCR, Pathological complete response after neoadjuvant immunotherapy and(or) chemotherapy, From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of operation, an average of 14 weeks|R0 resection rate, Rate of microscopically margin-negative resection, From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of operation, an average of 14 weeks|Adverse event incidence rate, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI-CTCAE\] v4.03, Patients will be assessed for adverse events throughout the study at every visit during treatment and at 3-month follow-up visit (3 months after treatment ends)
Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide and a substantial global health burden. Surgery is the only possible way to cure gastric cancer, however, more than 80% of the Chinese patients are diagnosed at advanced stages. Locally advanced esophagogastric junction and gastric cancer (cT3-4aNxM0 or cT2N+M0) could be cured by multi-disciplinary therapies including surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy can downstage T and N stage, treated distant micrometastases early before local therapy has begun, and finally improve the long-term survival. However, the therapeutic effects remain unsatisfactory. PD-1 antibody has demonstrated its efficacy in metastatic gastric cancer and has been proved to be effective in neoadjuvant setting in lung cancer and melanoma. Combination of perioperative PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy for locally advanced esophagogastric junction and gastric cancer could be a novel therapy to increase response rate and reduce recurrence rate. JS001 in this study is a Chinese anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody for injection which has been approved for melanoma. This study is a multi-center, open-label, randomized phase II clinical trial to evaluate safety and efficacy of JS001 in combination with perioperative chemotherapy in locally advanced esophagogastric junction and gastric cancer. Differences in gut microbiome and tumor immune microenvironment were detected to screen people who were more sensitive to immunotherapy.