The N-LVA Study: RCT Comparing LVA vs. Sham Surgery in Cancer-related Lymphedema
The goal of this randomized controlled trial is to compare the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of lymphaticovenous anastomosis (LVA) with sham surgery for patients suffering from unilateral cancer-related lymphedema in either the upper or lower extremity. It aims to answer whether LVA is more effective than sham surgery in terms of improvement in Lymph-ICF score.

A total of 110 participants will be allocated randomly into two groups at a 1:1 ratio. The first group will receive lymphaticovenous anastomosis (LVA), while the second group will undergo sham surgery.
Lymphedema, Secondary|Lymphedema of Upper Limb|Lymphedema, Lower Limb|Lymphedema Arm|Lymphedema of Leg
PROCEDURE: Lymphaticovenous anastomosis|PROCEDURE: Sham surgery
Change from Baseline in the Lymph-ICF Score at 12 and 24 months, The Dutch version of the 'Lymphedema Functioning, Disability, and Health" (Lymph-ICF) questionnaire is used. There are two versions of the Lymph-ICF; one for the upper extremity and one for the lower extremity. The questionnaires assess the impairments in function, activity limitations, and participation restrictions of patients with lymphedema. It is a validated, disease-specific questionnaire, consisting of items across 5 domains. Each item is scored on a VAS, ranging from 0 to 100., Baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post-operatively and afterwards annualy during the extended follow-up, lasting up to the start of the first analysis (maximally 3 years extra or 3 additional visits).
Change from baseline in excess limb volume, The excess limb volume will be measured with BioImpedance Spectroscopy (BIS). With a bioimpedance device, the volume of the extremities can be measured together with the fluid in different compartments of the extremities., Baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post-operatively and afterwards annualy during the extended follow-up, lasting up to the start of the first analysis (maximally 3 years extra or 3 additional visits).|Change from baseline in extremity circumference measured by the Upper and Lower Extremity Lymphedema (UEL and LEL) indices, The extremity circumference will be measured using measuring tape according to the fixed measuring points of the UEL- and LEL-indices. The UEL- and LEL-indices are corrected for BMI., Baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post-operatively and afterwards annualy during the extended follow-up, lasting up to the start of the first analysis (maximally 3 years extra or 3 additional visits).|Change from baseline in the use of conservative treatment, Discontinuation of conservative treatment, being complex decongestive therapy, will be assessed with a patient diary to record the frequency of treatments received (i.e. skin therapy visits, number of compression garments, etc.)., Baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post-operatively and afterwards annualy during the extended follow-up, lasting up to the start of the first analysis (maximally 3 years extra or 3 additional visits).|Postoperative complications, All postoperative complications for both treatment groups will be recorded to monitor safety. SAEs will be directly reported to the sponsor., Baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post-operatively and afterwards annualy during the extended follow-up, lasting up to the start of the first analysis (maximally 3 years extra or 3 additional visits).|Patency of the LVA, The patency of the LVAs will be measured with ICG lymphography, 12 and 24 months post-operatively and afterwards annualy during the extended follow-up, lasting up to the start of the first analysis (maximally 3 years extra or 3 additional visits).|Patient costs, QALYs, and incremental cost-effectiveness, Patients costs are registered by the patient in the patient diary. The QALY will be calculated using the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire. The EQ-5D is a questionnaire responsive to changes in health in cancer-patients after the conclusion of treatment., , lasting up to the start of the first analysis (maximally 3 years extra or 3 additional visits).
One of the most debilitating side effects of cancer treatment is cancer-related lymphedema (CRL), with an overall incidence of 15.5%. To date, there is no definite cure for lymphedema. Conservative therapy, namely complex decongestive therapy is the golden standard for the treatment. Lymphaticovenous anastomosis (LVA) might be a promising treatment modality for patients with CRL, but available studies are small and the quality is lacking. No large-scale prospective or randomized studies have been published on the efficacy of LVA.

The main objective of this randomized controlled trial is to assess whether LVA is more effective than sham surgery in terms of improvement in Lymph-ICF score, volume reduction, reduction of complex decongestive therapy, and cost-effectiveness.

The study will take place in three centers in the Netherlands: Maastricht University Medical Center, Radboud University Medical Center, and Erasmus University Medical Center.

The patients will be randomly distributed into two groups: the LVA group or the Sham group. Both procedures are performed under local anesthesia. Patients in both groups are subject to minor surgical complications (wound infection, bleeding, wound dehiscence). Special care will be taken to prevent damage to lymphatic vessels in the Sham group, to allow a future LVA operation once the study ends. The follow-up moments will be at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. Additionally, a subset of patients will partake in an annual extended follow-up, ongoing until the start of the analysis. Each follow-up moment will last 45 minutes in total. The patient also receives two digital questionnaires at each follow-up moment.