Intra-tumoral Mitazalimab (CD40 Antibody) With Irreversible Electroporation (IRE) in Locally Advanced Pancreas Cancer
This is a phase I study of an agonistic CD40 antibody (mitazalimab) injected intratumorally at the time of surgical IRE in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Intratumoral delivery has potential to be more effective than systemic (intravenous) delivery while decreasing the systemic side effects of immunotherapy. We hypothesize that local delivery of mitazalimab at the time of IRE in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer will be safe, augment the immune effects of IRE, and decrease the risk of recurrence.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: IRE + intratumoral mitazalimab (CD40 antibody) injection|DEVICE: NanoKnife
Safety and tolerability, Rates of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and treatment-related adverse events (AEs). AE's will be graded by CTCAE v4, including grading for cytokine release syndrome. A DLT will be defined as any treatment emergent Grade 3 or higher AE that is potentially attributable to mitazalimab or the combination of IRE and mitazalimab. Exceptions will include AE's attributable to normal disease progression., 12 weeks
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the time from the date of IRE and mitazalimab administration to date of first observed disease progression or death from any cause, 5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival (OS), defined as the time from the date of IRE and mitazalimab administration to death from any cause., 5 years|Systemic immune effects, Neoantigen-specific T-cell responses will be compared between peripheral blood samples obtained pre- and 12 weeks post-IRE using neoantigens identified from tumor biopsies., 12 weeks
Irreversible electroporation (IRE) is a form of non-thermal ablation (tissue destruction) that is being used to treat locally advanced pancreatic cancers. Locally advanced pancreatic cancers are tumors that have not spread (metastasized to distant locations) but cannot be surgically resected. There is evidence that IRE can help to generate anti-tumor immune responses by releasing tumor antigens in the setting of inflammation. CD40 is an immune receptor that helps to stimulate antigen presentation to the immune system. Preclinical data from the PI's laboratory have shown that combination of IRE with an antibody that stimulates the CD40 receptor improves responses to IRE and inhibits metastatic tumor growth.

This is a phase I study of an agonistic CD40 antibody (mitazalimab) injected intratumorally at the time of surgical IRE in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Intratumoral delivery has potential to be more effective than systemic (intravenous) delivery while decreasing the systemic side effects of immunotherapy. We hypothesize that local delivery of mitazalimab at the time of IRE in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer will be safe, augment the immune effects of IRE, and decrease the risk of recurrence.