Evaluation of A New Digestive Reconstruction Procedure Following Pancreatoduodenectomy
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the validity and safety of a modified operative procedure of digestive tract reconstruction following pancreatoduodenectomy which enables the pancreatic juice and bile to bypass at the pancreatointestinal anastomosis and merge at gastrointestinal anastomosis. It is anticipated that this procedure can decrease the risk of post-surgical pancreatic leakage and preserve the patients' digestive function as well.
Pancreatic Cancer|Periampullary Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Modified method of digestive tract reconstruction|PROCEDURE: Routine digestive tract reconstruction
Incidence of Pancreatic Leakage, up to 12 months
Life Quality Score, up to 12 months|Amylase Test of Abdominal Drainage Fluid, up to 3 months
Anesthesia Score, up to 12 months|Length of Hospital Stay, up to 12 months|Re-surgery Rate, up to 12 months
Pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) is one of the most complicated surgeries in abdominal clinical practice. It is widely used in the treatment of pancreatic head carcinoma, periampullary carcinoma, chronic pancreatitis with intractable pain, pancreatic head mass which unable to rule out pancreatic cancer. PD was improved in many ways in the last 80 years and the post-surgical mortality has decreased under 5%. Since the resected region of PD is wide including gall bladder, billiary tract, duodenum, pancreas, stomach, jejunum and regional lymph nodes. It has a high prevalence of complications, of which pancreatic leakage is the most common and serious one with a prevalence rate of 5-25% and mortality rate 20-50%。 The objective of the present study is to evaluate a new surgical procedure used for the digestive tract reconstruction following PD. The new procedure enables the pancreatic juice and bile to bypass at the pancreatointestinal anastomosis and merge at gastrointestinal anastomosis which can decrease the risk of post-surgical pancreatic leakage and keep the digestive function of patients. A multicenter, randomized, controlled study is designed to observe the prevalence of pancreatic leakage, other post-surgical complications, hospital stay, medical costs, life quality and other indexes to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this procedure. It is anticipated that through the study, this new procedure can be systematically verified if it is an ideal procedure of digestive reconstruction following PD which can be promoted into wider use.