Effect of MSD on FCR Among Gastric Cancer Survivors
The goal of this clinical trial is to explores the effect of marital self disclosure intervention on fear of cancer recurrence and dyadic coping ability in gastric cancer survivors and their spouses. The main questions are: What is the level of fear of cancer recurrence among gastric cancer survivors and their spouse? What is the level of dyadic coping ability among gastric cancer survivors and their spouse?What is the effect of marital self-disclosure intervention on fear of cancer recurrence and dyadic coping ability in the gastric cancer survivors and their spouses? Participants will accept the intervention of marital self disclosure for 4 times (4 cycles of chemotherapy) with different topics. Researchers will compare with control group to see if the level of fear of cancer recurrence and dyadic coping ability will be improved.
Stomach Cancer；Clinical Control Trial
BEHAVIORAL: Marital self disclosure
Fear of Progression Questionnaire-Short form (FoP-Q-SF) for Patients, The FoP-Q-SF is a one-dimensional scale constructed by on the basis of the Fear of Progression Questionnaire (FoP-Q). The FoP-Q-SF for Patients scale includes 12 items, using 5-point Likert Scale, 1 point means "never", 5 points means "always", with a total score ranging from 12 to 60, with higher scores indicating higher fear of disease progression., 4 months|Fear of Progression Questionnaire-Short form (FoP-Q-SF) for Partners, FoP-Q-SF for Partners is developed by Zimmermann et al. (2011) based on the structure of the FoP-Q-SF scale to assess the degree of disease progression of the patient's spouse's fear of disease. FoP-Q-SF for Partners includes 12 items, adopting 5-point Likert scale, 1 point representing "never" and 5 points representing "always", with a total score ranging from 12 to 60, with higher scores indicating higher fear of their spouse's disease progression., 4 months
Dyadic Coping Inventory(DCI), DCI based on the system interaction model was originally developed by Bodenmann ( 2000), which includes 6 dimensions, 55 items, and use Likert 5-point scale. After further improvement, the DCI (Bodenmann \& Randall, 2012) was revised to 37 items and measured on a 5-point Likert scale, ranging from 1 (not at all/very rarely) to 5 (very often)., 4 months
The goal of this clinical trial is to explores the effect of marital self disclosure intervention on fear of cancer recurrence and dyadic coping ability in gastric cancer survivors and their spouses. The main questions are: What is the level of fear of cancer recurrence among gastric cancer survivors and their spouse? What is the level of dyadic coping ability among gastric cancer survivors and their spouse?What is the effect of marital self-disclosure intervention on fear of cancer recurrence and dyadic coping ability in the gastric cancer survivors and their spouses? Participants will accept the intervention of marital self disclosure for 4 times (4 cycles of chemotherapy) with different topics. Researchers will compare with control group to see if the level of fear of cancer recurrence and dyadic coping ability will be improved.