Sintilimab for the Treatment of Locally Advanced, Metastatic, or Recurrent Angiosarcoma, the SiARa Cancer Study
This phase II trial evaluates the effect of sintilimab in treating patients with angiosarcoma that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced), has spread to other places in the body (metastatic), or has come back (recurrent). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as sintilimab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving sintilimab may help to control angiosarcoma.
Locally Advanced Angiosarcoma|Metastatic Angiosarcoma|Recurrent Angiosarcoma
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|BIOLOGICAL: Sintilimab
Progression-free rate, Defined as the proportion of subjects with no confirmed progressive disease (PD) at 9 cycles assessed by the independent radiology review based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v.1.1) in the evaluable population., At 9 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days)
Duration of response, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in survival between groups. Regression analyses of survival data based on the Cox proportional hazards model will be conducted. The proportional hazards assumption will be evaluated graphically and analytically, and regression diagnostics (e.g., martingale and Shoenfeld residuals) will be examined to ensure that the models are appropriate., From first date of investigator-determined response to investigator-determined progressive disease (PD) or death in the subjects who have achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), assessed up to 5 years|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in survival between groups. Regression analyses of survival data based on the Cox proportional hazards model will be conducted. The proportional hazards assumption will be evaluated graphically and analytically, and regression diagnostics (e.g., martingale and Shoenfeld residuals) will be examined to ensure that the models are appropriate., From treatment onset to either disease progression as defined by RECIST or death from any cause, or discontinuation of treatment for any reason, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in survival between groups. Regression analyses of survival data based on the Cox proportional hazards model will be conducted. The proportional hazards assumption will be evaluated graphically and analytically, and regression diagnostics (e.g., martingale and Shoenfeld residuals) will be examined to ensure that the models are appropriate., From treatment onset to death, assessed up to 5 years|Objective response rate (complete response + partial response), Corresponding exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be estimated using binomial distribution., Up to 5 years|Stable disease rate, Defined as stable disease for 9 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days). Corresponding exact 95% CIs will be estimated using binomial distribution., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), The incidence (frequency) of AEs, treatment-emergent (TE)AEs, treatment-related (TR)AEs, immunity related (ir)AEs, serious AEs, AEs resulting in treatment discontinuation, and AEs resulting in death will be summarized. The severity distribution of TEAEs, TRAEs, and irAEs will be summarized using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 90 days after completion of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of sintilimab in subjects with angiosarcoma (progression- free rate PFR at 9 cycles by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR), stable disease rate (SDR), progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), quality of life (QOL), safety and duration of response (DOR) of sintilimab in subjects with angiosarcoma.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the correlation between biomarkers in tumor tissue and efficacy, including but not restricted to PD-L1 expression level, transcriptome sequencing, single-cell sequencing, and multicolor immunohistochemistry (IHC) analyses.

II. To evaluate the correlation between biomarkers in peripheral blood and efficacy, including but not restricted to soluble PD-L1, circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA), and cytokine analyses.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sintilimab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with progressive disease may continue to receive treatment at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days, and then every 60 days for up to 3 years.