Trametinib in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer With or Without Hepatic Dysfunction
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of trametinib in treating patients with cancer that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced) with or without liver (hepatic) dysfunction. Trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking proteins needed for cell growth. When these proteins are blocked, the growth of cancer cells may be stopped and the cancer cells will then die. Hepatic dysfunction is frequently found in patients with advanced cancer and usually prevents patients from receiving standard treatments or from participating in clinical trials. Patients may also need dose adjustments or absorb drugs differently. Trametinib may be a better treatment for patients with advanced cancers and hepatic dysfunction.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Liver|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Trametinib
Maximum tolerated dose of trametinib, Dose escalation and determination of the maximum tolerated dose will be carried out separately for each cohort or stratum. Frequency and severity of adverse events will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest. Adverse events will be summarized using all adverse events experienced, although a sub-analysis may be conducted including only those adverse events in which the treating physician deems possibly, probably or definitely attributable to one or both study treatments., 28 days|Dose-limiting toxicity, Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (version 5.0 beginning April 1, 2018). Frequency and severity of adverse events will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest. Adverse events will be summarized using all adverse events experienced, although a sub-analysis may be conducted including only those adverse events in which the treating physician deems possibly, probably or definitely attributable to one or both study treatments., 28 days|Pharmacokinetic profile of trametinib, Attempts to model associations between pharmacokinetic data with toxicity profiles will be performed primarily using descriptive statistics; however, logistic regression may be used if warranted., Baseline and 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 10, and 24 hours on days 15 and 16 of cycle 1
Non-dose-limiting toxicities associated with the administration of trametinib, Will document in patients with varying degrees of hepatic dysfunction., Up to 4 weeks post treatment|Objective response to treatment, Will be assessed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria 1.1. Summary statistics, such as the mean, median, counts and proportion, will be used to describe patients' clinical characteristics., Up to 4 weeks post treatment|Predictive biomarkers for individual cancer patients, Will be assessed by utilizing genomic sequencing technologies. Predictors of clinical outcomes will be investigated using logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards regression and/or generalized estimating equations as appropriate. Potential predictors include clinical predictors and molecular correlates. Descriptive statistics and plotting of data will also be used to better understand potential relationships., Up to 4 weeks post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To provide appropriate dosing recommendations for patients with varying degree of hepatic dysfunction receiving trametinib (mild, moderate and severe).

II. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of trametinib in advanced cancer patients with varying degrees of hepatic dysfunction.

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of trametinib in advanced cancer patients with varying degrees of hepatic dysfunction.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To document the non-DLTs associated with the administration of trametinib in patients with varying degrees of hepatic dysfunction.

II. To document any antitumor activity associated with trametinib treatment of patients enrolled on this study.

III. To explore and characterize predictive biomarkers for individual cancer patients utilizing genomic sequencing technologies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.