A Study of Carilizumab Combined With Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy
This is a one-arm phase II clinical study. In patients with stage III-IVA cervical cancer with pelvic lymph nodes \> 2cm, positive para-aortic lymph nodes, or lymph node metastases \> 2, patients with positive PD-L1 expression (CPS score ≥1) were treated with cararizumab combined with conventional concurrent chemoradiotherapy and immunomaintenance therapy for one year. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of carilizumab in combination with concurrent chemoradiotherapy and subsequent maintenance therapy.
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Camrelizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin or Carboplatin
2-year PFS rate, Proportional patient proportion to survival and non-progressive in the second year. Use RECIST 1.1 evaluation criteria for evaluation and the unit is 'years'., immediately after the concurrent chemoradiation
duration of response (DOR), t refers to the time from the first evaluation of the tumor as CR or PR to the first evaluation as PD (Progressive Disease) or death from any cause. Use RECIST 1.1 evaluation criteria for evaluation and the unit is 'years'., 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS), The time span from the beginning of treatment of the tumor to the appearance of secondary growth of the tumor. It means that the tumor has basically not progressed at this stage. Use RECIST 1.1 evaluation criteria for evaluation and the unit is 'years'., 1 year|overall survival (OS), Time from receiving treatment to death (for any reason). Evaluation based on follow-up and the unit is 'years'., 1 year|Disease Control Rate (DCR), The proportion of patients whose tumors have shrunk or stabilized for a certain period of time, including complete remission, partial remission and stable cases. Use RECIST 1.1 evaluation criteria for evaluation and the unit is '%'., 1 year
The patient received neoadjuvant therapy once every three weeks for a total of seventeen cycles. From the first day of treatment, the patient will undergo concurrent chemoradiation for 5 weeks.The chemotherapy drug is cisplatin or carboplatin every week for 5 weeks. After the end of concurrent chemoradiation, the patient will continue to use camrelizumab as maintenance therapy until one year.