Ofatumumab in Combination With Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin Hydrochloride, Vincristine Sulfate, and Dexamethasone Alternating With Ofatumumab in Combination With Cytarabine and Methotrexate in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well ofatumumab in combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and dexamethasone alternating with ofatumumab in combination with cytarabine and methotrexate works in treating patients with newly diagnosed mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Monoclonal antibodies, such as ofatumumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, dexamethasone, cytarabine, and methotrexate, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ofatumumab together with alternating regimens of combination chemotherapy may kill more cancer cells.
Stage I Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage II Contiguous Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage II Non-Contiguous Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage III Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage IV Mantle Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Methotrexate|BIOLOGICAL: Ofatumumab|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Proportion of Patients Experiencing a Complete Response, Evaluated according to the International Working Group Response criteria as reported by Cheson et al. and the revised Cheson criteria.

Complete response is defined as complete disappearance of all detectable clinical evidence of disease and disease-related symptoms if present before therapy. Typically FDG-avid lymphoma: in patients with PET scan positive before therapy, a posttreatment residual mass of any size is permitted as long as it is PET negative. Variably FDG-avid lymphomas/FDG avidity unknown: in patients with a negative pretreatment PET scan, all lymph nodes and nodal masses must have regressed on CT to normal size (1.5 cm in their greatest transverse diameter for nodes 1.5 cm before therapy). Previously involved nodes that were 1.1 cm to 1.5 cm in their long axis and more than 1), 22 weeks
Percentage of Participants With Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation, Estimated using simple relative frequencies. The corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be computed using the method proposed in Clopper and Pearson., Up to 6 weeks after the last dose of ofatumumab-chemotherapy, an average of 4 month|Change From Baseline in Percentage of Cells Positive for Ki67, Mean change from baseline in Percentage of Cells Positive for Ki67 by patient response., Baseline and up to 3 years|Median of Serum Complement CD20 Levels, Median serum C20 MFI (mean fluorescence intensity), Baseline|Number of Participants With at Least One Serious Adverse Event, Evaluated using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 3 years|Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) in Peripheral Blood Samples, Minimal residual disease (MRD) in peripheral blood samples at baseline., Up to 3 years|Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) in Bone Marrow Biopsy/Aspiration Samples, Minimal residual disease (MRD) in and bone marrow biopsy/aspiration samples at baseline., Up to 3 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), Estimated distributions obtained using the Kaplan-Meier method. Estimates of quantities such as median survival will be obtained. Corresponding confidence intervals using the methodology of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be computed., From baseline through study completion, an average of 5 years|Median Progression-free Survival (PFS), Estimated distributions obtained using the Kaplan-Meier method. Estimates of quantities such as median survival will be obtained. Corresponding confidence intervals using the methodology of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be computed., From baseline through study completion, an average of 5 years|Proliferation Signature Using Quantitative Real-time RT-PCR, Relationship between proliferation signature and clinical outcome will be compared using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards model regression will be utilized for multivariate analyses., Baseline|Proportion of Patients Who Experience Complete Remission as Assessed by HSFCM, Established when all CR criteria are met and negative flow cytometry examination of peripheral blood and bone marrow biopsy/aspiration collected at baseline, before courses 3 and 5, within 3 weeks after course 6, on day 100 (if HDC-ASCT eligible), and then every 6 months for 3 years., Up to 3 years|Time-to-tumor Progression (TTP) at 3 Years, Estimated percentage of patients that progressed at 3 years. Time to Progression distributions obtained using the Kaplan-Meier method. Corresponding confidence intervals using the methodology of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be computed., From baseline until objective tumor progression, as assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), and in particular, the complete remission rate (CRR) in previously untreated MCL treated with ofatumumab in combination with aggressive chemo-immunotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the high sensitivity flow cytometry (HSFCM) complete remission rate (HSFCM-CRR) in previously untreated MCL treated with ofatumumab in combination with aggressive chemo-immunotherapy +/- high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplant (HDC-ASCT).

II. To determine the time-to-progression (TTP), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with previously untreated MCL treated with ofatumumab and aggressive chemoimmunotherapy +/- HDC-ASCT.

III. To determine the toxicity profiles of ofatumumab in combination with high dose cytarabine chemoimmunotherapy +/- HDC-ASCT.

IV. To correlate minimal residual disease (MRD) at different time intervals with TTP, PFS, and OS.

V. To correlate surface cluster of differentiation (CD)20 levels, Ki67, and additional cytogenetic abnormalities in pretreatment tumor biopsies with respect to ORR, CRR, TTP, PFS, or OS.

VI. To determine the relationship between proliferation signature and clinical outcome using quantitative real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).

VII. To determine changes in surface CD20 levels, Ki67, or gain of additional cytogenetic abnormalities in relapsed/refractory tumor specimens.

VIII. To correlate serum component (C)3, C4, and hemolytic complement (CH)50 levels measured at baseline and at the end of first ofatumumab infusion with ORR, CRR, median response rate (MRR), TTP, PFS and OS.

IX. Evaluate the ability of the induction and consolidation therapy to get 70% of patients to autologous stem cell transplantation.

X. Evaluate the tolerability and CD34+ cell yield following therapy with patient and hyper-fractionated cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and dexamethasone (HyperCVAD)/high-dose cytarabine and methotrexate (HD-MA).

XI. To compare differences in response rate in patients with MCL treated with ofatumumab + HyperCVAD/HD-MA according Cheson and Modified Cheson Criteria.

OUTLINE:

COURSES 1, 3, and 5 (O-HyperCVAD): Patients receive ofatumumab intravenously (IV) on day 1, cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours every 12 hours for 6 doses on days 3-5, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 72 hours on days 6-8, vincristine sulfate IV on days 6 and 13, and dexamethasone IV or orally (PO) on days 3-6 and 13-16.

COURSES 2, 4, and 6 (O-HD-MA): Patients receive ofatumumab IV on day 1, methotrexate IV continuously over 24 hours on day 3, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours every 12 hours on days 4-5.

Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6\* courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Eligible patients then undergo standard high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplant (HDC-ASCT). Patients achieving a high sensitivity flow cytometry complete remission (HSFCM-CR) after 2 courses may proceed to HDC-ASCT after completing 4 courses of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then as clinically instructed.