Group Curriculum for Improving Survivorship Outcomes in Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial studies the effectiveness of a group curriculum in improving survivorship outcomes in adolescent and young adult (AYA) cancer survivors. Many AYA survivors typically do not feel prepared to re-enter "daily life" and would likely benefit from structured interventions to offer education and support in a timely manner as to prepare them for the challenges of life in survivorship. A 6-week group curriculum, designed to specifically meet the needs of AYA cancer survivors and facilitated by licensed social workers, may meet the unique needs of young adults who have survived a cancer diagnosis, and if so, the curriculum could be licensed and used across Mayo Clinic sites and potentially at other cancer centers nationwide.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Counseling|PROCEDURE: Discussion|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Medical Chart Review|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in quality of life, Will be measured using the Quality of Life Patient/Cancer Survivor Version (QOL-CSV). The QOL-CSV is based on pre-existing versions of the City of Hope's QOL instrument. A pilot study conducted by Hassey-Dow and Farrell provided data which resulted in the revision of the QOL into 41 items that represent four domains of quality of life as pertaining to cancer survivorship: physical, psychological, social, and spiritual well-being. Only the psychological well-being, social concerns, and spiritual well-being components will be used. A two-sided paired t-test for the difference in the mean response will be conducted. A significance level of 0.05 will be used. If the data violate normality assumptions, a non-parametric alternative will be used. Additional summary statistics such as the proportion of participants who reported an improvement in QOL-CSV score may be used as appropriate., Baseline and 6 weeks
Change in well-being, Will be measured using the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing scale (WEMWBS). 14 responses may be aggregated to provide a single score. The WEMWBS scale is a validated measurement of group mental well-being, which examines participants' hedonic and eudaemonic perspectives. A two-sided paired t-test for the difference in the mean response will be conducted. A significance level of 0.05 will be used. If the data violate normality assumptions, a non-parametric alternative will be used., Baseline and 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Social workers will develop a curriculum to facilitate psychoeducational, skill-based, and process-oriented group for patients who have entered survivorship.

II. To determine if a specific 6 weeklong psychoeducational, skill-based, and process-oriented peer group curriculum results in improved quality of life for adolescents and young adult cancer survivors.

III. To demonstrate the feasibility of this curriculum to address the needs of this population.

OUTLINE:

Participants attend an online group facilitated by two oncology social workers and receive information regarding coping with cancer survivorship as a young adult, as well as discuss survivorship issues/concerns with peers.