Ifetroban in Treating Patients With Malignant Solid Tumors at High Risk of Metastatic Recurrence
This pilot trial studies the side effects of ifetroban in treating patients with malignant solid tumors that are at high risk of coming back after treatment and spreading throughout the body. Platelets are a type of blood cells that help with clotting. Cancer cells stick to platelets and ride on them to get to different parts of the body. Drugs, such as ifetroban, may help these platelets become less "sticky," and reduce the chance of cancer cells spreading to other places in the body.
Malignant Solid Tumor
DRUG: Ifetroban Sodium|OTHER: Placebo
Incidence of adverse events, Up to 30 days after completing treatment|Adherence to treatment (participants will be provided a pill diary to record when they take their medication. Study staff will collect the pill diary from participants at their clinic visits)., Up to 12 months|Summarized change of FACT-G score (scale = 0 to 4), Up to 12 months
Percentage of patients within metastatic recurrence (within each cohort), At 12 months|Event-free survival (within each cohort), Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and feasibility of ifetroban sodium (ifetroban) administration in patients with malignant solid tumors at high risk of metastatic recurrence, after completion of all planned (neo)adjuvant locoregional and systemic therapies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess rate of metastatic recurrence after completion of ifetroban in patients with malignant solid tumors.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To quantify pharmacodynamic markers of ifetroban effects.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP 1 (IFETROBAN): Patients receive ifetroban sodium orally (PO) once daily (QD). Courses repeat every 28 days for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP 2 (PLACEBO): Patients receive a placebo PO QD. Courses repeat every 28 days for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then up to 12 months.