Circulating Tumour Cells as Biomarkers to Predict Prostate Cancer Metastasis for Treatment Stratification of Cancer
The goal of this study is to establish the value of Circulating Tumour Cell (CTC) positivity in predicting post-RP treatment failure, including BCR and new lesions detected by cancer imaging. We plan to recruit participants who will undergo Radical Prostatectomy (RP). Participants will have their blood samples taken just before surgery and 3 months after the surgery to test for CTCs. Then participants will be followed-up for cancer progression information at 3 month intervals for the first year then yearly intervals after that. Their PSA will be observed over time.
Prostate Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CTC Blood Test
Post-RP treatment failure during the first 4.5 years of follow up from start of recruitment., Post-RP treatment failure is defined as a PSA ≥ 0.2mg/ml at the routine PSA test 3 months after RP (commonly called 'failure to nadir') and remaining at this level or further increase afterwards without further treatment, or imaging detected appearance of cancer lesions.

Cancer lesions detected by imaging without a PSA rise might include neuroendocrine PCa and lesions detected by PSAM-PET. This combined post-RP treatment failure primary endpoint will maximally capture all the clinically significant cancer appearance events., 4.5 years from the start of recruitment
BCR during the first 4.5 years of follow up, BCR during the first 4.5 years of follow up: PSA ≥ 0.2ng/ml at any time post-RP and remaining at this level or further increase afterwards without further treatment., 4.5 years|Metastasis free survival (4.5yrs), Metastasis (any location)-free survival during the first 4.5 years of follow up. Only 5% of subjects with distant metastasis event (based on traditional imaging technologies) within this time frame (4-6)., 4.5 years|Metastasis free survival (10yrs), Metastasis (any location)-free survival at 10 years follow up. to confirm that metastatic event rates have increased among the positives, i.e. a declining rate of "false positives"., 10 years|Deaths (4.5yrs), Deaths from any cause during the first 4.5 years of follow up, 4.5 years|10 year survival, Overall survival at 10 years of follow up., 10 years|Prostate cancer deaths (4.5yrs), Prostate cancer specific deaths during the first 4.5 years of follow up. Expected to be 2% or less based on previous studies in the post RP context., 4.5 years
This is a single site, double-blinded, prospective, paired cohort study. Participating patients and clinicians involved in treatment or management will be blinded to the CTC results, to avoid influencing standard patient treatment, management, and progression outcomes after RP.

Patients will be recruited (months 1-24) at UCLH, where the UK largest urological surgery centre is located and performs robot-assisted RP on PCa patients referred from several regional hospitals. The clinical team at UCLH will identify eligible patients who will be approached by the clinical research fellow (CRF) employed on the research project or the clinical care team for informed consent using the consent forms specifically designed for this project for blood collection and future research. Non-metastatic disease will be based on the current standard diagnostic imaging methods including CT/MRI and PSMA-PET/bone scan. A pre-surgery PSA test will be performed routinely at UCLH.

2 x 10 ml blood samples will be collected (months 1-27) using the lavender cap EDTA tube according to our established method from each consented patient by the CRF or the clinical care team at UCLH during the pre- and post-RP PSA test blood sampling, and taken to the laboratory at Barts Cancer Institute, John Vane Science Centre, Charterhouse Square either by the CRF, a tissue bank acquisition officer (TBAO)(in the absence of the CRF) or the postdoc (anonymise samples transfer in the absence of CRF and TBAO) under the signed material transfer agreement (MTA), at room temperature. The samples will be transported in designated sample carrier using a taxi service. No public transport is to be used for moving samples between sites.