The Role of Partial Hydrolyzed Guar Gum in High Stoma Output Management Among Cancer Patients With Ileostomy
this is a cross sectional intervention study to investigate the role of partial hydrolyzed guar gum in high stoma output management among cancer patients with ileostomy. This study hypotheses there is improvement in stoma output in PHGG if compare with control. There are two groups of subjects in this study. Conventional group (CG) will include retrospective historical data (those subjects with post-operative ileostomy) from Jan 2016 to June 2019. Intervention group (PHGG) will be subjects with ileostomy which involves prospective intervention by giving partial hydrolyzed guar gum upon start orally. Data on stoma output (volume \& consistency), length of hospital stay, readmission within 30-days discharged and dietary intake will be recorded in data collection form.
Rectal Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: PHGG|OTHER: conventional care
ileostomy stoma output, consistency (bristrol stool chart; range 1-7; 1 hard while 7 watery), up to 1 month|ileostomy stoma output, volume (ml), up to 1 month
Length of hospital stay, days of hospital stays, up to 1 month|Readmission within 30-days discharged, readmit to ward due to complications after discharge, up to 1 month|Dietary intake, energy (kcal/day), up to 1 month|dietary intake, protein intake (g/day), up to 1 month
this is a cross sectional intervention study to investigate the role of partial hydrolyzed guar gum in high stoma output management among cancer patients with ileostomy. This study hypotheses there is improvement in stoma output in PHGG if compare with control. There are two groups of subjects in this study. Conventional group (CG) will include retrospective historical data (those subjects with post-operative ileostomy) from Jan 2016 to June 2019. Intervention group (PHGG) will be subjects with ileostomy which involves prospective intervention by giving partial hydrolyzed guar gum upon start orally. Data on stoma output (volume \& consistency), length of hospital stay, readmission within 30-days discharged and dietary intake will be recorded in data collection form.