Evaluation of the BD OneFlow Acute Leukemia Panel on the BD FACSLyric Flow Cytometer
This study is a multi-site, prospective performance study to determine equivalency between the investigational OneFlow Acute Leukemia Panel on the FACSLyric system versus the final clinical diagnosis.
Acute Leukemia
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: IUO Acute Leukemia Panel
Comparison between expert analysts' determination of normal and abnormal specimen and final diagnosis (Sensitivity Analysis), Determine equivalence between the investigational OneFlow Acute Leukemia Panel on the BD FACSLyric system results analyzed by two independent experts versus the final clinical diagnosis for Normal (lymphoid and myeloid) or Abnormal (neoplastic lymphoid or myeloid) phenotypes.

Sensitivity will be calculated, Within 24 Hours of specimen collection|Comparison between expert analysts' determination of normal and abnormal specimen and final diagnosis (Specificity Analysis), Determine equivalence between the investigational OneFlow Acute Leukemia Panel on the BD FACSLyric system results analyzed by two independent experts versus the final clinical diagnosis for Normal (lymphoid and myeloid) or Abnormal (neoplastic lymphoid or myeloid) phenotypes.

Specificity will be calculated, Within 24 Hours of specimen collection
Hematology laboratories rely on flow cytometry technology (in addition to classic hematological methods) to aid in screening, diagnosing, and monitoring patients with hematological disorders. High speed and broad applicability of flow cytometry allows for the diagnosis. Currently, there are no consensus panels being used; consequently, the leukemia \& lymphoma (L\&L) testing remains a single-vial antibody being used, with various in-house laboratory developed tests (LDTs) being used to test patient specimens. Furthermore, the analysis of flow cytometer generated data is not standardized and requires a high level of expertise and training for interpretation of complex data. Therefore, optimized and standardized immunostaining protocols for the diagnosis, classification, and prognostic sub-classification of hematological malignancies are needed.

Enrollment will occur at up to 8 investigational sites . Data will be acquired from Eligible remnant/leftover specimens on the BD FACSLyric flow cytometer and evaluated by site personnel and expert analysts .

The final diagnosis and the affected cell population will be determined by site standard of care .

Analysis of data will evaluate identification of 1) normal vs abnormal cell populations and 2) BCP-ALL, AML, and less certain diseases by the expert \& site analysts as compared to the final diagnosis.