Peritoneal Carcinomatosis Leveraging ctDNA Guided Treatment in GI Cancer Study (PERICLES Study)
This clinical trial collects biospecimen samples to create a personalized ctDNA test to guide treatment for patients with gastrointestinal cancer with peritoneal carcinomatosis. Deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, is the material that carries all the information about how a living thing will work and function. Everyone is born with the same DNA in all our cells throughout our body. Sometimes, some of the cells in the body develop abnormalities in the DNA that cause those cells to grow abnormally and uncontrollably. Cancer occurs when there is abnormal and uncontrolled growth of cells. The DNA in cancer cells is therefore different from the DNA someone is born with. The Signatera ctDNA assay is a laboratory test that takes tumor (cancer) tissue and evaluates it for unique tumor DNA. This evaluation is used to create a report (otherwise known as an assay) personalized to each person's cancer. The personalized assay creates a personalized blood test to detect the level of abnormal DNA from the cancer that may be circulating in the body. Once this personalized blood assay is designed, it may be used to monitor a person's blood for the presence of ctDNA, which will indicate the presence or absence of cancer over time, even after treatment.
Appendix Carcinoma by AJCC V8 Stage|Colorectal Carcinoma by AJCC V8 Stage|Digestive System Neoplasm|Esophageal Carcinoma by AJCC V8 Stage|Gastric Carcinoma by AJCC V8 Stage|Liver and Intrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma|Peritoneal Carcinomatosis
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection - blood and tissue sample collection|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Clearance rate of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) with cytoreductive surgery (CRS), Will compare results with clinical staging of CRS (surgical staging, surgical outcomes, Peritoneal Carcinoma Index \[PCI\] and cytoreduction \[CC\] score). ctDNA clearance rate defined as the % of patients on our protocol with undetectable ctDNA. Will associate ctDNA changes with clinical response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors and surgical staging, surgical outcomes, PCI and CC score using standard T-testing, log-rank analysis or similar non-parametric testing., Baseline, pre-surgery, 3- 4 weeks post-surgery and then every 3 months up to 2 years after cytoreductive surgery (CRS)|Correlation of ctDNA clearance with activity of chemotherapy, Will correlate ctDNA clearance with activity of chemotherapy in this disease pre-op and post-op, Baseline, pre-surgery, 3-4 weekd post-surgery and then every 3 months up to 2 years after cytoreductive surgery (CRS)
Positivity rate of ctDNA in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis, ctDNA will be obtained at baseline, pre-surgery, post-surgery and every 3 months up to 2 years, Baseline, pre-surgery, 3-4 weeks post-surgery and then every 3 months up to 2 years after cytoreductive surgery (CRS)|ctDNA and its association with results of next generation sequence (NSG) analysis from original tumor tissue., ctDNA will be obtained at baseline, pre-surgery, 3-4 weeks post-surgery and then every 3 months up to 2 years. ctDNA from blood samples will be compared with the results of NSG analysis from original tumor tissue, Baseline, pre-surgery, 3-4 weeks post-surgery and then every 3 months up to 2 years after cytoreductive surgery (CRS)|Associations between CEA levels and ctDNA levels, ctDNA will be obtained at baseline, pre-surgery, post-surgery and every 3 months up to 2 years, Baseline, pre-surgery, 3-4 weeks post-surgery and every 3 months up to 2 years after cytoreductive surgery (CRS)|Associations between CA19.9 levels and ctDNA levels, ctDNA will be obtained at baseline, pre-surgery, post-surgery and every 3 months up to 2 years, Baseline, pre-surgery, 3-4 weeks post-surgery and every 3 months up to 2 years after cytoreductive surgery (CRS)|Associations between CA125 levels and ctDNA levels, ctDNA will be obtained at baseline, pre-surgery, post-surgery and every 3 months up to 2 years, Baseline, pre-surgery, 3-4 weeks post-surgery and every 3 months up to 2 years after cytoreductive surgery (CRS)
This study is an exploratory analysis of the utility of ctDNA as a sensitive biomarker in patients with Peritoneal Carcinomatosis treated with chemotherapy, CRS and/or hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC).

OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure changes in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) from gastrointestinal (GI) cancers who are candidates for cytoreductive surgery (CRS) with or without hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC).

II. To determine the percentage of patients on protocol with undetectable ctDNA (clearance rate) after complete CRS.

III. To identify any associations between clinical staging of CRS and measurable ctDNA.

IV. To assess changes in ctDNA levels in response to chemotherapy in patients with PC.

V. To guide treatment based on ctDNA response.

OUTLINE:

Patients may receive induction chemotherapy at the discretion of the treating physician for up to 6 months. Patients undergo blood sample collection for ctDNA analysis at baseline, post chemotherapy/pre-surgery, 3-4 weeks post CRS/HIPEC, then every 3 months over 2 years. Patients also undergo tissue collection before or during surgery and their medical records are reviewed.