Impact of Novel Thoracic Wall Blocks With Dexmetomidine on Inflammatory Markers Following Breast Cancer Surgery
The study will test the hypothesis that inflammatory markers measured at 24 hours after breast cancer surgery will be lower in patients receiving PECS II and PIFB blocks, supplemented with dexmetomidine compared to standard care group.
Inflammatory Markers
PROCEDURE: Modified pectoralis block (PEC II) and pecto-intercostal fascial plane block (PIFB)
Difference in NLR, Difference in neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) between the intervention group and the standard care group measured at 24 hours after breast cancer surgery, 24 hours after surgery
Markers of inflammation, Difference in Δ NLR, PLR, NPR, PDW, MPV and RDW between the intervention group and the standard care group measured at 24 hours after breast cancer surgery, 24 hours after surgery|Intraoperative opioids, Intraoperative consumption of opioids, Duration of surgery|Pain after surgery, Numeric rating scale for pain (NRS, 0-10, where 0 means no pain and 10 the worst pain) at 0, 1h, 6h, 12h,18h,24h after surgery at rest and at ipsilateral arm abduction, 1,6,12,18,24 hours after surgery|Opioid consumption, Total opioid consumption after surgery at 24 h, 24 hours
Adverse effects, Incidence of potential adverse effects, 24 hours|Postsurgical pain, Incidence of postsurgical pain at 1month, 2month and 3 months, 3 months after surgery
Breast cancer is a devastating disease. Surgery is the mainstay of treatment which can lead to ongoing patient difficulties. Severe acute pain after surgery is one of major risk factors for developing persistent postsurgical pain. Subsequent physiological stress caused by this severe pain may negatively influence the immune response leading to a worse prognosis.

Regional anesthesia is very effective in management of peri- and postoperative pain. Epidural block, paravertebral block and intercostal nerve blocks have been proven over time to be effective in preventing postoperative pain. However, their widespread use has been hampered by technical difficulty and inherent risks.

Unlike the aforementioned blocks, novel thoracic wall blocks, namely modified pectoralis block (PECS II) and pecto-intercostal fascial block (PIFB) are safe, simple and effective.

Efforts to prolong and improve analgesia following single shot blocks has led to the introduction of adjuvants into the local anesthetic. Dexmetomidine is a superselective Alpha 2 agonist with a proven ability to prolong the duration of neuraxial, peripheral nerve and interfascial plane blocks.

Chronic inflammation is recognized as a risk factor for initiation, progression and further spread of malignant growth. Surgical insult leads to inflammatory response which facilitates the development of a metastatic disease. Many inflammatory markers were proven to be independent prognostic factors in breast cancer patients.

The investigators propose to study the impact of novel thoracic wall blocks with dexmetomidine on simple inflammatory markers obtained from full blood count (NLR, PLR, NPR, PDW, MPV, RDW) after breast cancer surgery.