Serum Lipid Profile and Lip Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The goal of this observational retrospective study is to assess whether serum lipid levels differ between patients diagnosed with lip squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and healthy individuals. The study aims to evaluate if alterations in lipid parameters, especially LDL levels, are associated with the presence of lip SCC and could serve as potential early biomarkers.

The main research questions are:

Do patients with lip SCC show significantly lower LDL levels compared to healthy controls? Are there significant differences in total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), HDL, and VLDL between the two groups? A retrospective analysis was conducted using existing medical records of patients with lip SCC and healthy subjects obtained from 2018-2023.
Lipid Profile|Lipids|SCC - Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Lip Cancer|Oral Cancer
Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL) Levels in Patients With Lip SCC vs. Healthy Controls, To assess whether there is a statistically significant difference in fasting serum LDL levels between patients diagnosed with lip squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and healthy subjects., At time of diagnosis (retrospective data collection)
Total Cholesterol (TC) Levels in Patients With Lip SCC vs. Healthy Controls, To compare fasting serum total cholesterol (TC) levels between lip SCC patients and healthy controls., At time of diagnosis (retrospective data collection)|Triglycerides (TG) Levels in Patients With Lip SCC vs. Healthy Controls, To evaluate fasting serum TG levels in lip SCC patients compared to controls., At time of diagnosis (retrospective data collection)|High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL) Levels in Patients With Lip SCC vs. Healthy Controls, To compare HDL levels between lip SCC patients and healthy controls., At time of diagnosis (retrospective data collection)|Very Low-Density Lipoprotein (VLDL) Levels in Patients With Lip SCC vs. Healthy Controls, To compare fasting serum VLDL levels between study and control groups., At time of diagnosis (retrospective data collection)
Demographic data and lipid profile information were collected from 56 patients (28 lip SCC and 28 healthy). The lipid parameters included were total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), high density lipoprotein (HDL), low density lipoprotein (LDL) and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL).