CONNECTing Head and Neck Caregivers to Supportive Care Resources
The purpose of this research is to determine feasibility and acceptability of randomized pilot trial to evaluate a technology-based intervention (CONNECT) to empower and educate caregivers about the benefits of supportive care resources, identify their unmet needs, and connect them with resources.
Head and Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: CONNECT|BEHAVIORAL: CONTROL
Proportion of Caregivers Who Agree to Participate, Number of caregivers who agreed to participate divided by the number of months of recruitment, 19 months|Number of Eligible Participants, Number of eligible participants who agreed to participate, 9 months|Number of Retention of Participants, Number of participants who completed the T2 assessment divided by the number who agreed to participate, 9 months|Acceptability - (Intervention Arm Only), Survey developed for study to assess how much caregivers liked different aspects of CONNECT; and a \~30min (approximately) qualitative interview to further explore acceptability (measures were not at all helpful, a little helpful, somewhat helpful or quite a bit helpful)., 9 months|Acceptability - (Intervention Arm Only), Survey developed for study to assess how much caregivers liked different aspects of CONNECT; and a \~30min (approximately) qualitative interview to further explore acceptability (measures were strongly agree, agree and undecided)., 9 months
SF-12 Patient Measures - Physical/Emotional Well-being, A 12-item instrument measuring physical and mental well-being, though our analyses will focus on physical well-being; widely used in oncology populations. Physical and Mental Health Composite Scores (PCS \& MCS) are computed using the scores of twelve questions and range from 0 to 100, where a zero score indicates the lowest level of health measured by the scales and 100 indicates the highest level of health., 1 year|Unplanned Healthcare Utilization Survey, Unplanned healthcare utilization survey will be calculated using a one item continuous score. The survey will capture patient self-reported unplanned healthcare utilization (number of unplanned visits to the emergency room, urgent care, or healthcare provider) from time points of baseline to end of treatment., 1 year|FAMCARE Questionnaire (Patient), A 20-item instrument with 4 subscales to assess family caregiver satisfaction with information giving, availability of care, physical patient care, and symptom control. Participants will answer questions to indicate how satisfied they are with care family member has received. (Subscales = (S) satisfied, (U) undecided, (D) dissatisfied or (VD) very dissatisfied, 1 year|PROMIS Emotional Distress-Anxiety-Short Form 8a for Patients, An 8-item instrument that assesses fear, anxious misery, hyperarousal, and somatic symptoms related to arousal; widely used in oncology populations, 1 year|PROMIS Emotional Distress- Depression-Short Form 8a for Patients, An 8-item instrument that assesses sadness, guilt, self-criticism, worthlessness, loneliness, interpersonal alienation, as well as loss of interest, meaning, and purpose.Each item on the measure is rated on a 5-point scale (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; and 5=always) with a range in score from 8 to 40 with higher scores indicating greater severity of depression. Each item on the measure is rated on a 5-point scale (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; and 5=always) with a range in score from 8 to 40 with higher scores indicating greater severity of anxiety., 1 year|Patient - Quality of Life Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-H&N), A 39-item instrument that measures physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being, as well as additional head and neck-related concerns. Scoring scale is 0 = not at all to 4 = very much). Maximum score of 156. Higher scores indicate a better quality of life., 1 year|Supportive Care Utilization, Adapted version of the 28-item Consumer-Based Cancer Care Value Index- Services and Resources instrument assessing use of services to meet multidimensional supportive needs. Intervention caregivers will also self-report service use by completing an auto-generated REDCap survey to query about utilization of the specific resources that each caregiver expressed interest in accessing., 1 year|FAMCARE Questionnaire (Caregiver), A 20-item instrument with 4 subscales to assess family caregiver satisfaction with information giving, availability of care, physical patient care, and symptom control. Participants will answer questions to indicate how satisfied they are with care family member has received. (Subscales = (S) satisfied, (U) undecided, (D) dissatisfied or (VD) very dissatisfied, 1 year|Caregiver Reaction Assessment, Caregiver Reaction Assessment - 24-item instrument assessing positive and negative aspects of caregiving (esteem, lack of family support, finances, schedule, and health). The CRA has been tested in cancer caregivers; demonstrated validity and reliability. Each item is rated on a 1 to 4 scale. 1 (not at all) 2 (somewhat) 3 (quite a bit) 4 (completely), 1 year|PROMIS Emotional Distress-Anxiety-Short Form 8a, An 8-item instrument that assesses fear, anxious misery, hyperarousal, and somatic symptoms related to arousal; widely used in oncology populations. Each item on the measure is rated on a 5-point scale (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; and 5=always) with a range in score from 8 to 40 with higher scores indicating greater severity of anxiety., 1 year|PROMIS Emotional Distress- Depression-Short Form 8a, An 8-item instrument that assesses sadness, guilt, self-criticism, worthlessness, loneliness, interpersonal alienation, as well as loss of interest, meaning, and purpose. Each item on the measure is rated on a 5-point scale (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; and 5=always) with a range in score from 8 to 40 with higher scores indicating greater severity of depression., 1 year|Caregiver Quality of Life Index-Cancer (CqoL-Canc), 35-item instrument assessing dimensions of caregiver quality of life (burden, disruptiveness, positive adaptation, financial concerns). Scoring scale is 0 = not at all to 4 = very much). Maximum score of 140. Higher scores indicate better quality of life., 1 year|Caregiver Risk Scale, A 7-item measure to assess caregiver behaviors for managing self-care. Questions are answered Yes or No and is a summation of the number of risks. Score range of 0-7, the higher the number, the greater the risk., 1 year|Caregiver Adherence to Referral Survey, Survey responses will be coded as "adhered" or "did not adhere" for agency- and caregiver- reported service utilization. The score reporting is a dichotomous outcome of an adhered or not adhered., 1 year|Caregiving Self-Efficacy Scale, 21-item instrument assessing caregivers' perceived self-efficacy for coping with cancer (managing medical information, caring for care recipient, caring for oneself, managing difficult interactions/emotions). Uses a likert scale from 1 (not at all confident) to 9 (totally confident). Higher scores indicate higher self-efficacy for coping with cancer., 1 year|Barriers to Supportive Care Use Survey, A 16-item survey with an additional "other" category for a caregiver to report additional barriers not noted on the survey. Response options range from never (0) to always (4). Higher scores indicate a greater number of barriers., 1 year
The registration is for Objective two and three that refers to the clinical trial. The investigators will determine their ability to recruit caregivers of patients with head and neck cancer being treated at Wake Forest Baptist Comprehensive Cancer Center to a study that uses a technology-based intervention, CONNECT, which may increase head and neck cancer caregivers' knowledge about the benefits of supportive care resources, identify their unmet needs, and connect them with supportive care resources. In this study the investigators also want to look at their ability to recruit a control group of caregivers, that is, caregivers of patients with head and neck cancer being treated at Wake Forest Baptist Comprehensive Cancer Center that will receive a list of supportive care resources. Control groups are used in research to see if the intervention being studied really does have an effect. In addition, the investigators will determine whether or not the intervention has led to improvements in caregivers' use of supportive care resources, quality of care, and overall quality of life.