An Investigational Scan (MRI) in Imaging Patients With Newly-Diagnosed or Recurrent Thymoma
This trial studies the accuracy of a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan in imaging the inside of the chest in patients with thymoma that is newly diagnosed or has come back. An MRI scan may be able to detect if and how far the tumor has spread more accurately than a standard computed tomography (CT) scan.
Recurrent Malignant Thymoma|Thymoma
PROCEDURE: Diaphragm Fluoroscopy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) staging, Will be compared to staging done by computed tomography (CT). McNemar's test will be used to compare the accuracy for the following five sets of comparisons: spin echo (SE) T1 compared versus (vs.) liver acquisition with volume acquisition (LAVA)+ in-phase (IP)/out-of-phase (OP), Dixon versus fast spin echo (FSE) T2, LAVA+IP/OP+Dixon vs. SET1+FSET2, LAVA+IP/OP+Dixon vs. computed tomography (CT) scan, and SET1+FSET2 vs. CT scan. A p value less than 0.05 will be defined as significant. A p value less than 0.05 will be defined as significant., Up to 10 years
Accuracy of phrenic nerve paralysis by functional MRI, Will be evaluated against the fluoroscopic "sniff test" and compared to surgical evaluation of phrenic nerve involvement. The outcome is the binary indicator of whether the phrenic nerve is involved. The accuracy rate will be calculated for each of the three tested methods. And the method with the highest accuracy will be compared with the method with the medium accuracy and the method with least accuracy separately, using McNemar's test., Up to 10 years|Accuracy of fast novel MRI sequences, Will be evaluated against conventional MRI sequences for staging thymoma when compared to surgical staging. Will use the pathological stages as gold standard and calculate accuracy for the new shorter MRI sequences and current MRI sequences methods. Accuracy will be compared between two MRI techniques using McNemar's test. And the following five sets of comparisons will be tested: SE T1 compared vs. LAVA+ IP/OP, Dixon versus FSE T2, LAVA+IP/OP+Dixon vs. SET1+FSET2, LAVA+IP/OP+Dixon vs. CT scan, and SET1+FSET2 vs. CT scan. A p value less than 0.05 will be defined as significant., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether thymoma staging by MRI is as accurate as staging by CT as compared to surgical staging.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether evaluation of phrenic nerve paralysis by functional MRI is as accurate as the fluoroscopic "sniff test" as compared to surgical evaluation of phrenic nerve involvement.

II. To determine whether fast novel MRI sequences are as accurate as conventional MRI sequences for staging thymoma, when comparing to surgical staging.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo an MRI scan over 45-60 minutes and a diaphragm fluoroscopy 30 days before surgery.