A Study of Fluorescein Sodium in People Undergoing Vulvectomy for Extramammary Paget's Disease (EMPD)
The researchers are doing this study to see if giving people fluorescein sodium as an IV infusion before their vulvectomy for treating extramammary Paget's disease (EMPD) can help surgeons with performing the procedure. The researchers will look at whether fluorescein sodium helps surgeons identify disease cells that should be removed. Other purposes of this study include looking at the following: If there are any complications during or after vulvectomy involving the use of fluorescein sodium. If fluorescein sodium can reveal tissue that surgeons cannot operate on (unresectable tissue).
Extramammary Paget's Disease
DRUG: Fluorescein Sodium
rate of positive pathologic surgical margin status, is to determine whether the use of IV fluorescein sodium reduces the rate of positive surgical margins in patients undergoing vulvectomy for EMPD. The incidence of positive surgical margins on final pathology will be evaluated as the primary endpoint;, 1 year
incidence of intraoperative or postoperative complications, all intraoperative and postoperative complications (including allergic reactions to fluorescein sodium injection, allergic reaction, infection, wound breakdown, need for reoperation) in the study population will be recorded prospectively. All complications of grade 3 or higher, as defined by Martin et al.10, up to 30 days post op
The researchers are doing this study to see if giving people fluorescein sodium as an IV infusion before their vulvectomy for treating extramammary Paget's disease (EMPD) can help surgeons with performing the procedure. The researchers will look at whether fluorescein sodium helps surgeons identify disease cells that should be removed. Other purposes of this study include looking at the following: If there are any complications during or after vulvectomy involving the use of fluorescein sodium. If fluorescein sodium can reveal tissue that surgeons cannot operate on (unresectable tissue).