The Effect of Intraoperative Dexmedetomidine on Postoperative Morphine Requirements After Breast Cancer Surgery
Dexmedetomidine is an α2 receptor agonist with sedative and analgesic properties. In previous reports, dexmedetomidine improves smoothness of postoperative recovery and reduces intraoperatory imflammatory responses. As patients receiving breast surgeries are especially vulnerable to postoperative nausea/ vomiting, the dosage of narcotics and associated complications were concerned for not only comfortness but also postoperative oral intake and discharge. The invetigators aimed to compare the effects of dexmedetomidine infusion versus placebo on postoperative narcotics requirement, complications, and oral intake.
Morphine Consumption
DRUG: Dexmedetomidine|DRUG: placebo
morphine consumption, postoperative morphine consumption by mg, postoperative 7 days
i-feed score, recovery of eating by I-feed questionare ( score: 0-14), minimum 0 (complete recovery without eating problems), maximum 14, up to postoperative day 7
changes of OCTT (orocecal transit time) by minutes, detect the hydrogen in exhaled gas every 15 minutes after drinking 10 gram lactulose. The time with hydrogen production more than 10 ppm is the OCTT. The changes of OCTT time between pre-operation and POD1, preoperative and postoperative day 1
Dexmedetomidine is an α2 receptor agonist with sedative and analgesic properties. In previous reports, dexmedetomidine improves smoothness of postoperative recovery and reduces intraoperatory imflammatory responses. As patients receiving breast surgeries are especially vulnerable to postoperative nausea/ vomiting, the dosage of narcotics and associated complications were concerned for not only comfortness but also postoperative oral intake and discharge.

The invetigators aimed to compare the effects of dexmedetomidine infusion versus placebo on postoperative narcotics requirement, complications, and oral intake.

The participantss under general anesthesia and aged from 30 to 65 years old will be enrolled. All subjects were randomized into the dexmedetomidine or placebo group. They received placebo (group P, n = 30) or dexmedetomidine (loading dose of 1 μg kg-1 followed by 0.5 μg kg-1 h-1) (group D, n = 30) to the end of surgery.

Data collected included intraoperative and postoperative opioid consumption. Postoperative questionare including PONV, Pain intensity, I-FEED questionnaire. Prospective analysis will be performed on the prospectively collected data.

We expected to examine if intraoperative dexmedetomidine decreases the postoperative opioid consumption and associated complications, and enhances the gastrointestinal recovery and oral intake with narcotic-sparing effect.