Molecular Imaging for Detection of Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia
The hypothesis of this research project is that topical application of the anti-EGFR or anti-E6/E7 contrast agents followed by optical imaging will yield images that reflect spatial variations in expression that correlate with the presence of cervical precancer. To gather feasibility data the investigators will:

1. Obtain cervical specimens from women with high grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HGSILs) being treated with the loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP).
2. After Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure (LEEP) is performed, obtain low and high resolution optical images before and after applying contrast agents topically to the epithelial surface of the tissue for 30 minutes before rinsing.
3. Submit the specimen for histology, and have it sectioned and stained using both H\&E and immunohistochemical staining for EGFR or E6/E7. The images will be reconstructed into a two dimensional map delineating areas of Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN) and of EGFR or E6/E7 overexpression. Maps of the pathology will be compared to those obtained from the intact cervix exposed to the contrast agent.
Cervical Cancer
PROCEDURE: Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure (LEEP)
To learn if a new type of contrast agent (a dye used in certain types of scans and microscope studies) can be used to detect cervical cancer and precancerous lesions better than standard contrast agents., 4 Years
During your scheduled colposcopy, a sample of tissue will be removed from your cervix using the loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP). The LEEP is the standard of care treatment for the precancerous condition on your cervix. The details of the procedure will be covered in another consent form. Before the LEEP, a photograph will be taken of the cervix. This photograph will be taken for research purposes, so that researchers will have a photograph to compare to the images taken with the MDC and Confocal.

The tissue that is removed will be taken to a room where the researchers will use a special microscope to look at the tissue before and after the new contrast agent is painted on the surface of the tissue. After the tissue samples are looked at, they will be sent to the lab for routine tests (as part of your standard of care).

You will require a LEEP whether you participate in this study or not. The tissue removal is a standard part of the LEEP. The experimental portion of this study is the use of the contrast agent. Once that portion is complete, the tissue will be tested as per standard of care. The tissue will not be used for any other research testing.

You will not be told of any of the experimental findings with the contrast agent. However, your doctor and/or nurse practitioner will be told the results of the routine tests, and they will give these results to you.

This is an investigational study. The LEEP is considered standard of care and any charges associated with the LEEP will be the responsibility of you and/or your insurance provider. Up to 80 women will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 40 will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson.