Evaluation of Circulating Tumor DNA Guided Surveillance Strategy of Stage III Colorectal Cancer: an Open, Prospective, Randomized Controlled Cohort Study
For patients with stage III colon cancers, radical resection of primary tumor followed by adjuvant chemotherapy is currently the standard treatment. Adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin based regimen has been proved effective to improve recurrence-free survival and overall survival. Approximately half of patients with stage III colon cancers can be cured by surgery alone, while a substantial number of patients still experience recurrence, even with standard adjuvant chemotherapy. In recent years, circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) has been detected in the cell-free component of peripheral blood samples in advanced colorectal cancers and many other solid tumors. Several previous studies have suggested that in patients with stage I-III colorectal cancer, postoperative ctDNA was an valuable biomarker to predict minimal residual disease (MRD) after radical resection, thus redefining patients risk outcome groups and guiding postoperative treatment. In addition, recent studies based on serial postoperative ctDNA detection showed that serial ctDNA analyses revealed disease recurrence up to 5-16.5 months ahead of radiological imaging. Here, based on the role of ctDNA in predicting MRD, we conducted an open, prospective, randomized controlled phase II cohort study to explore if ctDNA can as a biomarker to guide personalized surveillance strategy after surgery.
Stage III Colorectal Cancer|Circulating Tumor DNA
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: ctDNA dynamic monitoring
Sensitivity of postoperative ctDNA in monitoring recurrence and metastasis, Number of patients with ctDNA positive and imaging confirmed recurrence or metastasis / number of all imaging confirmed recurrence or metastasis, Up to 60 months.|Specificity of postoperative ctDNA in monitoring recurrence and metastasis, Number of patients with ctDNA negative and no recurrence and metastasis confirmed by imaging / number of patients with no recurrence and metastasis confirmed by imaging, Up to 60 months.|Accuracy of postoperative ctDNA in monitoring recurrence and metastasis, True positive+True negative/sample size, Up to 60 months.|Secondary resection rate, The rate of R0 resection for recurrence or metastasis after surgery of the primary, Up to 60 months.
ctDNA-disease free survival (DFS), Disease free survival time under ctDNA monitoring, Under ctDNA monitoring, from date of randomization until the date of first documented recurrence or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.|CT-DFS, Disease free survival time under imaging monitoring, Under imaging monitoring, from date of randomization until the date of first documented recurrence or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.|△DFS, The difference between ctDNA-DFS and CT-DFS, Up to 60 months.|overall survival (OS), Overall survival of included patients, From date of randomization until the date of first documented date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months.|ctDNA clearance rate, The rate of ctDNA positive before chemotherapy that turns negative after adjuvant chemotherapy, Up to 60 months.
For patients with stage III colon cancers, radical resection of primary tumor followed by adjuvant chemotherapy is currently the standard treatment. Adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin based regimen has been proved effective to improve recurrence-free survival and overall survival. Approximately half of patients with stage III colon cancers can be cured by surgery alone, while a substantial number of patients still experience recurrence, even with standard adjuvant chemotherapy. In recent years, circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) has been detected in the cell-free component of peripheral blood samples in advanced colorectal cancers and many other solid tumors. Several previous studies have suggested that in patients with stage I-III colorectal cancer, postoperative ctDNA was an valuable biomarker to predict minimal residual disease (MRD) after radical resection, thus redefining patients risk outcome groups and guiding postoperative treatment. In addition, recent studies based on serial postoperative ctDNA detection showed that serial ctDNA analyses revealed disease recurrence up to 5-16.5 months ahead of radiological imaging. Here, based on the role of ctDNA in predicting MRD, we conducted an open, prospective, randomized controlled phase II cohort study to explore if ctDNA can as a biomarker to guide personalized surveillance strategy after surgery.