Irreversible Electroporation (NanoKnife ®) and Immunotherapy for the Treatment of Stage IV Colorectal Cancer
The goal of this pilot clinical trial is to learn about the combination of immune boosting drugs and irreversible electroporation (IRE) in patients with colon cancer that has spread to the liver (metastasis). The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. to document the rate of complications associated with combining IRE with immune boosting drugs.
2. After one liver metastasis is treated with IRE and immune boosting drugs, what is the change in the size of the non-IRE-treated liver metastases?
3. What is the immune response (measured in a blood sample) when IRE is combined with one or two types of immune boosting drugs?
Liver Metastasis Colon Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: IRE plus checkpoint inhibitor|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: IRE plus Checkpoint Inhibitor plus CpG-ODN
Complications, Complications (Clavien-Dindo classification of complications) at 30 days. The Clavien-Dindo Classification of Complications involves assigning a numbered classification to each complication, from 1-5, with 1 being a complication without need for any intervention required to 5 which is death of the patient. (a higher number indicates a higher severity). This is a validated measure in use for over 25 years., 30 days|Complications, Complications (Clavien-Dindo classification of complications) at 90 days. The Clavien-Dindo Classification of Complications involves assigning a numbered classification to each complication, from 1-5, with 1 being a complication without need for any intervention required to 5 which is death of the patient. (a higher number indicates a higher severity). This is a validated measure in use for over 25 years., 90 days|Abscopal effect: percent change in non-treated colorectal liver metastasis., Two radiologists (one diagnostic and the other interventional) will examine the scans of all patients. They will select a colorectal metastasis from the scan just before the intervention that is between 2-3.2 cm in maximal diameter, accessible to percutaneous ablation, and treatable according to the interventional radiologist's opinion. Another metastasis, with a maximal diameter of less than 4 cm, will be selected to monitor for the abscopal effect (reduction in size of a colorectal liver metastasis that was not treated with IRE).

After 3 months, the radiologists will review the imaging again. They will assess the treatment mass area for any contrast uptake indicating incomplete ablation. The second metastasis will be measured in the same dimensions as before treatment. The difference in maximal diameter of the second metastasis will be calculated as (diameter before IRE - diameter after IRE) / diameter before IRE and expressed as a percentage., 3 months from the time of IRE
Tumor-specific immune response: distribution on flow-cytometry plot, Distribution of Carcinoembryonic (CEA)-specific CD8+ T cells, CD4+ T cells, type-1 and 2 macrophages (M1 and M2), regulatory T (Treg) cells on the flow-cytometry plot., Day 8|Tumor-specific immune response: serum cytokine concentrations, Interleukin(IL)-2, Interferon (IFN)-α, IFN-γ, IL-10 and Transforming Growth Factor (TGF)-β., Day 8|Tumor-specific immune response: distribution on flow-cytometry plot., Distribution of Carcinoembryonic (CEA)-specific CD8+ T cells, CD4+ T cells, type-1 and 2 macrophages (M1 and M2), regulatory T (Treg) cells on the flow-cytometry plot., Day 14|Tumor-specific immune response: serum cytokin concentrations, Interleukin(IL)-2, Interferon (IFN)-α, IFN-γ, IL-10 and Transforming Growth Factor (TGF)-β., Day 14|Tumor-specific immune response: distribution on flow-cytometry plot., Distribution of Carcinoembryonic (CEA)-specific CD8+ T cells, CD4+ T cells, type-1 and 2, Day 30|Tumor-specific immune response, Interleukin(IL)-2, Interferon (IFN)-α, IFN-γ, IL-10 and Transforming Growth Factor (TGF)-β., Day 30|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival will be determined based on the CT scan conducted after one year. To prove the absence of progression, there should be no contrast uptake in the area that was treated with IRE one year prior, AND the maximal diameter of the second lesion (not treated with IRE) should have increased by less than 10%., 1 year|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival will be determined based on the CT scan conducted after two years. To prove the absence of progression, there should be no contrast uptake in the area that was treated with IRE two years prior, AND the maximal diameter of the second lesion (not treated with IRE) should have increased by less than 10%, 2 years|Quality of life questionnaire, Quality of life using FACT-G (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General) questionnaire, a 27-item questionnaire, each item to be rated 1-5. The scores are totalled and total scores range from 0-108, with higher scores indicating a higher quality of life., baseline|Quality of life questionnaire, Quality of life using FACT-G (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General) questionnaire, a 27-item questionnaire, each item to be rated 1-5. The scores are totalled and total scores range from 0-108, with higher scores indicating a higher quality of life., 12 weeks|Quality of life questionnaire, Quality of life using FACT-G (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General) questionnaire, a 27-item questionnaire, each item to be rated 1-5. The scores are totalled and total scores range from 0-108, with higher scores indicating a higher quality of life., 1 year
Single-centre pilot study of the use of IRE for the treatment of 12 patients with unresectable colorectal liver metastases to assess feasibility and gain preliminary data to inform the design of a larger study.