Capecitabine, Cetuximab, Oxaliplatin, and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Colorectal Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab and bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Cetuximab and bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving capecitabine together with cetuximab, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving capecitabine together with cetuximab, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab works in treating patients with metastatic or recurrent colorectal cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: oxaliplatin
Response Rate (Percentage of Participants With Partial or Complete Response), Restaging scans occurred every 9 weeks from time of study drug initiation until disease progression.

Disease assessment was performed and recorded according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v.1.0) Guidelines.

The definitions were:

Complete response (CR)- Disappearance of all target lesions Partial response (PD)- At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Stable disease (SD)- Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started Progressive disease (PD) - At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions, After all subjects were evaluated for restaging which occured every 9 weeks from drug initiation until disease progression, assesed up to 24 months.
Safety and Tolerability, Number of participants with adverse events, After all participants went off study drug regimine.|Progression-free Survival, Disease assessment was performed and recorded according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v.1.0) Guidelines.

Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions.

This is the average number of months participants survived without showing progressive disease., From time of treatment until documented progression or death from any cause, whichever came first, assesed up to 60 months.|Overall Survival, Average months of survival of participants after receiving study drug., From time of treatment until death from any cause, assesed up to 60 months.
Effect on Angiogenesis Biomarkers, After study completion|Effect on Wound Angiogenesis, After study completion
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the response rate in patients with unresectable metastatic or recurrent colorectal adenocarcinoma treated with capecitabine, cetuximab, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab.

Secondary

* Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

Exploratory

* Determine the effect of this regimen on the angiogenesis biomarkers in these patients.
* Determine the effect of this regimen on wound angiogenesis in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Patients will also receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 1 month.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 45 patients will be accrued for this study.