Combined Modality Therapy for Patients With With HIV and Stage I, Stage II, or Stage III Anal Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving cisplatin, fluorouracil, and cetuximab together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving cisplatin, fluorouracil, and cetuximab together with radiation therapy works in treating patients with HIV and stage I, stage II, or stage III anal cancer.
Anal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: fluorouracil|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Locoregional Failure Rate at 3 Years, Patients will be classified into two groups for purposes of primary endpoint analysis: failure or no failure at 3 years (in the primary analysis, patients lost to follow-up prior to 3 years will be considered failures). For the secondary endpoint of objective response, patients will be classified as responders, 3 years following completion of therapy
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival at 1 year is the percentage of patients who are alive and have not experienced progressive disease, defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 1 year|Relapse-free Survival, Percentage of participants who are alive and have not experienced progressive disease and have not relapsed, 1 year|Colostomy-free Survival at 1 Year, Percentage of participants who are alive and have not had a colostomy, 1 year|Overall Survival, Percentage of participants who are alive at one year, 1 year|Quality of Life EORTC Global Score at 1 Year, EORTC QLQ-C30 Global Score at 1 year. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a validated questionnaire that evaluates quality of life. The global score is an overall score for quality of life that ranges from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate between quality of life, 1 year|Number of Delayed Toxicities, Delayed toxicities are defined as toxicities that occur over 90 days following treatment completion, 90 days following treatment discontinuation|Changes in CD4 Counts During and for 1 Year After Completion of Study Treatment, Change in absolute CD4 counts from start of treatment to 1 year after completion of study treatment, 1 year following treatment discontinuation|Incidence of Opportunistic Illnesses, Incidence of opportunistic illnesses, including the development of AIDS during and for 1 year after completion of study treatment, 1 year following treatment discontinuation|Objective Response Rate (Complete and Partial), Number of participants with complete and partial responses based on the RECIST criteria, 3 years following treatment discontinuation
Count of Participants by Type of HPV at Baseline, Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the types of HPV found in baseline anal swabs and tissue biopsies.

Proportion of cases with each type will be summarized, baseline
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the 2-year local failure rate in patients with HIV-associated stage I-IIIB anal carcinoma treated with cisplatin, fluorouracil, cetuximab, and radiotherapy.
* Determine the objective response rate (complete and partial), progression-free survival, relapse-free survival, colostomy-free survival, overall survival, quality of life, and overall toxicity in patients treated with this regimen.

Secondary

* Characterize the effect of this regimen on the underlying HIV condition by describing changes in viral load, CD4 counts, and the incidence of opportunistic illnesses, including the development of AIDS during and in the first year after treatment.
* Evaluate the effect of this regimen on anogenital human papilloma virus (HPV) infection and anal cytology.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 35\*, fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-4 and 29-32, and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 29. Beginning on day 1, patients undergo concurrent radiotherapy to the primary tumor 5 days a week for 5-7 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*Patients receiving 7 weeks of radiotherapy also receive cetuximab on days 42 and 49.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at the completion of study treatment, and then at months 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 47 patients will be accrued for this study.