Computerized PAINRelieveIt Protocol for Cancer Pain Control in Hospice
The study purpose is to compare usual hospice care and PAINRelieveIt groups for effects on: (1) patient outcomes (analgesic adherence; worst pain intensity, satisfaction, and misconceptions) and lay caregiver outcome (pain misconceptions) in a diverse sample of 250 cancer patient-caregiver dyads receiving hospice care; and (2) nurse outcomes (obtained appropriate analgesics for patient) in a sample of hospice nurses. The investigators hypothesize that at posttest, controlling for pretest data and compared to the usual care group, the PAINRelieveIt group will: a) report decreased scores for worst pain intensity and pain misconceptions; b) have increased analgesic adherence (primary outcome); and c) have a larger proportion who report satisfaction with pain intensity and whose nurses obtained appropriate analgesics for the patients' pain.
Cancer|Pain
BEHAVIORAL: PAINReportIt|BEHAVIORAL: PAINConsultN|BEHAVIORAL: PAINUCope
worst pain intensity-patient, worst pain intensity in previous 24 hours measured on 0 to 10 scale where 0 means no pain and 10 means pain as bad as it can be., pretest at baseline (day 1), daily for 5 days (days 2-6), posttest on day 7
analgesic adherence-patient, Analgesic adherence is derived from data regarding analgesics documented as prescribed (available to the patient as indicated from the medication list in the home) and analgesics consumed (from PAINReportIt). We will calculate the prescribed and 24 hour analgesic consumption for around the clock (ATC) and as needed (PRN) analgesics, but not the emergency analgesic pack opioids. We will calculate an analgesic adherence rate (dose reported as consumed divided by dose documented as prescribed, multiplied by 100) for all World Health Organization (WHO) analgesics (adjuvants, NSAIDs and non-opioids, and ATC and PRN Step 2 and Step 3 opioids)., pretest at baseline (day 1), daily for 5 days (days 2-6), posttest on day 7
misconceptions about pain and pain management--patient, Misconceptions are measured with a computer version of the Barriers Questionnaire (BQ) with response options from 0 to 5 indicating the amount of agreement with statements about barriers to pain assessment or management. Items relate to communicating with the physician about pain, side effects of analgesics, concerns about addiction, tolerance, disease progression, and being perceived as a good patient. Validity of the BQ is supported by its ability to discriminate cancer patients who report high BQ scores and also were under-medicated for their pain level and were hesitant to report their pain to their clinicians. To improve the acceptability of the tool to patients with cancer, we reduced the tool to 13 items with demonstrated validity and reliability. In prior cancer studies, patients found it to be a simple, easily understood tool that they completed in 5 minutes or less on 13 screens using a touch-screen pentablet computer., pretest at baseline (day 1) & posttest on day 7|Satisfaction with pain levels -- patient, Satisfaction with pain levels is measured by two single item questions that ask the patient if he or she is satisfied with the level of pain. A three-option response allows the patient to indicate yes, no, or not sure. We tested this item in our previous study and found that 49% of patients were satisfied with their pain level at baseline were also satisfied 4 weeks later, 21% became satisfied, 18% became less satisfied and 12% were never satisfied during the 4-week study. These data are consistent with the high percentage (98%) of patients who reported a desire for no pain but whose worst pain was greater than the level they desired. Focusing on satisfaction with level of pain allows us to have greater variability in this variable than has been typically noted by other investigators., pretest at baseline (day 1), daily for 5 days (days 2-6), posttest on day 7|Misconceptions about pain and pain management--caregiver, Misconceptions are measured with a computer version of the Barriers Questionnaire (BQ) with response options from 0 to 5 indicating the amount of agreement with statements about barriers to pain assessment or management. Items relate to communicating with the physician about pain, side effects of analgesics, concerns about addiction, tolerance, disease progression, and being perceived as a good patient. Validity of the BQ is supported by its ability to discriminate cancer patients who report high BQ scores and also were under-medicated for their pain level and were hesitant to report their pain to their clinicians. To improve the acceptability of the tool to patients with cancer, we reduced the tool to 13 items with demonstrated validity and reliability. In prior cancer studies, patients found it to be a simple, easily understood tool that they completed in 5 minutes or less on 13 screens using a touch-screen pentablet computer., pretest at baseline (day 1) & posttest on day 7|appropriateness of analgesics prescribed --hospice nurse, We will measure the appropriateness of analgesics prescribed by review of the hospice medication list that is required to be in the home. The proportion of participants with an appropriate analgesic prescription will be calculated using Cleeland's Pain Management Index (PMI). The PMI is an indicator of the appropriateness of pain prescriptions based on the patient's reported pain intensity level. Calculation of the PMI requires a medication score and a worst pain intensity score. The PMI score is calculated by subtracting the worst pain category score from the prescribed pain medication score. Negative PMI scores indicate inadequate analgesics (coded as appropriate, no) and 0 or positive PMI scores indicate appropriate analgesics (coded as appropriate, yes)., pretest at baseline (day 1) & posttest on day 7
Unrelieved cancer pain at the end of life is a major health problem and is inconsistent with patient-centered goals for their last days. Building on a successful approach researched in outpatient oncology settings, the investigators propose a study testing PAINRelieveIt, a system-level intervention of computerized tools with patient-reported pain outcomes (in English, Spanish, Chinese languages), decision support for clinicians (English) and multimedia education tailored to each cancer patient and lay caregiver.

Using a 1-week pre-test/post-test randomized design in patients receiving home level hospice care provided by two Chicago-area hospices, we will compare effects of usual hospice care with PAINReportIt Summary and usual hospice care with PAINRelieveIt on pain outcomes. The tablet-based PAINRelieveIt includes valid and reliable pain tools (PAINReportIt), a summary of the patient's pain data with decision support for hospice nurses to obtain recommendations for algorithm-based analgesic therapies (PAINConsultN), and multimedia education tailored to the patient's and lay caregiver's pain management misconceptions (PainUCope). Patient's/caregiver's answers are automatically stored in an electronic database, from which the system generates a PAINReportIt Summary (usual hospice care control group); PAINConsultN and PainUCope (experimental group). All patients will receive usual hospice care. All patients/caregivers will complete PAINReportIt at pretest and 1-week later (posttest); patients also complete parts of PAINReportIt daily. Via daily e-mail updates, the control-group hospice nurses will receive a PAINReportIt Summary and experimental-group hospice nurses will receive a PAINConsultN. Additionally, experimental group patients/caregivers will view multimedia educational materials via PAINUCope to help patients report pain and adhere to prescribed analgesics.

Specific aims are to compare usual hospice care and PAINRelieveIt groups for effects on:

1. Patient outcomes (analgesic adherence; worst pain intensity, satisfaction, and misconceptions) and lay caregiver outcome (pain misconceptions) in a diverse sample of 250 cancer patient-caregiver dyads receiving hospice care.
2. Nurse outcomes (obtained appropriate analgesics for patient) in a sample of hospice nurses.

The investigators hypothesize that at posttest, controlling for pretest data and compared to the usual care group, the PAINRelieveIt group will: a) report decreased scores for worst pain intensity and pain misconceptions; b) have increased analgesic adherence (primary outcome); and c) have a larger proportion who report satisfaction with pain intensity and whose nurses obtained appropriate analgesics for the patients' pain.

Findings will guide future system-level research to implement PAINRelieveIt in a multi-site, longitudinal trial that will test the effect of disseminating this technology on clinical decisions for managing pain and patient/caregiver pain outcomes in a national sample of hospices. This approach offers improved pain control for dying patients and other populations.