A Study of Capmatinib (INC280) in NSCLC Patients With MET Exon 14 Alterations Who Have Received Prior MET Inhibitor
This research study is studying capmatinib as a treatment for advanced non-small cell lung cancer with MET exon 14 skipping, where the participant has already received prior therapy with a MET inhibitor.
Malignant Non-small Cell Neoplasm of Lung Stage IV
DRUG: Capmatinib (INC280)
Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of patients with a complete response or partial response to treatment according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR) is a greater than or equal to 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. ORR = CR + PR., through study completion, an average of 14 months
Progression Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from registration to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., through study completion, an average of 14 months|Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate (DCR) will be defined as the percentage of participants with complete response, partial response, and stable disease at 12 weeks by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Complete Response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR) is a greater than or equal to 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Stable Disease (SD) is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progressive Disease, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Progressive Disease (PD) is a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. DCR = CR + PR + SD., 12 weeks|Intracranial Response Rate, Intracranial response rate (IRR) will be calculated based on response assessments in the brain for patients with measurable CNS disease at baseline by RECIST v 1.1 criteria. IRR is defined as the percentage of patients with a confirmed intracranial complete response (CR) or partial response (CR) at week 12. CR is the disappearance of all target lesions and PR is a greater than or equal to 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. IRR = CR + PR., 12 weeks|Duration of Response, Duration of response (DOR) will be calculated from the time of first assessment of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.1 until the first occurrence of progressive disease (PD) or death. CR is the disappearance of all target lesions. PR is a greater than or equal to 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. PD is a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., up to 6 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive. OS time for patients who are alive at the end of the study or are lost to follow up will be censored at the time of last contact. OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of registration through study completion, an average of 14 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events by Grade, From date of treatment start through study completion, an average of 14 months
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Capmatinib as a treatment for any disease.

In this research study, the investigators are using the study drug called Capmatinib. Capmatinib is a specific blocker of the cMET protein. This protein acts as a trigger to start a series of events in your cells in what is known as the C-Met pathway. Patients with MET exon 14 skipping have activation of the MET pathway. By blocking MET, Capmatinib may slow or stop the growth and/or survival of cancer cells. Capmatinib is not yet FDA approved for the treatment of people with this type of cancer. It is not known if capmatinib will be effective in people who have previously had other drugs that block the cMET pathway. This study will help us understand how capmatinib works in the body and what capmatinib does to cancer. Any potential harmful effects of capmatinib will also be studied.