Clinical Study of a Personalized Neoantigen Cancer Vaccine in Treating Patients With Advanced Malignant Tumor
This research study is evaluating a new type of cancer vaccine called "Personalized Neoantigen Cancer Vaccine" as a possible treatment for advanced malignant tumor. The purpose of the clinical study is evaluating the safety, tolerability and partial efficacy of the personalized neoantigen cancer vaccine in the treatment of Chinese patients with advanced malignant cancer, so as to provide a new personalized therapeutic strategy for advanced pancreatic cancer patients.

It is known that cancer patients have mutations (changes in genetic material) that are specific to an individual patient and tumor. These mutations can cause the tumor cells to produce proteins that appear very different from the body's own cells. It is possible that these proteins used in a vaccine may induce strong immune responses, which may help the participant's body fight any tumor cells that could cause the cancer to come back in the future. The study will examine the safety of the vaccine when given at several different time points and will examine the participant's blood cells for signs that the vaccine induced an immune response.
Advanced Malignant Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: iNeo-Vac-P01|OTHER: GM-CSF
Objective Response Rate, 2 years|Number of participants experiencing clinical and laboratory adverse events (AEs), 1 year
Overall Survival Rate, 2 years|Progression Free Survival, 2 years
Measurement of CD4/CD8 T lymphocyte subsets, 2 years|The polypeptide antigen - induced IFN-γ T cells responses, 2 years|Peripheral blood T cell receptor sequencing analysis, 2 years
This research study is evaluating a new type of cancer vaccine called "Personalized Neoantigen Cancer Vaccine" as a possible treatment for advanced malignant tumor. The purpose of the clinical study is evaluating the safety, tolerability and partial efficacy of the personalized neoantigen cancer vaccine in the treatment of Chinese patients with advanced malignant cancer, so as to provide a new personalized therapeutic strategy for advanced pancreatic cancer patients.

It is known that cancer patients have mutations (changes in genetic material) that are specific to an individual patient and tumor. These mutations can cause the tumor cells to produce proteins that appear very different from the body's own cells. It is possible that these proteins used in a vaccine may induce strong immune responses, which may help the participant's body fight any tumor cells that could cause the cancer to come back in the future. The study will examine the safety of the vaccine when given at several different time points and will examine the participant's blood cells for signs that the vaccine induced an immune response.