A Supportive Care Intervention for Older Caregivers of Older Adults with Advanced Cancer
This project assesses the feasibility of utilizing the geriatric assessment as a tool to identify distressed older caregivers of older adults with cancer. The investigator will engage key stakeholders including older caregivers of older adults with cancer, experts in geriatric oncology and primary care physicians to develop and pilot a supportive care intervention to improve outcomes in older caregivers.
Cancer
OTHER: Experimental (Delphi Surveys)|OTHER: Experimental (Focus Groups)|OTHER: Qualitative interviews
Percentage of participants who enroll and complete the GA, Percentage of participants who were approached, enrolled in the study and completed the GA will be determined., 8 weeks per participant|Time for caregivers to complete the GA, Time to complete the GA per caregiver will be determined by summing the time to complete self-administered and clinic portions of GA., 8 weeks per patient|Caregiver satisfaction with completing the GA, Caregivers will complete a questionnaire to assess satisfaction with completing the GA, 8 weeks per patient
Percentage of caregiver supportive care recommendations that are implemented by patient/caregiver physicians, Caregivers will be surveyed to determined number and types of supportive care they received from their clinical providers compared to the supportive care recommendations that were provided to their clinical providers., 4 weeks
Older caregivers of older adults with cancer (described here-on as "older caregivers") are at high risk for increased burden and negative physical and psychological outcomes. Despite this, identification of older caregivers at risk for burden remains a challenge and evaluation of supportive care interventions and guidelines for this population remains limited. Health outcomes of older adults with cancer and their caregivers are inter-related and it is important to evaluate and support the health of both. The geriatric assessment (GA) is a valuable tool to evaluate health and age-related conditions (e.g., physical and cognitive function) of older adults with cancer and guide supportive care. Identifying older adults with age-related conditions can help to identify caregivers who are at increased risk for the negative impacts of caregiving. This project seeks to gather preliminary data on the health of older caregivers and to develop and pilot high priority supportive care interventions for this population. The investigator will examine the feasibility of utilizing the GA as a tool to identify distressed older caregivers. The investigator will engage key stakeholders including, older caregivers and older adults with cancer, experts in geriatric oncology and primary care physicians to develop and pilot a supportive care intervention to improve outcomes in older caregivers.