Characterisation of Clinical Phenotypes and Outcomes of Ma2 Patient
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNS) are rare complications of cancer occurring in 0.01% of cases. Their clinical, biological and radiological presentation is heterogeneous and may constitute a diagnostic challenge. Anti-Ma2 PNS are rare diseases with a guarded prognosis. They are most often associated with a seminoma-like testicular tumor but can also be associated with lung cancer. Classically, they present as limbic, diencephalic and/or brainstem encephalitis. Anti-Ma2 antibodies target intracellular receptors and are characteristic of a particular form of encephalitis. Atypical manifestations including narcolepsy-cataplexy, weight gain, sexual dysfunction and motor neuron syndrome have been described and explain the difficulty in diagnosing anti-Ma2 associated PNS. It seems interesting to better characterize the phenotypes of Ma2 patients in order to optimize the diagnosis and follow-up.
Autoimmune Encephalitis|Paraneoplastic Syndromes
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Diagnosis test
Rankin score, Follow up and survival (rankin score), 12 month after diagnosis
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNS) are rare complications of cancer occurring in 0.01% of cases. Their clinical, biological and radiological presentation is heterogeneous and may constitute a diagnostic challenge. Anti-Ma2 PNS are rare diseases with a guarded prognosis. They are most often associated with a seminoma-like testicular tumor but can also be associated with lung cancer. Classically, they present as limbic, diencephalic and/or brainstem encephalitis. Anti-Ma2 antibodies target intracellular receptors and are characteristic of a particular form of encephalitis. Atypical manifestations including narcolepsy-cataplexy, weight gain, sexual dysfunction and motor neuron syndrome have been described and explain the difficulty in diagnosing anti-Ma2 associated PNS. It seems interesting to better characterize the phenotypes of Ma2 patients in order to optimize the diagnosis and follow-up.