Palifermin in Preventing Oral Mucositis Caused by Chemotherapy and/or Radiation Therapy in Young Patients Undergoing Stem Cell Transplant
This randomized phase II trial is studying palifermin to see how well it works compared with a placebo in preventing oral mucositis caused by chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy in young patients undergoing stem cell transplant. Palifermin may help relieve or prevent oral mucositis caused by chemotherapy and radiation therapy in young patients undergoing stem cell transplant.
Gastrointestinal Mucositis|Malignant Neoplasm
DRUG: Palifermin|OTHER: Placebo
Incidence of WHO grade 3 or 4 oral mucositis, The incidence of WHO grade 3 or 4 mucositis, the palifermin and placebo groups, will be compared using a generalized Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel method for general association as the primary analysis. In addition, this outcome will be examined using a logistic regression model; both approaches will account for the randomization strata. Potential confounders will be examined using multiple logistic regression models., Up to day 32
Incidence of adverse events and laboratory abnormalities of palifermin according to using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 3.0, Incidence of adverse events and laboratory abnormalities in the palifermin and placebo groups will be summarized for all study participants who receive at least one dose of study medication and also separately for autologous and allogeneic HSCT recipients using descriptive statistics. Time to neutrophil engraftment (first day of ANC 500/mm\^3 for at least 2 consecutive days) will be examined in the palifermin and placebo groups and compared using the stratified log rank test. The incidence of serum anti-palifermin antibody formation will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 100 days post-HSCT|Long-term effects of palifermin on disease outcome and survival, Long-term outcomes (progression free survival, overall survival and second malignancies) will be examined using Kaplan-Meier and cumulative incidence curves and the compared using the stratified log rank test. These outcomes will be summarized among all study participants and also separately for autologous and allogeneic HSCT recipient., Up to 10 years|Duration of WHO grade 3 or 4 oral mucositis, Duration of grade 3 or 4 oral mucositis, duration of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) administration and total dose of parenteral opioid analgesic will be compared between groups using a stratified Wilcoxon test. Severity of mucositis according to the Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS), modified Walsh mucositis scale, pain categorical rating scale and Oral Mucositis Daily Questionnaire (OMDQ) scales will be compared between groups using the area under the curve (AUC)., Up to day 32|Daily OMAS scores, The AUC will be compared between groups using a stratified Wilcoxon test, in which stratum-specific rank tests are computed and then summed to obtain a combined test., Up to day 32|Daily modified Walsh mucositis scores, The AUC will be compared between groups using a stratified Wilcoxon test, in which stratum-specific rank tests are computed and then summed to obtain a combined test., Up to day 32|Daily pain categorical rating scales, The AUC will be compared between groups using a stratified Wilcoxon test, in which stratum-specific rank tests are computed and then summed to obtain a combined test., Up to day 32|Daily OMDQ, The AUC will be compared between groups using a stratified Wilcoxon test, in which stratum-specific rank tests are computed and then summed to obtain a combined test., Up to day 32|Incidence, total dose, and duration of parenteral opioid analgesic use (morphine equivalents), Incidence of parenteral opioid analgesic use TPN administration will be compared between groups using a generalized Cochran- Mantel-Haenszel test., Up to day 32|Incidence and duration of total parenteral nutrition administration, Incidence of parenteral opioid analgesic use TPN administration will be compared between groups using a generalized Cochran- Mantel-Haenszel test. If subjects are still receiving parenteral opioid analgesia or TPN on day 32, the subsequent stop date also will be collected., Up to day 32|Incidence of febrile neutropenia and invasive bacterial infections, The incidence of febrile neutropenia and invasive bacterial infections will be compared using a generalized Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test., Up to day 32
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare whether palifermin versus placebo administered to pediatric patients three days prior to conditioning and three days after autologous or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is associated with a reduction in the incidence of WHO grade 3 or 4 oral mucositis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of palifermin. II. To evaluate the long-term effects of palifermin on disease outcome and survival.

III. To compare the incidence, total dose, and duration of parenteral opioid analgesic use (morphine equivalents), and incidence and duration of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) administration in patients treated with these regimens.

IV. To compare the incidence of febrile neutropenia and invasive bacterial infections in patients treated with these regimens.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether palifermin versus placebo reduces the incidence of WHO grade 3 or 4 oral mucositis among allogeneic HSCT pediatric patients receiving methotrexate as graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis.

II. To determine whether palifermin versus placebo reduces acute and chronic GVHD after allogeneic HSCT.

III. To describe health care utilization (hospitalization duration, and administration of antibiotics, TPN, nasogastric-, nasojejunal- or gastrostomy-administered enteral nutrition, and blood products) in pediatric patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age in years (1 to 2 vs 3 to 11 vs 12 to 16), type of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) (autologous vs allogeneic), conditioning regimen (either total-body irradiation \[TBI\] or melphalan vs neither TBI nor melphalan). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive palifermin IV once daily for 3 days prior to chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive palifermin IV on days 0, 1, and 2 after autologous or allogeneic HSCT.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo IV once daily for 3 days prior to chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive placebo IV on days 0, 1, and 2 after autologous or allogeneic HSCT.

Blood samples are collected at baseline, 32 days, and 100 days after HSCT to evaluate the immunogenicity of palifermin. Oral mucositis is assessed at baseline, daily for 8 days prior to and 32 days after HSCT, or until oral mucositis has resolved by the WHO Mucositis Scale, Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS), modified Walsh mucositis scale, Oral Mucositis Daily Questionnaire (OMDQ), and the pain categorical rating scale.

After completion of HSCT, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.