Study of Vintafolide (MK-8109, EC145) in Participants With Progressive Adenocarcinoma of the Lung (MK-8109-008, EC-FV-03)
This is a Phase II clinical trial evaluating the benefit from therapy with vintafolide in participants with progressive adenocarcinoma of the lung.
Adenocarcinoma of the Lung
DRUG: Vintafolide|DRUG: Etarfolatide
Percentage of patients deriving clinical benefit, Clinical benefit is defined as the ability to receive 4 or more cycles (i.e., months) of therapy without progression of disease.
Tumor responses to EC145 therapy, Duration of EC145 therapy will vary according to individual participant response.|Progression-free survival, response duration, and overall survival time observed after EC145 therapy, 2 years after completing therapy with EC145 and the 30-day follow-up period.
This is a Phase II clinical trial of vintafolide administered to participants with progressive adenocarcinoma of the lung.

Vintafolide is a drug that is specifically designed to enter cancer cells via the folate vitamin receptor (FR). Experimental evidence shows that this target receptor is expressed on a significant portion of non-small cell lung cancers. Early clinical evidence in a small number of Phase I patients suggests that vintafolide is generally well-tolerated, without many of the side-effects observed in more-standard therapeutic agents. This evidence suggests that vintafolide may be useful as a chemotherapy against progressive adenocarcinomas of the lung. The primary objective of this study is to collect data on clinical benefit produced by therapy with vintafolide .

All participants will undergo imaging with the FR targeting investigational imaging agent etarfolatide (EC20, FolateScan) during the screening period to confirm eligibility for the treatment portion of the clinical trial. Clinical evidence suggests that etarfolatide may be used to identify patients with cancers that express the target receptor.

Information about the safety and tolerability of both vintafolide and etarfolatide will be assessed.