Clinical Study on the Safety and Efficacy of QY-1-T in the Treatment of HBV-associated Advanced HCC
The vast majority of liver cancers have an insidious onset and are often asymptomatic in the early stages, making early diagnosis difficult. Once diagnosed, most liver cancers have reached locally advanced stages or distant metastases, equivalent to Barcelona stage (BCLC) C-D. The tumors progress rapidly and there is a lack of effective treatments. The survival period of cancer patients is generally only 3-6 months. Cellular immunotherapy, including CAR-T and TCR-T, is considered a new hope for the treatment of cancer.

The purpose of this study is to explore the safety of QY-1-T (a TCR-T targeting HBV) in the treatment of HBV-related liver cancer, and to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of QY-1-T in patients with HBV-related advanced liver cancer.
Liver Cancer
DRUG: QY-1-T
Number of subjects with adverse events (AEs) and laboratory abnormalities defined as dose limiting toxicities (DLT), To assess the tolerability of QY-1-T and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Up to 1 month after the last infusion
Efficacy: antitumor activity of QY-1-T in subjects with HBV-related HCC, Tumor response assessment in accordance with mRECIST and iRECIST, Up to 1 year after the last infusion
Efficacy: antiviral activity of QY-1-T, Changes in serum levels of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) before and after QY-1-T infusion, Up to 1 year after the last infusion|Efficacy: antiviral activity of QY-1-T, Changes in serum levels of hepatitis B virus deoxyribonucleic acid (HBV-DNA) before and after QY-1-T infusion, Up to 1 year after the last infusion
The vast majority of liver cancers have an insidious onset and are often asymptomatic in the early stages, making early diagnosis difficult. Once diagnosed, most liver cancers have reached locally advanced stages or distant metastases, equivalent to Barcelona stage (BCLC) C-D. The tumors progress rapidly and there is a lack of effective treatments. The survival period of cancer patients is generally only 3-6 months. Cellular immunotherapy, including CAR-T and TCR-T, is considered a new hope for the treatment of cancer.

The purpose of this study is to explore the safety of QY-1-T (a TCR-T targeting HBV) in the treatment of HBV-related liver cancer, and to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of QY-1-T in patients with HBV-related advanced liver cancer.