Online Psychosocial Intervention in Improving Social Well-Being and Support in Women With Stage I-IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Undergoing Treatment
This trial studies how well online psychosocial intervention works in improving social well-being and support in women who are undergoing treatment for stage I-IV non-small cell lung cancer. Psychosocial intervention techniques, such as mindfulness, compassion, and emotional processing, may improve distress and help patients manage symptoms related to non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA1 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA2 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA3 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Support Group Therapy
BREATHE intervention in women with Lung Cancer determined successful by overall accrual, Overall accrual assessed by ≥ 50% of eligible patients consent (i.e., approach 140 to achieve 70 that consent)., Up to 3 months|BREATHE intervention in women with Lung Cancer determined successful by attrition, Attrition assessed by ≥ 71% of enrolled patients (≥ 50 patients) complete T1 and T2 assessments;, Up to 3 months|BREATHE intervention in women with Lung Cancer determined successful by adherence, Adherence assessed by ≥ 75% of all practice sessions are attended in each arm., Up to 3 months|BREATHE intervention in women with Lung Cancer determined successful by acceptability, Acceptability assessed by ≥ 75% of participants indicating that the program is useful and enjoyable in each arm., Up to 3 months
Efficacy regarding psychological distress: CES-D, The study will examine preliminary evidence of intervention efficacy. Will calculate effect sizes for between-group comparisons based on the primary efficacy endpoint of Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), a 20-item self-report measure focusing on the affective component of depression.

Answers range from: almost never (less than 1 day), sometimes (1 to 2 days), often (3 to 4 days), almost always (5 to 7 days)., Up to 3 months|Efficacy regarding cancer symptoms: IES, The study will examine preliminary evidence of intervention efficacy. Will calculate effect sizes for between-group comparisons based on the primary efficacy endpoint of Impact of Event Scale (IES) measured at T2 using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). IES scale answers range from NOT AT ALL, RARELY, SOMETIMES, OFTEN., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine the feasibility (primary outcome) of the BREATHE intervention in women with lung cancer (LC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish the initial intervention efficacy regarding psychological distress (secondary outcome) and cancer symptoms (tertiary outcome) relative to an education comparison (EC) group.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore potential mediation (e.g., mindfulness, compassion, inflammatory processes) and moderation (e.g., demographic and medical factors) of the intervention effects.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I (PSYCHOLOGICAL): Patients participate in 5 psychological sessions and complete training on mindfulness, compassion, emotional processing, social support, generating positive emotions, and proactive coping strategies once a week for up to 5 weeks. Patients also complete questionnaires over 35 minutes and participate in video-based group sessions weekly for 5 weeks.

GROUP II (EDUCATIONAL): Patients participate in 5 information sessions and receive education on lung cancer, symptom management, communication, and practicing self-care once a week for up to 5 weeks. Patients also complete questionnaires and participate in group sessions as in group I.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at 1 week and at 3 months.