Pre-operative Stereotactic Radiosurgery Followed by Resection for Brain Metastases
The primary goal of this research study is to determine the efficacy of giving pre-operative radiosurgery to patients pending resection of a brain metastasis.
Malignant Neoplasm Brain
RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Local Control Rate (LCR) at 6 months, Tumor volume as measured at a later date and compared to the tumor volume at the start of radiotherapy. The size of a tumor measured by the amount of space taken up by the tumor (percentage of brain occupied by tumor)., At 6 months|Local Control Rate (LCR) at 12 months, Tumor volume as measured at a later date and compared to the tumor volume at the start of radiotherapy. The size of a tumor measured by the amount of space taken up by the tumor (percentage of brain occupied by tumor)., At 12 months|Local Control Rate (LCR) at 24 months, Tumor volume as measured at a later date and compared to the tumor volume at the start of radiotherapy. The size of a tumor measured by the amount of space taken up by the tumor (percentage of brain occupied by tumor)., At 24 months
6-month Overall Survival (OS), The percentage of patients alive at 6 months after the beginning of treatment., At 6 months|12-month Overall Survival (OS), The percentage of patients alive at 12 months after the beginning of treatment., At 12 months|24-month Overall Survival (OS), The percentage of patients alive at 24 months after the beginning of treatment., At 24 months|Distant Intracranial Failure, The probability of new brain metastases identified via magnetic resonance imaging., Up to 3 years|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) - FACT - BR (FACT - BRAIN), The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br) is a quality of life (QOL) assessment tool used in patients with primary brain tumors. Questionnaires include the FACT-General (FACT-G), a core questionnaire used to determine the more general domains of QOL among all cancer patients and the FACT-Brain (FACT-Br) which assesses brain-tumor related QOL issues. There are 50 items covering the following domains of QOL: physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, and disease specific concerns. Patients are asked to indicate the presence/severity of certain issues/symptoms on a scale of 0 - 4 (a 5-point Likert Scale). High scores indicate better quality of life., Up to 3 years
Patients who have a brain metastasis surgically resected have very high local rates of disease relapse, and so the standard of care is to give either whole brain irradiation or stereotactic radiosurgery to the resection cavity in order to prevent disease recurrence. Stereotactic radiosurgery generally offers a more favorable side effect profile than whole brain irradiation, but targeting a surgical resection bed can be a challenge, as post surgical changes make it more difficult to distinguish residual tumor from scar, and much of the dose ends up being focused on the center of the resection cavity, where there are no substantial tumor cells.