SARC037: A Phase I/II Study to Evaluate the Safety of Trabectedin in Combination With Irinotecan in Ewing Sarcoma Patients
This study evaluates the trabectedin and irinotecan in the treatment of Ewings sarcoma, with a EWS-FLI1 mutation. Patients will also receive an infusion of 18F-FLT in combination with a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan to help evaluate the effect of treatment.

Phase I was completed on 11/16/2022. Phase II is actively recruiting.
Ewing Sarcoma
DRUG: Trabectedin 1 MG [Yondelis]|DRUG: Irinotecan|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: tumor biopsy|OTHER: 3'-Deoxy-3'-18F Fluorothymidine (18F-FLT) Imaging
Phase I The recommended dose (RD) of trabectedin administered in combination with low dose irinotecan, The recommended dose will be established by enrolling patients at the lowest dose and observing them for dose limiting toxicity. Dose limiting toxicity describes side effects of a drug or other treatment that are serious enough to prevent an increase in dose or level of that treatment. The maximum tolerated dose is the highest dose of a drug or treatment that does not cause unacceptable side effects. If 0 of the first 3 subjects experience DLT, the study will proceed to the next dose level. If 1 subject experiences a DLT, that dose level cohort will be expanded to 6 total subjects. If no additional subjects experience DLTs at that dose level cohort, the study will proceed to enroll the next dose level cohort.

If ≥ 2 of 6 subjects experience DLT, then that dose level is the recommended dose of trabectedin (RD). The study will proceed to the same process for the irinotecan escalation.

If 2 or all 3 subjects experience DLT, that dose level is the recommended dose of trabectedin (RD)., up to 36 months|Phase I Tumor response rate, The anti-tumor activity of the combination of trabectedin and low-dose irinotecan as measured by the tumor objective response rate (ORR) assessed by RECIST v1.1, up to 36 months|Phase 2 To determine anti-tumor activity of the combination trabectedin and low-dose irinotecan, Tumor objective response rate (ORR) assessed by RECIST v1.1., up to 36 months
Phase I/Phase 2 Tumor response rate, progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response, and 6-month PFS rate of patients with ES treated with trabectedin and irinotecan., The percentage of patients whose tumor shrinks or disappears after treatment (per RECIST 1.1), progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with ES treated with trabectedin and irinotecan., up to 36 months|Phase I monitor the avidity of Ewing sarcoma tumors of EWS-FLI1 12-24 hours after trabectedin administration and before irinotecan is administered and before 18F-FLT PET scans, 18F-FLT PET avidity of Ewing sarcoma tumors., up to 36 months|Phase 2 To determine anti-tumor activity of the combination trabectedin and low-dose irinotecan, The anti-tumor activity of the combination of trabectedin and low-dose irinotecan as measured by the tumor objective response rate (ORR) assessed by RECIST v1.1, up to 36 months|Phase I/Phase 2 Tumor response rate, progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response, and 6-month PFS rate of patients with ES treated with trabectedin and irinotecan., The percentage of patients whose tumor shrinks or disappears after treatment (per RECIST 1.1) duration of response of patients with ES treated with trabectedin and irinotecan., up to 36 months|Phase I/Phase 2 Tumor response rate, progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response, and 6-month PFS rate of patients with ES treated with trabectedin and irinotecan., The percentage of patients whose tumor shrinks or disappears after treatment (per RECIST 1.1) duration of 6-month PFS rate ES treated with trabectedin and irinotecan., up to 36 months
Progression free survival, The time from starting treatment until disease progression, up to 5 years|6- month Progression free survival, To determine the rate of disease progression at 6 months after starting treatment, up to 36 months|Duration of Response, The time from tumor response to disease progression, up to 5 years
Trabectedin and Irinotecan may inhibit the activity of this Ewing sarcoma mutation. Trabectedin may suppress the proliferation of the gene involved in DNA damage response. It blocks EWS-FLI1 by inactivating the fusion protein and silences the target genes.

Irinotecan also suppresses the genes regulating the tumor cells, generating DNA damage. Together, these drugs work in combination to suppress the gene regulating the tumor cells. This combination may suppress the activity of the tumor regulating genes, disrupting the activity of the genes. The infusion of 18F-FLT in combination with a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan will demonstrate whether the target cells have been suppressed.