Study of Patritumab in Combination With Erlotinib in Subjects With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC). (HER3-Lung)
1. Part A: Subjects will receive Patritumab or placebo with erlotinib. Progression-free survival will be the primary outcome. Subjects will need to have Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) wild-type, locally advance or metastatic NSCLC and have their cancer progressed after at least one prior systemic anti-cancer therapy, available recent or archival tumor specimen and may not have had previous EGFR-targeted regimen, anti-HER2 (Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2), anti-HER3, or anti-HER4 therapy. Subjects may have high heregulin or low heregulin.
2. Part B: Subjects will receive Patritumab or placebo with erlotinib. Overall survival will be the primary outcome. Subjects will need to have EGFR wild-type, locally advance or metastatic NSCLC and have their cancer progressed after at least one prior systemic anti-cancer therapy, available recent or archival tumor specimen and may not have had previous EGFR-targeted regimen, anti-HER2, anti-HER3, or anti-HER4 therapy. Only subjects with high heregulin will be enrolled.
Lung Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Patritumab|DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Placebo
Part A: Progression Free Survival (PFS) in Heregulin-high Participants, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the earlier of the dates of first objective documentation of radiographic disease progression (as per RECIST Version 1.1 per investigator assessment) or death resulting from any cause.

Kaplan-Meier Estimate. Confidence interval (CI) for median was computed using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. 80% confidence interval is included in the data table., by trial termination (at 20 months)|Part A: Progression Free Survival (PFS) in Heregulin-low Participants, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the earlier of the dates of first objective documentation of radiographic disease progression (as per RECIST Version 1.1 per investigator assessment) or death resulting from any cause.

Kaplan-Meier Estimate. Confidence interval (CI) for median was computed using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. 80% confidence interval is included in the data table., by trial termination (at 20 months)|Part B: Overall Survival, Percentage of participants still alive at the end of Part B, 4 years
Part A: Overall Survival in HRG High Participants, Key secondary efficacy endpoint: Percentage of participants who survived for the length of the trial, by trial termination (at 20 months)|Part A: Key Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: Overall Survival in HRG Low Participants, Key secondary efficacy endpoint: Percentage of participants who survived for the length of the trial, by trial termination (at 20 months)|Part B: Key Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: PFS, TTD, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the earlier of the dates of first objective documentation of radiographic disease progression (TTD, as per RECIST Version 1.1 per investigator assessment) or death resulting from any cause., 4 years|Part A: Objective Response Rate (ORR) in HRG High Participants, Key secondary efficacy endpoint: Objective response is defined as percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)

Denominator for percentages is the number of subjects with measurable disease in the full analysis set. The best overall response is the best response \[in the order of CR, PR, stable disease (SD), and progressive disease (PD)\] among all overall responses recorded from the start of treatment until the subject withdraws from the study. If there is no post-baseline tumor assessment or all post-baseline tumor assessments with overall response being Inevaluable captured in the CRF, the best overall response is classified as Inevaluable., by trial termination (at 20 months)|Part A: Objective Response Rate (ORR) in HRG Low Participants, Key secondary efficacy endpoint: Objective response is defined as percentage of participants achieving complete response or partial response

Denominator for percentages is the number of subjects with measurable disease in the full analysis set. The best overall response is the best response (in the order of CR, PR, SD, and PD) among all overall responses recorded from the start of treatment until the subject withdraws from the study. If there is no post-baseline tumor assessment or all post-baseline tumor assessments with overall response being Inevaluable captured in the CRF, the best overall response is classified as Inevaluable., by trial termination (at 20 months)
1. Part A: Subjects will receive Patritumab or placebo with erlotinib. Progression-free survival will be the primary outcome. Subjects will need to have Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) wild-type, locally advance or metastatic NSCLC and have their cancer progressed after at least one prior systemic anti-cancer therapy, available recent or archival tumor specimen and may not have had previous EGFR-targeted regimen, anti-HER2 (Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2), anti-HER3, or anti-HER4 therapy. Subjects may have high heregulin or low heregulin.
2. Part B: Subjects will receive Patritumab or placebo with erlotinib. Overall survival will be the primary outcome. Subjects will need to have EGFR wild-type, locally advance or metastatic NSCLC and have their cancer progressed after at least one prior systemic anti-cancer therapy, available recent or archival tumor specimen and may not have had previous EGFR-targeted regimen, anti-HER2, anti-HER3, or anti-HER4 therapy. Only subjects with high heregulin will be enrolled.