Blinatumomab Plus Reduced-dose Chemotherapy in Treating B-ALL
Precursor B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is an aggressive type of leukemia, with high relapse rate and poor long term survival in adults. Traditional treatment regimens mainly include chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. In the past decade, with the application of molecular targeted drugs and immunotherapy, the survival of B-ALL patients has significantly improved. In this study，we propose a treatment approach that combines Blinatumomab and Reduced-dose Chemotherapy in B-ALL adults. Our study aims to answer the safety and efficacy of this treatment regimen, and further improve the survival for those participants.
Precursor B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: Blinatumomab plus Reduced-dose Chemotherapy
Complete remission rate with negative minimal residual disease, complete remission and negative MRD detected by flowcytometry, at the end of cycle 1 and 2（each cycle is 28 days）
CR/CRi after Cycle 1 and 2, Blast rate lower than 5% with or without peripheral blood cell recovery, at the end of cycle 1 and 2（each cycle is 28 days）|Minimal residual disease(MRD), MRD level detected by flow cytometry which value \<0.1% is defined as negtive, At the end of each cycle（each cycle is 28 days）|Overall survival (OS), Defined for all patients in a trial; measured from day 1 of treatment to the date of death from any cause;, up to 5 years|Event free survival(EFS), Defined for all patients in a trial; measured from day 1 of treatment to the date of treatment failure, hematologic relapse from CR/CRi or death from any cause, whichever occurs first;, up to 5 years
Minimal residual disease (MRD), MRD level detected by next generation sequencing, At the end of Cycle 1 and 2（each cycle is 28 days）
This is a prospective, single-arm, phase II and open-label study. A total of 20 Ph-negative B-ALL participants will be enrolled. The primary endpoint is MRD-negative CR rate. The induction therapy is a combination of Blinatumomab(Blina), Vindesine(VDS), Cyclophosphamide(CTX) and Dexamethasone(DXM). The second cycle would be the combination of Blina and Venetoclax(VEN). As for consolidation therapy, we suggest the bone marrow transplantation. The purpose of this study is to explore the safety and efficacy of the treatment regimen in the treatment of newly diagnosed young Ph-negative B-ALL patients.