Anlotinib and Radiotherapy in Resectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of dose reduced postoperative radiotherapy combined with Anlotinib for patients of soft tissue sarcoma
Soft Tissue Sarcoma|High Risk of Recurrence|Anlotinib|Radiotherapy
DRUG: Anlotinib|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Surgery
Local Recurrence Free Survival (LRFS), From the time of surgery to the time of local recurrence identified by image examination., 36-month
Metastasis free survival (MFS), From the time of surgery to the time of metastasis identified by image examination., 36-month|Overall Survival (OS), From the time of surgery to the time of death., 36-month|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], The occurrence of each adverse events(AEs), severe AEs(SAEs) and death according the CTCAE_5.0, an average of 3 years
Right now, resection and radiotherapy (RT) is the most effective and recommended treatment for soft tissue sarcoma (STS). Local recurrence rate has significantly reduced since the application of RT. However, RT has brought a lot of complications which had disturbed patients' quality of life. Anlotinib is a novel tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting multiple factors involving tumor proliferation, vasculature, and tumor microenvironment. Anlotinib inhibits VEGF/VEGFR signaling by selectively targeting VEGFR-2,-3 and FGFR-1,-2,-3,-4 with high affinity. Anlotinib also suppresses the activity of PDGFRα/β, c-Kit, Ret, Aurora-B, c-FMS, and discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1), leading to significant inhibition of tumor proliferation. In phase I study, anlotinib showed promising antitumor potential against STS. In a phase II study, anlotinib showed antitumor activity in several STS with well tolerant and manageable adverse effect.

In this clinical study, investigators will explore the efficacy of Anlotinib combined with dose reduced postoperative radiotherapy on recurrence and metastasis control of STS. Patients with STS would receive standard treatment and recommended dose of radiotherapy. In addition, they will receive anotinib from 3 or 4 weeks after surgery, and continue for 3 months. The primary endpoint is Local Recurrence Free Survival (LRFS).