Zanubrutinib Plus GCVP (Obinutuzumab, Cyclophosphamide, Vindesine, Prednisolone) in Previously Untreated Follicular Lymphoma
Previously untreated patients with follicular lymphoma are treated with the ZGCVP regimen (zanubrutinib, obinutuzumab, cyclophosphamide, vindesine, prednisolone) for 6 cycles.
BTK Inhibitors|Follicular Lymphoma|Immunochemotherapy
DRUG: ZGCVP
CRR, Complete response rate, 21days after the end of treatment
ORR, Objective response rate, 21days after the end of treatment|DOR, Duration of response, the time from the date of initial assessment as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) until the date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 24 months|PFS, Progression free survival, the time from the date of initial treatment until the date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 24 months|OS, Overall survival, the time from the date of initial treatment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Disease Transformation Rate, The probability of histologically confirmed transformation to aggressive lymphoma among enrolled follicular lymphoma patients, From the first day of treatment until histological confirmation of transformation, death, or end of study follow-up, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 24 months
AE and SAE, Adverse event and serious adverse event, from the first day of treatment until 30 days after the last treatment
This is a prospective, single-arm, multi-center, phase II clinical study aiming at evaluating the efficacy and safety of zanubrutinib with GCVP (obinutuzumab, cyclophosphamide, vindesine, prednisolone) in untreated follicular lymphoma (FL). It includes screening (14 days before the first dose), treatment, and follow-up phases.

Screening: Recruitment subjects are grade 1-3a, stage III/IV or extensive stage II (unsuitable for radiotherapy) FL patients, with measurable lesions (short axis ≥1.5cm), meeting GELF criteria or having strong treatment desire.

Treatment: Patients receive the ZGCVP regimen for 6 cycles (21-day/cycle). Imaging evaluation was conducted at the end of every 2 cycles. Enhanced Computed Tomography (CT) and ultrasound are performed after 2 cycles of the ZGCVP regimen, while interim Positron Emission Tomography (iPET) is performed after 4/6 cycles. Bone marrow examination is required for those with initial bone marrow involvement after achieving Imaging complete response. Efficacy assessment indicators include complete response rate (CR), objection response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR), progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and disease transformation rate according to Lugano 2014 criteria. Safety assessment indicators inlude adverse events basing on CTCAE 5.0.

Follow-up: Patients achieving CR at stage II underwent observation directly; those at stage III/IV receive obinutuzumab maintenance every 8 weeks for 2 years until disease progression or withdrawal. Patients with disease progression during treatment switch to second-line therapy.