Nivo/Ipi Combination Therapy in Symptomatic Brain Metastases
The effect of nivolumab on symptomatic brain metastases is currently unknown. This phase 2 clinical trial will be the first to evaluate this intracranial effect in humans, with the aim to give these patients the possibility to be treated with anti-PD-1. Besides the objective response rate, long term benefits in this patient category will be evaluated by measuring survival in terms of progression free survival and overall survival. Furthermore safety and tolerability of administration of this drug in patients with symptomatic brain metastases will be studied, as this is the first study for nivolumab in this specific patient category.
Melanoma|Brain Metastasis
DRUG: Nivolumab
The best overall response rate (BORR) of brain metastases to nivolumab will be assessed on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) using the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases (RANO-BM) criteria., Per patient, the BORR of brain metastases to nivolumab will be assessed in terms of complete response, partial response, stable disease and progressive disease. An MRI of the brain will be used for radiologic response evaluation. Response evaluation will be performed according to the RANO-BM criteria., 2 years
The difference in BORR will be assessed between previously treated and previously untreated brain metastases using the RANO-BM criteria., 2 years|The difference in BORR will be assessed between intracranial metastases on and extra-cranial metastases within the same patient, using the RANO-BM criteria and the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria respectively., Evaluation of intracranial metastases will be performed using MRI. Evaluation of extracranial metastases will be performed using CT., 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time between the date of first documented response (CR or PR) to the date of the first documented progression as determined by the RANO-BM criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 4 years|Time to development of new brain metastases in responding patients, For all responding patients, the time between response to study treatment, as assessed on MRI using the RANO-BM criteria, occurence of new brain metastases will be measured., 4 years|Progression free survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time from first administration of nivolumab to the date of the first documented progression, as determined by the RANO-BM criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 4 years|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time between the date of first administration of nivolumab and the date of death., 4 years|The number of patients with treatment related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., 4 years
This study is an open label, single arm, phase II clinical trial of prospectively collected data evaluating efficacy and safety of nivolumab in metastatic melanoma patients with symptomatic brain metastases. It will be conducted in several study centers in the Netherlands.

Patients with radiologic evidence of brain metastases and who are eligible for treatment with nivolumab will be screened for inclusion.

All patients in this trial will receive treatment with nivolumab for 24 months. Treatment will be discontinued if confirmed disease progression has been demonstrated, if unacceptable toxicity or intercurrent illness prevents further treatment, and when informed consent is withdrawn. After discontinuation of treatment, follow-up will start. Duration of follow-up depends on survival of patients, with a maximum of 24 months. Therefore the end of this study is determined as 24 months after the last patient in this trial has started follow-up, has died, withdraws consent or is lost to follow-up for a different reason.