Temozolomide and Thalidomide in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Thalidomide may stop the growth of melanoma by stopping blood flow to the tumor. Combining chemotherapy with thalidomide may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness temozolomide plus thalidomide in treating patients who have stage III or stage IV melanoma that cannot be removed during surgery.
Intraocular Melanoma|Melanoma (Skin)
DRUG: temozolomide|DRUG: thalidomide
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of temozolomide using an extended continuous schedule in combination with thalidomide in patients with advanced melanoma.
* Determine the response rate to this combination using an extended continuous schedule at the MTD in 30 patients who have advanced metastatic melanoma without brain metastases and in 15 patients who have metastatic melanoma in the brain.
* Further characterize the safety and toxicity of this combination in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of temozolomide (phase I) followed by a response rate determination study (phase II).

Patients receive oral temozolomide daily for 6 weeks followed by 2-4 weeks of rest. Patients receive oral thalidomide daily for the entire 8-10 week course. Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of temozolomide until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicities. Once the MTD is determined, additional patients are accrued to receive treatment with temozolomide and thalidomide at the recommended phase II dose.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-24 patients will be accrued for phase I and then an additional 45 patients (15 with CNS disease, 30 without CNS disease) will be accrued for phase II of this study within 18 months.