A Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Etrolizumab Treatment in Maintenance of Disease Remission in Ulcerative Colitis (UC) Participants Who Are Naive to Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) Inhibitors
This Phase III, randomized, double-blind, parallel-grouped, placebo-controlled, multicenter study will investigate the efficacy and safety of etrolizumab in maintenance of remission in participants with moderately to severely active UC who are naive to TNF inhibitors and refractory to or intolerant of prior immunosuppressant and/or corticosteroid treatment.
Colitis, Ulcerative
DRUG: Etrolizumab|DRUG: Placebo
Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants in Remission at Week 62 Among Randomized Participants With a Clinical Response at Week 10, as Determined by the Mayo Clinic Score (MCS), MCS is a composite of 4 assessments, each rated from 0-3: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment.

Clinical Response is MCS with ≥3-point decrease and 30% reduction from baseline as well as ≥1-point decrease in rectal bleeding subscore or an absolute rectal bleeding score of 0 or 1.

Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0., Week 62
Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants Who Maintained Clinical Remission at Week 62 Among Randomized Participants in Clinical Remission at Week 10, as Determined by the MCS, MCS is a composite of 4 assessments, each rated from 0-3: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment.

Clinical Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1., Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants in Clinical Remission at Week 62, as Determined by the MCS, MCS is a composite of 4 assessments, each rated from 0-3: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment.

Clinical Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1., Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants in Remission at Week 62 Among Randomized Participants in Remission at Week 10, as Determined by the MCS, MCS is a composite of 4 assessments, each rated from 0-3: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment.

Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0., Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Improvement From Baseline in Endoscopic Appearance of the Mucosa at Week 62, as Determined by the MCS Endoscopic Subscore, MCS is a composite of 4 assessments, each rated from 0-3: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment.

Improvement in endoscopic appearance of the mucosa is Endoscopy subscore ≤1., Baseline, Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Endoscopic Remission at Week 62, as Determined by the MCS Endoscopic Subscore, MCS is a composite of 4 assessments, each rated from 0-3: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment.

Endoscopic Remission is Endoscopy subscore = 0., Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Histologic Remission at Week 62, as Determined by the Nancy Histological Index, Nancy Histological Index (NHI) is a 5-level classification ranging from grade 0 (No histologically significant disease) to grade 4 (severely active disease). Histologic remission is defined as a Nancy histological index of 0 or 1., Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Corticosteroid-Free Clinical Remission at Week 62 Among Participants Who Were Receiving Corticosteroids at Baseline, as Determined by the MCS, MCS is a composite of 4 assessments, each rated from 0-3: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment.

Clinical Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1., Baseline, Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Corticosteroid-Free Remission at Week 62 Among Participants Who Were Receiving Corticosteroids at Baseline, as Determined by the MCS, MCS is a composite of 4 assessments, each rated from 0-3: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment.

Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0., Baseline, Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 62 in UC Bowel Movement Signs and Symptoms, as Assessed by the Ulcerative Colitis Patient-Reported Outcome Signs and Symptoms (UC-PRO/SS) Questionnaire, The UC-PRO questionnaire is collected in the e-diary and completed by participants for at least 9-12 consecutive days prior to a study visit. The UC-PRO is being reported in three domains; two domains are key endpoints and reported as UC-PRO Signs and Symptoms (UC-PRO/SS).

The bowel domain score ranges from 0-27, with a higher score indicating a worse disease state., Baseline, Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 62 in UC Functional Symptoms, as Assessed by the UC-PRO/SS Questionnaire, The UC-PRO questionnaire is collected in the e-diary and completed by participants for at least 9-12 consecutive days prior to a study visit. The UC-PRO is being reported in three domains; two domains are key endpoints and reported as UC-PRO Signs and Symptoms (UC-PRO/SS).

The functional domain score ranges from 0-12, with a higher score indicating a worse disease state., Baseline, Week 62|Maintenance Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 62 in Health-Related Quality of Life, as Assessed by the Overall Score of the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ), The IBDQ is used to assess participant's health-related quality of life (QOL). The 32-item questionnaire contains four domains: bowel symptoms (10 items), systemic symptoms (5 items), emotional function (12 items), and social function (5 items). The items are scored on a 7-point Likert scale with a higher score indicating better health-related QOL.

IBDQ score is a total score summed up from across all 32 questions on the questionnaire. The score can range from 32-224 and the higher score indicates a better quality of life., Baseline, Week 62|Number of Participants With at Least One Adverse Event by Severity, According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4.0), All adverse events (AEs) were graded for severity using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0. Any AE not specifically listed was assessed per the following 5 grades: Grade 1 = mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; or intervention not indicated. Grade 2 = moderate; minimal, local, or non-invasive intervention indicated; or limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living. Grade 3 = severe or medically significant, but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; or limiting self-care activities of daily living. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences or urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE. Not all grades are appropriate for all AEs; some AEs have fewer than 5 options. The terms "severe" and "serious" are not synonymous and are independently assessed for each AE. Multiple occurrences of AEs were counted only once per participant at the highest (worst) grade., From Baseline up to Week 74|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Leading to Study Drug Discontinuation, From Baseline up to Week 74|Number of Participants With Serious Infection-Related Adverse Events, From Baseline up to Week 74|Number of Participants With Infection-Related Adverse Events by Severity, According to NCI-CTCAE v4.0, All adverse events (AEs) were graded for severity using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0. Any AE not specifically listed was assessed per the following 5 grades: Grade 1 = mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; or intervention not indicated. Grade 2 = moderate; minimal, local, or non-invasive intervention indicated; or limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living. Grade 3 = severe or medically significant, but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; or limiting self-care activities of daily living. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences or urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE. Not all grades are appropriate for all AEs; some AEs have fewer than 5 options. The terms "severe" and "serious" are not synonymous and are independently assessed for each AE. Multiple occurrences of AEs were counted only once per participant at the highest (worst) grade., From Baseline up to Week 74|Number of Participants With Injection-Site Reactions by Severity, According to NCI-CTCAE v4.0, All adverse events (AEs) were graded for severity using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0. Any AE not specifically listed was assessed per the following 5 grades: Grade 1 = mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; or intervention not indicated. Grade 2 = moderate; minimal, local, or non-invasive intervention indicated; or limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living. Grade 3 = severe or medically significant, but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; or limiting self-care activities of daily living. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences or urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE. Not all grades are appropriate for all AEs; some AEs have fewer than 5 options. The terms "severe" and "serious" are not synonymous and are independently assessed for each AE. Multiple occurrences of AEs were counted only once per participant at the highest (worst) grade., From Baseline up to Week 74|Number of Participants With Hypersensitivity Reaction Events by Severity, According to NCI-CTCAE v4.0, All adverse events (AEs) were graded for severity using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0. Any AE not specifically listed was assessed per the following 5 grades: Grade 1 = mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; or intervention not indicated. Grade 2 = moderate; minimal, local, or non-invasive intervention indicated; or limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living. Grade 3 = severe or medically significant, but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; or limiting self-care activities of daily living. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences or urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE. Not all grades are appropriate for all AEs; some AEs have fewer than 5 options. The terms "severe" and "serious" are not synonymous and are independently assessed for each AE. Multiple occurrences of AEs were counted only once per participant at the highest (worst) grade., From Baseline up to Week 74|Number of Participants With Malignancies, From Baseline up to Week 74|Number of Participants With Anti-Therapeutic Antibodies (ATAs) to Etrolizumab, Baseline, Weeks 4, 12, 24, 44, and 62, and and Early Termination/End of Safety Follow-Up (up to Week 74)|Maintenance Phase: Etrolizumab Serum Trough Concentration (for Arms/Timepoints Above LLOQ), As per protocol, the timepoints for each arm where more than a third of the samples were above the lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ), full summary statistics (Mean and Standard Deviation) were reported. For timepoints below the LLOQ, only the Median and Max were reported as a separate outcome measure below., Pre-dose (0 hour) at Baseline and Weeks 12, 24, 44, and 62|Maintenance Phase: Etrolizumab Serum Trough Concentration (for Arms/Timepoints Below LLOQ), As per protocol, the timepoints for each arm where more than a third of the samples were below the LLOQ only the Median and Max were reported., Pre-dose (0 hour) at Baseline and Weeks 12, 24, 44, and 62
This Phase III, randomized, double-blind, parallel-grouped, placebo-controlled, multicenter study will investigate the efficacy and safety of etrolizumab in maintenance of remission in participants with moderately to severely active UC who are naive to TNF inhibitors and refractory to or intolerant of prior immunosuppressant and/or corticosteroid treatment.