A Study of MLN0264 in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of MLN0264 in patients with advanced or metastatic guanylyl cyclase C (GCC)-positive adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: MLN0264
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions, non-target lesions, no new lesions, and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, no progression in non-target lesion, and no new lesions., Day 21, every other cycle, starting with Cycle 2 until disease progression, death or study closure (Up to 16 months)
Number of Participants With Potentially Clinically Significant Laboratory Evaluation Findings, Participants with at least one post-baseline potentially clinically significant serum chemistry, hematology, coagulation or urinalysis result. Clinically significant results are those that were assessed by the investigator to be Grade 3 or higher using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE). Grade 3=severe, Grade 4=life threatening or disabling and Grade 5=Death., Day 1 of each 21 day cycle and 30 days after the last dose of study medication (Up to 7.9 months)|Number of Participants With Potentially Clinically Significant Vital Signs Findings, Participants with at least one potentially clinically significant post-baseline vital sign finding including measurements of diastolic and systolic blood pressure, heart rate, and oral temperature., Day 1 of each 21 day cycle and 30 days after the last dose of study medication (Up to 7.9 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time in days from the date of first study drug administration to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Day 21 of every other 21-day cycle starting with Cycle 2, 30 days after the last dose of study medication, and then every 12 weeks for up to an additional 6 months (Up to 13.9 months)|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a Partial Response or better to the date of first documentation of disease progression or relapse based on investigator assessment using RECIST version 1.1 guidelines. Per RECIST version 1.1 for target lesions and assessed by MRI: CR, Disappearance of all target lesions; PR, \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., From first documented response until disease progression (Up to 16 months)|Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate is defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) with a minimum of 12 weeks' duration. Investigator response is based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions, non-target lesions, no new lesions, and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, no progression in non-target lesion, and no new lesions. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter (LD) since the treatment started., Day 21 of every other 21-day cycle starting with Cycle 2, 30 days after the last dose of study medication, and then every 12 weeks for up to an additional 6 months (Up to 13.9 months)|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time in days from the date of first study drug administration to the date of death., Until death or 6 months after the last patient completes treatment-whichever occurs first (Up to 16 months)|Cmax: Maximum Observed Serum Concentration for MLN0264, Cycles 1-3 predose and 10 minutes, 4 hours, and 3, 4, 8 and 15 days postdose. Cycles 4+ predose, 10 minutes, 4 hours, and 4 and 8 days postdose.|Serum Concentration of Monomethyl Auristatin E (MMAE), Blood samples were collected and sent to a laboratory to be tested for MMAE., Cycles 1-3 predose and 10 minutes, 4 hours, and 3, 4, 8 and 15 days postdose. Cycles 4+ predose, 10 minutes, 4 hours, and 4 and 8 days postdose.|Guanylyl Cyclase C (GCC) H-score Assessed by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), GCC H-score is based on the sum of the 0 to 300 H-score for cytoplasmic staining and the 0 to 300 H-score for apical staining for a total possible H-score 0 to 600. Separate consent is required to obtain archival tumor specimens for GCC expression assessment prior to screening., From pre-screening through end of study (approximately 18 months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product; the untoward medical occurrence does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. An SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of an existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is a medically important event., From the first dose through 30 days after the last dose of study medication (Up to 7.9 months)|MLN0264 Serum Concentrations, Blood samples were collected and sent to a laboratory to be tested for serum concentrations of MLN0264., Cycles 1-3 predose and 10 minutes, 4 hours, and 3, 4, 8 and 15 days postdose. Cycles 4+ predose, 10 minutes, 4 hours, and 4 and 8 days postdose.|Serum Concentration of Total Antibodies (Conjugated and Unconjugated), Blood samples were collected and sent to a laboratory to be tested for conjugated and unconjugated antibodies., Cycles 1-3 predose and 10 minutes, 4 hours, and 3, 4, 8 and 15 days postdose. Cycles 4+ predose, 10 minutes, 4 hours, and 4 and 8 days postdose.|Percentage of Participants With Reduction From Baseline in Tumor Size, The percentage of participants with the best percentage of tumor reduction from baseline in the sum of the diameter was calculated, Day 21 of each 21-day cycle, 30 days after the last dose of study medication, and then every 12 weeks for up to an additional 6 months (Approximately 13.9 months)|Number of Participants With Antitherapeutic Antibodies (ATA), Blood samples were collected to assess the immunogenicity of MLN0264 (ATA development) using a laboratory test. Neutralizing ATA assessment was performed for ATA-positive samples only., Pre-dose of each 21 day cycle and 30 days after last dose of study medication (Up to 7.9 months)
The drug being tested in this study is called MLN0264. MLN0264 is being tested to treat tumors in people who have metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas expressing guanylyl cyclase C (GCC). This study will assess tumor size reduction in patients who are administered MLN0264.

The study will enroll 42 to 81 patients. All participants will be administered MLN0264 at 1.8 mg/kg as a single, 30-minute, intravenous (IV) infusion on Day 1 of each 3-week treatment cycle, followed by a rest period of 20 days. Participants will continue to receive MLN0264 for up to 1 year or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.

This multi-centre trial will be conducted worldwide. The overall time to participate in this study is approximately 19 months. Participants will make 3 to 6 visits to the clinic per treatment cycle, an end-of-treatment visit will occur 30 days after the last dose of study medication, and follow-up assessments will occur every 12 weeks until death or 6 months after the last patient completes treatment - whichever occurs first.