Phase I Study of SHR7390 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This aim of study to assess the safety and tolerability of SHR7390 and to define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of SHR7390 in the patients with advanced solid tumors.

To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of SHR7390 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

To study the effects of food on the pharmacokinetic parameters of SHR7390. To assess the antitumor activity of SHR7390 in patients with advanced solid tumors preliminarily and recommend reasonable dosage regimen for the follow-up clinical trial.
Solid Tumor
DRUG: SHR7390
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), to assess safety and tolerability of SHR7390 with a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of SHR7390 in patients with advanced solid tumors, Day 1 to 28 ( Cycle 1)
The measurement of maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The measurement of the area under the plasma concentration-time versus time curve(AUC), Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The measurement of elimination half life (T1/2), Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The measurement of time of maximum plasma concentration (Tmax), Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The Measurement of mean retention time (MRT), Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The measurement of apparent volume of distribution (Vd), Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The measurement of clearance (Cl), Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The measurement of linear Relationship, Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The measurement of drug accumulation ratio, Up to 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|The comparison of maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) in the fed and fasted states, 2 weeks|The comparison of the area under the plasma concentration-time versus time curve(AUC) in the fed and fasted states, 2 weeks|The comparison of elimination half life(T1/2) in the fed and fasted states, 2 weeks|The comparison of time of maximum concentration (Tmax) in the fed and fasted states, 2 weeks|The comparison of mean retention time (MRT) in the fed and fasted states, 2 weeks|The comparison of apparent volume of distribution (Vd）in the fed and fasted states, 2 weeks|The comparison of clearance (Cl) in the fed and fasted states, 2 weeks|The comparison of AUC 0-24h in the fed and fasted states, 2 weeks|The imaging data of the subjects will be evaluated at the ends of cycle 1 and cycle 2 by RECIST1.1 evaluation criteria separately., 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|Response rate objective (ORR) will be evaluated at the different dose levels, 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)|Disease control rate (DCR) will be evaluated at the different dose levels, 2 cycles(each cycle 28 days)
This is an open-label, dose escalation study of repeated doses of SHR7390 in the patients with advanced solid tumors that have no targeted agent as standard of therapy.

A study cycle is defined as SHR7390 administered once daily orally for 28 days. Dose limiting toxicities (DLT) will be assessed in the first cycle of treatment. the trial is dose escalation and is designed by Accelerated Titration Designs during initial accelerated phase. when the significant toxicity or DLT is observed in any course of treatment,the accelerated titration trial terminates and subsequent cohort sizes and dose escalation are a conventional design of 3+3 patients. If one adverse event （AE） meets dose limiting toxicity (DLT) criteria at a given dose, 3 additional patients will be enrolled in this dose cohort. If 2 DLTs are determined at a given dose level, this dose will be designated as the MTD.

Additional patients will be enrolled for PK evaluations at different dose levels based on preliminary safety and tolerability. Multiple blood samples at designated time points will be collected for PK evaluations.

The safety, tolerability and AEs will be closely monitored throughout the study duration. The preliminary effectiveness and clinical benefits of SHR7390 will be evaluated as a single agent.

The evaluation of the effects of a high-fat, high-calorie meal on the single-dose pharmacokinetics (PK) of SHR7390.The design to assess food-effect is a randomized, balanced, 2-treatment(fed vs. fasted), separated by an adequate wash-out period.