Erlotinib Hydrochloride and Radiation Therapy in Stage III-IV Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck
RATIONALE: Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Erlotinib hydrochloride may also make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x- rays and other types of radiation to kill tumor cells. Giving erlotinib hydrochloride together with radiation therapy may be an effective treatment for patients with head and neck cancer.PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving erlotinib hydrochloride together with radiation therapy works in treating patients with stage III-IV squamous cell cancer of the head and neck.
Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IV Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiation therapy|OTHER: pharmacogenomic studies|OTHER: gene expression analysis|RADIATION: 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy|OTHER: biopsy|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay|OTHER: polymorphism analysis
Time to Disease Progression, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever status is recorded first) until the first date that recurrence or PD is objectively documented, taking as reference for PD the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started. Disease progression free survival (PFS) is measured from start of treatment to the date of disease progression or protocol-designated outcome, whichever occurs first and censored at the date of last followed for those survivors without disease progression

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Measured via Conventional CT and MRI, 1 year and 10 months following study start
Objective Response Rate, Number of patients with complete response, partial response, stable disease, or progressive disease. Assessed via Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0): Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. Measured via conventional CT and MRI, 1 year and 10 months following study start|Patterns of Failure, 5 yrs following treatment|Toxicities, Number of Persons With Adverse Events, Number of participants who experienced adverse events (AE's) and serious adverse events (SAE's) during the course of the trial according to CTCAE (4.0), up to 2 yrs after treatment|Quality of Life Assessment as Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G) Test, Quality of Life (QOL) measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) on a 0-108 scale, with lower scores corresponding to worse overall QOL and higher scores corresponding to better overall QOL., after treatment at 6 mos|Locoregional Control Rate, 5 yrs following treatment
Pharmacokinetic Data, Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of erlotinib. Additional analyses of the pharmacokinetic data on patients receiving daily erlotinib treatment via their feeding tube will be conducted., pre-treatment then weekly|Lab Correlates, Determine the effect of treatment and dose of treatment on biologic correlates in tumor tissue and/or surrounding mucosa., 2 yrs post concurrent chemo-radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:I. To determine the time to progression of the combination of the EGFR inhibitor erlotinib and radiation therapy. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:I. To determine objective response rate, locoregional control rate, duration of response, patterns of failure, overall survival, toxicities and quality of life outcomes of the combination of erlotinib and concurrent radiation therapy.II. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of erlotinib. Additional analyses of the pharmacokinetic data on patients receiving daily erlotinib treatment via their feeding tube will be conducted. III. To determine the effect of treatment and dose of treatment on biologic correlates in tumor tissue and/or surrounding mucosa, EGFR expression and phosphorylation status, serum markers of angiogenic activity VEGF, sVEGFR-2, sKIT, ICAM, PDGF, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for ERBB2 for gene amplification, DNA-sequencing of EGFR and ERBB2 genes from DNA extracted from pretreatment biopsy material for mutation screening, gene expression profiling on pre-treatment biopsy material to identify predictors of response to treatment, apoptosis (TUNEL assay), Ki67 (nuclear proliferation antigen)IV. To determine the utility of the comprehensive geriatric assessment, in predicting tolerance to treatment in patients \>= 65 years included in this trial. OUTLINE: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally or via gastrostomy tube once daily in weeks 1-9 and then for 2 years following completion of radiation therapy. Beginning on day 1 of week 2, patients undergo radiation therapy once daily, 5 times a week, for 5-7 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 months, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 2 years.