A Study of E7090 in Participants With Unresectable Advanced or Metastatic Cholangiocarcinoma With Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor (FGFR) 2 Gene Fusion
The primary purpose of the study is to assess the objective response rate (ORR) of E7090 by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 based on independent imaging review (IIR) in participants with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 gene fusion who failed gemcitabine-based combination chemotherapy.
Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: E7090
ORR, The ORR will be assessed by IIR based on RECIST version 1.1. ORR is defined as a percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: disappearance of all (targeted and non-target \[NT\]) lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: greater than or equal to (\>=) 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-progressive disease (non-PD) response for (NT) lesions., From first dose of study drug until disease progression, development of unacceptable toxicity, participant requests to discontinue, withdrawal of consent or study termination (up to approximately 6 years 2 months)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be assessed by IIR based on RECIST version 1.1. PFS is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or date of death from any cause, whichever occurs first. PD per RECIST 1.1 is defined as at least a 20% relative increase and 5 mm absolute increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study) recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From the date of first dose to the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 6 years 2 months)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR will be assessed by IIR based on RECIST version 1.1. DOR is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of CR or PR to the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurs first. CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: greater than or equal to \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-PD response for NT lesions., From the date of first documentation of CR or PR to the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 6 years 2 months)|Time to Response (TTR), TTR will be assessed by IIR based on RECIST version 1.1. TTR is defined as the time from the date of first study dose to the date of first documentation of CR or PR. CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: greater than or equal to \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-PD response for NT lesions., from the date of first study dose to the date of first documentation of CR or PR (up to approximately 6 years 2 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause. For the participants who are alive or unknown, OS is censored as the date of last known alive date., From the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause (up to approximately 6 years 2 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR will be assessed by IIR based on RECIST version 1.1. DCR is defined as a percentage of participants with BOR of CR, PR or stable disease (SD). The BOR of SD has to be observed greater than or equal to (\>=) 7 weeks from the date of first study dose. CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: greater than or equal to \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-PD response for NT lesions., From first dose of study drug until disease progression, development of unacceptable toxicity, participant requests to discontinue, withdrawal of consent or study termination (up to approximately 6 years 2 months)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR will be assessed by IIR based on RECIST version 1.1. CBR is defined as a percentage of participants with BOR of CR, PR or durable SD (dSD) (duration of SD \>=23 weeks). CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: greater than or equal to \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-PD response for NT lesions., From first dose of study drug until disease progression, development of unacceptable toxicity, participant requests to discontinue, withdrawal of consent or study termination (up to approximately 6 years 2 months)
The primary purpose of the study is to assess the objective response rate (ORR) of E7090 by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 based on independent imaging review (IIR) in participants with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 gene fusion who failed gemcitabine-based combination chemotherapy.