mFOLFIRINOX Followed by Hepatic Arterial Infusion of Floxuridine and Dexamethasone With Systemic mFOLFIRI for Unresectable Liver-dominant Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
This phase II trial studies the efficacy and safety of systemic induction of mFOLFIRINOX, followed by hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) floxuridine-dexamethasone administered concurrently with systemic mFOLFIRI in treating patients with liver-dominant intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Drugs used in chemotherapy regimens, such as mFOLFIRINOX and mFOLFIRI (Oxaliplatin, Irinotecan, Fluorouracil, Folinic acid, Floxuridine) work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Delivering chemotherapy via HAI (hepatic arterial infusion) can allow for liver-directed treatment while limiting toxic side effects typically seen with traditional chemotherapy.
Liver and Intrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma|Stage III Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Floxuridine|DEVICE: Implanted Medical Device|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Incidence of abnormal liver function, Defined by unacceptable elevation in liver enzymes, or radiographic evidence of biliary sclerosis on computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (as measured following the completion of 2 cycles of hepatic arterial infusion \[HAI\] in Treatment Period 2)., Up to 2 years|Disease control rate (DCR) - during HAI+SYS, DCR is defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD). Measured from beginning of Treatment Period 2 to end of Treatment Period 2 during treatment with HAI + systemic chemotherapy (SYS)., Up to 2 years
DCR - entire treatment, Measured from beginning of Treatment Period 1 to end of Treatment Period 2 (i.e., from the beginning of the entire treatment protocol until the end)., Up to 2 years|DCR - FOLFIRINOX, Measured from beginning of Treatment Period 1 to end of Treatment Period 1 (i.e., during the treatment with oxaliplatin, irinotecan, and fluorouracil \[FOLFIRINOX\] alone)., Up to 1 year|Progression free survival (PFS) - FOLFIRINOX, Measured from beginning of Treatment Period 1 to end of Treatment Period 1 (i.e., during the treatment with FOLFIRINOX alone)., Up to 1 year|PFS, Measured from beginning of Treatment Period 2 to up to 1 year after the end of Treatment Period 2 (i.e., during the treatment with HAI floxuridine + irinotecan hydrochloride and leucovorin calcium \[folinic acid\] \[modified(m)FOLFIRI\]., Up to 2 years|Overall response rate (ORR), Measured from beginning of Treatment Period 1 to end of Treatment Period 2 (i.e., from the beginning of the entire treatment protocol until the end)., Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Measured at the end of Treatment Period 1, at the end of Treatment Period 2, and at 1 year, and the whole study period., Up to 2 years|Proportion of liver toxicity in participants receiving HAI floxuridine + dexamethasone therapy, Up to 1 year|Incidence of serious post-operative complications, Defined as complications occurring within 9 weeks following surgery and \>= grade III per the Clavien-Dindo classification system., Up to 9 weeks after surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the toxicity, safety and tolerability of hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) floxuridine therapy.

II. Evaluate the efficacy of systemic induction of oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium (folinic acid), irinotecan hydrochloride, and fluorouracil (modified \[m\] FOLFIRINOX), followed by HAI of floxuridine-dexamethasone (DEX) administered concurrently with systemic irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium (folinic acid), and fluorouracil (mFOLFIRI).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate tumor response to treatment and participant survival. II. Assess rate of post-operative complications. III. Evaluate serious post-operative complications following surgical placement of the HAI pump.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the radiographic response using diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) as part of an magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination.

II. Determine whether, compared to historical controls, induction mFOLFIRINOX combined with integrated HAI of floxuridine-DEX and systemic mFOLFIRI treatment will improve patient quality of life (QoL) including fatigue and depression.

III. Investigate molecular signature associated with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC).

IV. Generate a differential expression pattern of ribonucleic acid (RNA)s (microRNA \[miR\] and messenger RNA \[mRNA\]) in patients with ICC derived from tumor samples compared to adjacent normal liver samples as well as lymphatic tissue, blood and bile).

V. Characterize the changes in the population of circulating hybrid cells (CHCs) pre-, during, and post-treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a phase II, single arm, study that consists of a two-part treatment plan (Treatment Periods 1 and 2) of systemic induction of mFOLFIRINOX, followed by HAI floxuridine-DEX administered concurrently with systemic mFOLFIRI. The first 6 patients enrolled will be part of a safety run-in, after which enrollment could be expanded to additional 24.

After laparoscopic staging, eligible patients will receive a systemic regimen of mFOLFIRINOX with 25% dose reduction of oxaliplatin, irinotecan, and fluorouracil administered every 2-weeks for 4 cycles (8 weeks) (Treatment Period 1). After completing mFOLFIRINOX induction, participants' disease will be re-evaluated by MRI/CT imaging. Only those that achieve disease control based on RECIST criteria (v1.1) will be eligible for HAI therapy via a laparotomy and placement of a HAI pump. (Treatment Period 2).

After completing 2 cycles of HAI treatment with concurrent FOLFIRI, participants will undergo repeat MRI/CT imaging to assess disease response. An image-guided liver biopsy will be performed after completion of the 8 weeks of treatment of HAI floxuridine/dexamethasone combined with systemic mFOLFIRI of Treatment Period 2. Optional extrahepatic biopsies may be collected from participants demonstrating disease progression. Participants with controlled disease (as defined by RECIST criteria) may receive additional cycles of HAI-delivered floxuridine and dexamethasone, along with systemic administration of mFOLFIRI. Completion of QoL questionnaires and interviews will take place at baseline, at the end of treatment period 1 and prior to each HAI treatment cycle, and again at the end of study, and again from the End of Study up to 24 months post study.