Fatigue in Emergency Center Patients
1. To describe fatigue severity and its related symptom clusters in cancer patients who are seeking emergency care for fever, pain, shortness of breath, or cancer therapy-related gastrointestinal toxicities.
2. To describe inflammatory cytokine profiles in cancer patients who are seeking emergency care for fever, pain, shortness of breath, or cancer therapy-related gastrointestinal toxicities.
3. To determine the type of cytokines that are associated with fatigue severity in cancer patients, with or without cancer treatment, in the early phase of infection, as well as in patients with pain, shortness of breath, or cancer therapy-related gastrointestinal toxicities.
Advanced Cancer|Hematologic Malignancy|Fatigue
BEHAVIORAL: Surveys
Patient Fatigue Severity Scores Assessed With MDASI, Descriptive factor and cluster analysis using MD Anderson Symptom Index (MDASI) 13 core symptom items to form 1) treatment-related factor (nausea and vomiting) and 2) general severity factor (the remaining 11 core symptom items). Patients rate intensity and interference of symptoms on 0-10 numeric scales from "not present" to "as bad as you can imagine." Patients also rate the amount of interference with daily activities caused by symptoms on 0-10 numeric scales from "did not interfere" to "interfered completely.", Survey and blood draw done within 24 hours of patient's Emergency Center visit
One of the ways to learn about the symptoms of cancer and the effect of cancer treatment is by rating how severe symptoms are and how they interfere with daily activity. Researchers can also compare these ratings to the levels of certain proteins called cytokines that are found in the blood while the patient is experiencing symptoms.

If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete 2 surveys during your Emergency Center visit. One survey will measure physical and mental symptoms (such as sadness or distress). The other survey will ask you for personal "demographic" information (such as your age and marital status). Completing the questionnaires will take about 10-15 minutes. During the Emergency Center visit, about 1 tablespoon of blood will be drawn for cytokine testing.

Research staff will also collect other information from your medical record, clinical information, and lab results. This information may include cancer diagnosis, cancer treatment, performance status (your ability to perform daily activities), disease status, and any medications you are taking at that time.

This is an investigational study. About 520 patients will participate in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.