Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Clinical Local Advanced CRC Following Preoperational Therapies and pT0-3N0M0 Diagnosis
Adjuvant chemotherapy was unnecessary in pathological stage Ⅱ colorectal cancer following initial treatment of surgery without high risk factors of recurrences. The treatment efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy for pT1-3N0M0 colorectal cancer following preoperational chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy remains unclear. Part of clinical local advanced colorectal cancer(cTxN1-2M0), which turn out to be pT0-3N0M0 after preoperational chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy, might not really need adjuvant chemotherapy due to the down-stage efficacy of the preoperational treatments, or the misleading by lymph nodes false-positive imaging diagnosis.
Colorectal Cancer|Adjuvant Chemotherapy
BEHAVIORAL: wait and watch|DRUG: adjuvant chemotherapy
disease free survival, 3years disease-free survival rate, 3years
overall survival, 5years overall survival rate, 5years|adverse reaction of adjuvant therapies, Rate of participants with myelosuppression, gastrointestinal reaction, infection, lose hair, 3years|remission rate of adjuvant therapies, CRC remission evaluation using RECIST after adjuvant therapies, 1year|death rate within 30 days post surgery, death related directly with operation within 30 days, 30days|complication in 30 days post surgery, Rate of participants with complications such as bleeding，infection，anastomotic fistula,etc, 30days
Colorectal cancer(CRC) nowadays rank the 3rd incidence and the 4th mortality in all cancers worldwide(ref). Although the coloscopy or liquid biopsy screen has improved the early diagnosis of CRC, about 26.5-36.0% of the patients were diagnosed local advanced CRC at the first visit. Part of clinical local advanced colorectal cancer(cTxN1-2M0), which turn out to be pT1-3N0M0 after preoperational chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy, might not really need adjuvant chemotherapy due to the down-stage efficacy of the preoperational treatments, or the misleading by lymph nodes false-positive imaging diagnosis. Adjuvant chemotherapy was been admitted unnecessary in the pathological stage ⅡA (pT0-3N0M0) CRC following initial treatment of surgery without high risk factors of recurrences. The treatment efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy for pT1-3N0M0 CRC following preoperational chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy remains unclear. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy/safety of adjuvant chemotherapy in clinical local advanced CRC (cTxN1/2M0) following preoperational adjuvant therapies and pathologically proved pT0-3N0M0 CRC. Patients are randomized to control group(down-staged pT0-3N0M0 CRC with 6 to 8 periods adjuvant chemotherapy) and experimental group(watch group, down-staged pT0-3N0M0 CRC without adjuvant chemotherapy). The primary endpoint is the 3-years disease-free survival after surgery. Secondary endpoints evaluate long-term clinical outcomes, in particular overall survival and side effect of chemotherapy.