Feasibility Testing and Evaluation of an Online Toolkit for Male Spouses of Women With Breast Cancer
Male partners of women with breast cancer experience distress, so we want to develop a way to support them so they, in turn, can care for their wives. The purpose is to pilot test an online male spouse transition toolkit (MaTT) that the research team has developed. The specific aims are to: a) evaluate the Toolkit for ease of use, acceptability, and feasibility, and; b) collect preliminary data to determine potential effectiveness of the Toolkit in increasing hope, general self-efficacy and quality of life, and its potential effectiveness in decreasing guilt scores for male partners of women with breast cancer (stages 1-3).
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Male Spouse Transition Toolkit
Hope, Hope is measured by the Herth Hope Index (HHI). The Herth Hope Index is a 12 item (1-4 point) Likert scale that delineates three sub-scales of hope: a) temporarility and future, b) positive readiness and expectancy, and c) interconnectedness. The HHI has been found to take approximately 5 minutes to complete. Summative scores range from 12-48, with a higher score denoting greater hope. This scale has been found to be reliable (test-retest r=91, p\<0.05) and valid (concurrent validity, r=84, p.,0.05; criterion, r=92, p,0.05; divergent, r=-0.73, p. 0.05)., Change from baseline at day 7, 14, 28, and 56
Quality of Life, Caregiver quality of life is measured by the Caregiver Quality of Life-Cancer (CQOL-C) scale. This scale was developed specifically for family caregivers of persons with cancer. It consists of 35 items using a five-point Likert-type scale. It has four sub-scales: burden (physical and emotional), disruptiveness, positive adaptation and financial concerns. Higher scores reflect higher quality of life. It can be completed in 10 minutes and is considered easy to use. Test-retest reliability was found to be r=0.95 with an internal consistency of r=0.91. it was chosen for this study because it is easy to use and was developed based on quality of life studies of caregivers of persons with cancer., Change from baseline at day 7, 14, 28 and 56
General self-efficacy, General Self-efficacy is measured using the General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSES). This 10 item (0-4) Likert type scale produces a total perceived self-efficacy score. Higher scores indicate a higher self-efficacy or the confidence of one's ability to deal with adverse situations. It has a maximum score of 40., change from baseline at day 7, 14, 28, and 56|Caregiver guilt, Caregiver guilt is measured by the Caregiver Guilt Questionnaire. This 22 item scale measures guilt on a five-point Likert scale (0 "Never" to 4 "Always") with a total range between 0 and 88. A higher score indicates that the respondent experienced more feelings of guilt related to their care giving. Cronbach's alpha indicated excellent internal consistency at 0.926., change from baseline at day 7 , 14, 28, and 56
Male partners of women with breast cancer experience distress, so we want to develop a way to support them so they, in turn, can care for their wives. The purpose is to pilot test an online male spouse transition toolkit (MaTT) that the research team has developed. The specific aims are to: a) evaluate the Toolkit for ease of use, acceptability, and feasibility, and; b) collect preliminary data to determine potential effectiveness of the Toolkit in increasing hope, general self-efficacy and quality of life, and its potential effectiveness in decreasing guilt scores for male partners of women with breast cancer (stages 1-3).