Caspofungin Acetate, Fluconazole, or Voriconazole in Preventing Fungal Infections in Patients Following Donor Stem Cell Transplant
This randomized phase III trial studies how well caspofungin acetate works compared to fluconazole or voriconazole in preventing fungal infections in patients following donor stem cell transplant. Caspofungin acetate, fluconazole, and voriconazole may be effective in preventing fungal infections in patients following donor stem cell transplant. It is not yet known whether caspofungin acetate is more effective than fluconazole or voriconazole in preventing fungal infections in patients following donor stem cell transplant.
Fungal Infection|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm
DRUG: Caspofungin Acetate|DRUG: Fluconazole|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Voriconazole
42-day-cumulative Incidence of Proven or Probable Invasive Fungal Infections (IFI), Kaplan-Meier curves will be used to estimate the 42- day-cumulative incidence of proven/probable IFI following allogeneic HCT for patients randomized to the 2 arms. Proven or probable IFI is defined according to criteria developed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)/Mycoses Study Group (MSG)., Up to 42 days following allogeneic HCT
100-day-cumulative Incidence of Proven or Probable IFI, Kaplan-Meier curves will be used to estimate the 100- day-cumulative incidence of proven/probable IFI following allogeneic HCT for patients randomized to the 2 arms. Proven or probable IFI is defined according to criteria developed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)/Mycoses Study Group (MSG)., Up to day 100 following allogeneic HCT|Fungal-free-survival, Defined as time to death or proven/probable IFI during the first 42 days following allogeneic HCT., Up to 42 days following allogeneic HCT|Incidence of Overall Clinical GVHD Grades III and IV, The percentage distribution of overall clinical grades III and IV will be estimated for each arm., Up to 100 days after allogeneic HCT|Incidence of Overall Clinical GVHD Grades II to IV, The percentage distribution of overall clinical grades II and IV will be estimated for each arm., Up to 100 days after allogeneic HCT|Fungal-free-survival, Defined as time to death or proven/probable IFI during the first 100 days following allogeneic HCT., Up to 100 days following allogeneic HCT|Sensitivity of Beta-D Glucan Assay for the Diagnosis of IFI Using Fungitell Assay, Sensitivity of the beta-D glucan assay will be determined using standard formulas and EORTC/MSG criteria as the gold standard., Up to day 42 following allogeneic HCT|Specificity of Beta-D Glucan Assay for the Diagnosis of IFI Using Fungitell Assay, Specificity of the beta-D glucan assay will be determined using standard formulas and EORTC/MSG criteria as the gold standard., Up to day 42 following allogeneic HCT|Positive Predictive Value of Beta-D Glucan Assay for the Diagnosis of IFI Using Fungitell Assay, Positive predictive value of the beta-D glucan assay will be determined using standard formulas and EORTC/MSG criteria as the gold standard., Up to day 42 following allogeneic HCT|Negative Predictive Value of Beta-D Glucan Assay for the Diagnosis of IFI Using Fungitell Assay, Negative predictive value of the beta-D glucan assay will be determined using standard formulas and EORTC/MSG criteria as the gold standard., Up to day 42 following allogeneic HCT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if caspofungin (caspofungin acetate) is associated with a lower incidence of proven/probable invasive fungal infections (IFI) during the first 42 days following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) at high-risk for IFI compared with azole (fluconazole or voriconazole) prophylaxis.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if caspofungin is associated with a lower incidence of proven/probable IFI during the first 100 days following high-risk allogeneic HCT compared with azole (fluconazole or voriconazole) prophylaxis. (Exploratory) II. To determine if caspofungin is associated with a lower incidence of proven/probable IFI during the first 42 and 100 days following high-risk allogeneic HCT compared with fluconazole prophylaxis. (Exploratory) III. To determine if caspofungin is associated with a lower incidence of proven/probable IFI during the first 42 and 100 days following high-risk allogeneic HCT compared with voriconazole prophylaxis. (Exploratory) IV. To determine if caspofungin is associated with a superior fungal-free survival (FFS) (time to death or proven/probable IFI) at 42 and 100 days following high-risk allogeneic HCT compared with azole prophylaxis. (Exploratory) V. To describe the effect that caspofungin and azoles have on the incidence and severity of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). (Exploratory) VI. To define the test characteristics of weekly Fungitell assay testing for identifying IFI in pediatric hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) recipients receiving antifungal prophylaxis during the post-transplant neutropenic period. (Exploratory) VII. To create a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) specimen bank in anticipation of the development of biology correlative studies exploring the relationship between IFI and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of genes involved in immunity. (Exploratory)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive caspofungin acetate intravenously (IV) over 1 hour once daily (QD) beginning within 24 hours of allogeneic HSCT (day -1 or 0) and continuing until day 42 in the absence of invasive fungal infections or disease progression.

ARM II: Patients receive fluconazole IV over 1-2 hours QD or orally (PO) QD; or voriconazole IV over 1-2 hours QD or PO twice daily (BID) beginning within 24 hours of allogeneic HSCT (day -1 or 0) and continuing until day 42 in the absence of invasive fungal infections or disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up until day 100.