Safely Stopping Pre-medications in Patients With Breast Cancer Who Are Receiving Paclitaxel
This phase II/III trial investigates the difference in rates of infusion hypersensitivity reaction in patients with breast cancer who are receiving paclitaxel alone or in combination with other cancer drugs which require parenteral rescue medication after stopping standard pre-medications (dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, famotidine/cimetidine/ranitidine), compared to continuing premedications. Paclitaxel is a drug used to treat breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and autoimmune deficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related Kaposi sarcoma. It blocks cell growth by stopping cell division and may kill cancer cells. It is a type of antimitotic agent. However, there are side-effects and toxicities associated with repeat exposure to this pre-medication regimen. With prolonged use of paclitaxel, especially during weekly regimens, patients are exposed to repeat doses of drugs that prevent hypersensitivity reactions. Side effects include, but are not limited to, insomnia, gastritis, fluid retention, weight gain, mood changes and immune suppression. The information gained from this study may positively influence clinical practice and help researchers develop methods to safely stop pre-medications.
Anatomic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Carcinoma|Prognostic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Cimetidine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Diphenhydramine|DRUG: Famotidine|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Ranitidine
Proportion of patients with grade 2 or greater reactions that require parenteral rescue medications to treat an infusion hypersensitivity reaction (HSR) after the first 2 doses of paclitaxel with or without continued premedication dosing, The proportion of patients having infusion HSR of grade 2 or greater requiring parental treatment (rescue medications) will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval. The difference in proportions of patients with grade 2 or greater infusion HSR needing rescue medication will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval using the Z-test of normal approximations of the binomial distributions. As a sensitivity analysis, will repeat the analysis including patients assigned to the discontinuation arm but decided to restart pre-medications and patients assigned to the continuation arm but demanded to have premedications discontinued as having experienced HSR., Up to 6 years
Correlation between abbreviated premedication regimen results to quality of life (QoL), Will determine whether an abbreviated pre-medication regimen results in improvement in patient-reported quality of life, as measured by an 11-point numerical analog scale. Patient-reported quality of life, based on a single item 11-point numerical analog scale at each time point as well as change from baseline will be summarized by median (range) separately by treatment arm. Median (mean) QoL scores will be plotted longitudinally by treatment arm. QoL change from baseline will be compared between arms using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Data will be captured every day, for one week after each dose of chemotherapy., Up to 6 years
Differences in a number of symptoms that might be improved, or worsened, by the hypersensitivity prevention drugs, Each symptom will be summarized by median (range) at each time point by treatment arm and the weekly average will be compared between arms using the Wilcoxon rank sum test., Up to 6 years|The number of patients who, after discontinuing pre-medications, request that the premedications be resumed to ameliorate side-effects that the patient thinks have worsened since premedications were stopped (i.e. nausea, rash, arthralgia), The frequency and percentages of patients who, after discontinuing pre-medications, request that the pre-medications be resumed to ameliorate side-effects that the patient thinks have worsened since pre-medications were stopped (i.e. nausea, rash, arthralgia) will be summarized., Up to 6 years|Weight changes across study periods for both arms of the study, Weight changes over time will be summarized at each time point using mean (standard deviation) and plotted by treatment arm. Weight change from baseline to 10 weeks post-randomization will be compared between arms that receive weekly paclitaxel using a t-test of two independent samples., Up to 6 years|The impact of patient self-reported allergies, Will report the impact of patient self-reported allergies, prior to starting paclitaxel (2 or more versus 3 or less), on the incidence of infusion HSR and rescue medication usage. Frequency of patient self-reported allergies (2 or more versus less) on the incidence of infusion HSR and rescue medication usage will be tabulated., Up to 6 years|Patient outcomes, The rates of rescue medication by arms will be estimated by race/ethnicity group to explore whether there is a differential effect from stopping hypersensitivity reaction by race/ethnicity., Up to 6 years|Reaction rate, Reaction rate will be summarized by paclitaxel manufacturer and lot number., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the difference in rates of infusion hypersensitivity reaction (HSR) requiring parenteral rescue medications following the discontinuation of pre-medications after 2 doses of paclitaxel, compared to continuing premedications, in breast cancer patients who have not experienced an infusion HSR with their first 2 paclitaxel doses.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive paclitaxel per standard of care as a single agent or in combination with dexamethasone intravenously (IV) and/or orally (PO), diphenhydramine IV and/or PO and either famotidine IV and/or PO, ranitidine IV and/or PO or cimetidine IV and/or PO. Patients who don't experience any infusion hypersensitivity reaction after the first 2 doses of paclitaxel are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (STANDARD OF CARE): Patients continue on pre-medications (dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, famotidine/ranitidine/cimetidine) with all future doses of paclitaxel.

ARM II (EXPERIMENTAL): Patients discontinue premedications (dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, famotidine/ranitidine/cimetidine) with all future doses of paclitaxel, unless patient develops a subsequent infusion HSR.