"Domino" Therapy Treat the Infection Around the Prosthesis After the Limb Salvage Surgery of Bone Tumor
Tumor resection and prosthetic replacement have become the treatments of choice for malignant bone tumors. Infections are the main cause of failure of limb salvage surgeries. Therefore, treatment of infections around prostheses after limb salvage is important, but is also challenging. Our research team designed a "domino" sequential treatment plan to treat postoperative infections around tumor prostheses and evaluated its efficacy.
Infection
PROCEDURE: domino therapy
success rate of patients undergoing domino therapy assessed by MSIS diagnostic criteria, Sequential treatment failure was defined as failure to treat infection within 2 years of follow-up, indicated by meeting the 2011 MSIS diagnostic criteria of infection around the prosthesis.

The following formula was used to calculate the success rate: success rate = (total number of patients-number of failed cases)/total number of patients., 4 years
Malignant bone tumors are associated with high mortality and disability rates. Developments over the past 20 years have made tumor resection and prosthetic replacement the preferred surgical treatments. Prosthetic reconstruction maintains the continuity of limb bones and leads to better joint function, but is often associated with complications such as loosening, fracture, and infection of the prosthesis. Among these, infection is the most important cause of failed limb salvage surgery. Postoperative infection rates of 5-25% have been reported in the literature. Infection is also the main cause of secondary amputation. Therefore, it is important to address infections around the prosthesis after limb salvage.

Investigators retrospectively analyzed the use of prosthesis-preserving sequential therapy to treat patients with peripheral prosthesis infections after bone-tumor limb salvage. Investigators summarized and analyzed the treatment processes and performed laboratory, imaging, and functional evaluations after treatment. The purpose was to introduce a new type of domino sequential treatment plan for treating postoperative infections of tumor prosthesis, and evaluate the technical points of the plan, and prognosis over medium- and long-term follow-ups.