Evaluation for the Effectiveness and Safety of Cryo-ablation in the Treatment of Early Invasive Breast Cancer
Recently, researchers in America reported a clinical research (Alliance Z1072) which proved that cryo-ablation could be considered as a non-surgical treatment of early-stage breast cancer. The long term effectiveness and safety of cryo-ablation in early invasive breast cancer is still unknown. Therefore, this prospective study are designed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of cryo-ablation in early invasive breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: cryo-ablation
Stage 1: Effectiveness of cryo-ablation, In the first stage, patients will receive traditional surgery 1month after the cryo-ablation. After the traditional surgery (mastectomy or breast conserving surgery), the pathological report will show whether there is tumor tissue left in the breast tissue. If there is no tumor left in breast, cryo-ablation is effective in eliminating the tumor. Otherwise, cryo-ablation is ineffective., 1 month|Stage 2: LRFS(local-regional free survival), In the second stage, 5-year local-regional free survival will be evaluated for patients with the treatment of cryo-ablation and traditional surgery is spared., 5 years|Stage 2: Effectiveness of cryo-ablation (3 months after cryo-ablation), In the second stage, patients will receive muti-point core needle biopsy (which collect multi-point tissue from the region which was once the tumor region, as reported by MRI or ultrasound) 3months after the cryo-ablation. After the multi-point core needle biopsy, the pathological report will show whether there there is tumor tissue left in the breast tissue. If there is no tumor left in breast, cryo-ablation is effective in eliminating the tumor. Otherwise, cryo-ablation is ineffective., 3 month
Stage 1: instant success rate, Instant success rate will be evaluated instantly by the surgeon after the cryo-ablation, by his/her own judgement and ultrasound image., 3 minutes|Stage 1: negative predictive value of ultrasound, In the first stage, ultrasound will be conducted twice on day 14 and day 28 after the cryo-ablation (16 or 2 days before the traditional surgery). Negative predictive value of ultrasound will be calculated according to the pathological report after the traditional surgery in day 30. Negative predictive value = number of the patients who is pathologically negative AND ultrasound-negative/ number of patients who is ultrasound-negative, 14 days and 28 days|Stage 1: adverse events, Short-term safety of cryo-ablation after the treatment, 1 month|Stage 2: instant success rate, Instant success rate will be evaluated instantly by the surgeon after the cryo-ablation, by his/her own judgement and ultrasound image., 3 minutes|Stage 2: shrinking rate, Comparing with the baseline tumor size, shrinking rate of the lump will be calculated in 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years after cryo-ablation. The size of the lump will be evaluated by MR image., 5 years|Stage 2: adverse events, Short-term and long-term safety of cryo-ablation after the treatment, 5 years|Stage 2: breast self evaluation, breast self evaluation for patients with cryo-ablation and for whom traditional surgery is spared, as assessed by BREAST Q© index. The BREAST-Q has a modular, procedure-specific structure with scales that evaluate both satisfaction and quality of life. Psychometric evaluation reveals high reliability, validity and responsiveness to surgical intervention across all scales. Breast Q is composed of aesthetical and emotional modules, and each score ranges from 1 to 4 points (higher values represent a better self evaluation). By comparing the sum of the score in different modules before and after the surgery, Breast Q can help to facilitate a self evaluation for breast cancer patients., 5 years
Recently, researchers in America reported a clinical research (Alliance Z1072) which proved that cryo-ablation could be considered as a non-surgical treatment of early-stage breast cancer. The long term effectiveness and safety of cryo-ablation in early invasive breast cancer is still unknown. Therefore, this prospective study are designed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of cryo-ablation in early invasive breast cancer.