Ocular Blood Flow in Colorectal Cancer Patients
In colorectal cancer therapy anti-angiogenic strategies have become a cornerstone of treatment regimens in the metastatic setting. Addition of bevacizumab to conventional chemotherapeutic combination regimens has improved the median overall survival of advanced colorectal cancer patients by approximately 5 months. Selecting patients, who will benefit from anti-angiogenic approaches, would be highly desirable in order to optimize treatment strategies. Changes in ocular blood flow may be an attractive biomarker for predicting treatment response. In light of the given alternative first line treatment options such a predictive biomarker would be of clinical benefit. In the proposed study the investigators will assess potential changes in the ocular blood flow of mCRC patients after treatment with standard of care anti-angiogenic/cytotoxic therapy as an early predictive marker of treatment response as assessed by standard CT-scan
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
Correlation between ocular blood flow (retinal blood flow) and treatment response, mean RBCs velocity in Hz and blood flow in arbitrary units will be reported and correlated with response rates (CR,PR,SD or PD), Within 2-3 months at restaging|Correlation between retinal vessel diameter and treatment response, Retinal vessel diameter will be reported and correlated with response rates (CR,PR,SD or PD), Within 2-3 months at restaging|Changes in retinal surface before and after therapy as measured by optical coherence tomography, Within 2-3 months at restaging
In colorectal cancer therapy anti-angiogenic strategies have become a cornerstone of treatment regimens in the metastatic setting. Addition of bevacizumab to conventional chemotherapeutic combination regimens has improved the median overall survival of advanced colorectal cancer patients by approximately 5 months. Selecting patients, who will benefit from anti-angiogenic approaches, would be highly desirable in order to optimize treatment strategies. Changes in ocular blood flow may be an attractive biomarker for predicting treatment response. In light of the given alternative first line treatment options such a predictive biomarker would be of clinical benefit. In the proposed study the investigators will assess potential changes in the ocular blood flow of mCRC patients after treatment with standard of care anti-angiogenic/cytotoxic therapy as an early predictive marker of treatment response as assessed by standard CT-scan