Women's Health Communication Study
The central goal of this randomized, controlled pilot study is to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effects of an educational intervention (called "Starting the Conversation"; STC) on patient communication about sexual health in gynecologic cancer and other patient health outcomes. Approximately 30 women with a diagnosis of gynecologic cancer will be randomized to either participate in either the Starting the Conversation (STC) condition, consisting of an educational video, workbook, and list of resources on sexual and menopausal health, or to a control condition offering the resource guide only. Patients will be asked to review intervention materials prior to their next clinic visit with their gynecologic cancer provider. The investigators will examine effects of the interventions on patients' beliefs about communication about sexual health and on patients' communication about sexual health during clinic visits with their providers. Secondarily, the investigators will examine effects of the interventions on sexual outcomes and other health outcomes, including psychological well-being.
Gynecologic Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Starting the Conversation|BEHAVIORAL: Sexual and Menopausal Health Resources Only
Feasibility - Enrollment, Study enrollment, defined as the number of participants randomized out of the number of eligible patients approached for participation, Baseline|Feasibility - Retention, Number of enrolled participants that complete the final study survey., 2 months|Feasibility - Intervention Completion, Number of participants randomized to receive the Starting the Conversation intervention who report having engaged at least somewhat with the video and/or accompanying workbook., 2 weeks|Acceptability, The number of participants randomized to receive the Starting the Conversation intervention who endorse at least 6 of 8 core components of the Starting the Conversation Intervention (defined as satisfaction with the intervention, informativeness of the intervention, helpfulness of the intervention, relevance of the intervention, ease of participation, approval of the intervention format, likelihood of recommending the intervention to others, and perceived importance of the intervention for people with gynecologic cancer)., 2 weeks
Self-Efficacy - Post-Intervention, Patients' confidence that they can discuss sexual concerns with their provider and ask their provider about sexual concerns. Scale ranges from 0-10, with higher scores indicating higher self-efficacy. Means will be reported., 2 weeks|Self-Efficacy - 2-Month Follow Up, Patients' confidence that they can discuss sexual concerns with their provider and ask their provider about sexual concerns. Scale ranges from 0-10, with higher scores indicating higher self-efficacy. Means will be reported., 2 months|Clinical Communication - Discussion of Sexual Health, Number of patients who discuss sexual health concerns in a clinic visit., 2 weeks|Clinical Communication - Raising Topic of Sexual Health, Number of patients who raise the topic of sexual health concerns in a clinic visit., 2 weeks|Clinical Communication - Asking a Question About Sexual Health, Number of patients who ask a question about sexual health concerns in a clinic visit., 2 weeks|Change in Sexual Function, Patients' self-reported sexual function will be measured using the 19-item Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI).Total scale scores range from 2 to 36, with higher scores indicating higher functioning. Positive mean change scores indicate increase in sexual functioning over time while negative mean change scores indicate decrease in sexual functioning over time., baseline to 2 months|Sexual Activity, A single item asking (yes/no) whether the participant had any kind of sexual activity in the past 30 days. Percent reporting sexual activity is reported., 2 months|Psychological Distress - Depression, Patients self-reported depression, as measured through depression subscale of the Hospital Anxiety \& Depression Scale (HADS). The depression subscale consists of 7 items that are scored from 0 to 3. Summed scores range from 0 to 21, with higher scores indicating higher levels of depression. Means will be reported., 2 months|Psychological Distress - Anxiety, Patients self-reported anxiety, as measured through anxiety subscale of the Hospital Anxiety \& Depression Scale (HADS). The anxiety subscale consists of 7 items that are scored from 0 to 3. Summed scores range from 0 to 21, with higher scores indicating higher levels of anxiety. Means will be reported., 2 months
The central goal of this randomized, controlled pilot study is to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effects of an educational intervention (called "Starting the Conversation"; STC) on patient communication about sexual health in gynecologic cancer and other patient health outcomes. Approximately 30 women with a diagnosis of gynecologic cancer will be randomized to either participate in either the Starting the Conversation (STC) condition, consisting of an educational video, workbook, and list of resources on sexual and menopausal health, or to a control condition offering the resource guide only. Patients will be asked to review intervention materials prior to their next clinic visit with their gynecologic cancer provider. The investigators will examine effects of the interventions on patients' beliefs about communication about sexual health and on patients' communication about sexual health during clinic visits with their providers. Secondarily, the investigators will examine effects of the interventions on sexual outcomes and other health outcomes, including psychological well-being.