Glycosaminoglycan Scores as Monitoring Biomarkers in Confined Renal Cell Carcinoma
In this study, a score based on glycosaminoglycan (GAG) profiling in subjects with suspicion of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is hypothesized to distinguish malignant masses when early actionable clinical decisions are desirable. For example to diagnose early recurrence after surgical treatment; to screen population at risk of RCC; or to distinguish benign masses from RCC before surgical treatment. To this end, plasma and urine GAGs will be measured in a prospective cohort of patients referred to surgical treatment for RCC. The resulting GAG scores are then correlated to post-surgical recurrence, to post-surgical definitive diagnosis and and to tumor size if RCC. In a subset cohort of patients at high risk of RCC recurrence, plasma and urine GAGs will be monitored to observe its correlation with disease recurrence.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
Area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) for the sensitivity/specificity of plasma/urine glycosaminoglycan scores in the prediction of renal cell carcinoma recurrence after surgery, Radiological assessment of patients with definitive diagnosis of RCC and classified as high risk will be carried out as standard-of-care during follow-up and subjected to correlative analysis relative to the plasma/urine glycosaminoglycan scores (or their change) as assessed by longitudinal sampling., Every 6 or 12 months after surgery up to 5 years
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), Survival analysis will be performed by Kaplan Meier and significance analysis will use the log-rank test. Cox multivariate analysis will be performed to look at the number and molecular characteristics of the glycosaminoglycan scores as independent prognostic parameters of survival., Before surgery
In this study, a score based on glycosaminoglycan (GAG) profiling in subjects with suspicion of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is hypothesized to distinguish malignant masses when early actionable clinical decisions are desirable. For example to diagnose early recurrence after surgical treatment; to screen population at risk of RCC; or to distinguish benign masses from RCC before surgical treatment. To this end, plasma and urine GAGs will be measured in a prospective cohort of patients referred to surgical treatment for RCC. The resulting GAG scores are then correlated to post-surgical recurrence, to post-surgical definitive diagnosis and and to tumor size if RCC. In a subset cohort of patients at high risk of RCC recurrence, plasma and urine GAGs will be monitored to observe its correlation with disease recurrence.