A Study to Assess the Safety of Continued Administration of MDV3100 in Subjects With Prostate Cancer Who Showed Benefit From Prior Exposure to MDV3100
A study to assess the safety of continued administration of MDV3100 in subjects with Prostate Cancer who have already undergone treatment with MDV3100 and showed benefit.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer (CRPC)
DRUG: Enzalutamide
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered study drug or who underwent study procedures and did not necessarily have a causal relationship with treatment. An abnormality identified during a medical test was defined as an AE only if the abnormality induced clinical signs or symptoms, required active intervention, required interruption, or discontinuation of study medication, or was clinically significant in the opinion of the investigator. An AE was defined as serious if it resulted in any of the following outcomes: Death, Was life-threatening, Persistent or significant disability/incapacity or substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions, Congenital anomaly, or birth defect, Inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, Other medically important event. Drug-related AEs were those assessed by the investigator as AEs whose relationship to the to the study drugs could not be ruled out., From the date of the first dose of study drug to 30 days after last dose of study drug; the median duration of treatment was 392 days, and the maximum was 1926 days
This was a multi-center extension study in participants with prostate cancer who have completed MDV3100 treatment study to assess the long-term safety of continued administration of MDV3100, when judged by the investigator to be in the best interest of the participant. For the study duration, all participants with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) maintained androgen deprivation with a Luteinizing Hormone Releasing Hormone (LHRH) agonist/antagonist unless they underwent bilateral orchiectomy. Participants were discontinued from study drug when the continued administration of study drug was deemed to be not in the participants' best interest by the investigator based on clinical assessment. Throughout the study, safety and tolerability were assessed by the recording of adverse events, monitoring of vital signs and physical examinations, safety laboratory evaluations, and 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs). Participants had a safety follow-up visit 30 days after their last dose of study drug. Participants that did not meet any of the discontinuation criteria were eligible to continue to receive treatment with enzalutamide in study 9785-CL-0123 \[NCT02960022\] upon approval and activation of the study at the participating institution. Participants who enrolled in study 9785-CL-0123 \[NCT02960022\] were not required to have a safety follow-up visit.