Modular Trial of sEphB4-HSA in EphrinB2-High Solid Tumors
Patients with solid tumors that have high expression levels of EphrinB2 are treated with regimens that include EphrinB2 inhibitor, sEphB4-HSA. The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate additive therapeutic benefit for sEphB4-HSA. The secondary objectives are to determine whether the sEphB4-HSA containing regimen is safe and whether the oncological endpoints of importance in each cohort improve as a result of treatment with sEphB4-HSA containing regimen relative to a predefined threshold or to a control arm in the cohort where available. Treatment continues until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicities arise.
Muscle-Invasive Bladder Carcinoma|Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: SEphB4-HSA|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Enfortumab vedotin
Improved pathological response (pCR) in sEphB4-HSA+Pembro vs. Standard of Care for MIBC, Pathologic complete response (pCR), a binary outcome. pCR is defined as absence of the muscle invasive component of the tumor in the radical cystectomy specimen by pathologic review. CIS (pTis), pT1, and pTa are considered to be pCR. All patients with pCR must have pN0/M0. Patients don't have pCR due to refusal of radical cystectomy, dropout prior to radical cystectomry, or pathologic evaluation results are inconclusive or unknown will be classified as non-responders in the ITT., Through study completion, an average of 6 months|Improved Overall Survival (OS) in sEphB4-HSA+Pembro vs. Standard of Care for MIBC, Overall survival (OS) defined as period from randomization to death from any cause. OS will be censored at the last follow-up if patients are known to be alive. OS is a time to event variable of the primary interest., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Improved Radiographic Objective Response Rate (ORR) in sEphB4+Pembro vs. Control in mUC, Using RECIST 1.1 on CT or MR imaging of chest, MR imaging of Chest, Abdomen and Pelvis every 6 weeks for the first 3 months and then every 12 weeks., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Non-inferior Overall Survival (OS) of sEphB4+Pembro vs. Control in mUC, Overall survival (OS) defined as period from randomization to death from any cause. OS will be censored at the last follow-up if patients are known to be alive. OS is a time to event variable of the primary interest., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months
Improved Disease Free Survival and/or Event Free Survival in sEphB4 vs. control for MIBC arm., Event free survival (EFS): defined as time from randomization to any of the following events: documented disease progression precluding surgery, progression or recurrence diasease after surgery, or death due to any cause. Progresssion/recurrence will be assessed per RECIST 1.1. Patients who undego surgery with incomplete resection will be considered to have an event. Patients who start any subsequent anti-cancer therapy without a prior reported progression/recurrence will be censored at the last evaluable tumor assessment prior to initiation of the subsequent anticancer therapy. Patients who remain free of abovementioned events will be censored at the last follow-up time., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Improved toxicity of EphB4-HSA + Pembro in MIBC vs. control, Toxicity, as measured by the CTCAE v5.0, will be evaluated from start of study treatment to 7 days after the end of the study treatment., From start of study intervention until one week after cessation of study intervention, assessed up to 60 months|Improved Duration of Response and/or Progression Free Survival in sEphB4 vs. control for mUC arm., Disease free survival is defined as the time from the date of surgery to the earlier of disease recurrence, or death from any cause. Disease recurrence includes muscle-invasive recurrences specifically in the bladder, metastatic disease outside the bladder, or death. Patients alive without documented disease recurrence will be censored at the date of last disease assessment. Measured using RECIST 1.1 on CT or MR imaging of chestMR imaging of Chest, Abdomen and Pelvis every 6 weeks for the first 3 months and then every 12 weeks., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Improved toxicity of sEphB4-HSA + Pembro in mUC vs. control, Toxicity, as measured by the CTCAE v5.0, will be evaluated from start of study treatment to 7 days after the end of the study treatment., From start of study intervention until one week after cessation of study intervention, assessed up to 60 months
The investigators hypothesize that the inhibition of EphrinB2 overcomes the negative prognostic impact of this biomarker and improves the treatment outcomes. It is further hypothesized that this higher level of activity is attributable to the synergistic immune-stimulatory effect of sEphB4-HSA when combined with pembrolizumab.

Cohort A is designed to treat patients with MIBC whose tumors express EphrinB2. Patients in this cohort will be randomized to receive sEphB4-HSA + Pembrolizumab or Gemcitabine-Cisplatin (GC) regimen per standard of care of 4 cycle. Patients ineligible for cisplatin-based chemotherapy or refusing such chemotherapy will be able to receive pembrolizumab alone for 4 cycles based on PURE-01 data showing comparable response rate to chemotherapy with GC regimen.

Cohort B will study the combination of sEphB4-HSA + Pembrolizumab in previously treated mUC, in EphrinB2-high subgroup, a group that in previous studies demonstrated a 52% response rate. In the multi-institutional retrospective series reported by the study team, the expected response rate for anti-PD-L1/PD-1 antibodies is 12% among tumors with high EphrinB2 expression. This represents more than 4-fold improvement in efficacy of immunotherapy if EphrinB2 is inhibited with a mild toxicity profile for the combination. In contrast, EV + Pembrolizumab while effective, has a significant and at times prohibitive toxicity profile. It is also unclear whether EV + Pembrolizumab can deliver the published results in patients with high EphrinB2 expression. Therefore, Cohort B is designed to explore this question.

Upon study entry, participants in either Cohort will be randomly assigned to either sEphB4-HSA + Pembrolizumab or Standard of Care (Control). Study interventions will be administered according to the protocol and participants will be monitored and assessed for safety and efficacy at designated times throughout the study.