Is Tunneling Effective in Preventing Failure of Epidural Analgesia? A Randomized Trial
This is a prospective randomized single blinded study in patients planned to undergo general anesthesia and epidural catheter insertion for pain control after abdominal, thoracic and orthopedic surgery.

Patients meeting participation criteria will be selected and enrolled sequentially.

The study recruitment will be carried out over one year with follow-up for each patient until either the catheter is dislodged or once decided that the patient is to be discontinued from the epidural pain control.
Epidural Catheter|Post Operative Pain
PROCEDURE: tunneling epidural catheter
Difference in Rate of dislodgment between the two groups, Descriptive statistics will be used to present the two groups baseline characteristics. Comparison between groups will be carried out using Chi-square test or t-test or Wilcox on rank test as appropriate. Comparison between groups while adjusting for other variables will be carried out using logistic regression. Odds ratios along with their 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., 5 days
standard numerical pain score (NPS), use numerical pain score from zero no pain and 10 worst immaginable pain, 5 days|Rate of adverse events, infection, pain bleeding nerve damage, headache, 5 days
Study Population and Sample Size The study aims to enroll 200 adult patients planned to undergo general anesthesia and epidural catheter insertion. The study sample will be selected to fulfill the selection criteria.

Patients will be selected if they meet the following participation criteria:

Planned Procedures and Assessments Follow -up on dislodgments, adverse events, pain and pain relief assessment, standard practice Study Site All study conduction from start to end including procedures and assessments, data acquisition and analysis and final study conclusion report and any publications will be at King Hussein Cancer Center (KHCC).

Ethical Considerations The study will be submitted to the KHCC IRB for review. The study will not start before IRB approval is obtained.

All patients who provide consent to participation in the study will be randomized and enrolled.

Statistical Plan Descriptive statistics will be used to present the two groups baseline characteristics. Comparison between groups will be carried out using Chi-square test or t-test or Wilcox on rank test as appropriate. Comparison between groups while adjusting for other variables will be carried out using logistic regression. Odds ratios along with their 95% confidence intervals will be calculated.