Bone Marrow Micrometastases in Patients With Early Stage Breast Cancer
Operable early stage breast cancer patients staged according to NCCN guidelines are subjected to bone marrow aspiration/trephine biopsy at the time of the definitive operation under general anesthesia. The specimen will be fixated in neutral tamponaded formalin and the sections will be examined by H\&E and cytokeratin immunohistochemically. If disseminated tumor cells are identified ER (estrogen receptor), PR (progesterone receptor), HER2/neu will be studied. Disseminated tumor cells will be recorded quantitively and semiquantitatively. Results of the pilot study will be evaluated as observational study.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: bone marrow aspiration /trephine biopsy
Rate of bone marrow metastases in early stage breast cancer, Number of patients with bone marrow metastases/ total number of enrolled patients, up to 5 years|Rate of sentinel lymph node metastases in early stage breast cancer, up to 5 years|Rate of sentinel lymph node metastases in patients with bone marrow metastasis operated for early stage breast cancer, up to 5 years|Incidence of bone marrow metastasis in HER-2 positive early stage breast cancer, up to 5 years|Incidence of bone marrow metastases in triple negative early stage breast cancer, up to 5 years
Incidence of axillary recurrence in patients with negative sentinel lymph node biopsy, Up to 10 years|Overall survival, up to 10 years
Disease free survival, up to 10 years
Operable early stage breast cancer patients staged according to NCCN guidelines are subjected to bone marrow aspiration/trephine biopsy at the time of the definitive operation under general anesthesia. The specimen will be fixated in neutral tamponaded formalin and the sections will be examined by H\&E and cytokeratin immunohistochemically. If disseminated tumor cells are identified ER (estrogen receptor), PR (progesterone receptor), HER2/neu will be studied. Disseminated tumor cells will be recorded quantitively and semiquantitatively. Results of the pilot study will be evaluated as observational study.