Vacuum Erection Device in Improving Recovery of Erectile Function in Patients With Prostate Cancer Undergoing Surgery
The purpose of this study is to determine which technique in using a vacuum erection device (VED) is best. Erectile dysfunction (ED) after robotic prostate cancer surgery is a concern for both the surgeon and the patient. Recent studies have shown that beginning to use the vacuum pump on a daily basis starting with in 2-8 weeks may help prevent the start of penile shrinkage. This is a potential issue that can occur because of decreased blood flow after prostate cancer surgery. This study will allow researchers to determine and compare vacuum therapy techniques and erectile function outcomes of patients who have prostate cancer surgery
Male Erectile Disorder|Prostate Cancer|Sexual Dysfunction
OTHER: Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: management of therapy complications|PROCEDURE: Daily vacuum therapy
Changes in sexual function based on the self reported SHIM assessment and penile morphometric outcomes based on penile dimension measurements at rest, Summarized according to assigned treatment group. Linear mixed models will be used to model the changes over time., 3 months post-surgery|Changes in sexual function based on the self reported SHIM assessment and penile morphometric outcomes based on penile dimension measurements at rest, Summarized according to assigned treatment group. Linear mixed models will be used to model the changes over time., 6 months post-surgery|Changes in sexual function based on the self reported SHIM assessment and penile morphometric outcomes based on penile dimension measurements at rest, Summarized according to assigned treatment group. Linear mixed models will be used to model the changes over time., 12 months post-surgery
Compliance and overall patient satisfaction (1 to 25 point scale) based on the self reported compliance diary and SHIM questionnaires, Summarized according to assigned treatment group., Up to 12 months post-surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine sexual function and penile morphometric outcomes for the post-robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) patients undergoing daily vacuum therapy using one of two randomized methods and whether these outcomes differ.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare compliance rates between the two randomized groups using the compliance questionnaire and a diary collected from patients at each follow up visit.

II. Compare overall patient satisfaction with the recovery procedure between the two randomized groups utilizing the SHIM (Sexual Health Inventory for Men) questionnaire.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

GROUP A: Patients receive vacuum therapy daily over 10 minutes while holding erection for 2 minutes after undergoing RALP. Patients complete erection process 5 times.

GROUP B: Patients receive vacuum therapy daily over 10 minutes while holding erection for 5 minutes after undergoing RALP. Patients complete erection process 2 times.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months.