Trial of Eltrombopag During Consolidation Therapy in Adults With AML in Complete Remission
Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) in complete remission will receive eltrombopag while undergoing consolidation chemotherapy with high-dose cytarabine. Eltrombopag may help increase the number of platelets during chemotherapy and may help prevent the risk of bleeding.

Phase I will study the side effects, best dose and platelet effects of eltrombopag when given with consolidation chemotherapy. After the maximum safe and tolerated dose and schedule is found in Phase I, the study will proceed to Phase II. Phase II will confirm the dose and schedule of eltrombopag identified in Phase I that can increase platelet counts in patients receiving consolidation therapy.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Phase I- Cytarabine & Eltrombopag|DRUG: Phase II- Sequence A|DRUG: Phase II- Sequence B
Phase I- Optimal Tolerated Dose of Eltrombopag, To determine the safety, tolerability and optimal dose of eltrombopag in acute myeloid leukemia patients in complete remission receiving intensive consolidation chemotherapy. The optimal dose was based on rules involving observation of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT events), defined as a CTCAE Version 4 non-hematologic adverse event of grade 3 or higher occurring within 30 days of the last dose of eltrombopag judged by the investigator to be at least possibly related to eltrombopag administration., 13 months|Phase I - Dose Level With Best Kinetics of Platelet Count Recovery, To describe the kinetics of platelet count recovery in acute myeloid leukemia patients in complete remission receiving intensive consolidation chemotherapy who will be receiving eltrombopag. This is assessed graphically by plotting platelet count vs. days relative to start of cytarabine for each patient., 13 months|Phase II- Assess if Platelet Count Recovery is Increased With Eltrombopag, To determine if platelet recovery following consolidation chemotherapy is accelerated with eltrombopag., 62 months
Phase I & Phase II- Pharmacokinetics of Eltrombopag, To determine the plasma concentrations of eltrombopag in acute myeloid leukemia patients in complete remission receiving intensive consolidation chemotherapy (selected dosing regimen only)., 62 months|Phase II- Platelet Transfusion Requirements, To determine the impact of eltrombopag on platelet transfusion requirements in the setting of consolidation chemotherapy., 62 months|Phase II- Red Blood Cell Transfusion Requirements, To determine the impact of eltrombopag on red blood cell transfusion requirements., 62 months|Phase II- Bleeding Event Occurrence, To determine the impact of eltrombopag on occurrence of bleeding events., 62 months|Phase II- Time to Platelet Count Recovery, To determine the impact of eltrombopag on time to platelet recovery following consolidation chemotherapy., 62 months|Phase II- Depth of Platelet Nadir, To determine the impact of eltrombopag on the depth of platelet nadir following a cycle of consolidation chemotherapy., 62 months|Phase II- Duration of Platelet Nadir, To determine the duration of platelet nadir in the setting of eltrombopag exposure., 62 months|Phase II- Safety of Eltrombopag With Consolidation, To determine the safety and tolerability of eltrombopag when given at the optimal dose in the setting of consolidation chemotherapy., 62 months
Exploratory- Eltrombopag Effect on TPO/EPO, To determine if eltrombopag has an effect on TPO and/or EPO in this setting., 62 months
Consolidation chemotherapy with high dose cytarabine usually causes myelosuppression for 14 to 21 days after each treatment. Patients have low blood counts for days or weeks before the bone marrow resumes function. This may result in e.g., hospitalization, treatment with antibiotics, and transfusions with blood and/or platelets. In addition, this may cause a delay in treatment and reduction in dose. To achieve the best outcome from treatment, dose reductions and delays in treatment must be avoided.

The incidence and duration of decreased white blood cells (neutropenia) and neutropenic complications have been reduced by the use of growth colony stimulating factors. Additionally, the use of erythropoietin-stimulating factors has reduced anemia and the need for red blood cell transfusions. Thrombocytopenia remains an important limiting factor in administration of chemotherapy and maintaining dose intensity in some patients. Additionally, the risk of bleeding secondary to low platelet counts may increase sickness or even death in patients undergoing cancer treatment.

Thrombopoietin (TPO) is the principal cytokine involved in the regulation of megakaryopoiesis and platelet production. Eltrombopag is an orally bioavailable, small molecule, TPO-receptor agonist that stimulates platelet production by a similar, but not identical, mechanism to endogenous TPO. Eltrombopag has been approved in the U.S. for the treatment of chronic Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura. Eltrombopag is also under development for other indications such as Hepatitis C Virus-associated thrombocytopenia, Myelodysplastic Syndrome/AML, and oncology related thrombocytopenias. This agent appears to possess many of the desirable properties for a treatment for chemotherapy induced thrombocytopenia, including oral administration.

The Phase I portion of this study will be conducted using a dose escalation/de-escalation strategy for patients in either the first or second complete remission. Dose escalations are planned in the form of both acceleration of date of initiation of eltrombopag relative to the start of consolidation chemotherapy as well as increasing daily dosing.

The Phase II portion will be conducted using the dose and schedule selected from the Phase I portion of the study for those patients in first complete remission. Patients will be used as their own controls, e.g., a two-period two-treatment cross-over design. Patients will be randomly allocated 1:1 to one of two sequences. Patients randomized to Sequence A will receive eltrombopag with their first cycle of consolidation and placebo with Cycle 2. Patients randomized to Sequence B will receive placebo with their first cycle of consolidation and eltrombopag with Cycle 2. The treatment assignment will be blinded to the patient and all study/sponsor personnel.

Patients will undergo blood sample collection for Thrombopoietin(TPO)/ Erythropoietin(EPO) and pharmacokinetic analysis of eltrombopag in Phase I and pharmacokinetic analysis of eltrombopag in the Phase II portion of the study.