Short Incubation Methylaminolevulinate Photodynamic Therapy Without Occlusion
Actinic keratoses on the face are often numerous and widespread. The application of Methylaminolevulinate (MAL) on individual lesions followed by the application of a plastic film on each lesion is difficult and takes time for subjects with many actinic keratoses. The waiting period of 3 hours between MAL cream application and red light exposure is also long for patients. The goal of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of photodynamic therapy (PDT) with MAL with a shorter cream application time (90 minutes) and when MAL is applied on the entire face without the plastic film.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: Methylaminolevulinate (Metvix, Metvixia)|DEVICE: Photodynamic Therapy (Aktilite)
Mean Number of Facial Actinic Keratoses at Week 12, 12 weeks
Number of Patients With Complete Clinical Response of All Actinic Keratoses at Week 12, The proportion of patients with a complete clinical response is calculated by dividing the number of patients with a complete response at week 12 by the number of participants at baseline., 12 weeks|Number of Actinic Keratosis Lesions With Complete Clinical Response at Day 0 and Week 12, 0, 12 weeks|Mean Griffiths Photonumeric Scale for Photodamage Score at Week 12, Griffiths photonumeric scale was evaluated by the dermatologist. Patients were placed under natural daylight or fluorescent lighting for grading. A direct comparison was then made between the subjects and photographic standards (provided in reference 1). If an exact match could not be made to a grade then an inter-grade number was used used, for example 1, 3, 5, or 7. Zero (0) is the least amount of photodamage, 8 is the most amount of photodamage., 12 weeks|Mean Fine Wrinkling Score at Week 12, This factor represents a visual assessment of the number and depth of superficial wrinkles (i.e. shallow indentations or lines). Fine wrinkles typically appear in periorbital and perioral regions and are usually found further from the eyes and mouth than are coarse wrinkles.

Rating Category 0 None 1-3 Mild 4-6 Moderate 7-9 Severe, 12 weeks|Mean Coarse Wrinkling Score at Week 12, This factor represents a visual assessment of the number and depth of coarse wrinkles (i.e. deep lines, furrows, or creases). Coarse wrinkles appear on the forehead, glabella, chin, and nasolabial and periorbital areas, and they tend to be located closer to the eyes and mouth than fine wrinkles.

Rating Category 0 None 1-3 Mild 4-6 Moderate 7-9 Severe, 12 weeks|Mean Sallowness Score at Week 12, This factor represents a visual assessment of color tone from very pink or rosy (0) to very sallow or pale (9).

Rating Category 0 None 1-3 Mild 4-6 Moderate 7-9 Severe, 12 weeks|Mean Mottled Hyperpigmentation at Week 12, This factor represents a visual assessment of light, patchy, mottled hyperpigmentation and solar freckling (including melasma) based on quantitative criteria such as the area/density of pigment, color intensity (dark vs. light), and uniformity of distribution (i.e. the more uneven or blotchy, the greater the score), Lentigines, nevi, and other pigmented lesions are not to be included in this assessment.

Rating Category 0 None 1-3 Mild 4-6 Moderate 7-9 Severe, 12 weeks|Number of Adverse Events, To study the safety of MAL-PDT performed without occlusion when red light exposure takes place 90 minutes after the application of MAL by tracking adverse events until week 12 and adverse events until week 24, 12, 24 weeks
A total of 20 patients with at least 5 non-hypertrophic actinic keratoses (AK) of the face were included in this open-label study. All AKs were mapped on a transparent template before the first PDT treatment. At Day 0, all patients received methylaminolevulinate (MAL) applied on the entire face (except the nose and peri-ocular area of 1-2 cm) without any skin preparation. One to two 2 g MAL tubes was used for the entire face. MAL was applied without occlusion. After a total of 90 +/- 5 minutes the skin was rinsed and exposed to 37 J/cm² of red light from an Aktilite™ device. Patients were seen at Week 4; if all facial AKs did not show a complete response to treatment, the MAL-PDT procedure was repeated at Week 4. Patients were seen again at Week 12 and 24.

The primary endpoint was at Week 12. Patients came back at Week 24 for a final safety evaluation and to verify the recurrence of AK.

Efficacy is evaluated by assessing the mean number of facial AK at Week 12 as compared to Day 0.