Zanubrutinib Combined With G-CVP in Previously Untreated FL
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn the efficacy and safety of zanubrutinib in combination with G-CVP in previously untreated follicular lymphoma patients The main questions it aims to answer are: (1) Efficacy and safety of patients receiving zanubrutinib, obinutuzumab combined with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone (CVP) regimen. (2) The difference in efficacy of patients with different minimal residual disease (MRD) status after treatment.

Participants will receive zanubrutinib combined with G-CVP, maintenance therapy will be determined by the MRD status after treatment.
Follicular Lymphoma ( FL)
DRUG: zanubrutinib, obinutuzumab,combined with CVP
CRR, CRR (%) is defined as the number of patients achieving a complete response as a proportion of total patients evaluable for response., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented CR assessed up to 2.5 years.
ORR, ORR (%) is defined as the number of patients achieving a complete response or partial response as a proportion of total patients evaluable for response., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented response assessed up to 2.5 years.|PFS, PFS is defined as the time interval from the time of enrollment on this study to the date of PD or death, whichever came first., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression assessed up to 5 years.|OS, OS is defined as the time interval from the time of enrollment in this study to the date of death from any cause. If the subject is alive or the vital status is unknown, OS will be censored at the date that the subject is last known to be alive, or their last contact date., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented death assessed up to 5 years.
Follicular lymphoma (FL), accounting for nearly 20% of non - Hodgkin lymphomas, is an indolent B - cell neoplasm originating from follicular center B cells. Over 90% of patients are at stage Ⅲ/Ⅳ at onset. For stage Ⅲ/Ⅳ patients requiring treatment, CD20 monoclonal antibody - chemotherapy combinations are the most commonly used treatment both domestically and internationally. Though FL has a high response rate to traditional immunochemotherapy, it remains incurable by such means. Also, cytotoxic therapy's side effects are a key concern. There's an urgent need in clinical practice to enhance therapeutic efficacy while reducing side effects.

Obinutuzumab, a type II anti - CD20 monoclonal antibody, stands out from type I by boosting antitumor activity through enhanced direct cytotoxicity (DCD) and antibody - dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), and cutting complement - dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) - related resistance. Studies comparing obinutuzumab - chemotherapy with rituximab - chemotherapy in untreated FL have confirmed that the former brings sustained progression - free survival (PFS) benefits. Compared to CHOP or bendamustine combinations, it has a lower incidence of grade 3 - 5 adverse events when used with CVP, showing better tolerability. Zanubrutinib, a novel, highly - selective small - molecule BTK inhibitor developed in China, offers superior efficacy and safety due to its high kinase selectivity. Its combination with obinutuzumab has achieved remarkable results in relapsed/refractory FL patients.

In this study, we will treat untreated FL patients with zanubrutinib, obinutuzumab, and CVP chemotherapy. We expect this multi - mechanism drug combination to improve efficacy. Also, by replacing CHOP's anthracycline component, the regimen may provide better safety, thus offering a more effective and safer individualized treatment for untreated FL patients.

Untreated FL patients in the study will receive zanubrutinib, obinutuzumab, and CVP chemotherapy. Then, based on their MRD status, they'll undergo maintenance with either obinutuzumab alone or the combination. The primary endpoint is the complete remission (CR) rate; secondary endpoints include overall response rate (ORR), PFS, overall survival (OS), and adverse event (AE) rates.