Tinzaparin And Biomarkers After Neoadjuvant Treatment of Ovarian Cancer
Background:

Previous findings have indicated antineoplastic properties of tinzaparin (Innohep®), a commonly used anti-coagulant. Earlier studies have mainly investigated the antineoplastic effects of tinzaparin in animal models and in human cell-lines. In this pilot study the aim is to examine the potential antitumoral effects of tinzaparin in vivo in women with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).

Study objectives:

Primary objective: The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the effects of tinzaparin on changes in levels of CA-125 in EOC patients who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT).

Secondary objectives: The secondary objective of the study is to explore the impact of tinzaparin on the dynamic of a spectrum of immunological and coagulation factors in EOC patients who receive NACT. Besides, the compliance of tinzaparin injections and adverse events caused by tinzaparin will be described.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Tinzaparin Injectable Solution
Changes in serum levels of CA-125, kIU/L, 14 weeks
Changes in serum levels of CA-125, kIU/L, 21-28 weeks|Changes in blood levels of hemoglobin, g/L, 21-28 weeks|Changes in blood levels of platelets, x10\^9/L, 21-28 weeks|Changes in blood levels of leucocytes, x10\^9/L, 21-28 weeks|Changes in plasma levels of CRP, mg/L, 21-28 weeks|Changes in plasma levels of albumin, g/L, 21-28 weeks|Changes in plasma levels of interleukin 6, ng/L, 21-28 weeks|Changes in plasma levels of vascular endothelial growth factor, µg/L, 21-28 weeks|Self reported compliance to tinzaparin injections, Percent, 22-29 weeks|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Number, 22-29 weeks|Proportion of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Proportion constitutes the relative number in the group in percent, 22-29 weeks|Objectively confirmed venous thromboembolism (VTE), i.e. pulmonary embolism, lower-limb deep vein thrombosis or upper extremity deep vein thrombosis. Death due to VTE., Number, 22-29 weeks|Objectively confirmed venous thromboembolism (VTE), i.e. pulmonary embolism, lower-limb deep vein thrombosis or upper extremity deep vein thrombosis. Death due to VTE., Percent, 22-29 weeks
Plasma levels of tissue factor, µg/L, 21-28 weeks|Plasma levels of D-dimer, mg/L, 21-28 weeks|Plasma levels of soluble P-selectin, µg/L, 21-28 weeks|Plasma levels of thrombin-antithrombin complex, µg/L, 21-28 weeks|Thrombin generation potential, lag time (min), 21-28 weeks|Thrombin generation potential, endogenous thrombin generation potential (nmolar\*min), 21-28 weeks|Thrombin generation potential, peak nmol/L, 21-28 weeks|Olink Target 96 Inflammation - plasma levels a panel of 92 inflammation associated proteins, All 92 inflammation associated proteins are measured in pg/mL, 21-28 weeks
This is an open randomized controlled clinical pilot trial (Phase II). The study includes women with the International Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecology (FIGO) stage III-IV EOC selected for neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) and without signs of thromboembolic disease or ongoing treatment of thromboembolic disease. The women will be allocated 1:1 to treatment with tinzaparin 4500 IU/8000 IU (dose depending on woman's weight) subcutaneously once daily or no tinzaparin. The treatment group starts tinzaparin when the primary treatment (chemotherapy) starts. The control group will not receive tinzaparin or other low molecular weight heparin preparations. The NACT consists of carboplatin and paclitaxel, given according to the standard regimen with cycle repeats every 21 days. Pre-treatment, before every cycle of chemotherapy, before delayed primary debulking surgery (DPDS) and three weeks after the last cycle of chemotherapy venous blood samples will be taken for measuring the biomarkers hemoglobin, platelets, leucocytes, C-reactive protein (CRP), albumin, cancer antigen-125 (CA-125), Tissue Factor, D-dimer, soluble P-selectin, thrombin-antithrombin complex and thrombin generation potential. Furthermore, a panel of 92 inflammation-associated proteins will be analyzed by a by a high-sensitivity Proximity Extension Assay at baseline, visit 5 and visit 8 or 9. After three cycles of NACT, the patient will be evaluated clinically and with imaging diagnostics in order to determine whether the patient should undergo DPDS. In the investigators´ setting, \> 80% of patients receiving NACT for EOC undergo DPDS. After DPDS, all patients will be treated with tinzaparin for 28 days according to clinical practice concerning postoperative thromboembolic prophylaxis and thereafter continue the chemotherapy for additional two-three courses. The participants who were allocated to tinzaparin during the NACT will continue the tinzaparin after ending the postoperative thromboembolic prophylactic tinzaparin treatment for additional 2-3 courses. The biomarkers will be measured preoperatively and four weeks postoperatively after DPDS and then before each course of chemotherapy given during the primary treatment. The women who do not undergo surgery will remain included in the study for the following three cycles of chemotherapy. Thus, the total study period constitutes 22-29 weeks.