Predictive Assay for Decision Making in Adjuvant Therapy
Prospective Registrational Trial to Define Real World Outcomes of Patients with Completely Resected Stage I or IIA (tumor \< or = 5cm, node negative) Non-squamous Non-Small Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Identified as High, Intermediate, or Low Risk by a 14-Gene Prognostic Assay DetermaRx being Considered for Adjuvant Platinum-based chemotherapy or other adjuvant therapy versus Observation
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Adjuvant|OTHER: Observation
Free Survival (DFS), To compare Disease Free Survival (DFS) in patients with resected, stage I or IIA non-squamous NSCLC found to be at HIGH/INTERMEDIATE Risk by DetermaRX choosing to undergo adjuvant therapy using a platinum-based doublet or other adjuvant therapy versus observation., 30-36 months
Secondary Objectives, 1. To evaluate use patterns of DetermaRx in guiding use of adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy across early-stage resected lung cancer
2. To evaluate DFS in DetermaRx LOW risk patients who are put on observation alone
3. To evaluate whether use of DetermaRx HIGH/INTERMEDIATE vs. LOW to guide adjuvant platinum-based therapy results in improved OS in patients
4. To evaluate if EGFR mutational status impacts use of adjuvant platinum-based therapy in DetermaRx HIGH/INTERMEDIATE vs. LOW patients, 30-36 months
Exploratory Analyses, 1. To evaluate predictive value of DetermaRx in driver positive NSCLC patients receiving chemotherapy, targeted therapy or both.
2. To evaluate predictive value of DetermaRx early NSCLC patients receiving chemotherapy + immunotherapy or other combination adjuvant therapies
3. To evaluate predictive value of other histological features on pathology in association with DetermaRx as well as additional biomarkers (i.e., KRAS, TP53, STK11, PD-L1 expression, etc.) if performed by physician in combination with DetermaRx results and related outcomes, 30-36 months
This is a prospective, non-randomized, 2 arm, multi-center study in patients with histologically documented non-squamous NSCLC who have undergone complete resection (R0) of the primary tumor with pathologically stage I or IIA disease. Routine paraffin-embedded tumor specimens from completely resected (R0) stage I or IIA patients with non-squamous NSCLC will undergo testing with the DetermaRx 14-Gene Prognostic Assay and will be designated as HIGH, INTERMEDIATE or LOW risk by the assay. The physician and patient will determine the best treatment course and will be assigned to treatment arm based on decision of adjuvant therapy or observation:

1. Adjuvant treatment with a standard NSCLC platin-based doublet, 4 cycle (21-day) regimen of the investigator's choice (Arm 1) or other adjuvant therapy (Arm 1a) which can include combination of chemotherapy and targeted therapy, immunotherapy or other.
2. Observation (Arm 2) All patients will be observed for progression free survival and overall survival to the end of study or death, whichever occurs first.

All patients will be observed for disease free survival and overall survival to the end of study or death, whichever occurs first