Pre-surgical Detection of Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (ccRCC) Using Radiolabeled G250-Antibody
This is a multicenter Phase III study to demonstrate the diagnostic utility of 124I-cG250 PET/CT pre-surgical imaging in patients with operable renal masses.
Renal Cell Carcinoma|Kidney Cancer
DRUG: 124-Iodine-cG250 (124I-cG250)|PROCEDURE: CT
Sensitivity and Specificity of 124I-cG250 PET/CT Versus Diagnostic CT., Average estimate of three independent, blinded central readers per imaging modality on the proportion of participants that were correctly identified on the 124I-cG250 PET/CT Images of having (sensitivity) or not having (specificity) clear cell renal carcinoma (ccRCC) compared to CT images.

Histopathology provided the standard-of-truth because it is the only definitive method for accurately identifying ccRCC., 6 months
Accuracy of 124I-cG250 PET/CT Imaging Versus Diagnostic CT Imaging, The Accuracy is the proportion of participants with correct determinations of 124I-cG250 PET/CT imaging compared to diagnostic CT Imaging in the detection of ccRCC as confirmed by histopathology diagnoses. The numbers represent the average estimate of three independent, blinded central readers per imaging modality. For the secondary efficacy variables no 95% CIs for differences of averages were calculated., 6 months|Positive Predictive Value (PPV), The Positive Predictive Value (PPV) reflects the Proportion of positive results that are true positive. The PPV of 124I-cG250 PET/CT imaging compared to diagnostic CT Imaging in the detection of ccRCC as confirmed by histopathology diagnoses. The numbers represent the average estimate of three independent, blinded central readers per imaging modality. For the secondary efficacy variables no 95% CIs for differences of averages were calculated., 6 months|Negative Predictive Value (NPV), Negative Predictive Value (NPV) reflects the proportion of negative results that are true negatives. The NPV of 124I-cG250 PET/CT imaging compared to diagnostic CT Imaging in the detection of ccRCC as confirmed by histopathology diagnoses. The numbers represent the average estimate of three independent, blinded central readers per imaging modality. For the secondary efficacy variables no 95% CIs for differences of averages were calculated., 6 months
A preoperative 124I-cG250 PET scan may distinguish between clear cell and non-clear cell renal carcinoma in patients with renal masses. Studies of imaging characteristics of 124I by a variety of PET cameras, quantification of tumor uptake of 124I-labeled antibody and correlation with biopsy measurement of tumor and normal tissue have met with encouraging results. As clear cell renal cancers are associated with an aggressive phenotype their a priori determination may help guide appropriate surgical/therapeutic management.