Role of Pre-operative CPET in Pancreatoduodenectomy
A clinical database has been prospectively maintained by the investigators, with details of pancreatic resections since January 2016. It includes pre-operative details, details of multidisciplinary team (MDT) meeting, details of pre-operative biliary stenting, intra-operative details, post-operative morbidity and mortality, details of histopathological diagnosis, recurrence and survival. Data was collected onto the database (excel sheet) from trust data software, clinic letters, Somerset Cancer registry and clinical portal.
Pancreas Cancer|Periampullary Carcinoma
Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET)/ Portsmouth - Physiological and Operative Severity Score for the enumeration of Mortality and morbidity (P-POSSUM) predicted mortality versus actual 30 day mortality, Primary outcome is to compare predicted mortality by cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET)/ Portsmouth - Physiological and Operative Severity Score for the enumeration of Mortality and morbidity (P-Possum) score versus actual 30 day mortality, post-operatively.

P-POSSUM is a scoring system for general elective and emergency surgeries which takes into account various physiological and operative parameters to calculate risk of morbidity and mortality in terms of percentages. The risk can range between 0 to 100%. The higher the percentage worse is the predicted outcome., 30 days
Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET) / Portsmouth - Physiological and Operative Severity Score for the enumeration of Mortality and morbidity (P-POSSUM) predicted morbidity versus actual post-operative morbidity, Secondary outcome is to compare predicted morbidity by cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET) /Portsmouth - Physiological and Operative Severity Score for the enumeration of Mortality and morbidity (P-Possum) score versus actual morbidity, post-operatively.

P-POSSUM is a scoring system for general elective and emergency surgeries which takes into account various physiological and operative parameters to calculate risk of morbidity and mortality in terms of percentages. The risk can range between 0 to 100%. The higher the percentage worse is the predicted outcome., 90 days
Retrospective analysis of prospectively maintained database. A clinical database has been prospectively maintained by the investigators, with details of pancreatic resections since January 2016. It includes pre-operative details, details of multidisciplinary team (MDT) meeting, details of pre-operative biliary stenting, intra-operative details, post-operative morbidity and mortality, details of histopathological diagnosis, recurrence and survival. Data was collected onto the database (excel sheet) from trust data software, clinic letters, Somerset Cancer registry and clinical portal.

Specific CPET data to be collected:

1. Exercise induced ST ischaemia- yes/no
2. VO2 peak: actual and predicted
3. Anaerobic threshold
4. VE/VCO2
5. Pulmonary function test- normal/ obstructive/ restrictive
6. Duration of pedalling bike
7. 30 day predicted risk
8. Completed the test - yes/no
9. Reason for incomplete test The CPET specific data will be collated from clinic letters, MDT meeting outcomes and CPET reports stored in hospital drive (access limited to anaesthetists only presently).

Data analysis will be done using IBM SPSS version 25. Investigators plan to use parametric and non-parametric tests and binary logistic regression analyses to compare predicted to actual mortality and morbidity, between the patients who have had CPET and those who have not.

6 STUDY SETTING: This is a single centre study, to be done at, Royal Blackburn Hospital, East Lancashire Hospitals NHS trust, a District general Hospital in North of England. The study will be carried out in the department of General and HPB surgery, in liaise with Department of anaesthesia. This is the HPB referral centre for Lancashire and South Cumbria and incorporates patients referred for pancreatic surgery from three hospital trusts (Lancashire Teaching, University Hospital Morecambe Bay and Blackpool Teaching Hospitals). The data will be stored in the trust computer system, using a password protected excel sheet. The investigators responsible for the study only, will be provided with access to the database.