Hypofractionated Radiotherapy Followed by Durvalumab With or Without Tremelimumab for Liver Cancer After Progression on PD-1 Inhibition
This phase II trial studies how well standard of care hypofractionated radiation therapy followed by durvalumab with or without tremelimumab works in treating patients with hepatocellular cancer (liver cancer) that has spread to other places in the body (advanced) and that is growing, spreading, or getting worse (progressing) after treatment with PD-1 inhibitor immunotherapy. In some patients, cancer cells and immune cells start to express signals that stop the body's immune system from killing the cancer. New drugs being developed, such as durvalumab and tremelimumab, are designed to target and block these signals and may help increase the immune response to prevent or slow down cancer growth. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may help the immune system work even better. Giving durvalumab with or without tremelimumab after radiation therapy may work better than radiation therapy alone in treating patients with liver cancer.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Tremelimumab
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1, excluding radiation therapy-treated lesions. assessed from initiation of study treatment until discontinuation of treatment. Proportion of response and corresponding exact confidence intervals will be reported for objective response rate in each Arm. Patients with unevaluable or unknown response status will be considered non-responders., up to 24 months
Number of of treatment-related adverse events, Summary tables for AEs will include only AEs that started or worsened during the on-treatment period, the treatment-emergent AEs graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE version 5.0), up to 24 months|Progression-free survival, Progression will be calculated in months from date of first dose of protocol therapy to date of first documented radiographic and/or clinical disease progression or death from any cause. For cases without progression, follow-up will be censored at the date of last disease assessment without progression, unless death occurs within a short period of time following the date last known progression-free, in which case the death will be counted as a failure. The 'short period of time' will generally be no more than 3 months. For patients discontinued from study for other reasons than progression or death, progression-free survival will be censored at the date last known to be progression-free, Up to 24 months|Duration of overall response (DOR), The period measured from the time that measurement criteria are met for complete or partial response (whichever status is recorded first) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, taking as reference the smallest measurements recorded since treatment started, Up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Survival will be measured from the date of entry on study and from first dose of protocol therapy to the date of death due to any cause. Censoring will be performed using the date of last known contact for those who are alive at the time of analysis, Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine objective response rate (ORR) of durvalumab (D) and D + tremelimumab (T) after radiation therapy (RT) in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients with progression on prior PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of D and D + T in advanced HCC patients with progression on prior PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor.

II. Determine the efficacy of D and D + T in advanced HCC patients with progression on prior PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Profile peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) immune cells and plasma samples before RT, after RT, and during D or D + T immunotherapy.

II. Explore relationship between plasma biomarkers and PBMC immune profiles, the proportion of participants with adverse events (AEs), (safety endpoint), and clinical outcomes (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DOR), overall survival (OS).

III. Profile immune cells in archival pre-treatment tumor tissue for all patients and on-/post-treatment tumor samples and/or non-tumor liver tissue samples when available, and explore for relationship with safety/tolerability and clinical outcomes.

IV. Determine incidence of tumor PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in pre-treatment archival tumor samples in all patients, and in on-/post-treatment tumor samples if repeat tumor sampling is obtained for clinical indications.

V. Explore relationship between tumor PD-L1 status and clinical outcomes. VI. Explore relationship between viral hepatitis status, viral load, safety/tolerability, and clinical outcomes.

VII. Measure tumor marker alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) response to immunotherapy plus RT and explore for relationship with clinical outcomes.

VIII. Explore relationship between site of RT (liver, bone, other soft tissue), number of RT sites (1 or \> 1), safety/tolerability, clinical outcomes, and changes in immune cell profiles on treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo standard of care hypofractionated RT over 5 fractions once daily (QD) for 5 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 3-10 days after completion of RT, patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

This arm will close after the 6th participant is enrolled.

ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care hypofractionated RT over 5 fractions QD for 5 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 3-10 days after completion of RT, patients receive tremelimumab IV over 1 hour and durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment with durvalumab repeats every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who complete the first dose of tremelimumab and demonstrate clinical benefit based upon radiographic tumor regression and/or other clinical response without progression for at least 6 cycles or 6 months on treatment, whichever is shorter, and subsequently have evidence of progressive disease during the durvalumab monotherapy portion may receive a repeat dose of tremelimumab at the next scheduled cycle of treatment with durvalumab per physician discretion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months.