Promoting Breast Cancer Screening in Women Who Survived Childhood Cancer
The purpose of this study is to empower women to improve their health in two very important areas: breast and heart health. This twelve-month study will compare two methods of informing participants about potential health risks and ways to stay healthy.

The EMPOWER Study has been designed for adult women who were treated for a childhood cancer with chest radiation.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: survey, questionaire|BEHAVIORAL: survey, questionaire
efficacy, Determine the efficacy of an intervention, consisting of mailed tailored print materials followed by a telephone-delivered Brief Motivational Interview, on mammogram screening rates compared with an attention control. Mammogram completed by 12-month questionnaire (confirmed by medical record), 12 months
Moderating factors, By including interaction terms in the model, we will assess potential moderating factors such as age, race/ethnicity, health insurance, \& other sociodemographic variables. Moderating effects can be adequately addressed through interactions between the intervention \& the above mentioned covariates.124 An interaction with the treatment group indicator suggests differential effectiveness, and moderator variables with statistically significant interactions will remain in the model. Interactions will be estimated using crossproduct terms between the intervention indicator \& the mediating variable., 12 months|Mediating factors, Based on results from the MPS \& breast ca screening intervention trials among women in the general pop or familial risk, we are a priori interested in mediating effect of 5 variable domains: knowledge of screening guidelines, breast ca health beliefs, decisional balance of the pros \& cons of mammography, self-efficacy, \& psychological factors. For each of these domains, a global or subscale score will be used as appropriate. For ex, from the BSI-18, a global score of psychological symptoms \& a subscale score for each group of symptoms can be estimated., 12 months|Economic analysis, Replication costs of intervention: dollar cost; time cost (per person)

• Costs resulting from intervention: total cost of screening/diagnostic imaging, diagnostic procedures, breast surgery, non-procedure breast-related physician visits, 12 months|Breast MRI completed by 12-month questionnaire, (confirmed by medical record)

• Barriers to completing breast MRI: moderating/mediating variables listed above, 12 months
The purpose of this study is to empower women to improve their health in two very important areas: breast and heart health. This twelve-month study will compare two methods of informing participants about potential health risks and ways to stay healthy.

The EMPOWER Study has been designed for adult women who were treated for a childhood cancer with chest radiation.