QUILT-2.019: A Study of AMG 655 or AMG 479 in Combination With Gemcitabine for Treatment of Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This is a multi-center, 2-part study of AMG 655, AMG 479 or AMG 655-placebo plus gemcitabine as first-line treatment of subjects with metastatic pancreatic cancer. Part 1 is an open-label, dose-escalation phase 1b segment to determine the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose of AMG 655 in combination with gemcitabine. Enrollment into part 1 of the study has been completed. Part 2 is a randomized, placebo-controlled phase 2 segment to estimate the efficacy as assessed by 6 month survival of AMG 655, AMG 479, or AMG 655-placebo in combination with gemcitabine. The phase 2 segment that will commence after dose selection in part 1. In part 2, subjects will be randomized 1:1:1 to AMG 655, AMG 479, or placebo in combination with gemcitabine.
Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer
OTHER: Placebo|DRUG: AMG 479|DRUG: AMG 655
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs; Phase 1b Portion Only), The incidence of adverse events and clinical laboratory abnormalities defined as DLTs. A DLT was defined as any grade 3 or higher hematologic or non-hematologic toxicity related to any study treatment., 28 days|Six Month Overall Survival Rate (Phase 2 Portion Only), The proportion of subjects alive at 6 months, 6 months
Objective Response Rate, Objective response was defined as a tumor response assessment of either complete response or partial response per modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] and was determined only for subjects with measurable disease at baseline. Per RECIST: a complete response is the disappearance of all target lesions; a partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From start of study treatment through up to 36 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from study day 1 (phase 1b portion) or randomization (phase 2 portion) to the first observation of disease progression per investigator review (as classified by modified RECIST or clinical progression, whichever occurred first) or death due to any cause, or censoring. Disease progression per RECIST is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions in reference to the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm; the appearance of any new lesions is also considered progression., From start of study treatment through up to 36 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from study day 1 (phase 1b portion) or randomization (phase 2 portion) to death for any cause., From start of study treatment through up to 36 months|Number of Subjects With an Adverse Event, Graded Using the National Cancer Institute(NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events(CTCAE) Version 3.0, From start of study treatment through up to 44 weeks|Pharmacokinetics of AMG 655, Ganitumab, and Gemcitabine, PK parameter of Cmax for AMG 655 (phase 1b and phase 2 portions) - pg 266, ganitumab (phase 2 portion only) - pg 270 , and gemcitabine (phase 1b portion only - pg 272) PK parameters, From start of study treatment through up to 48 weeks|Dose Intensity of Gemcitabine (Phase 2 Portion Only), Average Dose intensity of gemcitabine when combined with AMG 655, placebo or AMG 479, From start of study treatment through up to 40 weeks|Duration of Response, Duration of response was the time from the first observation of an objective response to the subsequent time of disease progression (per modified RECIST or clinical progression, whichever came first) or death due to any cause. Objective response = a tumor response assessment of either complete response or partial response per modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\]. Per RECIST: a complete response is the disappearance of all target lesions; a partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From objective response through up to 36 months|Incidence of Antibody Formation, The incidence of antibody formation of anti-AMG 655 (phase 1b and phase 2 portions) or anti- ganitumab (phase 2 portion only), From start of treatment up to 40 weeks
This is a multi-center, 2-part study of AMG 655, AMG 479 or AMG 655-placebo plus gemcitabine as first-line treatment of subjects with metastatic pancreatic cancer. Part 1 is an open-label, dose-escalation phase 1b segment to determine the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose of AMG 655 in combination with gemcitabine. Enrollment into part 1 of the study has been completed. Part 2 is a randomized, placebo-controlled phase 2 segment to estimate the efficacy as assessed by 6 month survival of AMG 655, AMG 479, or AMG 655-placebo in combination with gemcitabine. The phase 2 segment that will commence after dose selection in part 1. In part 2, subjects will be randomized 1:1:1 to AMG 655, AMG 479, or placebo in combination with gemcitabine.