S0338, Imatinib Mesylate and Capecitabine in Treating Women With Progressive Stage IV Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining imatinib mesylate with capecitabine may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving imatinib mesylate together with capecitabine works in treating women with progressive stage IV breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Imatinib mesylate
Confirmed Response Rate (Complete and Partial), Number of participants with confirmed complete or partial response. Confirmed response (complete and partial) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria (V1.0). Complete Response (CR) is complete disappearance of all measurable and non-measurable disease; no new lesions; no disease related symptoms; and normalization of markers and other abnormal lab values. Partial response (PR) applies only to patients with at least one measurable lesion. PR is greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of longest diameter of all target measurable lesions; no unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease and no new lesions. Confirmed response is two or more objective statuses a minimum of four weeks apart documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration., 12 weeks
Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, Percentage of participants progression-free at 6 months. Progression-free survival (PFS) measured from date of registration to first observation of progressive disease (per RECIST criteria (V1.0)), death due to any cause, or symptomatic deterioration. Kaplan-Meier was used to estimate progression-free survival (PFS) at six months., Six months|Number of Patients With Grade 3 Through 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drug, Adverse Events (AEs) are reported by the CTCAE (NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 3.0. For each patient, worst grade of each event type is reported. Grade 3 = Severe, Grade 4 = Life-threatening, Grade 5= Fatal. Only adverse events that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study drug are reported., Every 3 weeks while on treatment for up to 3 years.
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the confirmed complete and partial response rate in women with progressive stage IV adenocarcinoma of the breast treated with imatinib mesylate and capecitabine.
* Determine the 6-month progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Correlate, preliminarily, c-kit and platelet-derived growth factor receptor expression with estrogen and progesterone receptor status, response, survival, and time to disease progression in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate\* once daily on days 1-21 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*If the patient tolerates the starting dose of imatinib mesylate in course 1, the dose will be increased in subsequent courses.

Patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25-70 patients (25-45 patients with measurable disease and 25 with non-measurable disease) will be accrued for this study within 2 years.