Intralesional Versus Intramuscular Hepatitis B Vaccine Immunotherapy for Warts
Assessment of the effectiveness of intralesional and intramuscular hepatitis B vaccine in treatment of multiple common warts.
Intralesional Versus Intramuscular Hepatitis B Vaccine for Multiple Common Warts
BIOLOGICAL: hepatitis B vaccine immunotherapy of common warts (GeneVac-B 10 ml vial, Serum Institute of India Ltd., Pune, India)|BIOLOGICAL: Intralesional saline
Efficacy of intralesional versus intramuscular hepatitis B vaccine in the treatment of multiple common warts, Percentage of patients showing complete response to intralesional hepatitis B vaccine and intramuscular hepatitis B vaccine.

Complete response: complete disappearance of warts including distant warts and complete return of normal skin markings (100%).

Partial response: if the warts have regressed in size by 50-99%. No response: less than 50% decrease in wart size., up to 3 months after last injection|Immediate adverse effects, up to 20 minutes after intralesional or intramuscular injection of vaccine
Efficacy of intralesional versus intramuscular hepatitis B vaccine in distant wart response, Percentage of patients showing complete response of their distant warts to intralesional hepatitis B vaccine and intramuscular hepatitis B vaccine.

Complete response: complete disappearance of distant warts and complete return of normal skin markings (100%).

Partial response: if the distant warts have regressed in size by 50-99%. No response: less than 50% decrease in distant wart size., up to 3 months|Late adverse effects, up to 6 months follow-up period|Recurrence, after complete clearance of all warts, for 6 months-follow-up
Recently, intralesional immunotherapy by different antigens, including Candida antigen and purified protein derivative PPD has been proved effective in the treatment of different types of warts. Hepatitis B vaccine is one of the DNA vaccines that are regarded as being potentially safer, relatively cheap and easy to produce with no special storage requirements because they are extremely stable and allow for potential simultaneous immunization against multiple antigens or pathogens via co-expression of multiple epitopes on single plasmid. Hepatitis B vaccine could be a promising immunotherapeutic vaccine in the field of intralesional immunotherapy of warts. Moreover, the efficacy of intramuscular injection of hepatitis B vaccine would be assessed and compared to its intralesional injection.