Radiation Therapy and Sargramostim in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Colony-stimulating factors such as sargramostim increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining radiation therapy with sargramostim may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects of giving radiation therapy together with sargramostim and to see how well it works in treating patients with advanced solid tumors.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Toxicity as measured by the Southwest Oncology Group Performance Status and Toxicity Criteria on day 1 and in weeks 4, 12, and 20
Immune and tumor response as measured by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and CT scan on day 1 and in weeks 2, 3, 4, 12, and 20 or weeks 4, 12, and 20
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the safety of contrast-enhanced high-dose radiotherapy administered with sargramostim (GM-CSF) in patients with advanced solid malignancies.
* Determine immune response in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine tumor response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to prior therapy (biopsy or simple surgery vs radical surgery, chemotherapy, or radiotherapy).

Patients receive a contrast agent intratumorally followed by a single fraction of kilovoltage radiotherapy. Beginning 24 hours after radiotherapy, patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) intratumorally continuously for 1 week and then subcutaneously for 2 weeks. Patients with lung tumors receive GM-CSF by inhalation twice daily for 1 week and then every other week for a total of 3 weeks of drug treatment.

Treatment may repeat in several weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 8 weeks.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 47 patients (12 for phase I and 35 for phase II) will be accrued for this study.