A Clinical Trial to Compare Efficacy and Tolerability of Atorvastatin in Addition to Endocrine Treatment With Focus on Mechanisms of Resistance to Endocrine Treatment (Fulvestrant/Aromatase Inhibitors) in Patients With Advanced Breast Cancer
A Clinical Trial to Compare Efficacy and Tolerability of Atorvastatin in Addition to Endocrine Treatment with Focus on Mechanisms of Resistance to Endocrine Treatment (fulvestrant/aromatase inhibitors) in Patients With Advanced Breast Cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Letrozole and atorvastatin|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Clinical benefit rate., Clinical benefit rate (CBR), defined as the proportion of all randomly assigned patients who have the best overall response a complete response, a partial response, or stable disease up to 24 weeks following first-line letrozole treatment alone or in combination with atorvastatin., 6 months after the last patient has been randomly assigned.
Progression free survival., Progression free survival (PFS) comparing endocrine treatment alone or endocrine treatment in combination with atorvastatin in patients with advanced breast cancer. It is defined as the time elapsing between the time of random assignment to treatment and the date of the earliest evidence of objective disease progression or death of any cause before documented disease-progression assessed through study completion., 6 months after the last patient has been randomly assigned. Data cut off, 15th October 2020.|Objective response rate., Objective Response Rate (ORR; the proportion of patients with a best overall response of either a complete response or a partial response) through study completion., 6 months after the last patient has been randomly assigned. Data cut off, 15th October 2020.|Time to progression., Time-To-Progression (TTP) defined as time elapsed between date of diagnosis of metastatic disease and date of confirmation of disease progression in the first part of the protocol assessed through study completion. The primary analysis will be performed 6 months after the last patient has been randomly assigned., From date of treatment start until the date of first documented progression. Data cut off, 15th October 2020.|Duration of Clinical benefit., Duration of Clinical Benefit (DCB) includes complete response, partial response and disease stabilization assessed through study completion., 6 months after the last patient has been randomly assigned. Data cut off, 15th October 2020.|Overall survival., Overall survival defined as the time elapsed from the date of first confirmation of metastatic disease and the date of death from any cause through study completion., 6 months after the last patient has been randomly assigned. Data cut off, 15th October 2020.|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., Information regarding the number of participants with abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events that are related to treatment is collected continuously during the trial assessed through study completion.

Differences between treatment arms in incidence of recorded cardiovascular events and/or incident diabetes mellitus during and after study treatment., From date of treatment start, until 1 month after the last patient in the study has finished the trial.
A randomized, open-labelled, phase II trial in the first and second-line metastatic treatment setting, comparing standard endocrine treatment (aromatase inhibitor (AI)) with endocrine treatment plus atorvastatin (1:1). Upon progression in the first line setting, and as part of the translational studies on mechanisms of resistance to endocrine therapy, the patients will receive second line endocrine treatment using fulvestrant. Upon progression to first line treatment, patients that were receiving atorvastatin will stop this treatment.