Study of Autologous Immune Killer Cells in Patients With Late Stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma or Lung Cancer
This is a phase I clinical study. Blood is drawn from the patient and brought to our laboratory for isolation of immune cells. These immune cells are then proliferated over a two week period and used to produce our patented product IKC (Immune Killer Cells). The IKC will then infused back into the patient to treat the cancer. Each patient will receive a total of six infusions.
NSCLC Stage IIIB|NSCLC Stage IV|Hepatocellular Carcinoma by BCLC Stage|Lung Cancer|Liver Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Immune Killer Cells (IKC)
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety], Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE) will be recorded and evaluated for their relationship to the treatment, 5 months
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Record net changes of tumor sizes, 4 months|Quality of Life (QOL), The assessment will be performed using The World Heath Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire (WHOQOL)

This questionnaire produces a quality of life profile. It is possible to derive four domain scores. The four domain scores denote an individual's perception of quality of life in each particular domain (1. Physical health 2. Psychological 3. Social relationships 4. Environmental) Domain scores are scaled in a positive direction (i.e. higher scores denote higher quality of life).

The mean score of items within each domain is used to calculate the domain score (min: 0 max: 100)

Domain scores are then calculated (divide domain score by 4) to produce a final QOL Score (i.e. higher scores denote higher quality of life min: 0 max:100)., 5 months
This is a phase I clinical study. Blood is drawn from the patient and brought to our laboratory for isolation of immune cells. These immune cells are then proliferated over a two week period and used to produce the patented product IKC (Immune Killer Cells). The IKC will then infused back into the patient to treat the cancer. Each patient will receive a total of six infusions.

For each indication (cancer of the lung or liver) 10 patients are anticipated to be recruited, making a total of 20 subjects. All subjects will receive treatment as this is a single-arm study.