Web-Based Family Outreach Program for Cancer Prevention in High-Risk Families
This trial develops a patient-driven self-navigated web-based family outreach program for cancer prevention in high-risk families. Creating the family outreach program may help to improve the way in which genetic test results are communicated within families and increase the number of at-risk relatives who become aware of their risks.
Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|BEHAVIORAL: Web Site
Web-Based Family Outreach Registry, Data analysis for core functions of the web-based Family Outreach Registry will generally be descriptive. Web-based program to improve the way in which genetic test results are communicated within families and to increase the number of at-risk relatives who become aware of their risks., Continual assessment of data over participant's life time (target follow-up duration: 40 Years)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To develop a secure, web-based program for family outreach in Clinical Cancer Genetics (CCG).

II. The long-term goals of this program are expected to include, but are not limited to the following:

IIa. To enable families with inherited cancer susceptibility and/or at increased familial risk of cancer to provide personal and family history of neoplasia through a convenient and self-directed program.

IIb. To enable communication of possible inherited cancer susceptibility with and among family members through the web-based portal.

IIc. To facilitate genetic testing, screening and prevention strategies in those at risk.

IId. Establish high-risk cohort for optional participation in research and clinical trials.

OUTLINE:

Patients communicate with at-risk family members to share genetic test results and other relevant information, as well as to learn more about their disease via family outreach program website. At risk family members are then contacted by a study coordinator or genetic counselor for further follow-up. At-risk relatives receive resources to facilitate understanding of their at-risk status and to facilitate predictive testing.