Ruxolitinib in Combination With Venetoclax With and Without Azacitidine in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ruxolitinib when given together with venetoclax and compares the effect of ruxolitinib in combination with venetoclax to venetoclax and azacitidine in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) that has come back (relapsed) or has not responded to treatment (refractory). Ruxolitinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Azacitidine stops cells from making deoxyribonucleic acid and may kill cancer cells. It is a type of antimetabolite. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Giving ruxolitinib in combination with venetoclax and azacitidine may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective compare to ruxolitinib with venetoclax in treating patients with relapsed or refractory AML.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Punch Biopsy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Ruxolitinib|DRUG: Venetoclax
Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) for each arm-specific combination, Within each arm, patient-level toxicity events will be summarized by dose level, major organ category, and grade., Up to day 56 (of cycle 1 [cycle length = 28 days]) for non-hematologic DLT and up to day 42 (of cycle 1 [cycle length = 28 days]) for hematologic DLTs
Composite complete remission rate, Will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals (CIs)., From first dose to end of cycle 2 (cycle length = 28 days)|Clinical response rate, Will be estimated, along with 95% CIs., From first dose to end of cycle 2 (cycle length = 28 days)|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), CBR will be defined as the proportion of evaluable subjects obtaining stable disease (SD), partial remission, or composite complete remission during the first 2 cycles of therapy. Will be estimated, along with 95% CIs., From first dose to end of cycle 2 (up to 36 days)|Duration of clinical response, From first morphologic leukemia-free state or better to bone marrow blasts >= 5%, circulating blasts, or EMD, or date of last disease assessment, assessed up to 2 years|Duration of clinical benefit, From first SD or better to evidence of progressive disease, or date of last disease assessment, assessed up to 2 years|Event-free survival (EFS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, with median and survival rate estimates at common landmark times reported with 95% log-log CIs. Univariable Cox models will be fit to EFS to assess the impact of baseline patient and disease features; model results such as unadjusted hazard ratios and associated Wald test p-values will be considered hypothesis-generating., From first occurrence of treatment failure, disease progression, or death due to any cause, or date of last exam, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, with median and survival rate estimates at common landmark times reported with 95% log-log CIs. Univariable Cox models will be fit to OS to assess the impact of baseline patient and disease features; model results such as unadjusted hazard ratios and associated Wald test p-values will be considered hypothesis-generating. Median follow-up (and 95% log-log CI) will utilize a patient's OS time and censoring status and be estimated using the reverse Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose to death due to any cause or date of last known alive, assessed up to 2 years|Overall incidence of treatment-related and non-treatment related toxicity, The overall incidence of treatment- related and non-treatment- related toxicity will be determined using the safety-evaluable population. The point estimate and 95% CI for the proportion of patients with each of these toxicity types will be reported. adverse event and abnormal concerning laboratory values will be tabulated by patient and by toxicity event (there can be \> 1 event patient) will be tabulated overall and within dose level and summarized by major organ site and severity according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., From first dose to 30 days after last dose of study agent|Changes in patient reported quality of life (QOL) outcomes (Arm 2), Will be assessed using European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 and Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System-Fatigue-Short Form 7A. Will be reported with descriptive statistics (e.g., sample size, median, and range) for each survey time point during the treatment period and for (within-patient) changes from baseline. The QOL summary statistics from each survey will be compared to other studies conducted in relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia patients., From first dose of study treatment to date of last completed survey, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate an maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) for ruxolitinib in combination with Ia. Venetoclax (Arm 1); Ib. Venetoclax and azacitidine (Arm 2).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of the study treatment. II. To assess the duration of clinical response. III. To assess the duration of clinical benefit. IV. To assess survival in the absence of treatment failure, hematologic relapse, or progressive disease.

V. To assess overall survival. VI. To assess overall acute toxicity and tolerability. VII. To assess the effect of ruxolitinib in combination with azacitidine + venetoclax on quality of life (QOL).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess in vitro kinase inhibitor sensitivity using participants' bone marrow (or peripheral blood).

II. To characterize changes in disease using molecular techniques (potentially including next-generation sequencing and/or BH3 profiling).

III. To assess the impact of changes in molecular disease features. IV. To determine the in vivo pharmacokinetics (PK)/pharmacodynamics (PD) parameters of the study drugs (Arm 1 only).

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ruxolitinib in combination with fixed dose venetoclax with and without azacitdine. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1 (COMPLETE 04/04/2025): Patients receive ruxolitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and venetoclax PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive additional cycles of ruxolitinib and venetoclax at the discretion of the sponsor-investigator. Patients also undergo a skin punch biopsy and echocardiography (ECHO) at screening and blood sample collection and bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the study.

ARM 2: Patients receive ruxolitinib PO BID, venetoclax PO QD, and azacitidine intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo ECHO at screening and blood sample collection and bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 2 years.