Research on Endoscopic Precision Biopsy.
Colorectal adenoma is a common disease and frequently-occurring disease in gastroenterology. With the continuous progress of colonoscopy equipment and the gradual improvement of endoscopic accessories, especially the development of chromo-endoscopy and magnifying endoscopy. The observation of the surface structure and capillary morphology of colorectal adenomas can realize optical biopsy. Currently, most clinical endoscopic diagnosis of colorectal diseases is biopsy under colonoscopy, and further treatment options are determined based on the pathological results of the biopsy. The problem is that the pathological diagnosis of some preoperative biopsy is not completely consistent with the pathological diagnosis of postoperative large specimens. Previous studies have found that the pathological diagnosis accuracy rate of preoperative biopsy is only 66-75%, so there is a certain degree of subjectivity in relying solely on colonoscopy white light biopsy. Based on the previous work, the research team has initially established an intelligent recognition model for colorectal adenoma classification (low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia, high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia), and formed a colorectal adenoma of a certain size with annotated endoscopic image data set. Using the YOLO-V4 algorithm, under the Darknet framework, to train an artificial intelligence (AI) system which specifically for adenoma recognition and diagnosis, its accuracy rate has reached more than 90%. This study intends to increase the sample size based on the previous work, and further improve the accuracy of the classification and diagnosis of the AI system, so as to guide the endoscopist to perform targeted biopsy and improve the accuracy of preoperative biopsy.
Colorectal Adenoma
PROCEDURE: AI-assisted guided biopsy
The accuracy of AI, Concordance rate between biopsy and postoperative pathology, June 2023|The accuracy of expert with or without AI, Concordance rate between expert experience and postoperative pathology, June 2023|The accuracy of non-expert with or without AI, Concordance rate between non-expert experience and postoperative pathology, June 2023
Colorectal adenoma is a common disease and frequently-occurring disease in gastroenterology. With the continuous progress of colonoscopy equipment and the gradual improvement of endoscopic accessories, especially the development of chromo-endoscopy and magnifying endoscopy. The observation of the surface structure and capillary morphology of colorectal adenomas can realize optical biopsy. Currently, most clinical endoscopic diagnosis of colorectal diseases is biopsy under colonoscopy, and further treatment options are determined based on the pathological results of the biopsy. The problem is that the pathological diagnosis of some preoperative biopsy is not completely consistent with the pathological diagnosis of postoperative large specimens. Previous studies have found that the pathological diagnosis accuracy rate of preoperative biopsy is only 66-75%, so there is a certain degree of subjectivity in relying solely on colonoscopy white light biopsy. Based on the previous work, the research team has initially established an intelligent recognition model for colorectal adenoma classification (low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia, high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia), and formed a colorectal adenoma of a certain size with annotated endoscopic image data set. Using the YOLO-V4 algorithm, under the Darknet framework, to train an artificial intelligence (AI) system which specifically for adenoma recognition and diagnosis, its accuracy rate has reached more than 90%. This study intends to increase the sample size based on the previous work, and further improve the accuracy of the classification and diagnosis of the AI system, so as to guide the endoscopist to perform targeted biopsy and improve the accuracy of preoperative biopsy.