Androgen Deprivation Therapy and Apalutamide With or Without Radiation Therapy for the Treatment of Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Cancer, RESTART Study
This phase II trial studies how well androgen deprivation therapy and apalutamide with or without radiation therapy works for the treatment of prostate cancer that has a rise in the blood level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and has come back after treatment with surgery or radiation (biochemically recurrent). Androgens can cause the growth of prostate tumor cells. Apalutamide may help fight prostate cancer by blocking the use of androgens by the tumor cells. Androgen deprivation therapy drugs, leuprolide or degarelix, work to lower the amount of androgen in the body, also preventing the tumor cells from growing. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving radiation therapy with apalutamide and androgen deprivation therapy may help to control prostate cancer that has come back in only a few (up to 5) spots in the body.
Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Oligometastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Apalutamide|DRUG: Degarelix|DRUG: Leuprolide Acetate|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Time to prostate specific antigen (PSA) recurrence, Will estimate with the 95% Bayesian credible interval., From treatment start with androgen deprivation therapy plus apalutamide until PSA recurrence (> 0.2 ng/ml) for patients who received surgery, or PSA >= nadir+2ng/mL for patients who received only prior definitive radiation of the prostate, up to 4 years
Time to testosterone recovery, Measured using the Kaplan-Meier method., From treatment start until testosterone > 150ng/dL, assessed up to 4 years|Eugonadal time to PSA recurrence, Defined as the time to PSA recurrence following testosterone recovery (\> 150 ng/dL). Measured using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 4 years|Overall survival, Measured using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 4 years|Incidence of adverse events, Safety data will be summarized by treatment arm, category, grade and attribution. Measured by grade 2 or higher adverse events by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of apalutamide|Time to first new metastasis or local/pelvic recurrence, Up to 4 years|Patient reported outcomes (PRO), Patient reported outcomes assessed using the following questionnaires EuroQOL 5 Dimensional Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) - EuroQOL 5 Dimensional Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L); Outcome measure is the index value. Range: -0.573 to 1., Up to 4 years|Patient reported outcomes (PRO), Patient reported outcomes assessed using the following questionnaires European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLC-C30): Outcome measure is a raw score, ranging from 0-100., Up to 4 years|Patient reported outcomes (PRO), Patient reported outcomes assessed using the following questionnaires European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire EORTC QLQ-ELD14 Outcome measure is a raw score, ranging from 0-100, Up to 4 years|Patient reported outcomes (PRO), Patient reported outcomes assessed using the following questionnaires Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26): Results are presented in a standardized 0-100 scale., Up to 4 years|Metabolic syndrome changes, Laboratory parameters that will be measured during screening and active treatment (Lipid panel, blood sugar, HbA1c, Vitamin D, TSH, Testosterone, c-peptide, leptin) as well as measurements of weight and height and bone density measurement results will be used to evaluate changes in parameters predisposing to metabolic syndrome. .Laboratory parameters that will be measured during screening and active treatment (Lipid panel, blood sugar, HbA1c, Vitamin D, TSH, Testosterone, c-peptide, leptin) as well as measurements of weight and height and bone density measurement results, Up to 4 years|Change in bone density, The results from bone density scanning (DXA scan) will be used to evaluate changes in bone density in the patient population, Up to 4 years|Imaging changes, Association of changes between baseline and repeat advanced imaging with outcome will be performed, as well as comparison between fluciclovine and PSMA PET/CT modalities, including detection rates and correlation of detected disease volume at baseline with outcome. These changes will be evaluated in correlation with molecular characteristics explored through interrogation of archival and recurrent tissue samples , exosome, steroid and androgen metabolism. Association of changes between baseline and repeat advanced imaging with outcome will be performed, as well as comparison between fluciclovine and PSMA PET/CT modalities, including detection rates and correlation of detected disease volume at baseline with outcome. These changes will be evaluated in correlation with molecular characteristics explored through interrogation of archival and recurrent tissue samples , exosome, steroid and androgen metabolism., Up to 4 years|Fluciclovine positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) modality assessment, Will estimate lesion detection rate based on fluciclovine and prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) PET/CT modalities and the agreement between fluciclovine and PSMA PET/CT results will be assessed through McNemar test., Up to cycle 4, day 1 (each cycle = 28 days)|PSMA PET/CT modality assessment, Will estimate lesion detection rate based on fluciclovine and PSMA PET/CT modalities and the agreement between fluciclovine and PSMA PET/CT results will be assessed through McNemar test., Up to cycle 4, day 1 (each cycle = 28 days)
Identification of response or resistance markers, Identification of markers of response or resistance through correlation with outcomes (interrogation of archival and recurrent tissue samples, exosome, steroid and androgen metabolism), Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess PSA progression-free survival in both treatment arms.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess time of recovery of serum testosterone in both treatment arms. II. To assess PSA progression-free survival and overall survival following testosterone recovery in both treatment arms.

III. To assess safety of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) + apalutamide as well as ADT + apalutamide in combination radiation therapy.

IV. To assess the time to first new metastasis or local / pelvic recurrence in both treatment arms.

V. To assess the impact of both treatment arms on quality of life. VI. To assess the impact of both treatment arms on metabolic syndrome parameters.

VII. To assess the impact of both treatment arms on bone density. VIII. To investigate the association of changes in repeat advanced imaging with outcome.

IX. To compare fluciclovine and prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To identify potential markers of response or resistance to the administered therapies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive apalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and ADT consisting of leuprolide intramuscularly (IM) every 12 weeks or degarelix subcutaneously (SC) every 4 weeks. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients receive apalutamide PO QD on days 1-28 and ADT consisting of leuprolide IM every 12 weeks or degarelix SC every 4 weeks. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy (RT) between cycles 4-7 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 and 4 months.