PEmbrolizumab Combined With Chemoradiotherapy in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
This study aims to establish whether the combination of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) and conventional cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy is tolerable and results in acceptable levels of acute and late toxicity in patients with stage IV LA-SCCHN. In particular, the study will provide data on the levels of mucosal and cutaneous toxicity within the radiation fields, as these are the primary acute toxicities associated with this treatment regimen. In addition, toxicity outside the radiation portals (which may theoretically be exacerbated by radiation) will be studied. However, all toxicity will be monitored. This study will also give an indication of the activity of pembrolizumab in LA-SCCHN because we are deliberately selecting a group of patients with high- and intermediate-risk disease who have a significant chance of experiencing loco-regional or systemic failure.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Chemotherapy
the maximum tolerated dose that can safely be combined with platin-based chemoradiotherapy in patients with HPV-ve and HPV+ve LA-SCCHN, Six weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy|Acute toxicity as measured during treatment by CTCAE v4.0, Up until 6 weeks after the end of chemoradiotherapy (week 14 of the study)
The Progression Free Survival, Six months, one year and two years|The Overall Survival, Six months, one year and two years|To measure the duration of clinical benefit using RECIST, Six months, one year and two years|To evaluate late radiotherapy toxicities as measured during treatment by LENT SOMA, 52 weeks from the end of radiation therapy (week 7)
Identify biomarkers and correlate with clinical benefit, as defined by RECIST v1.1, through study completion (24 months)|Analysis of circulating free tumour DNA, Screening, week 3, week 9 and week 15|Immunohistochemical analysis to identify immune infiltrates, through study completion (24 months)
This will be a single centre phase 1 dose-escalation study to confirm the safety of combining pembrolizumab with standard platin-based chemoradiotherapy in patients with stage IV high- and intermediate-risk locally-advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (LA-SCCHN). 6-36 patients (18 HPV+ve and 18 HPV-ve) will be recruited in a standard 3+3 dose-escalation trial design with an expansion cohort at the maximum tolerated dose (or 200 mg, if no DLT is defined). A pre-loading dose of 100 or 200mg (dependent on dosing level) of pembrolizumab will be given once the patient has completed the screening period. Patients will then return 2 weeks later to begin cycle 1 of a regimen of pembrolizumab 3 weekly at a dose of 100 or 200mg (dependent on dosing level) for a total of 7 cycles (3 during chemoradiotherapy and 4 after chemoradiotherapy).

Parallel studies in HPV-ve and HPV +ve disease will be conducted (note these patients may have different patterns of co-morbidity and, hence, different treatment-related toxicities). The primary endpoint of the study will be safety and tolerability. Dose-limiting acute toxicity will be assessed during administration of study drug according to CTCAEv4.0. The maximum tolerated dose of study drug (or 200 mg in the absence of DLT) will be used in a subsequent randomised phase 2 study comparing standard-of-care therapy with standard-of-care therapy plus study drug.