Pevonedistat With Azacitidine Versus Azacitidine Alone in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well pevonedistat works with azacitidine compared to azacitidine alone in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Pevonedistat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known if pevonedistat with azacitidine or azacitidine alone may work better in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Pevonedistat
Overall survival, Analysis will be done using Cox regression, and Kaplan-Meier plots will also be provided., From randomization to death from any cause (or censor date), assessed up to 2 years
Overall response rate (ORR), Defined as proportion of subjects with complete response (CR) + complete response with incomplete bone marrow recovery (CRi) using European Leukemia Net response criteria. Will be calculated as percentages and associated exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be constructed. Comparisons between the two arms will be conducted using Exact tests., Up to 2 years|Duration of response (DOR) (CR/CRi response), Cox regression and Kaplan-Meir plots will be provided., Time from first documented CR/CRi response to relapse
Rate of early mortality, Defined as proportion of subjects with death from any cause. Will be calculated as percentages and associated exact 95% CIs will be constructed. Comparisons between the two arms will be conducted using Exact tests., At 90 days after starting treatment|Rate of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), Defined as proportion of subjects proceeding to allogeneic HCT after starting treatment. Will be calculated as percentages and associated exact 95% CIs will be constructed. Comparisons between the two arms will be conducted using Exact tests., Up to 2 years|Time to response, Cox Regression and Kaplan-Meir plots will be provided., From randomization to first documented CR/CRi response, assessed up to 2 years|Pharmacodynamic effects of pevonedistat in combination with azacitidine versus azacitidine (as measured by the expression of NRF2 target genes NQO1 and SLC7A11), Will evaluate the effect of the change using Cox regression, both specifically on the pevonedistat plus azacitidine arm and by examining each treatment by "change in NRF2 target gene" interaction. Will also evaluate if the baseline expression levels of NQO1 and SLC7A11 relate to the response to MLN4924 (pevonedistat) treatment (by baseline NRF2 target gene interaction)., Up to 2 years|Cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities, Baseline|Potential predictive biomarkers of sensitivity to these regimens, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare overall survival (OS) of MLN4924 (pevonedistat) and azacitidine in combination versus azacitidine alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the overall response rate (ORR) and duration of response (DOR) of MLN4924 (pevonedistat) and azacitidine in combination versus azacitidine alone.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the rate of early mortality, rate of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) and time to response of patients treated with MLN4924 (pevonedistat) and azacitidine versus azacitidine alone.

II. To determine whether nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) target gene expression is a biomarker of MLN4924 (pevonedistat) activity and predictive of treatment response.

III. To correlate cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities and additional potential biomarkers with treatment activity and response.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive pevonedistat intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 and azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on either days 1-7, or days 1-5 and 8-9, or days 1-6 and 8. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive azacitidine IV or SC as in Arm A. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, then every 6 months thereafter.