Noninvasive Surrogate Marker for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma Response to Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy: MR Perfusion, Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound and Biomarkers
Hepatocellular carcinoma is the sixth most common malignancy and the third most common cause of cancer-related death worldwide. The incidence of HCC is rising in Europe and the United States and is expected to continue to increase during the next 2 to 3 decades. The expected survival rate is still decimal, especially in patients with advanced HCC. However, in recent years, several treatment methods for patients with advanced HCC, including antiangiogenic chemotherapy, radiotherapy, concurrent chemoradiotherapy, and DC bead transarterial chemoembolization, have been developed. Among these new treatment methods, concurrent chemoradiotherapy has also proved to increase patient's survival rate. It is important to predict treatment response before treatment or immediately after treatment because there are several other treatment options as mentioned above. Recently, there have been several reports that MR perfusion parameters such as Ktrans can predict treatment response in cervical cancer and colorectal cancer. Therefore the purpose of the investigators study is to evaluate the feasibility of predicting treatment response by MR perfusion, contrast enhanced ultrasound parameters and biomarkers (IL-6, IL-12 and VEGF) in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who undertake concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma
RADIATION: DCE MRI
characteristic of Perfusion MR, Ktrans (volume transfer constant between the EES and the blood plasma), Kep (rate constant between the EES and the blood plasma), Ve (Ktrnas/Kep: EES fractional volume), tumor volume, 1 month
Hepatocellular carcinoma is the sixth most common malignancy and the third most common cause of cancer-related death worldwide. The incidence of HCC is rising in Europe and the United States and is expected to continue to increase during the next 2 to 3 decades. The expected survival rate is still decimal, especially in patients with advanced HCC. However, in recent years, several treatment methods for patients with advanced HCC, including antiangiogenic chemotherapy, radiotherapy, concurrent chemoradiotherapy, and DC bead transarterial chemoembolization, have been developed. Among these new treatment methods, concurrent chemoradiotherapy has also proved to increase patient's survival rate. It is important to predict treatment response before treatment or immediately after treatment because there are several other treatment options as mentioned above. Recently, there have been several reports that MR perfusion parameters such as Ktrans can predict treatment response in cervical cancer and colorectal cancer. Therefore the purpose of the investigators study is to evaluate the feasibility of predicting treatment response by MR perfusion, contrast enhanced ultrasound parameters and biomarkers (IL-6, IL-12 and VEGF) in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who undertake concurrent chemoradiotherapy.