Prostaglandin Inhibition and Immune Checkpoint Blockade in Melanoma
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab, ipilimumab, and aspirin work in treating patients with melanoma that has spread to other places in the body or cannot be removed by surgery. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab and ipilimumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Aspirin may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving pembrolizumab, ipilimumab, and aspirin may work better in treating patients with melanoma.
Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IIIA Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma
DRUG: Aspirin|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of subjects for whom the best overall response at week 12 is confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Point estimates of ORR and 95% confidence intervals will be provided. Only participants with confirmed response are included in this analysis., Up to 12 weeks
Number of Participants With Reported Treatment-related Adverse Events, Number of participants with reported treatment-related adverse events defined as having an attribution of definite, possible, and probable according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 will be reported., Within 30 days after last dose of study drug, up to 3 years|Proportion of Participants With Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months, PFS at 6 months is defined as the proportion of subjects alive and progression-free 6 months (182 days) after study day 1., Up to 6 months (182 days)|Median Duration of PFS, Duration of PFS is defined as the time from the study day 1 to the earlier of disease progression or death due to any cause. The analysis of PFS will include only objective progression events per RECIST and clinical progression determined by the investigator may not be considered disease progression. The median duration of PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier methods with the associated 95% confidence interval., Up to 3 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), Duration of OS is defined as the time from study day 1 to death due to any cause. For subjects who are alive at the time of data cutoff or are permanently lost to follow-up, duration of OS will be right censored at the date the subject was last known to be alive. The median duration of OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier methods with the associated 95% confidence interval., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) by week 12 in patients with stage III unresectable/stage IV melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the median progression free survival, overall survival, and toxicity profile of the combination of ipilimumab, pembrolizumab and high dose aspirin in patients with stage III unresectable/IV melanoma.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, ipilimumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 for courses 1-4, and aspirin orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.