Development of Quality Indicators and Quality Improvement Plan of Colonoscopy in Experienced Endoscopist
The purpose of this study is to determine clinical factors affecting quality indicators of colonoscopy including adenoma detection rate, and whether quality of colonoscopy could be elevated by improving related factors.
Colonic Polyps|Colonic Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Feedback
Adenoma detection rate, (total, right, transverse, left), 8 years
Colonoscopy performance indicators, Colonoscopy withdrawal time in negative complete colonoscopy, 8 years|Colonoscopy performance indicators, The number of taken pictures in negative complete colonoscopy, 8 years|Colonoscopy performance indicators, The position changes during colonoscope insertion and withdrawal, 8 years|Colonoscopy quality indicators, Colorectal cancer detection rate, 8 years|Colonoscopy quality indicators, Advanced adenoma detection rate, 8 years|Colonoscopy quality indicators, Adenoma detection rate plus, 8 years|Colonoscopy quality indicators, Polyp detection rate (total, right, transverse, left), 8 years|Colonoscopy quality indicators, Multiple adenoma detection rate, 8 years|Colonoscopy quality indicators, Serrated polyp detection rate (total, right, transverse, left), 8 years|Colonoscopy quality indicators, Complication rate (bleeding, perforation, pain), 8 years
This study is an extension of quality assurance program in Seoul National University Hospital Healthcare System Gangnam Center. This study is composed of five periods. First, quality indicators of colonoscopy in experienced endoscopists will be analyzed retrospectively from January 2011 to december 2014. Individual differences and changes of quality indicators in every endoscopist will be verified. In second period, from January 2015 to March 2015, quality assurance program will be activated. Endoscopists will be educated by EQUIP (Endoscopic Quality Improvement Program). Also split-regimen bowel preparation instead of same-day regimen and Boston bowel preparation scale will be introduced to standardize disparity of grading. Third, prospective trial starts from April 2015 to March 2018. All endoscopists will receive feedbacks of their own adenoma detection rates in every 3 months. Changes of quality indicators for each endoscopist will be investigated, and annually monitored by institutional review board. If there is a significant improvement of quality indicators in interim assessment, prospective trial will be extended until April 2018. Fourth is wash-out period from April 2018 to march 2019. Feedbacks will be stopped and adenoma detection rates and quality indicators of endoscopists will be compared with those from prospective period. Finally, cumulative rate and mortality rate of colorectal cancers will be investigated until December 2019.