Leflunomide in Treating Patients With High-Risk Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well leflunomide works in treating patients with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma. Leflunomide may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Smoldering Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Leflunomide|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression to multiple myeloma, Progression to multiple myeloma in the absence of increased calcium level, renal dysfunction, anemia, and destructive bone lesions (CRAB) features, orto symptomatic multiple myeloma that requires therapy will be assessed., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Overall survival will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 2 years
Overall response rate (ORR), The overall response rate and 95% Clopper Pearson binomial confidence interval (CI) will be calculated. Response rates will also be explored based on number/type of prior therapy(ies)., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Adverse events will be characterized using the descriptions and grading scales found in the most recent version of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5. Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 30 days post treatment|Freedom from progression, Freedom from progression will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 2 years|Change in quality of life, The quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) scales (five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status/ quality of life (QoL) scale, and six single items) will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Changes in reported QOL over time from baseline will also be summarized., Baseline up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the anti-myeloma activity of leflunomide, when given as a single agent, as assessed by freedom from progression at 2-years.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of single agent leflunomide. II. To summarize and assess toxicities by type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration.

III. To estimate overall and progression-free survival probabilities. IV. To estimate response rate and duration of response. V. To describe the impact of treatment on quality of life, as assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score version (v)3.0.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the molecular evolution of the tumor cells. II. To evaluate whether specific genetic subtypes respond differently to leflunomide.

III. To evaluate the role of immune cells in the progression of smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM).

IV. To evaluate the role of leflunomide in modulating the immune system. V. To examine the relationship between immunological changes and disease progression.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive leflunomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 28 days.