TumorGraft- Guided Therapy for Improved Outcomes in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer- A Feasibility Study
Primary objectives:

1. Evaluate the feasibility of rapidly accruing 30 participants with recurrent metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma for the development of patient derived xenographs (PDX) from fresh, real time biopsies in which sensitivity to \< 4 Ontario funded chemotherapeutic regimen will be tested. Written feedback to the primary oncologist will be provided.
2. There is also a curative intent cohort of 30 participants undergoing surgical resection with curative intent. These PDX models will undergo exome sequencing with written feedback.
3. Feasibility in both surgical and recurrent cohorts will be a measure of i) engraftment rate, ii) patient status at the time of drug testing completion and iii) rate of accrual.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Drug testing on PDX per Investigator's choice (upto 4)
To determine the rate of PDX engraftment for HNSCC and RMHNSCC samples, 1-2 years|Time to engraftment, 1-2 years|Percentage of models successfully undergoing drug testing, 1-2 years|Participant status at the time of completion of drug testing, Participant status at the time of completion of drug testings(i.e. what percentage of participants are alive and well enough to receive further chemo)., 1-2 years
Tumour samples from 30 participants with HNSCC that undergone curative surgery will be used to establish patient-derived xenografts (PDXs). These tumours will also undergo exome sequencing. This will provide a biobank of PDX models with available genomic information for future research projects. Another 30 participants with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC (RMHNSCC) will be recruited to this study. PDX models will be developed from these patient tumours, followed by genomic sequencing. PDX models are developed by transplanting small tumour pieces into immunocompromised mice. These mice are then treated with different available drugs for RMHNSCC at the discretion of their medical oncologist. These mice will be then followed up to examine the tumour response to treatments. When studied in clinic, PDX models have shown high correlation with patient response to the treatment. The PDX drug testing results will be provided to the treating medical oncologist to guide care at the oncologists discretion. Investigators' hope is that improved chemotherapy responses are observed with this strategy.