A Phase II Biomarker Trial of Gelatin Encapsulated Extract of American Ginseng Root (LEAG) in Breast Cancer
This study was designed to explore the changes brought about by gelatin encapsulated extract of American Ginseng Root (LEAG) in breast cancer tumors and surrounding normal breast epithelial cells. Various tumor biomarkers, as well as inflammatory mediators, will be examined in tissue following LEAG treatment.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: American Ginseng root
Adiponectin, Change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean of 11.8 days|C Reactive Protein (CRP), Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean of 11.8 days|Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF), Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean of 11.8 days|Insulin Like Growth Factor 1 (IGF-1), Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean of 11.8 days|Insulin Like Growth Factor 1 Receptor (IGF-1R), Mean change from baseline following 10-14 days of treatment with LEAG., 10-14 days|Interlueken-1- (IL-10), Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|IL-12p40, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|IL-1b, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|IL-1ra, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|IL-2, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean of 11.8 days|IL-23, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|IL-4, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|IL-6, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|IL-8, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|Insulin, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|Leptin, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|MCP-1, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|TGFb1, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days|TNFa, Mean change from baseline to completion of treatment with LEAG., mean 11.8 days
Asian ginseng (Panax ginseng) and its close relative American ginseng (Panax quinquefolium) are perennial aromatic herbs that are widely used in Asian medicine. Ginseng root is used as a tonic thought to increase the body's resistance to stress and fatigue, to increase endurance under heavy physical activity, and to improve well-being in age-related debilitation. Most of the ginseng consumed, even in Asian populations, is American ginseng, and the majority of American ginseng is grown and processed in Wisconsin, with quality and standardization overseen by the Ginseng Board of Wisconsin. Furthermore, in Asian medicine, Asian ginseng (Panax ginseng) and American ginseng (Panax quinquefolium) are common components in herbals used for cancer prevention and treatment. Indeed, retrospective studies have shown that patients who consumed ginseng on a regular basis experienced cancers at a reduced rate, however, breast cancer was not considered. Ginseng has been used medicinally for over 2000 years and there are no substantiated serious adverse effects, and few, if any, non-serious adverse effects. The World Health Organization lists ginseng as a traditional medicine with very low toxicity. Clinical trials have also demonstrated an anti-hyperglycemic action of American ginseng. These studies utilized capsules containing dried, ground Ontario-grown P. qinquefolius L. root. The ground AG root preparation had an onset of action of 40 minutes. They found no significant increase in anti-hyperglycemic action after 40 minutes and no significant increase in anti-hyperglycemic action using 1 gram versus 3 gram dosing.

LEAG is a standardized preparation of lyophilized water-extract of American ginseng root in 250-mg gelatin capsules. The ginseng was purchased through the Ginseng Board of Wisconsin and the lyophilized extract has been certified for percentage of each and total ginsenoside content and screened for safe levels of minerals, metals, and pesticides by ConsumerLab.com, a leading testing service company of dietary supplements.