Prospective Clinical Safety and Efficacy Study of Lesion-targeted MRI-TULSA for Localized Prostate Cancer
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has improved detection of clinically significant prostate cancer (PCa). MRI-guided transurethral ultrasound ablation (MRI-TULSA) system incorporates precise diagnosis and simultaneous ablation of prostate tissue enabling lesion-targeted treatment of PCa. Lesion-based treatment strategy spares surrounding healthy tissues from injury, which may improve the outcome of genitourinary function. This study further investigates the safety and the efficacy of lesion-targeted ablation of MRI-visible biopsy-proven PCa with MRI-TULSA.
Localized Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: MRI-TULSA
Severe adverse event free survival, The primary safety outcome is the freedom from severe adverse events over 3 months follow up: Clavien Dindo Classification of surgical complication is graded from 1 (mild) to 5 (death). Severe adverse events are regarded as events graded ≥3., 3 months|Oncological efficacy: Disease free survival, The primary oncological efficacy outcome, disease free survival (DFS), is the freedom from any histologically proven clinically significant prostate cancer as assessed from both 10-12-core systematic biopsies and MRI-directed 2-4-core in field biopsies at 12 months., 12 months
Urinary continence status, Urinary continence status as measured by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) item 5 ≥ 2 (patient filled and reported outcome measure), 3, 6 and 12 months|Overall urinary symptom score, Symptom severity as measured by International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) (patient filled and reported outcome measure). Compared to baseline, score change of ≥ 4 is considered clinically significant., 3, 6 and 12 months|Erectile function sufficient for penetration, Erectile dysfunction status as measured by International Index of Erectile Function item 2 ≥ 2 (erection firmness sufficient for penetration)(patient filled and reported outcome measure). Not applicable for subject with baseline score \< 2., 3, 6 and 12 months|Overall erectile function, Erectile function as measure by International Index of Erectile Function-5 (IIEF-5)(patient filled and reported outcome measure). Compared to baseline, score change of ≥ 4 is considered clinically significant., 3, 6 and 12 months|Radiological failure free survival, Presence of a highly suspicious lesion in treatment field on prostate MRI at 6 or 12 months (Likert suspicion level ≥ 4)., 6 and 12 months|Ablation failure free survival, In field (ablated area) biopsy-confirmed histologically viable cancer., 12 months
Improving diagnostic methods and screening of men with prostate specific antigen (PSA) has led to earlier detection of prostate cancer (PCa) with more favorable disease characteristics. To decrease overtreatment, low risk cases are increasingly treated with active surveillance; nevertheless some of them progress requiring interventions. Intermediate- and high-risk cases need active treatments to improve survival. However, despite desirable local control, the standard therapies including radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy, carry a risk of treatment related adverse effects to genitourinary and bowel functions. There is an eminent need for efficient PCa therapies with minimal effect on genitourinary function and quality of life. To date most studied mini-invasive technologies have used extremities of temperatures to treat PCa including high intensity focused ultrasound and cryoablation.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has improved PCa diagnosis. Novel MRI techniques enable localization and visualization of clinically significant PCa. Further, MRI can be used for guidance of targeted biopsy from suspicious lesion enhancing detection of clinically significant PCa and pinpointing a target for image guided therapies. Also, increased use of MRI may lead to more MRI-visible tumors encountered in clinical practice developing an unmet need for image guided therapies.

MRI guided transurethral ultrasound ablation (MRI-TULSA) - treatment system offers treatment strategy incorporating precise diagnosis and targeted therapy. It has been evaluated for whole-gland ablation of localized PCa. Further, lesion-targeted MRI-TULSA has been proved to be feasible and safe for treating MRI-visible-biopsy-concordant histologically significant PCa in our phase 1 treat-and-3-week-resect study (not published yet). This current study further investigates the safety and the efficacy of lesion-targeted ablation of MRI-visible biopsy-proven PCa with MRI-TULSA.