Autologous Followed by Non-myeloablative Allogeneic Transplantation for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The purpose of this trial is to develop an alternative treatment for patients with poor risk non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. This trial uses a combination of high dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant using the patient's own cells. This is followed with non-myeloablative transplant using stem cells from a related or unrelated donor to try and generate an anti-lymphoma response from the new immune system.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: BCNU|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Filgrastim|DRUG: Antithymocyte globulin|DRUG: Cyclosporine|DRUG: Mycophenolate mofetil|DRUG: Rituximab|PROCEDURE: Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (auto-HSCT)|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT)|PROCEDURE: Total lymphoid irradiation|DRUG: CD34+ Cells|DRUG: Solu-Medrol
Event-free Survival (EFS), Event-free survival (EFS) as determined for participants who receive both planned transplants, for a minimum of 3 years.

Events are defined as "disease progression/relapse" and "death of all causes"., 3 years
Incidence of Chemotherapy-associated Pneumonitis, Interstitial pneumonitis (IP) is a risk associated with high-dose carmustine (BCNU) or other chemotherapy drugs used for transplantation. IP is diagnosed by 1) a decrease of \>25% in DLCO compared with pre-transplant PFT DLCO values or 2) a drop of 7% or more in oxygen saturation after exertion., 3 years|Relapse Rate, Relapse rate (disease recurrence) 3 years after transplant, for participants who received both transplants, as determined by Kaplan-Meier estimation., 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) 3 years after transplant, for participants who received both transplants, as determined by Kaplan-Meier estimation., 3 years|Incidence of Acute Graft Versus Host Disease (GvHD), The development of GvHD in vaccinated patients of any grade and at 6 months., 6 Months|Incidence of Chronic Graft Versus Host Disease (GvHD), The development of GvHD in vaccinated patients of any grade at 6 months., 3 years|Overall Mortality Rate, Overall mortality is determined by Kaplan-Meier estimation. The overall morality rate is expressed as the percentage of patients who died for any reason, including disease-related death., 3 years|Median Time to Neutrophile Engraftment, Complete blood counts were measured daily after allogeneic transplant. Time to neutrophil engraftment is defined as the number of days it takes to reach an absolute neutrophils count (ANC) \>500, counting from the day of transplant., up to 45 days|Achieving Full Donor Chimerism, Achieving full donor chimerism (donor T cells \>95%): Blood was sent for donor cell percentage measured by short tandem repeat (STR) at post-transplant Day 30; Day 60; Day 90; Day 120; Day 180; Day 270; and Day 360. Full donor chimerism is defined as donor CD3+ cells \> 95%., Up to 1 year|Median Time to Platelet Engraftment, Complete blood counts were measured daily after allogeneic transplant. Time to platelet engraftment is defined as the number of days it takes to reach platelet count \>20,000, counting from the day of transplant., Up to 45 days
Currently, patients with recurrent or primary refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma are treated with second-line chemotherapy (usually 2-3 courses) for the purpose of cytoreduction and to establish sensitivity to chemotherapy. Thereafter, peripheral blood progenitor cells are mobilized with cyclophosphamide and granulocyte colony stimulating factor, apheresed and cryopreserved. The standard high dose regimen consists of augmented carmustine, etoposide and cyclophosphamide. Unfortunately, there are subgroups of patients with poor outcomes using autologous transplantation including those with transformed lymphoma as well as patients who do not attain a minimal disease state due to chemoresistant disease.

These groups of patients have limited disease control and survival with standard chemotherapy regimens, and although they often have excellent cytoreduction with the high-dose chemotherapy regimen, relapse remains the primary cause of treatment failure. The current trial utilizes a similar approach that has been taken with patients with multiple myeloma, who appear to benefit from an allogeneic graft-versus-tumor effect, using a combined autologous and non-myeloablative allogeneic transplant regimen to reduce transplant-related complications. Eligible patients will be treated with high-dose chemotherapy using BCNU, etoposide and cyclophosphamide with autologous hematopoietic cell support as a method of cytoreduction. Approximately 60-120 days after the autologous transplant, patients will receive an allogeneic transplant using a preparative regimen of total lymphoid irradiation and anti-thymocyte globulin in an attempt to develop a graft-versus-lymphoma effect.