Use of Thalidomide, Lenalidomide, Carfilzomib, Bortezomib and Vorinostat in the Initial Treatment of Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Patients
The purpose of this study is to compare a standard chemotherapy regimen of cyclophosphamide, dexamethasone plus thalidomide with a newer regimen of cyclophosphamide, dexamethasone plus lenalidomide with or without carfilzomib.

Patients who do not have the best response to their initial treatment may then also be given a combination of cyclophosphamide, dexamethasone plus bortezomib.

Patients who are relatively fit may, on their doctor's advice, go on to receive more intensive chemotherapy, supported with a transplant of their own blood cells. This is standard treatment which patients may be offered anyway even if they didn't take part in this study.

After maximal response has been achieved with the treatment described above, and as long as the myeloma has not got worse, patients will be treated with either long-term lenalidomide, lenalidomide with vorinostat, or receive no further treatment, with close observation.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Induction (intensive pathway) - cyclophosphamide, lenalidomide, & dexamethasone (CRD) regimen|DRUG: Induction (intensive pathway) - cyclophosphamide, thalidomide, & dexamethasone (CTD) regimen|DRUG: Induction (intensive pathway) - carfilzomib, cyclophosphamide, lenalidomide, & dexamethasone (CCRD) regimen|DRUG: Induction (non-intensive pathway) - cyclophosphamide, lenalidomide, & dexamethasone attenuated (CRDa) regimen|DRUG: Induction (non-intensive pathway) - cyclophosphamide, thalidomide, & dexamethasone attenuated (CTDa) regimen|DRUG: Consolidation (intensive & non-intensive pathways) - bortezomib, cyclophosphamide, & dexamethasone (VCD) regimen|DRUG: Maintenance (intensive & non-intensive pathways) - lenalidomide maintenance|DRUG: Maintenance (intensive & non-intensive pathways - protocol v5.0 only) - lenalidomide plus vorinostat maintenance|DRUG: High dose melphalan therapy and autologous stem cell transplant (intensive pathway only)
Overall survival, Overall survival for induction chemotherapy comparisons is defined as the time from initial randomisation to the trial to death from any cause or last follow-up. Overall survival for maintenance therapy comparisons is defined from the time of maintenance randomisation., Time from initial randomisation to the trial death from any cause or last follow-up|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival for induction chemotherapy comparisons is defined as the time from initial randomisation to the trial to progression or death from any cause. Patients who do not progress will be censored at the last date they were known to be alive and progression-free. Progression-free survival for maintenance therapy comparisons is defined from the time of maintenance randomisation, time from initial randomisation to the trial to progression or death from any cause
Response, Disease progression and response rates will be determined according to the modified International uniform response criteria for multiple myeloma, Response will be determined according to the modified international uniform response criteria for multiple myeloma|Toxicity, Toxicity will be reported based on adverse events, as graded by CTCAE V4.0 and determined by routine clinical assessments at each centre, will be based on adverse events as graded by CTCAE v4.0
The last ten years has seen the introduction of a number of effective new anti-myeloma agents into the clinical arena. These agents have been shown to be highly effective in the relapse setting and now are being introduced as treatment earlier in the disease course.

This study aims to address in the randomised setting some of the key questions concerning the use of thalidomide, bortezomib, lenalidomide, carfilzomib and vorinostat in the initial treatment of multiple myeloma patients.

Newly diagnosed patients of all ages with symptomatic myeloma requiring treatment are eligible.

For initial treatment, thalidomide in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone, the UK gold standard, will be compared with the newer combination of lenalidomide, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone with or without carfilzomib.

For patients with a sub-optimal response to initial therapy, the response to the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib will be assessed, as previous studies have demonstrated that it is able to induce responses and improve progression-free and overall survival in patients resistant to standard chemotherapy. Patients young and fit enough to tolerate an autologous transplant will then proceed to high dose melphalan with peripheral blood stem cell rescue and then on to maintenance randomisation. Older or less fit patients will go directly to a maintenance randomisation.

The value of lenalidomide and lenalidomide combined with vorinostat maintenance will then be assessed by randomising eligible patients to receive either lenalidomide, lenalidomide combined with vorinostat maintenance therapy, or close observation.

The primary end points of the study are overall and progression-free survival (OS and PFS). Secondary end points include response and toxicity.

A number of laboratory based studies will also be performed in order to determine patient specific factors predicting overall and progression-free survival and response to treatment.