QUantitative Assessment of Swallowing After Radiation (QUASAR)
To use novel methods for quantitative analysis of VFSS (videofluoroscopic swallow study, also known as modified barium swallow) to study and compare dysphagia in patients treated for head and neck carcinoma with concurrent radiation therapy and chemotherapy (cisplatin) or targeted therapy (cetuximab) vs. immunotherapy (pembrolizumab, nivolumab, or durvalumab).

Our hypothesis is that pharyngeal constriction will be greater (lower ratio) with concurrent immunotherapy compared to chemotherapy, as measured by the pharyngeal constriction ratio (PCR).
Head and Neck Cancer|Dysphagia|Oropharyngeal Dysphagia|Oropharynx Cancer|Oropharynx Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Chemotherapy|DRUG: Immunotherapy
Swallowing function 12-24 months after concurrent radiation and systemic therapy for HNC, as measured by the PCR, will use a two-sample t-test at 0.05 level to compare Pharyngeal Constriction Ratio (PCR) between groups, 12-24 months
Quantitative swallowing function at 4-6 months and 12-24 months by PCR, TPT, PRR and PPWT, To compare swallowing function between systemic therapies with additional quantitative metrics of swallowing dysfunction from the VFSS including TPT, PRR and PPWT.

The presence of aspiration or strictures on VFSS will be compared as binary variables between groups using Pearson's Chi squared test., 4-6 months and 12-24 months|Correlation between quantitative swallowing function and patient reported symptoms using the EAT-10 tool, To compare patient reported assessments of swallowing function with the EAT-10 tool between systemic therapies.

To test if there is correlation between the quantitative VFSS metrics and patient reported outcomes on the EAT-10 index, we will calculate Pearson's correlation coefficient and plot the results on a correlation matrix. The Holm step down procedure will be used to adjust for multiple testing to control the family-wise error rate at 0.05 level., 12-24 months|Correlation between radiation dose and location of swallowing function and quantitative swallowing function, The purpose of this aim is to evaluate the effect of radiation dose on swallowing structures, applying a previously developed space-preserving NTCP approach based on principal component analysis (PCA).

Using this approach, dose distributions to the global swallowing apparatus (i.e. pharynx, larynx and esophagus) will be standardized for patients from both arms of Aim 1, using deformable registration to standardize organs and 3-D dose distributions to a common template. Dose distributions will be converted into a dose array and PCA will be applied to the dose array, as previously described. We will then use PC linear regression to identify eigenvectors significantly associated with long term dysphagia (as measured by PCR)., 24 months
The QUASAR study will use a prospective, observational, cross sectional design (See Schema). HNC patients treated with definitive RT and immunotherapy or chemotherapy (cetuximab or cisplatin) will undergo VFSS at 4-6 and 12-24 months post-treatment. Patients enrolled prior to 6 months after finishing therapy will undergo a swallow study during the 4-6 month period AND the 12-24 month period. Patients enrolled after 6 months after finishing therapy will undergo a single swallow study in the 12-24 month period. The primary endpoint of PCR at 12-24 months will be compared between patients treated with immunotherapy versus chemotherapy.

All patients with HNC treated with definitive RT and systemic therapy at our institution will be eligible. In particular, we will recruit patients for this study from participants in two ongoing trials investigating the use of concurrent immunotherapy. The KEYCHAIN trial (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03383094) randomizes patients with locally advanced p16+ HNC undergoing definitive RT to concurrent q3 week cisplatin versus concurrent and adjuvant pembrolizumab. NRG-HN004 (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03258554) is a cooperative group trial that compares HNC patients that are not eligible for cisplatin undergoing definitive radiation therapy to concurrent cetuximab versus durvalumab.