Safety and Effectiveness of A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1) Fusion Protein in Subjects With Mycosis Fungoides
This study evaluates the effectiveness - as judged by complete response - of a single four-day treatment with the fusion protein A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1) compared to oral Zolinza (Vorinostat), in a randomized 2-arm trial after a maximum of 12 months of treatment. Patient eligibility is stage IB/IIB mycosis fungoides with mSWAT \< 50 who have never had lymphoid disease or a prior bone marrow / HSCT transplant.
Mycosis Fungoides
BIOLOGICAL: A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1)|DRUG: Vorinostat
Incidence of Complete Responses (CR), Evaluation of Target Lesions

Complete Response (CR) in mycosis fungoides: (a) Cutaneous lesions consisting of erythematous patches and plaques and erythroderma must be absent giving an mSWAT of 0 that persists for at least 30 days, and (b) the spleen and liver should be normal sized by physical exam. Subjects in the experimental arm who have a CR at 12 months will be encouraged to enter the Part B followup that consists of a a yearly physical exam from year 2 to year to year 6 and skin assessment as long as the CR is maintained.

Partial Response (PR) in mycosis fungoides: (a) There must be a reduction of 50% in cutaneous lesions as judged by mSWAT and (b) no new evidence of disease or disease progression of skin lesions.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 25% increase in the mSWAT score from its nadir value.

Treatment Failure: Failure to achieve a PR or CR: Relapse/Progression: Relapse is defined at reevaluation as no longer a CR or PR., Skin lesions will be judged for mSWAT scores for judging the duration of response at 12 months in the experimental arm and 6 months in the comparator arm.
Progression Free Survival, Determine the Progression Free Survival duration, PFS, 12 months|Median duration of Complete Response, Determine the Median duration of CR for each arm., 12 months
Primary Toxicity profile, Determine the Primary Toxicity profile for treatment of A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1). Toxicities from the previous phase I clinical trial known to be associated with A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1) include:

* Frequent: elevated AST, ALT and CPK; hypersensitivity reactions such as rigors and chills during infusions, hypoalbuminemia.
* Rare: Vascular leak syndrome.
* Hypersensitivity infusion reaction., 3 months
Primary Objective: This study objective is to document the incidence of complete responses compared to oral vorinostat, in a randomized 2-arm trial after a maximum of 12 months of treatment for subjects with stage IB/IIB mycosis fungoides with mSWAT \< 50 who have never had lymphoid disease or a prior bone marrow / HSCT transplant.

Secondary Objective: To further explore the toxicity profile of A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1) fusion protein for subjects with mycosis fungoides who have been selected to be free from preexisting cardiac disease and never treated with Campath.

Number of Subjects: Lead-in Dosing: 12 / Randomized: 162

Patients will receive full supportive care during the course of the study. Participation in the study will require IV infusions of the research agent 2 times a day for four days (protocol FDA outpatient approved), as well as frequent outpatient blood draws for the first 30 days. Patients with partial or complete remissions at their 1 month follow up visit will have another follow-up visit on day 60, then every three months for 1 year, followed by annual visits to assess duration of the response.