Study of Mitomycin-C in Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer With Mutated BRCA2 Gene
Patients will be tested for mutations in the BRCA2 gene. If they have a BRCA2 mutation, they will be treated with Mitomycin-C as described here. The patients with an identified gene mutation will also be provided with genetic counseling.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Mitomycin-C
6-month overall survival, Number of participants with previously untreated advanced or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with BRCA2 mutations that are alive after 6-months after being treated with single agent Mitomycin-C (MMC) chemotherapy., up to 6 months
Response rate, Proportion of participants with reduction in tumor burden of previously untreated advanced or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with BRCA2 mutations who are treated with single agent MMC chemotherapy., up to 2.5 years|Progression-free survival at 6 months, Number of participants who are treated with single agent MMC chemotherapy and have partial or complete response of previously untreated advanced or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with BRCA2 mutations., up to 6 months|Progression-free survival, Number of participants who are treated with single agent MMC chemotherapy and have partial or complete response of previously untreated advanced or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with BRCA2 mutations., up to 2.5 years|Overall survival, Number of participants with previously untreated advanced or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with BRCA2 mutations who are alive after being treated with single agent MMC chemotherapy., up to 2.5 years|Toxicity as assessed by number of participants experiencing adverse events., Up to 2.5 years|To explore pharmacogenetic factors that may influence the toxicity and efficacy of MMC in this patient population., 2.5 years
Patients will be tested for mutations in the BRCA2 gene. If they have a BRCA2 mutation, they will be treated with Mitomycin-C as described here. The patients with an identified gene mutation will also be provided with genetic counseling.

Patients with BRCA2 gene will be treated with Mitomycin-C (MMC) on Day 1 at a dose of 10mg/m2 intravenously. This will be repeated every 28 days, which is one cycle. Expected adverse events and appropriate dose modifications are described in this section. Treatment will continue until disease progression, serious toxicity, patient withdrawal or maximum cumulative dose of 60 mg/m2.

Primary Objectives:

1. To determine the 6-month survival of patients with previously untreated advanced or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with BRCA2 mutations that are treated with single agent Mitomycin-C (MMC) chemotherapy.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To determine the response rate, six-month progression free survival rate, progression-free survival and survival of patients with previously untreated advanced or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with BRCA2 mutations who are treated with single agent MMC chemotherapy.
2. To describe the toxicity of MMC in this patient population.
3. To explore pharmacogenetic factors that may influence the toxicity and efficacy of MMC in this patient population.