Comparsion of WT and SNP Techniques of EUS-FNB in Pancreatic Solid Mass (WESP-PSM)
The purpose of this study is to compare the diagnosis accuracy between of wet suction (WS) technique and standard negative pressure (SNP) technique in EUS-FNB by 22G EUS Procore fine needle biopsy（FNB）device for solid pancreatic lesions.
Pancreatic Neoplasms|Diagnoses Disease
PROCEDURE: wet suction|PROCEDURE: standard negative pressure suction
diagnostic sensitivity of WS technique and SNP technique by EUS-FNB, Sensitivity will be calculated as the probability of actually having pancreatic diasease and being diagnosed by WS technique during EUS-FNB, 6 month|diagnostic specificity of WS technique and SNP technique by EUS-FNB, specificity will be calculated as the probability of actually not having the pancreatic disease and being diagnosed as being free of the disease by WS or SNP technique during EUS-FNB, 6 month
Sample adequacy of WS technique and SNP technique by EUS-FNB, The tissue integrity assessments of specimens will be evaluated by score 0-3. Score 3, sufficient material for adequate histological interpretation; Score 2, samples allowing limited histological assessment; Score 1,samples not providing histological information., 6 month|Cell density of WS technique and SNP technique by EUS-FNB, The Cell density assessments of specimens will be evaluated by score A-C. Score A：Satisfactory, more than 4 clusters of cells, each cluster more than 10 cells.

Score B：Sufficient, approximately 2-4 clusters, each with more than 10 cells Score C: ：Unsatisfactory, less than 2 clusters or no cells on slide, 6 month
This is a multi-center, single-blind, randomized, controlled trial. two hundred and ninety six patients with solid pancreatic lesions referred for EUS guided fine needle biopsy will be randomly assigned to two groups. For group A which will be used with 22G EUS Procore fine needle biopsy device, the pass sequence is WS-SNP-WS-SNP technique. For group B with 22G EUS Procore fine needle biopsy device, the pass sequence is SNP-WS-SNP-WS. All procedures will be performed by experienced echo-endoscopists, and the patients and assessors (cytologists and pathologists) will be blinded during the entire study. The primary outcome measure is the diagnosis yield. Secondary outcome measures are specimen quality.