A Study of a New Drug, Nirogacestat, for Treating Desmoid Tumors That Cannot be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well nirogacestat works in treating patients less than 18 years of age with desmoid tumors that has grown after at least one form of treatment by mouth or in the vein that cannot be removed by surgery. Nirogacestat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Desmoid Fibromatosis|Recurrent Desmoid Fibromatosis|Unresectable Desmoid Fibromatosis
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Nirogacestat|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method with the 95% confidence interval estimated by the Peto-Peto method., From initiation of treatment to occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. All grade 3 or above toxicities deemed related to study drug will be summarized. All grade 1 and 2 toxicities observed in \> 5% of participants and deemed related to study drug will be reported., Up to 2 years|Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter: systemic exposure, PK parameters of nirogacestat will be defined to quantify systemic exposure, drug clearance, terminal half-life and other pharmacokinetic characteristics. These PK parameters will be summarized with descriptive statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations., Up to Cycle 3 (each cycle lasts 28 days)|PK parameter: drug clearance, PK parameters of nirogacestat will be defined to quantify systemic exposure, drug clearance, terminal half-life and other pharmacokinetic characteristics. These PK parameters will be summarized with descriptive statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations., Up to Cycle 3 (each cycle lasts 28 days)|PK parameter: half-life, PK parameters of nirogacestat will be defined to quantify systemic exposure, drug clearance, terminal half-life and other pharmacokinetic characteristics. These PK parameters will be summarized with descriptive statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations., Up to Cycle 3 (each cycle lasts 28 days)
Objective response rate, Defined by the rate of a complete response or partial response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., Up to 24 months
CTNNB1 and APC gene mutations and genomic signatures, The chi-square test will be used to assess the correlation of CTNNB1 and APC gene mutations and genomic signatures with tumor response, and the long-rank test will be used to assess the correlation of CTNNB1 and APC gene mutations and genomic signatures with PFS., Up to 2 years|Changes in the levels of each of the lymphocyte subsets and immunoglobulins, Lymphocyte subsets include CD3 (total T cells), CD3+CD4+ (T helper cells), CD3+CD8+ (T cytotoxic cells), CD3+HLA-DR+ (activated T cells) percentages and absolute counts and CD4:CD8 ratio. The chi-square test will be used to assess the correlation of the levels of lymphocyte and immunoglobulin with tumor response, and the Cox regression will be used to assess the correlation of the levels of lymphocyte and immunoglobulin with PFS., Up to 2 years|Response assessments by the RECIST criteria, Up to cycle 24|Response assessment by the World Health Organization criteria, Up to cycle 24|Patient reported outcomes (PROs), The chi-square test will be used to assess the correlation of PROs summary scores with tumor response, and the Cox regression will be used to assess the correlation of PROs summary scores with PFS. Correlation between PRO summary scores using Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System and GOunder/DTRF DEsmoid Symptom/Impact Scale will be assessed by performing inferences on the Pearson correlation coefficients., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate in patients with progressive, surgically unresectable desmoid tumor treated with nirogacestat.

II. To describe the toxicities of nirogacestat in children and adolescents with desmoid tumor.

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of nirogacestat in children and adolescents.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective tumor response rate (ORR) of nirogacestat in children and adolescents with progressive, surgically unresectable desmoid tumor.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect blood, archival tumor samples and on-study/post-treatment tumor samples (if available) from patients enrolled on this trial to correlate various CTNNB1 and APC gene mutations and genomic signatures with tumor response and PFS.

II. To explore the effect of nirogacestat on immune cells and immunoglobulin levels in the peripheral blood.

III. To collect blood samples for banking at baseline, during treatment, and at the time of progression for future research.

IV. To compare assessment of tumor response using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), World Health Organization (WHO) criteria, and T2 and volumetric changes using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

V. To utilize a tool developed to specifically assess patient reported outcomes (PROs) in adult patients with desmoid tumor (GOunder/DTRF DEsmoid Symptom/Impact Scale \[GODDESS\]) and the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) to explore the relationship between PROs and tumor response and PFS.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nirogacestat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) and computed tomography (CT) or MRI on study. Patients may also undergo x-ray imaging and blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.