Integrative Multi-Omics Testing for Immunotherapy Response in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The objective of this study is to use blood and urine proteomic and metabolomic features to monitor lung cancer immunotherapy response.
Lung Cancer
The expression of blood and urine proteomic markers at baseline, Blood and urine proteins detected by nanoparticle-based mass spectrometry at baseline. Proteins identified by the proteomic assay will include but will not be limited to KRAS, CCL5, CXCL12 and ANGPTL6., Baseline|The levels of blood and urine metabolites at baseline, Blood and urine metabolites detected by mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance at baseline. Metabolites identified by the metabolic assay will include but will not be limited to methionine, lactic acid and LDL-C, Baseline|The expression of blood and urine proteomic markers during immunotherapy, Blood and urine proteins detected by nanoparticle-based mass spectrometry during immunotherapy. Proteins identified by the proteomic assay will include but will not be limited to KRAS, CCL5, CXCL12 and ANGPTL6., 3 years|The levels of blood and urine metabolites during immunotherapy, Blood and urine metabolites detected by mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance during immunotherapy. Metabolites identified by the metabolic assay will include but will not be limited to methionine, lactic acid and LDL-C, 3 years|The expression of blood and urine proteomic markers at progression, Blood and urine proteins detected by nanoparticle-based mass spectrometry at progression. Proteins identified by the proteomic assay will include but will not be limited to KRAS, CCL5, CXCL12 and ANGPTL6., 3 years|The levels of blood and urine metabolites at progression, Blood and urine metabolites detected by mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance at progression. Metabolites identified by the metabolic assay will include but will not be limited to methionine, lactic acid and LDL-C, 3 years
Immune-related adverse events (irAEs), Immune-related adverse events (irAEs), as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE - Version 5.0), 3 years
Observational, ambispective single-center cohort study, including 400 patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic NSCLC who received or are receiving immunotherapy in routinely clinical practice.

For the part of retrospective study，the investigators intend to include 200 patients who received immunotherapy at Nanfang Hospital from January 1, 2020 to March 1, 2023.

For the part of prospective study，the investigators intend to include 200 patients who will receive immunotherapy at Nanfang Hospital from March 1, 2023 to December 31, 2025.