A Study of PAD Followed by Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation (ASCT) to Treat Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
This is a multicentre; single arm study in subjects with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma.

The primary objectives of this study is to assess the effect of bortezomib combination therapy (PAD regimen) followed by ASCT on bone metabolites in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma, as measured by ELISA methodology as previously described analyzing the change in biochemical bone marker compared with the baseline value: bone formation marker- bone alkaline phosphatase(bALP) and osteoblast inhibitor- Dickkopf-1(DKK-1）.

The secondary objectives of this study are:

1. Subgroup analysis for the change from baseline in biochemical bone marker based on whether or not Bisphosphonate was used.
2. Assessment of other bone markers parameters: bone formation marker -carboxy terminal propeptide of type I procollagen (PICP); bone resorption markers -carboxy terminal telopeptide region of type I collagen ( ICTP); osteoclast stimulators -osteoprotegerin(OPG), soluble receptor activator of nuclear factor kappaB ligand(sRANKL);
3. To observe the effect of bortezomib on bone mineral density (BMD) as measured by repeated quantitative CT-scan;
4. The evaluation of Skeletal related events (SRE) and appearance of new bone lesions;
5. To determine progression free survival (PFS), 1 year survival, overall survival and safety profile following treatment with PAD and ASCT as first-line therapy.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: PAD Followed by ASCT
Bone Formation Markers Measurement, The bone formation marker- bone alkaline phosphatase(bALP) and osteoblast inhibitor- Dickkopf-1(DKK-1）are measured on serum samples by ELISA methodology at baseline, on day 28 of cycles 1,4, and after 4, 6, 12 and 18 months of follow-up or until start of alternative multiple myeloma(MM) treatment, if earlier., Up to Cycle 4 with 28 days per cycle
Measurement of Bone Mineral Density, The effect on bone mineral density（BMD） will be measured by quantitative analysis of qCT scans of the intra-individual same region \[lumbar spine and hip\] at baseline, on day 28 of cycles 4, and after 4, 6, 12 and 18 months of follow-up or until start of alternative MM treatment, if earlier., At baseline, on day 28 of cycles 1,4, and after 4, 6, 12 and 18 months of follow-up or until start of alternative MM treatment|Skeletal Related Events' Evaluation, Skeletal survey of the skeleton using plain radiography will be performed at baseline, on day 28 of cycle 4, and after 6, 12 and 18 months of follow-up or until start of alternative MM treatment, if earlier. SREs, such as pathological fractures, need for radiation therapy or surgery will be recorded at the time of the event., At baseline, on day 28 of cycles 4, and after 4, 6, 12 and 18 months of follow-up or until start of alternative MM treatment
Evaluation of Responses, Evaluation of responses was performed every cycle. Responses were assessed according to the european group for blood and marrow transplantation（EBMT） criteria (An attempt will be made to collect data for the assessment of stringent complete response (sCR) if these data are available.). Other efficacy parameters including PFS and 1-year overall survival rate and overall survival will be evaluated by normal methodology. According to EBMT criteria, responses were assessed by changes in the level of the serum paraprotein and/or urinary light chain excretion.The specific assessment rules may refer to EBMT criteria for MM., At baseline, on day 28 of cycles 4, and after 4, 6, 12 and 18 months of follow-up|Safety Evaluation, Safety evaluations will be based on scheduled physical examinations, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group(ECOG) scores, vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate) and clinical laboratory tests., Starting with informed consent signature through study completion, an average of 1 year|Evaluation of Responses(PFS), Efficacy parameters PFS will be evaluated by normal methodology. PFS =（date of signing informed consent form minus the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause plus 1）/30.5（months）, From date of signing informed consent form until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months
After providing written informed consent, subjects will be evaluated for eligibility during a 14-day screening period. Eligible subjects will receive 4 cycles PAD treatment prior to ASCT. Bisphosphonate therapy can be administered as medically indicated and according to local practice.

After the end of the treatment phase, there will be 18 months follow-up period for every patient with visits at 4, 6, 12 and 18 months after the end of the treatment phase. In case the disease progresses before completing the 18 months of follow-up and once the subject started alternative MM treatment, study assessments will stop, except for survival follow-up which will be collected every 6 months by either a telephone call or a visit to the study site. The follow-up for survival will continue for all subjects until the last subject has completed follow-up. One interim analysis of efficacy and safety will be performed when all subjects have achieved the end of treatment. Safety will be assessed by the monitoring of adverse events, physical examination, vital signs measurements and clinical laboratory tests.