Phase I/IIa Study of Concomitant Radiotherapy with Olaparib and Temozolomide in Unresectable High Grade Gliomas Patients
The Stupp protocol is the standard treatment of glioblastoma multiform (GBM) which prognosis remains poor.

The non-dividing nature of normal brain cells provides an opportunity to enhance the therapeutic ratio by combining radiation with inhibitors of replication-specific DNA repair pathways such poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors, thus inducing more cytotoxic effects of DNA-damage related to treatment modalities, including alkylating reagents like temozolomide (TMZ).

Olaparib, a potent PARP inhibitor, overcomes apoptotic resistance and sensitizes GBM cells for death receptor-mediated apoptosis induced by TRAIL (Tumor necrosis factor-Related Apoptosis Inducing Ligand). Moreover, inhibition of PARP activity increases cellular sensitivity to ionizing radiation: it was even suggested to be more pronounced in tumors than in normal tissue.

Lastly, progress in technical imaging and intensity-modulated-radiotherapy (IMRT) techniques provide new possibilities for sparing healthy tissues.
Malignant Gliomas|Radiotherapy|PARP Inhibitor
DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Temozolomide (TMZ)|RADIATION: IMRT (Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy)
The Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) - Phase I, The primary objective for the phase I is to determine the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of olaparib combined with the Stupp protocol (TMZ and concomitant fractionated radiotherapy: 60Gy/30 fractions/6 weeks) in first line treatment of patients with unresectable high-grade gliomas, The RP2D will be evaluated 4 weeks after the end of radiotherapy|Overall survival - Phase II, The primary objective for the phase II is to assess the 12-month overall survival of the combination, 12 months after the first administration of treatment
HGGs are the most common and most aggressive primary brain tumor. There is a real need to improve care management of GBM patients. Attempts to achieve cure by increasing radiation dose result in unacceptable neurotoxicity. As for radiosensitizers, they can exacerbate normal tissue damage.

Since GBM represent a rapidly dividing cell population within the nonreplicating normal brain, the therapeutic ratio may be enhanced by specific radiosensitization of proliferating cells. Resistance to apoptosis is a paramount issue in the treatment of HGG. Targeting PARP by the inhibitors like olaparib can reduce proliferation and lowers the apoptotic threshold of HGG (effect showed in vivo and in vitro).

In this context, we propose a phase I-IIa trail to investigate the toxicity and efficacy of olaparib and TMZ concomitantly with radiotherapy in first line treatment of unresectable high risk HGG.

Correlation between treatment response and tumor profiling will allow us to identify biomarkers that can be useful in treatment improvement and/or present a prognostic value. Then, the transfer of this approach will be evaluated in terms of compatibility with the requirements of diagnostic.