Selinexor, Pomalidomide, and Dexamethasone With or Without Carfilzomib for the Treatment of Patients With Relapsed Refractory Multiple Myeloma, The SCOPE Trial
This phase I/II trial identifies the best dose and side effects of selinexor, and how well it works when given in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone with or without carfilzomib in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back (relapsed) and does not respond to treatment with proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs (refractory). Selinexor is an oral agent that blocks a protein called Exportin 1 (XPO1 or CRM1) that is abundant in a wide variety of cancers, including multiple myeloma. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Pomalidomide may stop the growth of blood vessels, stimulate the immune system, and kill cancer cells. Anti-inflammatory drugs, such as dexamethasone may lower the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. The addition of selinexor may allow better control of relapsed refractory multiple myeloma than is possible with pomalidomide and dexamethasone with or without carfilzomib.
Recurrent Multiple Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Pomalidomide|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Selinexor|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Maximum tolerated dose of selinexor in combination with carfilzomib, pomalidomide and dexamethasone (Phase I), A standard 3+3 phase I design will be utilized. Three patients will be treated at each dose level and observed for a minimum of four weeks (i.e. one full cycle) before new patients are treated. Doses will not be escalated in any individual patient., Up to 30 days after completion of treatment|Proportion of patients who achieve a confirmed response with selinexor in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone (Phase 2), A confirmed response is defined as an stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good \[partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR) noted as the objective status on two consecutive evaluations. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., Up to 3 years
Duration of response, Defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved a confirmed response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be an sCR, CR, VGPR, or PR to the earliest date progression or relapse is documented., Up to 3 years|Clinical benefit rate, Will be estimated by the number of patients with an sCR, CR, VGPR, PR, or MR noted as the objective status on two consecutive evaluations divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, The distribution of overall survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier, From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival, The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression, relapse, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns.

Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration. The number and severity of all adverse events (overall and by dose-level) will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. The grade 3+ adverse events will also be described and summarized in a similar fashion., Up to 3 years
Relationship between risk groups, Patients will be categorized into different risk groups by cytogenetics and gene expression profiling. The relationship between risk groups and outcomes (confirmed response and progression-free survival) will be evaluated using Kruskal Wallace and log rank tests., Up to 3 years|Minimal residual disease (MRD), Will be assessed on bone marrow aspirate in all patients achieving sCR or CR. The proportion of patients who achieve MRD negative status will be estimated by the number of patients who are MRD negative divided by the total number of evaluable patients who achieve an sCR or CR. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true MRD negative rate will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Overall health-related quality of life, Will be assessed through patient self-reported instruments including the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 and Multiple Myeloma-20 instruments. High scores for the both global and functional domains indicate higher quality of life or functioning, while high scores on the symptom scales represent higher levels of symptomatology or problems., Up to 18 cycles (each cycle is 28 days)|Patient reported outcomes (PRO), The PRO-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) will be incorporated to provide a better understanding of patient-reported symptomatic toxicity. PRO-CTCAE scores range from 0-4, with corresponding response choices for frequency (never / rarely / occasionally / frequently / almost constantly), for severity (none / mild

/ moderate / severe / very severe) and interference (not at all / a little bit / somewhat / quite a bit / very much). The scores for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. PRO-CTCAE data will be summarized descriptively as the number (%) of patients reporting each grade for individual items, and all available attribute items, will be included for each of the reported symptoms. The analyses will be exploratory and descriptive, and no statistical comparisons will be conducted. The relationship between refractory status and patient outcome will be explored., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of selinexor in combination with carfilzomib, pomalidomide and dexamethasone (SKPd) in patients with relapsed refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). (Arm A) II. To determine the efficacy of fixed-dose selinexor in combination with low-dose pomalidomide and dexamethasone (SPd) in patients with RRMM as measured by the overall response rate (ORR) per the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. (Arm B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of SKPd in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma, as measured by the overall response rate (ORR) per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria and the duration of response (DOR). (Arm A) II. To evaluate clinical benefit rate (CBR), duration of response, progression-free survival, overall survival, and the safety profile of SPd. (Arm B)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate clinical activity in different risk groups by cytogenetics. II. To assess minimal residual disease by flow cytometry in patients achieving complete response (CR) and compare the outcomes of patients who are serum mass-fix (mass spectrometry-based methodology available at Mayo Clinic) negative only versus those who have no evidence of disease by mass fix and flow-cytometry-based minimal residual disease (MRD).

III. To assess overall health-related quality of life, as measured by the global health domain of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire and Quality of Life Questionnaire-Multiple Myeloma 20 (QLQ-MY20).

IV. To evaluate patient reported outcomes using the Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (Patient Reported Outcomes Version of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[PRO-CTCAE\]).

V. To stratify patients in arm A based on quadruple/penta-refractory status and to assess the impact of this stratification on patient outcomes.

VI. To stratify patients in arm B based on their dual-refractory status and to assess the impact of this stratification on patient outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients with \>= 3 prior lines of therapy are assigned to Arm A, while patients with 1-2 prior lines of therapy are assigned to Arm B. Arm A is a phase I dose-escalation study of selinexor and carfilzomib, with fixed-dose dexamethasone and pomalidomide followed by a dose-expansion study. Arm B is a phase II fixed-dose study of selinexor, dexamethasone, and pomalidomide.

ARM A: Patients receive selinexor orally (PO) and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8 15, and 22, carfilzomib intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15, and pomalidomide PO on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo x-ray imaging during screening. Patients also undergo positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) or CT and bone marrow biopsy and aspiration during screening and on the trial. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

ARM B: Patients receive selinexor PO and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, and pomalidomide PO on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo x-ray imaging during screening. Patients also undergo PET/CT or CT and bone marrow biopsy and aspiration during screening and on the trial. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months until progressive disease (PD) or subsequent treatment, then every 6 months until 3 years from registration.