Radiation Therapy vs. Observation Following Gemcitabine and Cisplatin for Inoperable Localized Liver Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies how well gemcitabine hydrochloride and cisplatin with or without radiation therapy work in treating patients with localized liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. It is not yet known whether giving gemcitabine and cisplatin is more effective with or without radiation therapy in this patient population. Patients register to this study after receiving gemcitabine and cisplatin.
Stage III Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma|Stage IVA Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
RADIATION: Image Guided Radiation Therapy
Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death from any cause. Overall survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Patients last known to be alive are censored at the date of last contact., From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been on study for at least two years.
Distant Metastases, From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been on study for at least two years.|Incidence of Adverse Events Evaluated Using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been on study for at least two years.|Local Progression, From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been on study for at least two years.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been on study for at least two years.|Regional Progression Defined as Progression or Existing or Appearance of New Nodal Disease, From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been on study for at least two years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the addition of liver-directed radiation therapy with respect to overall survival (OS) for patients with unresectable, localized intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the addition of liver-directed radiation therapy with respect to local control for patients with unresectable, localized intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

II. To evaluate the addition of liver-directed radiation therapy with respect to adverse events for patients with unresectable, localized intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

III. To evaluate the addition of liver-directed radiation therapy with respect to regional control for patients with unresectable, localized intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

IV. To evaluate the addition of liver-directed radiation therapy with respect to distant metastases for patients with unresectable, localized intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

V. To evaluate the addition of liver-directed radiation therapy with respect to progression-free survival for patients with unresectable, localized intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years then every 6 months for 2 years.