Longitudinal Assessment of Health-Related Quality of Life in Men With Localized Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess quality-of-life of men with prostate cancer. "Quality-of-life" means how you feel about your life as a result of your disease and its treatment. The investigators hope that this questionnaire will help show how prostate cancer treatments affect quality-of-life. It will help doctors and future patients to make better treatment choices. Some men may wish to have a more demanding treatment with a higher risk of harmful effects. Others may prefer a treatment that will have the smallest effect on their quality-of-life.

This questionnaire will help us measure these effects and decide which is the best treatment for a given patient.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Interview|BEHAVIORAL: survey instruments using Web-Based Data Collection System (WBDC) survey content
Assessment of temporal trends in HRQOL according to intervention group, study time points 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24, 36, and 48 following treatment)and between 60 and 96 months.
Assessment of scale score differences between treatment groups, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24, 36, 48 months and between 60 and 96 months|Describe the quality of life of long-term survivors, of prostate cancer following treatment, 10 years post treatment
The intent of the protocol is to assess health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) in men treated for localized prostate cancer with 1 of 6 established management alternatives: external (XRT)or interstitial radiotherapy (IRT), open radical prostatectomy (RP), laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (LRP), combined radiotherapy and brachytherapy (Combined RT) or watchful waiting (WW). HRQOL is an important aspect of any treatment for prostate cancer due to the beliefs by many that cancer control rates are similar across common modalities and HRQOL reduction from treatment is substantial (1-5). Therefore, HRQOL appears to occupy a central role in the decision making process related to treatment selection.