Use of PRO Onc Assay to Assess HER2 in Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
This trial will evaluate the clinical significance of the PRO Onc assay and will assess the efficacy of HER2-targeted therapy in patients with HER2-negative breast cancer who have been identified as having HER2 overexpression/activation by the PRO Onc Assay.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: PRO Onc Assay and Treatment|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Pertuzumab
Part II: Objective Response Rate of HER2-negative Metastatic Breast Cancer (by FISH Testing), The percentage of HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients having an objective benefit from treatment per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. Includes patients with HER2 overexpression/activation as detected by PRO Onc Assay., 18 months|Part II: Objective Response Rate of Trastuzumab Therapy, The percentage of patients having an objective benefit from treatment per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. Includes patients with HER2 overexpression as identified by the PRO Onc Assay., 18 months|Part II: Objective Response Rate of Pertuzumab Therapy, The percentage of patients with HER2 activation (no overexpression) as identified by the PRO Onc Assay who experience an objective benefit from treatment, per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 18 months
Part 1: The Incidence of HER2 Overexpression/Activation as Measured by the PRO Onc Assay, Includes patients with HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC) as determined by FISH testing., 12 months|Part I: The Incidence of Isolation of Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) From Blood Specimens, Percentage of HER2-negative MBC patients (identified by FISH testing) having CTCs present in blood specimens., 12 months
This two-part trial is designed to evaluate the clinical significance of the PRO Onc assay when used in patients with metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer. The first part of this study will determine the incidence of HER overexpression/activation, as determined by the PRO Onc assay, in patients previously judged to have HER2-negative breast cancer by FISH analysis. Blood specimens will be obtained from patients with HER2-negative breast cancer; CTCs will then be isolated and tested for HER2 overexpression/activation using the PRO Onc Assay. When clinically indicated, fine needle aspiration biopsy will also be obtained and submitted for the PRO Onc Assay. If the incidence of HER2 overexpression/activation, as determined by the PRO Onc Assay, is \>10%, the study will proceed to Part 2. Part 2 of this study will assess the efficacy of HER2-targeted therapy in a group of patients with HER2-negative breast cancer who are identified as having HER2 overexpression/activation by the PRO Onc Assay. Patients will be treated with either trastuzumab or pertuzumab. Patients who progress during the first 8 weeks will have HER2-targeted treatment discontinued and will be removed from study. After 8 weeks, patients who have stable disease will be allowed to add chemotherapy to HER2-targeted therapy. Patients who have an objective response to single-agent, HER2-targeted therapy after 8 weeks will continue single-agent therapy.