Evaluation of a New Technique to Fill the Defect Generated After Conservative Surgery in Breast Cancer
The placement of a small silicone prosthesis in the partial defects generated by conservative breast cancer surgery improves the aesthetic result, compared to the usual surgical technique, in a safe and reproducible way and compatible with adjuvant treatments. It could also potentially improve the quality of life of patients
Breast Conserving Surgery
DEVICE: Silicone prosthesis|PROCEDURE: Usual practice
Aesthetic result, Aesthetic result of the new technique by applying a visual analog scale for measuring patient satisfaction.

Scale ranges: minimum score: 0 (no satisfaction - worse outcome), maximum score: 10 (total satisfaction - better outcome), 4 weeks
Surgical complications, Incidence of surgical complications., 4 weeks
Conservative surgery in breast cancer is performed more than 50% of cases, however, aesthetic results are suboptimal, because reconstructive techniques are performed in less than 5% of them. Objective: To demonstrate that the placement of a silicone prosthesis in partial defects generated by breast cancer conservative surgery improves the aesthetic result, compared to the usual surgical technique, safely, reproducibly and compatible with adjuvant treatments.

Methodology: Prospective randomized clinical trial, controlled with blind evaluator. Inclusion criteria: Women with breast cancer candidates for conservative surgery. Intervention: In the cases the study technique will be carried out consisting in the filling of the defect with a silicone prosthesis of size adjusted to it (2-4cm). Controls: usual surgical procedure. Main result variable: aesthetic results (visual analog scale) according to the patient, surgeon and blind external evaluator. Secondary variables: surgical complications, local complications derived from adjuvant treatments, rate of local recurrence, rate of reintervention due to affected margins, behavior in mammographic follow-up, professional satisfaction and impact on quality of life.