Trial of ERapa to Prevent Progression in Familial Adenomatous Polyposis Patients Under Active Surveillance
Patients with Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP) who are undergoing endoscopic surveillance will be given Encapsulated Rapamycin (eRapa) at one of three escalating doses/schedules for 12 months with the aim of reducing polyp burden.
Familial Adenomatous Polyposis
DRUG: Encapsulated Rapamycin (eRapa)
Frequency and severity of adverse events associated with low dose eRapa in FAP patients, Safety and tolerability of eRapa as determined by graded toxicity assessed throughout the trial per CTCAE v5.0., All adverse events with start dates occurring any time after informed consent is obtained until 7 days (for non-serious adverse events) or 30 days (for serious adverse events) after the last day of study participation will be recorded.|Determine the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), The Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) will be determined by examining and analyzing safety/ adverse events as reflected by Outcome 1, dose delays, dose reductions, withdrawal of treatment secondary to low-grade toxicities, and serum pharmacokinetic monitoring., After informed consent is obtained up to 30 days after the last day of study participation.|Efficacy of eRapa in delaying polyp progression in patients with FAP as measured by change in polyp burden over time., Percentage change from baseline in colorectal polyp burden as measure by endoscopy at 6 months., Time for each patient is baseline to 6 months.
Clinical effect of eRapa on polyp burden., Percentage change from baseline in colorectal polyp burden at 12 months., Following patients out to 12 months.|Clinical effect of eRapa on International Society for Gastrointestinal Hereditary Tumors Stage., Change from baseline in International Society for Gastrointestinal Hereditary Tumors Stage at 6 and 12 months., Following patients out to 6 and 12 months.|Clinical effect of eRapa on Spigelman Stage Score., Change from baseline in Spigelman Stage Score at 6 and 12 months in patients with polyps at baseline on EGD. The Spigelman scoring system assigns points (0, 1, 2, or 3) based on number of adenomas, size (mm), histology, and dysplasia. The scoring ranges from 0 to 12 points. A higher score is a worse outcome., Following patients out to 6 and 12 months.|Clinical effect of eRapa on duodenal polyp number and burden., Percentage change from baseline in the duodenal polyp number and burden at 6 and 12 months in patients with polyps at baseline on EGD., Following patients out to 6 and 12 months.|Determine the effect of food on eRapa absorption, Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC\[0-INF\], Cmax) to assess the effect of food on the bioavailability of the anticipated RP2D, 2 months
Explore correlation between immune markers influenced by mTOR inhibition and clinical outcomes, Immunologic response will be measured and will include overall assessment of T cell phenotype and function., Following patients out to 12 months.
Patients with FAP who are undergoing endoscopic surveillance will be given eRapa at one of three escalating doses/ schedules (0.5mg every other day, 0.5mg daily every other week, or 0.5mg daily) for 12 months with the aim of reducing polyp burden. Patients will serve as their own controls. Patients will be assessed with surveillance endoscopy at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months for change in polyp burden. Correlation between immune markers and clinical outcomes will be explored.

This is a Phase IIa trial which will enroll at approximately 6-8 sites within the United States that have specialty expertise in FAP treatment and surveillance. The trial is anticipated to last approximately 24 months for treatment and follow up.

The trial will enroll 30 patients with the genetic or clinical diagnosis of FAP. The clinical diagnosis includes individuals with 100 or more cumulative tubular adenomas throughout the colorectum. Patients must be undergoing surveillance for known FAP and can include those with intact colons as well as those who have undergone surgical therapy. For those patients who have undergone partial or total colectomy, they must have documented residual polyps in their rectum for which they are receiving active surveillance.

Once the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) is identified, subjects will undergo evaluation under fed and fasted states to determine the food effect on eRapa absorption.