Neoadjuvant Study of PD-1 Inhibitor Pembrolizumab in PD-1 Naive Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma (cSCC)
This phase II single-arm two-stage neoadjuvant study of pembrolizumab in patients with PD-1 naïve high-risk resectable cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) will be conducted over a 52-week period. The study will include patients who have not undergone surgery to remove disease, to formally evaluate whether both biologically and clinically high-risk disease may benefit from neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy. Response to neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy will be evaluated for association with improved landmark Relapse-free Survival (RFS).
Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab Injection
Pathologic Response, Percentage of patients with either pathologic complete response (pCR) or partial pathologic response (pPR) per Immune-Related Pathologic Response Criteria (immunotherapy-specific pathologic response criteria (irPRC) criteria. Per (irPRC), pCR = 0% residual viable tumor (RVT) remaining in post-therapy specimen (no signs of cancer) in tissue samples removed during surgery, and pPR = \>10% but ≤50% RVT remaining in post-therapy specimen in tissue samples removed during surgery., At time of surgery, up to 6 weeks post-baseline|Response Assessment Per Immune-Related Pathologic Response Criteria (irPRC), Number of patients with pathologic complete response (pCR), partial pathologic response (pPR), pathologic non-response (pNR) per Immune-Related Pathologic Response Criteria ((irPRC) criteria. Per (irPRC), pCR = 0% residual viable tumor (RVT) (no signs of cancer), pPR = \>10% but ≤50% RVT, or pNR = \>50% RVT remaining in post-therapy specimen tissue samples removed during surgery., At time of surgery
Progression-free Survival (PFS), The median length of time from initiation of study drug(s) until disease relapse (disease progression) as defined by RECIST v1.1, or death. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 60 months|1-year PRS, The proportion of patients whose disease does not progress/relapse (as defined by RECIST v1.1), or cease to breath at 1 year after the initiation of treatment. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 12 months|6-month PFS, The proportion of patients whose disease does not progress/relapse (as defined by RECIST v1.1), or cease to breath at 6 months after the initiation of treatment. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 6 months|2-year PFS, The proportion of patients whose disease does not progress (as defined by RECIST v1.1), or cease to breath at 2 years after the initiation of treatment. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 24 months|3-year PFS, The proportion of patients whose disease does not progress/relapse (as defined by RECIST v1.1), or cease to breath at 3 years after the initiation of treatment. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS), The median length of time from initiation of study treatment that patients remain alive., Up to 84 months|1-year OS, The proportion of patients alive at 1 year after the initiation of treatment., Up to 12 months|2-year OS, The proportion of patients alive at 2 years after the initiation of treatment., Up to 24 months|Pathologic Response, Number of patients with response per Immune-Related Pathologic Response Criteria (irPRC) criteria: major pathologic response (\<0 to ≤10% RVT); partial pathologic response (\<10 to ≤50% RVT)., From start of treatment, up to 24 months
Patients with high-risk resectable cSCC who have yet to undergo definitive surgery will be eligible to enroll. Patients with nodal and/or in-transit relapse including those who have received prior adjuvant RT are eligible to enroll. This trial excludes patients who have received either nivolumab or pembrolizumab or other anti-PD-(L)1 therapy. Suitable patients will be identified pre-operatively. Patients will undergo a 28-day screening evaluation consisting of systemic staging scans, tumor biopsy, and blood studies to confirm suitability. Once enrolled, patients will receive pembrolizumab peri-operatively for 6 weeks (200mg Q3Wq3; 2 cycles) prior to definitive surgery (Neoadjuvant Phase). Following peri-operative therapy, patients will undergo restaging scans and surgical evaluation followed by definitive surgical resection (Surgical Phase). Post-operatively, patients will receive 15 further cycles of pembrolizumab over a 45-week period (200mg q3Q3W) (Adjuvant Phase). In the post-operative period, if patients are deemed eligible for RT, this will be administered concurrently with pembrolizumab. The total duration of pembrolizumab therapy is 1 year (52 weeks).