Vorinostat and Combination Chemotherapy With Rituximab in Treating Patients With HIV-Related Diffuse Large B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma or Other Aggressive B-Cell Lymphomas
This partially randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and the best dose of vorinostat when given together with combination chemotherapy and rituximab to see how well it works compared to combination chemotherapy alone in treating patients with human immunodeficiency virus-related diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma or other aggressive B-cell lymphomas. Vorinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving vorinostat together with combination chemotherapy and rituximab may kill more cancer cells.
AIDS-Related Plasmablastic Lymphoma|AIDS-Related Primary Effusion Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage I Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage I Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 3 Contiguous Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 3 Non-Contiguous Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|HIV Infection|Plasmablastic Lymphoma|Primary Effusion Lymphoma|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Prednisone|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate|DRUG: Vorinostat
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) as Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (Phase II), Percentage of participants with complete response as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (Phase II) according to treatment arm. Participants are planned to be treated for a total of 6 cycles (21 day cycle length). Participants with CR after Cycle 4 will receive two additional cycles of chemotherapy and complete 6 cycles of chemotherapy. Participants who achieve a partial response (PR) only after Cycle 4 may continue on protocol therapy or they may be removed from the study at the AMC discretion of the physician (local Principal Investigator). Participants with stable disease after 4 cycles (i.e., who did not achieve at least a PR) or progressive disease at any time will be removed from study.

In phase II, there are two arms: Vorinostat RPTD+rituximab-DA-EPOCH arm (VR-DA-EPOCH) and Rituximab-DA-EPOCH arm (DA-R-EPOCH)., Up to 6 months|Percentage of Participant Experiencing Adverse Events (AEs) for Each Treatment Arm as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0) (Phase II), The percentage of participants with AEs and their worst severity will be tabulated for each treatment arm. If a participant has more than one AE, the most severe AE is analyzed. All adverse events will be assessed by the investigator from the first dose of protocol therapy through the post-treatment discontinuation visit. Participants are planned to be treated for a total of 6 cycles (21 day cycle length), or roughly 4 months. After this evaluation, assessment and reporting of AEs will only be required for all grade 5 AEs and any serious AE (SAE) that the investigator considers related to protocol therapy., Up to 5 years|Recommended Phase II Dose of Vorinostat Determined According to Dose-limiting Toxicities Graded Using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0) (Phase I), Recommended phase II dose of vorinostat is defined as the dose level at which 0/6 or 1/6 subjects experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT) with the next higher dose having at least 2/3 or 2/6 subjects encountering DLT (Phase I). Toxicities will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0. Using a 3+3 design, the recommended phase II dose is defined as the level at which 0/6 or 1/6 patients experiences at dose-limiting toxicity in the first cycle., 21 days
Change in CD8 Cell Counts (Phase I), Differences from baseline (specified follow-up assessment minus baseline) in absolute CD8 counts., Baseline up to 12 months|Changes in Absolute CD4 Cell Counts (Phase I), Differences from baseline (specified follow-up assessment minus baseline) in absolute CD4 counts., Baseline up to 12 months|Changes in Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) Viral Load, Differences from baseline (specified follow-up assessment minus baseline) in EBV viral load., Baseline up to 12 months|Changes in Human Herpes Virus (HHV)-8 Viral Load, Differences from baseline (specified follow-up assessment minus baseline) in (HHV)-8 viral load., Baseline up to 12 months|Changes in Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Viral Load, Differences from baseline (specified follow-up assessment minus baseline) in HIV viral load. Undetectable viral load results were treated as 0 values., Baseline up to 12 months|Event-free Survival (EFS) (Phase II), The percentage of participants surviving without events (relapse or death) one year after starting treatment., 1 year|Overall Survival (OS) (Phase II), The percentage of participants surviving one year after starting treatment., 1 year|Change in Plasma Associated Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)-1 Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) (Phase I), Differences from baseline (specified follow-up assessment minus baseline) in HIV viral load. Undetectable viral load results were treated as 0 values., Baseline up to 12 months|Pharmacokinetic Clearance (Phase I), Serial plasma samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were collected at 24-48, 48-72, and 72-96 hours after the start of the first chemotherapy infusion. Doxorubicin, etoposide, and vincristine concentrations were determined using a validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method. The clearance was determined by dividing the drug-infusion rate by the steady-state concentrations, which was the average of the three time points., 24-48, 48-72, and 72-96 hours after the start of the first chemotherapy infusion|Tumor Response (Phase I), The percentage of participants whose best tumor response is complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Based on clinical, radiologic (CT), and pathologic criteria, CR requires 1) complete disappearance of all detectable disease and disease-related symptoms if present before therapy, 2) bone marrow aspirate and biopsy to confirm a CR if initially positive or if clinically indicated by new abnormalities in the peripheral blood counts or blood smear, 3) negative PET results, depending on typically, variably, or unknown pre-treatment FDG status, and 4) spleen and/or liver, if considered to be enlarged before therapy on physical examination or CT scan, not being palpable on physical examination and considered normal size by imaging studies, and nodules related to lymphoma disappeared. PR includes 1) ≥50% decrease in sum of product of diameters (SPD), 2) no increase in size of nodes, liver, or spleen, 3) splenic/hepatic nodules regressed by ≥ 50% SPD, 4) no new sites of disease, Up to 2 years post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of vorinostat that may be used in combination with dose-adjusted etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride and rituximab (R-DA-EPOCH) (in high-risk disease) in participants with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated aggressive cluster of differentiation (CD)20 positive non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). (Phase I) II. Determine the overall toxicity rates of R-DA-EPOCH (in high-risk disease) with and without vorinostat. (Phase II) III. Determine the efficacy of the combinations of R-DA-EPOCH (in high-risk disease) with and without vorinostat in HIV-associated aggressive CD20 positive NHL using complete response (CR) rates as study endpoints. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine 1-year event-free survival (EFS) and 1 year overall survival (OS). II. Assess the effect of vorinostat and chemotherapy on latent HIV in memory T cells.

III. Assess the effect of vorinostat and/or chemotherapy on HIV, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and human herpes virus 8 (HHV-8) viral loads on banked specimens.

IV. Assess the effect of vorinostat and/or chemotherapy on T-cell subsets (CD4 and CD8) and plasma immunoglobulin levels.

V. Assess the effect of concurrent vorinostat and rituximab on plasma steady-state concentrations of etoposide, doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride), and vincristine (vincristine sulfate) (on Phase I only).

VI. Perform wide human gene expression profiling and methylation studies in tumors banked at baseline.

VII. Evaluate EBV and HHV-8 gene expression patterns in positive tumors banked at baseline.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of vorinostat followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5; rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1; etoposide IV over 24 hours, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24 hours, and vincristine sulfate IV over 24 hours on days 1-4; prednisone PO daily on days 1-5; and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A (VR-DA-EPOCH): Patients receive vorinostat, rituximab, etoposide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide as in Phase I.

ARM B (DA-R-EPOCH): Patients receive rituximab, etoposide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide as in Arm A.

In all arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.