Clinical Study of Mitoxantrone Liposome and Azacitidine in the Treatment of R/R AITL
This study is an open-label, single-arm Phase Ib/II clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination therapy with mitoxantrone liposome and azacitidine in the treatment of relapsed/refractory angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma(R/R AITL). The study includes two parts: a dose escalation phase and a dose expansion phase, each comprising screening, treatment, and follow-up periods. In the dose escalation phase, the mitoxantrone liposome injection will start at a dose of 16 mg/m\^2 on day1, combined with subcutaneous injection of azacitidine at a dose of 75 mg/m\^2 on days 1-7, with each cycle lasting 4 weeks (28 days). Three predetermined dose groups for mitoxantrone liposome are 16, 18, and 20 mg/m\^2. In the dose expansion phase, 10-20 cases will be included with the mitoxantrone liposome injection at the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) based on the results of the dose escalation phase. After the treatment period, safety and survival information will be collected during the follow-up period. This study aims to comprehensively evaluate the safety and efficacy of mitoxantrone liposome in combination with azacitidine for the treatment of R/R AITL, exploring a combination therapy that offers higher survival benefits with limited adverse reactions and providing new therapeutic approaches for R/R AITL.
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: mitoxantrone liposome 16 and azacitidine|DRUG: mitoxantrone liposome 18 and azacitidine|DRUG: mitoxantrone liposome 20 and azacitidine
Adverse events, The incidence and severity of treatment-emergent adverse events, Through study completion, an average of 2 year.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), the percentage of patients who achieve complete response or partial response., Through study completion, an average of 2 year.|Progression-Free Survival(PFS), The time from the initiation of treatment until disease progression., Through study completion, an average of 2 year.|Overall Survival(OS), The time from the start of treatment until the patient's death from any cause., Through study completion, an average of 2 year.
This study is an open-label, single-arm Phase Ib/II clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination therapy with mitoxantrone liposome and azacitidine in the treatment of relapsed/refractory angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma(R/R AITL). The study includes two parts: a dose escalation phase and a dose expansion phase, each comprising screening, treatment, and follow-up periods. In the dose escalation phase, the mitoxantrone liposome injection will start at a dose of 16 mg/m\^2 on day1, combined with subcutaneous injection of azacitidine at a dose of 75 mg/m\^2 on days 1-7, with each cycle lasting 4 weeks (28 days). Three predetermined dose groups for mitoxantrone liposome are 16, 18, and 20 mg/m\^2. In the dose expansion phase, 10-20 cases will be included with the mitoxantrone liposome injection at the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) based on the results of the dose escalation phase. After the treatment period, safety and survival information will be collected during the follow-up period. This study aims to comprehensively evaluate the safety and efficacy of mitoxantrone liposome in combination with azacitidine for the treatment of R/R AITL, exploring a combination therapy that offers higher survival benefits with limited adverse reactions and providing new therapeutic approaches for R/R AITL.