Does Surface Tell us About the Invasive Front in Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to investigate the invasive front in growth mode (expanding or infiltrative) and dedifferentiation (tumor budding) and comparing these with the tumor surface (polypose or flat) + / - ulceration in surgical specimens at colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
invasive front growth pattern, Microscopic divided tumors after growth pattern at the invasive front (tumor-bottom), rated on average, there is immunohistochemical stained for pancytokeratin. A points 1-4 described by Franzen et al (2008) used: tumor bottom is regular and smooth (score 1), tumor-bottom is irregular with large cell clusters (score 2), tumor-bottom is irregular with large and small clusters (score 3) and tumor-bottom consists almost entirely of smaller clusters (score 4).

It is also noted whether there is a tumor budding or not. Tumor budding is a histological phenomenon that reflect loss of adhesion between tumor cells in the stroma of the invasive front of colorectal cancers. It is present if more than five groups containing 1-4 cancer cells each, within a microscopic area on x20 (Uneo et al (x25), 2002 and Mitrovic et al (x20), 2012)., The histopathological study for one specimens takes one week at average, results will be published shortly after july 2014 (one year after start)
Timetable: From 1 August 2013 to 31 July 2014.

Organisational arrangements: The project is deleted from the pathology department, Roskilde Hospital, and surgical department, Roskilde Hospital.

inclusion criteria All colorectal surgical specimens having cancer were the patient did not receive neoadjuvant treatment received in the pathology department in accordance with current guidelines with the cutting of the tumor area in parallel slices and photographed, so there is macroscopic photo documentation.

Microscopic tumors classified as adenocarcinoma of glandular type, mucinous adenocarcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma.

When the specimens is received at the department of pathology and is included in the study the pathologist report is registered in a local database.