Standard Dose Versus High Dose of Radiotherapy in Rectal Preservation With Chemo-radiotherapy in Rectal Cancer Patients
In recent years, an increasing number of retrospective and prospective observational studies have indicated that a subset of rectal cancer patients may avoid surgery if they can achieve a complete response to chemoradiotherapy. Prospective trials, including the previous Danish Watchful Waiting trials (NCT00952926, NCT02438839) in early rectal cancer have demonstrated high levels of organ preservation with dose-escalation, but it is unclear whether this was primarily due to tumor stage or dose level.

The aim of the present study is to investigate if a higher dose of radiotherapy is superior compared to a standard dose in patients with early rectal cancer undergoing chemoradiotherapy with curative intent.
Cancer of Rectum
RADIATION: 50.4 Gy to the tumor and elective volume|RADIATION: 62 Gy to the clinical tumor volume and 50.4 Gy to the elective volume|DRUG: Capecitabine 825 mg/m2 twice daily on weekdays
Rectal preservation at two years, * Presence of a full-length rectum, i.e. no rectal resection.
* Absence of rectal tumor, malignant lymph nodes or any other tumor deposit or recurrence within the pelvis based on clinical examination, CT and MR
* No stoma because of side effects to treatment or rectal dysfunction, 2 years after start of treatment
Rate of complete response within four months from start of radiotherapy, 4 months|Locoregional recurrence (within the pelvis), At least yearly up to 5 years|Relapse free survival, At least yearly up to 5 years|Overall survival, At least yearly up to 5 years|Colostomy-free survival, At least yearly up to 5 years|Quality of life as assessed ny the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) CR29+C30, QLQ is a 30-question assessment of quality of life. Twenty-eight questions are assessed on a scale of 1 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much); 2 questions are assessed on a scale of 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). Score range 0- 100. In the function scales, score 100 is best (more function). In the symptom scales, score 100 is worst, (more symptoms). The colorectal cancer module QLQ-CR29 should always be complemented by QLQ-C30. It contains four functional scales and 18 symptom scales. Some scales are dependent on gender and some are for patients with or without a stoma. There are 19 individual items assessed on a scale of 1 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much). Scores are totaled from each item to form the scales, and then normalized to 0-100., Up to 5 years|Frequency of grade 3-4 toxicity according to CTCAE v4, Up to 5 years
The main curative treatment modality for rectal cancer is surgery, potentially combined with chemotherapy and radiotherapy to lower the risk of local recurrence. In recent years, an increasing number of retrospective and prospective observational studies have indicated that a subset of patients may avoid surgery altogether if they can achieve a complete response to chemoradiotherapy. These studies have mainly focused on locally advanced tumors with a high risk of local recurrence. Smaller, less advanced tumors appear to respond better to chemoradiotherapy, but the optimal treatment for non-surgical management has not been established. Prospective trials, including the previous Danish Watchful Waiting trials (NCT00952926, NCT02438839) in early rectal cancer have demonstrated high levels of organ preservation with dose-escalation, but it is unclear whether this was primarily due to tumor stage or dose level. High-level evidence is currently absent for the question of radiotherapy dose, especially in early stage cancers.

The aim of the present study is to investigate if a higher dose of radiotherapy is superior compared to a standard dose in patients with early rectal cancer undergoing chemoradiotherapy with curative intent.