Atezolizumab Immunotherapy in Patients With Advanced NSCLC
Phase II trial of induction immunotherapy with atezolizumab for patients with unresectable stage IIIA and IIIB NSCLC eligible for chemoradiotherapy with curative intent.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Atezolizumab
Disease Control Rate (DCR) After 12 Weeks Induction, The primary objective of this single arm phase II trial is to determine whether neoadjuvant and adjuvant anti-PD-L1 therapy bracketing standard chemoradiation therapy and consolidation therapy is worthy of further investigation. The primary endpoint will be the disease control rate (DCR) after 12 weeks induction immunotherapy., 12 weeks
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) is the rate of best overall response (complete or partial response) after 12 weeks of neoadjuvant atezolizumab therapy. ORR and its 90% Clopper-Pearson Confidence interval will be estimated., 12 weeks|Median PFS, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the start of neoadjuvant therapy to disease progression or recurrence (first disease recurrence or death, whichever comes first). The Kaplan-Meier estimator will be used to estimate median PFS and confidence intervals., 38.3 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 12 and 24 Months, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the start of neoadjuvant therapy to disease progression or recurrence (first disease recurrence or death, whichever comes first). The Kaplan-Meier estimator will be used to estimate median PFS and confidence intervals. A progression occurs when at least one of the following are true:

1. At least one new malignant lesion, which also includes any lymph node that was normal at baseline (\< 1.0 cm short axis) and increased to ≥ 1.0 cm short axis during follow-up.
2. At least a 20% increase in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the MSD (Section 11.4.1). In addition, the PBSD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 0.5 cm from the MSD.
3. See Section 11.3.2 for details in regards to the requirements for PD via FDG-PET imaging., 12 and 24 Months|Median OS, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from the start of neoadjuvant therapy to death. The Kaplan-Meier estimator will be used to estimate median OS., 38.3 Months|Overall Survival at 12 and 24 Months, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from the start of neoadjuvant therapy to death. The Kaplan-Meier estimator will be used to estimate OS at 12 months and 24 months, and their confidence intervals., 12 and 24 Months
This phase II pilot trial will combine neoadjuvant immunotherapy with Atezolizumab q 21 days for 12 weeks with standard chemoradiotherapy with curative intent for good PS patients with unresectable stage IIIA/B NSCLC. Because of the consequences of progression in this curative-intent population, restaging CT scans will be carried out after the first 2 cycles of neoadjuvant therapy. Non progressing patients will complete a total of one year of anti-PDL1 therapy with an interruption during chemoradiotherapy. Patients with evidence of progression at the first restaging evaluation will proceed immediately to chemoradiotherapy if still eligible for curative intent therapy.