Tranexamic Acid Reduce Blood Loss in Meningioma Resection
In neurosurgical setting, a large sample size trials of tranexamic acid (TXA) has been limited to TBI and SAH.

The evidence of TXA in brain tumor was scarce. A few case reports support the role of TXA in brain tumor patients with significant intraoperative bleeding and difficult achieving hemostasis. To prove the benefit of TXA for an attenuation of blood loss in brain tumor patients, research with a larger sample size is required. This prospective, randomized double-blind controlled study will be conducted to evaluate the effect of TXA in reducing blood loss and blood transfusion in patients with intracranial meningiomas, diameter \> 5 cm in at least 2 dimensions from the latest radiographic findings.
Meningioma
DRUG: Tranexamic acid|DRUG: Placebo
volume of intraoperative blood loss, 1. volume of blood presented in the suction bottle subtracted by the amount of water that the surgeon used in the surgical field
2. the blood from the dry (30 ml) and wet swab (50 ml)
3. serial Hgb / Hct periodically during surgery and compare to those obtain before surgery, in operating room during surgery
volume of blood being transfused, volume of pack red cell and other blood component (FFP, platelet), during surgery and 24 hour after surgery|surgeon rated for the satisfaction on hemostatic scale, The surgeon will be informed about a Likert-type scale which is designed for clinical studies. The surgeon's satisfaction on hemostatic scale is a 3-graded scale modified from 5-graded validated bleeding severity scale. The original version is shown in the table 1. The surgeon will judge his satisfaction on hemostatic quality based on the most critical period or the overview of the surgical procedure. Even the long operative time, there will be one rate represent surgeon's opinion on hemostatic quality., in 2 hours after finish the operation|the extent of tumor removal according to the surgeon decision, completely or partially resection is rated by the surgeons, in 2 hours after finish the operation|postoperative complications, bleeding, remarkable brain edema, re-craniotomy within 24 hours, worsening GCS, DIC, thromboembolic events, postoperative seizures, in ICU neuro in 24 hours|the duration of postoperative ventilator use, remain intubation, number of day remained intubation within 1 week after surgery|the length of neuro-ICU stays, how long the patient stay in ICU, number of day remained intubation within 1 week after surgery
Background and Literature review:

1. Meningioma
2. Coagulation in craniotomy to remove meningioma
3. Bleeding in craniotomy to remove meningioma
4. Tranexamic acid (TXA)
5. Knowledge gap The topics shown above has been reviewed to conduct a prospective randomized double-blind, placebo controlled study.

To prove the study hypothesis: Will intraoperative TXA administration in adult patients scheduled for craniotomy to remove large meningioma decrease blood loss?