Postoperative Morbidity and Mortality After Gastrectomy for Gastric Cancer: Prospective Cohort Study
Gastric cancer is still one of the main health care issue and gastrectomy with lymph node dissection is the only chance to be cure. Even though the development and standardization of gastric cancer surgery, the morbidity of gastric cancer surgery was reported around 20% with less than 1% of mortality in East. In contrast, around 40% of morbidity and 10% of mortality was reported in West. There has been several indexes which can define the complications after surgery, but adapting it into clinical practice is sometimes difficult due to the heterogeneous opinion between surgeons. Thus for clear defining the complications after surgery, consensus between many surgeons and prospective cohort study is necessary. The purpose of this study is collecting the complications data after gastric cancer surgery and defining it with every week meeting by at least 6 or more surgeons' discussion.
Patients Who Underwent Gastrectomy With Lymph Node Dissection for Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: gastrectomy
the type of complications and the incidence of it, the types of complication is classified into as follows: wound complications, intra-abdominal fluid collection or abscess, intra-luminal bleeding, intra-abdominal bleeding, intestinal obstruction, ileus, stricture of anastomosis, anastomosis leak, pancreatitis, pulmonary complications, urinary tract infection, renal dysfunction, hepatic dysfunction, cardiac dysfunction, endocrine dysfunction, miscellaneous complications. Each complication will be graded according to Clavian-Dindo classification. Re-admission or visiting emergency room will be checked and recorded., within 30 days after operation, any case of re-admission
Gastric cancer is still one of the main health care issue and gastrectomy with lymph node dissection is the only chance to be cure. Even though the development and standardization of gastric cancer surgery, the morbidity of gastric cancer surgery was reported around 20% with less than 1% of mortality in East. In contrast, around 40% of morbidity and 10% of mortality was reported in West. There has been several indexes which can define the complications after surgery, but adapting it into clinical practice is sometimes difficult due to the heterogeneous opinion between surgeons. Thus for clear defining the complications after surgery, consensus between many surgeons and prospective cohort study is necessary. The purpose of this study is collecting the complications data after gastric cancer surgery and defining it with every week meeting by at least 6 or more surgeons' discussion.