Venetoclax in Combination With Non-myeloablative Conditioning Allogeneic Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
This is a Phase 1, open-label, single center study of short-course oral venetoclax therapy prior to non-myeloablative conditioning with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in subjects with haematological malignancies who are planned for allogeneic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT). The primary study objective is to determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose of venetoclax when used in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide conditioning. Secondary objectives were to evaluate the transplant outcomes and donor/recipient engraftment of this regimen.
Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute|Leukemia, Lymphoblastic, Acute, L1|Leukemia, Lymphoblastic, Acute, L2|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Non-hodgkin Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
The development of any dose-limiting toxicities, Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), defined as any of the following which cannot be clearly attributed to a concurrent illness, concomitant medication or those expected as part of standard allogeneic stem cell transplant (alloSCT) complications:

* Any grade 3-4 non-haematological adverse events between day -11 to day -1
* Primary failure of neutrophil engraftment by day 30 post-alloSCT. The date of neutrophil engraftment is defined as the first of 3 consecutive days of neutrophil count ≥ 0.5 x 10\^9/L.
* Primary failure of platelet engraftment by day 30 post-alloSCT. The date of platelet engraftment is defined as the first day of platelet count ≥ 20 x 10\^9/L, with no transfusions for at least 7 days prior.
* Grade 3-4 acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prior to day 30 post-alloSCT
* Development of Clinical Tumour Lysis Syndrome, Time point between time of first dose of venetoclax to day 30 post-alloSCT
Acute GVHD incidence and severity, Acute GVHD (grade 1-4 and grade 3-4) is classified according to the Przepiorka criteria, 180 days post allo-SCT|Chronic GVHD incidence and severity, Chronic GVHD (mild, moderate or severe) is classified according to the Filipovich criteria, 1-year post-alloSCT|GVHD, relapse-free survival (GRFS) incidence, GRFS is defined as freedom from grade 3-4 acute GVHD, systemic therapy-requiring chronic GVHD, relapse or death in the first year following alloSCT, 1-year post-alloSCT|Relapse and non-relapse mortality incidence, Relapse is defined as recurrence of disease, determined by radiological or histological grounds.

Non-relapse mortality is defined as all-cause mortality without recurrence or progressive disease following alloSCT., 1-year post-alloSCT|Donor/recipient chimerism, Myeloid and T-cell chimerism by fragment analysis and capillary electrophoresis of shor tandem repeat markers., Measured at days 30, 60, 100, 1 year and 2 years following alloSCT
Eligible patients are to be enrolled sequentially into one of 4 treatment Dose Levels (beginning with Dose Level A) to receive short-course venetoclax on day -11 to -6, followed by intravenous fludarabine 30mg/m2 daily (day -5 to -3) and intravenous cyclophosphamide 750mg/m2 daily (day -5 to -3). Allogeneic stem cell infusion will occur on day 0. In the dose-escalation phase of this 3+3 study, three patients are planned for each Dose Level.

Dose Level A: venetoclax 100mg daily administered on day -11 to -6 (total venetoclax dose: 600mg)

Dose Level B: venetoclax 100mg daily administered on day -11, followed by 200mg daily administered on day -10 to -6 (total venetoclax dose: 1100mg)

Dose Level C: venetoclax 100mg daily administered on day -11, followed by 200mg daily administered on day -10, 400mg daily administered on day -9 and 600mg daily administered on day -8 to -6 (total venetoclax dose: 2500mg)

Protocol-specific dose-limiting toxicitues (DLTs) will be assessed from the first dose of venetoclax up to day 30 post-transplant. Subjects will not be treated in a new cohort until all subjects in the previous cohort had completed the DLT evaluation period and ≤ 1 of 6 subjects had experienced a DLT. If ≥ 2 of 6 subjects experienced a DLT at Dose Level C, subjects will be treated at Dose B' as part of the dose-escalation phase of this study.

Dose Level B': venetoclax 100mg daily administered on day -11, followed by 200mg daily administered on day -10 and 400mg daily administered on day -9 to -6 (total venetoclax dose: 1900mg)

The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the highest Dose Level at which ≤ 1 of 6 subjects had experienced a DLT. The dose-expansion phase involves recruitment of up to 12 patients at the MTD.