Tumor Control, Treatment Toxicity, Quality of Life and Bio-Imaging Repository Databank (TQ-BIRD) for Cancer Patients
Our central hypothesis is that patient response to treatment, evaluated by full spectrum of outcome measures including tumor control, survival, toxicity, and quality of life (QoL), will correlate with biomarker expressions, which can be tested in the blood, other body fluid, imaging as well as tumor tissue (if available).
Cancer
OTHER: No experimental interventions 1. Observation; 2. Anticancer treatments, including surgery, systemic therapy, radiotherapy, Chinese traditional medicine, or palliative/supportive care.
Tumor control, treatment toxicity, quality of life, Changes of treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, and changes of quality of life as assessed by PROMIS-29 Profile v2.1. from baseline, during and after treatment until 2 years after treatment.

Tumor response, tumor control, progression-free survival (PFS), cause-specific survival (CSS) and overall survival (OS) evaluated until patients' death or lost to follow-up.

Changes of treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, and changes of quality of life as assessed by PROMIS-29 Profile v2.1. from baseline, during and after treatment until 2 years after treatment. Tumor response, tumor control, progression-free survival (PFS), cause-specific survival (CSS) and overall survival (OS) evaluated until patients' death or lost to follow-up., Changes of treatment toxicity and quality of life will be evaluated before, during and after treatment until 2 years after treatment. Treatment efficacy including tumor control will be evaluated until patients' death or lost to follow-up.
Bio-Imaging-Repository-Databank (BIRD), Prospectively collect and store body fluids samples from cancer patients treated with various anticancer treatments, including palliative care to establish a bio-Imaging-repository-databank covering an extensive repository and prospective clinically relevant data., Blood, feces, urine and saliva will be collected, whenever possible before, during and after treatment for at least four times (baseline, middle, at the end and the first follow-up around 1-3 months after treatment.
The primary biomarkers of our interest are those obtained from minimally invasive procedures and those associated with immune/inflammatory treatment responses such as lymphocyte count, immune cell subtype distribution, TGF-beta1, immunomodulating interleukins and IDO metabolites. We will measure the biomarkers pre-, during- and post-anticancer treatment for hypothesis driven studies, and bank residual biological specimen, in combination with prospectively collected data including patient/tumor/treatment factors, imaging, tumor control outcome, treatment toxicity and QOL measures. We will classify the tumor response according to RECIST criteria and qualify QoL by using the PROMIS grading system and correlate them with the corresponding biomarkers. This study will serve young investigators who are interested in biomarker studies for early diagnosis, tumor control outcome and treatment toxicity/QOL prediction, aiming to guide personalized cancer care in future.