Clinical Study of WT2725 in Patients With Advanced Malignancies
This clinical study is designed to evaluate the safety, immunogenicity and antitumor activity of WT2725. WT2725 will be administered to patients with advanced malignancies known to overexpress WT1
Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: WT2725
Occurrence of Dose-limiting Toxicities and Adverse Events, Evaluation of the safety and tolerability of WT2725 Dosing Emulsion based on the occurrence of DLT and AEs The safety and tolerability of WT2725 Dosing Emulsion will be evaluated based on the occurrence of DLT and AEs, and the findings from clinical laboratory tests, vital signs measurements, body weight measurements, and electrocardiogram (ECG) results. The incidence of DLT will be evaluated during the DLT Evaluation Period, which extends from the day of the first dose to just prior to the fifth dose of study drug (Days 1 to 29). No more than 4 doses of study drug will be administered during the DLT Evaluation Period., Up to 4 months|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of WT2725 Based on the Evaluation of Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Day 1 - Day 29
Antitumor Responses to WT2725 Based on the Immune-related Response Criteria (irRC), Tumor response, as evaluated according to irRC, was based on total measurable tumor burden in patients with solid tumors (ie, non-AML patients). Tumor assessments will be conducted during screening, and then every 8 weeks after the first dose of study drug. All tumor assessments may be performed within ±7 days of the scheduled assessment. All patients should complete an End of Study visit within 28 days after the last dose of study drug and prior to the start of alternate antineoplastic therapy., Day 1 - within 28 days after last dose|Immune Response to WT2725, The modified IWG response criteria were used to assess drug activity in AML patients. Tumor assessments will be conducted during screening, and then every 8 weeks after the first dose of study drug. All tumor assessments may be performed within ±7 days of the scheduled assessment. All patients should complete an End of Study visit within 28 days after the last dose of study drug and prior to the start of alternate antineoplastic therapy., Day 1 - within 28 days after last dose
Treatment with other WT1 vaccines in clinical trials has shown evidence of immunogenicity and clinical response in various malignancies.

This study will assist with determining which dose level(s) to use in future clinical studies and will evaluate both clinical and immunological response.