Regorafenib and Methotrexate in Treating Participants With Recurrent or Metastatic KRAS Mutated Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well regorafenib works together with methotrexate in treating participants with metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer with tumors that harbor a KRAS mutation. Regorafenib is a targeted therapy that works on different cancer pathways to stop the growth of tumor cells and stop them from spreading. Methotrexate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving regorafenib and methotrexate together may work in treating participants with KRAS mutated non-small cell lung cancer.
KRAS Gene Mutation|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain|Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Methotrexate|OTHER: Pharmacokinetic Study|DRUG: Regorafenib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS), measured from time of first study treatment until objective tumor progression as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria or death from any cause, whichever occurs earlier. PFS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method along with 95% confidence interval.

RECIST v1.1 criteria are:

* Complete Response (CR) = Disappearance of all target lesions
* Partial Response (PR) = ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions
* Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR
* Progressive disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s)
* Stable disease (SD) = Small changes that do not meet any of the above criteria, From first study treatment assessed up to 15 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR; as determined by RECIST v1.1) will be assessed as the proportion (percent) of participants with either complete response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR; ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions), with exact 95% confidence intervals based on a binomial distribution., Up to 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) will be assessed as the proportion of complete responses (CR) + partial responses (PR) + stable disease (SD) after 8 weeks of treatment (+/- 1 week), as determined by using RECIST v1.1, At 8 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Participants who experienced any treatment emergent adverse event and any ≥ grade 3 adverse event is reported., Up to 38 months|Trough Serum Concentration of Methotrexate, Pharmacokinetics (PK) of methotrexate when co-administered with regorafenib, as indicated by the trough serum concentration, was accessed by a fluorescent polarization immunoassay, and is reported as the mean with standard deviation. Participants treated with at least 1 dose of regorafenib and methotrexate and with at least one evaluable baseline pharmacokinetic sample and one follow up trough pharmacokinetic sample treated were included., Cycle 1, Days 1, 8, 15, and 22|Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Methotrexate, Pharmacokinetics (PK) of methotrexate when co-administered with regorafenib, as indicated by the maximum serum concentration (Cmax) of methotrexate, was assessed by a fluorescent polarization immunoassay, and is reported as the mean with standard deviation. Participants treated with at least 1 dose of regorafenib and methotrexate and with at least one evaluable Cmax pharmacokinetic sample were included in the assessment., Cycle 1, Days 1, 8, and 15
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression free survival (PFS) of the combination of regorafenib and methotrexate for metastatic KRAS mutated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who have received at least 1 prior systemic therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) of the combination of regorafenib and methotrexate for metastatic KRAS mutated NSCLC patients who have received at least 1 prior systemic therapy.

II. To determine the disease control rate (DCR) at 8 weeks of the combination of regorafenib and methotrexate for metastatic KRAS mutated NSCLC patients who have received at least 1 prior systemic therapy.

III. To determine the safety of the combination of regorafenib and methotrexate in metastatic KRAS mutated NSCLC patients who have received at least 1 prior systemic therapy, assessed as the number of subjects that experience a treatment-emergent adverse event.

IV. To determine the safety of the combination of regorafenib and methotrexate in metastatic KRAS-mutated NSCLC patients who have received at least 1 prior systemic therapy, assessed as the number (percent) of participants experiencing any dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

V. To determine the pharmacokinetic parameters of methotrexate when combined with regorafenib (i.e., trough and maximum serum concentration \[Cmax\]).

OUTLINE:

Participants receive regorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and methotrexate PO twice weekly with 2-3 days apart on a 3 week on / 1 week off schedule. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants will come in for an end of study treatment visit.