An Efficacy and Safety Study of Low-dose Transdermal Therapeutic System (TTS)-Fentanyl D-Trans in Taiwan Participants With Cancer Pain
The purpose of this study is to evaluate safety/tolerability and clinical utility of low-dose transdermal therapeutic system (TTS \[medicated adhesive pad that is placed on the skin to deliver a timed-release dose of medication through the skin into the bloodstream\]) - fentanyl in Taiwan participants with cancer pain. Secondly, to demonstrate the dropout rate that will be decreased by initiating therapy with12 microgram per hour (mcg/hr) instead of with 25 mcg/h.
Cancer, Pain
DRUG: Transdermal Therapeutic System (TTS)-Fentanyl
Percentage of Participants Dropped From Study due to Adverse Events, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant administered a pharmaceutical product. An adverse event does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not related to the medicinal product. Percentage of participants who will be prematurely withdrawn from the study due to any adverse events will be reported., Day 0 up to Day 28
Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Score (Question 6), The BPI question number 6 describes pain severity, will be measured by the daily pain diary on numeric rating scale (NRS), ranging from 1 to 10; where 0 signifies no pain and 10 signifies extreme pain., Day 0, Day 7, Day 14 and Day 28|BPI Score (Question 9) - Quality of Life (QOL), Participant's quality of life (QOL) will be assessed by BPI question number 9 (items 9a to 9g), which describes "how during the past 24 hours pain has interfered with participants general activity, mood, walking ability, normal work, relation with other people, sleep, enjoyment of life". Each item will be measured on NRS, ranges from 1 to 10 where 0 signifies does not interfere and 10 signifies completely interferes. Total score is the average of scores of all items and ranges from 0 to 10, where higher scores signifies higher pain/interference., Day 0, Day 7, Day 14 and Day 28|Average Daily Dose and Final Dose of Transdermal Therapeutic System (TTS)-fentanyl, The TTS-fentanyl dosage is only increased in consultation with the treating physician and according to the participant's analgesic requirements, with the intention of maintaining his/ her pain score at 2 or less on the BPI question 6., Day 0 up to Day 28|Investigator's Global Assessment Scale Score, Investigator will complete a global assessment of the participants treatment with respect to pain control using 4-point scale, where 1 signifies poor, 2 signifies fair, 3 signifies good, 4 signifies very good., Day 0 and Day 28|Percentage of Participants With Treatment Satisfaction, Participants will rate their assessment of treatment satisfaction, using 4-point scale where 1 signifies poor, 2 signifies fair, 3 signifies good and 4 signifies very good., Day 0 and Day 28
This is an open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), multi-center (when more than one hospital or medical school team work on a medical research study), single-arm, non-randomized study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of low-dose TTS-fentanyl in Taiwan participants with cancer pain. Eligible participants will be enrolled and scheduled to return at Day 0, 7, 14 and 28. Participants will receive TTS-fentanyl for 28 days at a starting dose of 12 micrograms per hour (mcg/h) (one patch). Dose of fentanyl can increased or decreased as per Investigator's discretion to maintain participant's pain score at 2 or less on the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) question 6 (that tells how much pain you have right now). Safety will primarily be evaluated by measuring participant's dropout rate due to adverse events. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.