Study of Durvalumab + Tremelimumab in NSCLC Patients After Adjuvant Treatment
The purpose of this study is to determine whether it is feasible and safe to give research participants investigational treatment with durvalumab and tremelimumab after they have completed standard treatment for NSCLC and once they have detectable circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in the blood before there is evidence of disease recurrence on imaging studies. These investigational agents are a type of immunotherapy, which is a treatment that activates your own body's immune system to treat cancer.
Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab
Number of evaluable patients enrolled, To assess the feasibility of identifying and recruiting patients for adjuvant treatment with durvalumab+tremelimumab (D+T) in the setting of molecular residual disease based on ctDNA positivity after surgical resection and standard of care treatment for stage II-IIIB NSCLC. The target is a total of 15 with a projected accrual rate of 2-3 patients per month., 36 months
ctDNA clearance, To assess the dynamics of ctDNA in response to treatment with adjuvant durvalumab+tremelimumab. This will be reported with 95% confidence intervals based on the exact binomial distribution., 36 months|Overall survival, To determine the duration of overall survival with adjuvant durvalumab+tremelimumab, Up to 36 months|Disease free survival, To determine the duration of disease free survival with adjuvant durvalumab+tremelimumab, Up to 36 months|Adverse events rate, To evaluate the safety of adjuvant D+T, adverse events will be scored according to NCI CTCAE v5.0 and their frequency and nature will be tabulated by categories. This will be reported with 95% confidence intervals based on the exact binomial distribution., 36 months
This is an open label, single arm, pilot study of adjuvant durvalumab+ tremelimumab (D+T) for patients with stage II-IIIB (excluding N3) NSCLC.The trial will evaluate the feasibility of adjuvant D+T in patients who have undergone surgical resection and standard of care (SOC) adjuvant treatment and subsequently develop detectable plasma ctDNA. 15 evaluable patients will be enrolled. Patients with resected stage II-IIIB (excluding N3) NSCLC who have completed adjuvant standard of care treatment will be pre-screened and consented for the trial. They will undergo ctDNA testing with the Signatera assay at the completion of adjuvant treatment and every 4 months thereafter with standard CT imaging assessment up to 1 year. Patients with detectable ctDNA at a mutant allele frequency of \>0.1% and no evidence of recurrence on CT imaging will be enrolled in the trial. They will receive durvalumab every 4 weeks for 4 cycles and tremelimuamb on cycles 1 and 3 with concomitant plasma ctDNA quantification. Patients will be followed with standard CT imaging of the chest as well as routine and exploratory blood tests every 4 months until 1 year after completion of D+T. They will also be followed for up to 3 years for determination of DFS and OS.