Decitabine Versus Conventional Chemotherapy for Maintenance Therapy of Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common hematological malignancies in adult patients with leukemia, and t(8;21) AML accounts for a substantial proportion of AML. AML patients with t(8;21) possess a favorable outcome and 3 - 4 course high dose cytarabine (3 g/m2) is the standard consolidation therapy for these patients with a 5-year overall survival approximately 60%. In China, intermediate dose cytarabine (1 - 2 g/m2) is used for consolidation therapy due to toxicities. After 3 - 4 course cytarabine consolidation, maintenance therapy is performed with conventional chemotherapy with a 5-year overall survival approximately 60% as well. However, continuous chemotherapy may cause toxicities and inhibit patients' immune response. Exploring new drug for maintenance therapy is urgently needed. Decitabine has a potent ability to inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis of AML1-ETO positive leukemia cell line. Furthermore, the immunomodulatory effect of decitabine was also reported by several studies. In this study, the investigators plan to carry out a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled trail to compare decitabine versus conventional chemotherapy for maintenance therapy of patients with AML with t(8;21). Results of this trial may optimize the treatment for AML patients with t(8;21) in the setting of intermediate dose cytarabine consolidation.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin, Cytarabine|DRUG: Mitoxantrone, Cytarabine|DRUG: Aclacinomycin, Cytarabine
Relapse free survival, Three years
Overall survival, Three years|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, From enrolling to two months after administrating the last course of decitabine or chemotherapy
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common hematological malignancies in adult patients with leukemia, and t(8;21) AML accounts for a substantial proportion of AML. AML patients with t(8;21) possess a favorable outcome and 3 - 4 course high dose cytarabine (3 g/m2) is the standard consolidation therapy for these patients with a 5-year overall survival approximately 60%. In China, intermediate dose cytarabine (1 - 2 g/m2) is used for consolidation therapy due to toxicities. After 3 - 4 course cytarabine consolidation, maintenance therapy is performed with conventional chemotherapy with a 5-year overall survival approximately 60% as well. However, continuous chemotherapy may cause toxicities and inhibit patients' immune response. Exploring new drug for maintenance therapy is urgently needed. Decitabine has a potent ability to inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis of AML1-ETO positive leukemia cell line. Furthermore, the immunomodulatory effect of decitabine was also reported by several studies. In this study, the investigators plan to carry out a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled trail to compare decitabine versus conventional chemotherapy for maintenance therapy of patients with AML with t(8;21). Results of this trial may optimize the treatment for AML patients with t(8;21) in the setting of intermediate dose cytarabine consolidation.