Palliative Short-course Hypofractionated Radiotherapy Followed by Chemotherapy in Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus or Esophagogastric Junction Trial - a Phase II Clinical Trial Protocol.
In this trial, patients with histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or esophagogastric junction noneligible for surgery or chemoradiation with curative intent will be included. Primary objective is to determine the rate of improvement in dysphagia after palliative short course hypofractionated radiotherapy (5 x 4 Gy) followed by chemotherapy consisting of oxaliplatin and fluorouracil. The rate of improvement of dysphagia is evaluated by a 5 graded dysphagia score, and a positive change of at least 1 score is considered to be an improvement.
Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus or Esophagogastric Junction
RADIATION: Radiation therapy|DRUG: Oxaliplatin and fluorouracil.
Improvement of dysphagia., The rate of improvement in dysphagia after palliative short course hypofractionated radiotherapy (5 x 4 Gy) followed by chemotherapy consisting of oxaliplatin and fluorouracil is evaluated by a 5 graded dysphagia score, and a positive change of at least 1 score is considered to be an approvement., The grade of dysphagia is evaluated before start of treatment, 1-4 weeks after end of radiotherapy, then until local intervention or death, average of 12 months.
Endoscopic response of the primary tumor., Endoscopy will be performed before start of treatment, and within 4 weeks after end of radiotherapy.
Metabolic response, Metabolic response will be evaluated before start of treatment, and within 4 weeks after end of chemotherapy.
In this trial, patients with histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or esophagogastric junction noneligible for surgery or chemoradiation with curative intent will be included. Primary objective is to determine the rate of improvement in dysphagia after palliative short course hypofractionated radiotherapy (5 x 4 Gy) followed by chemotherapy consisting of oxaliplatin and fluorouracil. The rate of improvement of dysphagia is evaluated by a 5 graded dysphagia score, and a positive change of at least 1 score is considered to be an improvement.