Tolerability and Efficacy of Modified VCD Regimens in Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma.
This phase 2 study will be conducted at 10 centers and enroll patients from August 2013 to August 2017.Firstly, All patients included will provide written informed consent. Secondly, they will be randomized equally to receive modified VCD regimen arm 1 or modified VCD regimen arm 2. In total, 47 patients per arm (or 94 in total) are required. The treatment consists of four 4-week cycles of induction therapy followed by intensive therapy with another five modified VCD regimens and maintenance treatment with CP regimen. Then, patients will be followed up for 24 months after chemotherapy. The investigators will record all the laboratory and clinical investigations to assess response at different points of the study. We also monitor and assess adverse events (AEs), as graded according to NCI-CTCAE Version 3.0.Response categories were based on the International Myeloma Working Group uniform response criteria.In addition, 20 patients (10 in VCD regimen arm 1 group, 10 in VCD regimen arm 2 group) from ten centres will be enrolled in the pharmacodynamic substudy.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
the rate of complete remission, The rate of complete remission of modified VCD regimens in patients with MM assessed by International Myeloma Working Group(IMWG) criteria., Day 1 of every treatment cycle
progression free survival, PFS of modified VCD regimens in patients with MM assessed by International Myeloma Working Group(IMWG) criteria., up to two year|Adverse Events, Adverse events (AEs) were graded according to NCI-CTCAE Version 4.0, up to two years|overall response rates (ORR), The rate of overall response of modified VCD regimens in patients with MM assessed by International Myeloma Working Group(IMWG) criteria., Day 1 of every treatment cycle|duration of response, Duration of response of modified VCD regimens in patients with MM assessed by International Myeloma Working Group(IMWG) criteria., up to 6 months|overall survival (OS), The rate of OS of modified VCD regimens in patients with MM assessed by International Myeloma Working Group(IMWG) criteria., up to two year
This phase 2 study will be conducted at 10 centers and enroll patients from August 2013 to August 2017.Firstly, All patients included will provide written informed consent. Secondly, they will be randomized equally to receive modified VCD regimen arm 1 or modified VCD regimen arm 2. In total, 47 patients per arm (or 94 in total) are required. The treatment consists of four 4-week cycles of induction therapy followed by intensive therapy with another five modified VCD regimens and maintenance treatment with CP regimen. Then, patients will be followed up for 24 months after chemotherapy. The investigators will record all the laboratory and clinical investigations to assess response at different points of the study. We also monitor and assess adverse events (AEs), as graded according to NCI-CTCAE Version 3.0.Response categories were based on the International Myeloma Working Group uniform response criteria.In addition, 20 patients (10 in VCD regimen arm 1 group, 10 in VCD regimen arm 2 group) from ten centres will be enrolled in the pharmacodynamic substudy.