Feasibility of Transcranial Focused Ultrasound to Measure Brain Tumor
Transcranial focused ultrasound (tFUS) offers a platform for non-invasive imaging and treatment of the brain and pathology of the brain -- allowing high resolution imaging in both spatial and temporal dimensions. Compared with the gold- standard for brain imaging, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound offers reduced contrast while providing improved sampling in time through a significantly more cost-effective approach. In addition, while MRI is used to guide invasive treatments, only ultrasound can offer treatments through three primary mechanisms: 1) neuromodulation, 2) blood brain barrier modulation, and thermal/mechanical ablation through high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU). All three treatment options require targeting therapy through the skull, which remains a barrier to clinical translation. This proposal is to test the feasibility of acquiring noninvasive targeting imaging intraoperatively prior to clinically indicated cranial neurosurgery. By acquiring volumetric ultrasound images while coregistered to previously obtained stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging, the study will be able to compare the ability of tFUS to identify and focus on brain pathology.
Cranial Neurosurgery
DEVICE: Brain imaging using transcranial focused ultrasound (tFUS)
Test feasibility, For each participant feasibility is defined as 1 when any ultrasound slices are obtained and segmented. If tumor segmentation cannot be performed then this will be reported as 0, meaning not feasible. The result at the group level is a feasibility measure, i.e., the proportion of participants for whom the protocol was feasible., baseline
Volume assessment, three-dimensional reconstructions of MRI slices will be manually segmented, resulting in a tumor volume that will be compared with MRI-segmented tumor volume., Baseline|Morphology assessment, three-dimensional ultrasound and MRI reconstructions will be co-registered onto a three dimensional grid and compared. The ratio of the MRI and FUS derived volumes will be computed, resulting in a distribution. A value of one for this ratio indicates perfect agreement., Baseline
Transcranial focused ultrasound (tFUS) offers a platform for non-invasive imaging and treatment of the brain and pathology of the brain -- allowing high resolution imaging in both spatial and temporal dimensions. Compared with the gold- standard for brain imaging, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound offers reduced contrast while providing improved sampling in time through a significantly more cost-effective approach. In addition, while MRI is used to guide invasive treatments, only ultrasound can offer treatments through three primary mechanisms: 1) neuromodulation, 2) blood brain barrier modulation, and thermal/mechanical ablation through high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU). All three treatment options require targeting therapy through the skull, which remains a barrier to clinical translation. This proposal is to test the feasibility of acquiring noninvasive targeting imaging intraoperatively prior to clinically indicated cranial neurosurgery. By acquiring volumetric ultrasound images while coregistered to previously obtained stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging, the study will be able to compare the ability of tFUS to identify and focus on brain pathology.