Platinum Doublet Chemotherapy and Proton Beam Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage II-III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well platinum doublet chemotherapy and proton beam radiation therapy work in treating patients with stage II-III non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, paclitaxel, etoposide, cisplatin, and pemetrexed work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy protons to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving platinum doublet chemotherapy and proton beam radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed|RADIATION: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression free survival (PFS), A Cox proportional hazards model stratified by stratification factors will be used to model PFS as a function of dose to test for an overall dose effect (a one-sided p-value \< 0.10 will be considered as significant evidence of a dose effect). Subsequently, separate Cox models stratified by stratification factors will compare PFS between 72 Gy and 60 Gy (for each, a one-sided p-value \< 0.10 will be considered as significant evidence of superiority). Kaplan Meier estimates and curves by dose level will also be generated, From randomization to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival (OS), Will be modeled using Cox models. Kaplan-Meier estimates and curves by dose level will also be generated. OS will again be analyzed as exploratory analysis after 50 deaths per primary pairwise comparison have occurred or after all patients have completed follow-up (whichever occurs first)., From randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns by dose level (60, 72 Gy). Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to dose level will be taken into consideration., Up to 5 years|Local-regional failure, Defined as the time from randomization to the earliest date of documentation of local recurrence. The cumulative incidence of local failure will be estimated using Gray's methodology and compared across dose levels using Fine-Gray quadratic regression (with death as a competing risk)., Up to 5 years|Distant metastasis, Defined as the time from randomization to the earliest date of documentation of distant metastasis. The cumulative incidence of distant metastasis will be estimated using Gray's methodology and compared across dose levels using Fine-Gray quadratic regression (with death as a competing risk)., Up to 5 years
Quality of life post treatment, Measured using the single item Linear Analogue Self-Assessment scale. Descriptive statistics by dose level at each time point will include means, standard deviations, medians, and ranges for each scale. Descriptive graphical techniques will include mean plots by dose over time for each scale. Mixed models will be used to compare each scale across dose levels at each post-baseline time point while adjusting for the baseline value of scale. Will graphically explore patterns of missing data and will employ pattern mixture models for longitudinal analyses. The lowest number measuring worst and higher number measuring best outcome., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the 1-year progression-free survival rates of 72 gray (Gy) and 60 Gy conventionally fractionated proton beam therapy (PBT) (as part of concurrent combined modality therapy).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the adverse events, survival, quality of life, and patterns of failure (local regional, distant metastatic) associated with two dose levels of conventionally fractionated PBT (as part of concurrent combined modality therapy).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive platinum based doublet chemotherapy consisting of low dose carboplatin and paclitaxel, standard etoposide cisplatin or carboplatin or standard pemetrexed with cisplatin or carboplatin weekly for up to 6 weeks at the discretion of the treating medical oncologist. Patients also undergo lower dose proton beam radiation therapy daily for a total of 60 Gy for up to 30 weekdays in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C: Patients receive platinum based doublet chemotherapy consisting of low dose carboplatin and paclitaxel, standard etoposide cisplatin or carboplatin or standard pemetrexed with cisplatin or carboplatin weekly for up to 6 weeks at the discretion of the treating medical oncologist. Patients also undergo higher dose proton beam radiation therapy daily for a total of 72 Gy for up to 36 weekdays in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients undergo computed tomography (CT) throughout the study, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or CT, and positron emission tomography (PET)/CT during screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years and then every 6 months for 2 years.