Cap Assisted Colonoscopy for the Detection of Colon Polyps
This simple technique of attaching a transparent cap to the tip of the colonoscope has been evaluated in Japan for improving the detection of polyps and cecal intubation but has not been formally evaluated in the US and other western countries. In one study (19), the polyp detection rate was higher with the transparent cap compared to no cap (49% vs. 39%, p=0.04). Also, the cecal intubation time was shorter with the cap (11.5 min vs 14 min, p=0.008). In a recently published study, a variation of the cap called the transparent retractable extension device was used (21). Overall, the number of adenomas detected were significantly higher with the device compared to without it (205 vs. 150, p=0.04). In an earlier study by Tada et al (22), use of a transparent cap improved the detection rate of lesions per patient (0.86 vs. 0.58) but did not increase the cecal intubation time. Finally, Lee et al (20) used cap assisted colonoscopy in patients with difficult colonoscopy procedure (defined as failure to pass through sigmoid colon after 20 minutes or failure to reach cecum). Using the cap, cecal intubation was achieved in 94% of patients and this proved to be an effective rescue method for failed or difficult colonoscopy. The major appeal of this technique is that it is inexpensive, very practical, and easy to use. Furthermore it is safe and there are no reported complications from this. If found to be effective in increasing the polyp yield it has the potential to being incorporated by busy gastroenterologists in their day to day clinical practice. These features and the preliminary data from Japan merit the evaluation of this promising technique in the US.
Adenoma|Colon Polyps|Colon Cancer
DEVICE: Cap - Transparent retractable extension device.|DEVICE: Standard
The primary outcome is the prevalence of adenomas in the two groups., 2 years
The secondary outcomes are the number of adenomas detected per subject, cecal intubation rate, insertion times, withdrawal times and complication rates in the two arms., 2 years
The investigators hypothesize that adenoma detection rate will be higher using cap assisted colonoscopy compared to standard colonoscopy. Also, cap assisted colonoscopy will be safe and cecal intubation rate will be similar compared to standard colonoscopy.

Specific Aim 1 - To compare the prevalence of adenomas detected by standard colonoscopy and cap assisted colonoscopy.

Specific Aim 2 - To compare the number of adenomas detected per subject by standard colonoscopy and cap assisted colonoscopy.

Specific aim 3 - To compare the cecal intubation rate, insertion time, withdrawal time and complications of standard colonoscopy and cap assisted colonoscopy.