A Randomized Controlled Comparative Study of Ultrasound-guided Paravertebral Blocks as Part of a Multimodal Regimen for Ambulatory Breast Cancer Surgery
General anesthesia and morphine based pain medicine analgesia has been the mainstay of practice in breast cancer surgery at Women's College Hospital. There is evidence to suggest that patients have a better recovery, with less pain and nausea and vomiting when nerve blocks or freezing of nerves are given in addition to a general anesthetic. Specifically for breast cancer surgery, evidence has suggested that the use of paravertebral blocks provide patients with a better quality of recovery after surgery. The aim of this study is to examine whether patients who receive the nerve blocks using an ultrasound machine in addition to general anesthesia have a better quality of recovery than patients who receive a general anesthetic alone. The hypothesis is that patients receiving ultrasound-guided paravertebral blocks (PVB) with propofol-based general anesthesia (GA) will have a better quality of recovery than patients receiving general anesthesia-opioid-analgesia. Quality of recovery will be assessed using a modification of the QoR-27, a validated instrument to assess postoperative recovery in an ambulatory surgical population.
Breast Diseases
OTHER: Paravertebral Blocks (PVB)
The primary outcome measure is the quality of recovery at discharge as assessed by the QoR27, The patient will be met with by the study coordinator, just before discharge to administer the Quality of Recovery Questionnaire (QoR27), Within 24 hours postoperatively|The primary outcome measure is the quality of recovery post operatively, as assessed by the QoR27, The patient will be contacted by the study coordinator, 2 days following their surgery to administer the Quality of Recovery Questionnaire (QoR27), on average between 24-48 hours postoperatively|The primary outcome measure is the quality of recovery at discharge as assessed by the QoR27, The patient will be contacted by the study coordinator, 4 days following their surgery to administer the Quality of Recovery Questionnaire (QoR27), On average 72-96 hours post operatively|The primary outcome measure is the quality of recovery post operatively as assessed by the QoR27, The patient will be contacted by the study coordinator, 7 days following their surgery to administer the Quality of Recovery Questionnaire (QoR27), On average 7-8 days postoperatively
Neuropathic pain, DN4, 6 months
General anesthesia and morphine based pain medicine analgesia has been the mainstay of practice in breast cancer surgery at Women's College Hospital. There is evidence to suggest that patients have a better recovery, with less pain and nausea and vomiting when nerve blocks or freezing of nerves are given in addition to a general anesthetic. Specifically for breast cancer surgery, evidence has suggested that the use of paravertebral blocks provide patients with a better quality of recovery after surgery. The aim of this study is to examine whether patients who receive the nerve blocks using an ultrasound machine in addition to general anesthesia have a better quality of recovery than patients who receive a general anesthetic alone. The hypothesis is that patients receiving ultrasound-guided paravertebral blocks (PVB) with propofol-based general anesthesia (GA) will have a better quality of recovery than patients receiving general anesthesia-opioid-analgesia. Quality of recovery will be assessed using a modification of the QoR-27, a validated instrument to assess postoperative recovery in an ambulatory surgical population.