Second-line Study of PEGPH20 and Pembro for HA High Metastatic PDAC
This study is the study of the combination of PEGPH20 and Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) for patients with previously treated Hyaluronan High (HA-high) metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. This study is an interventional, unblinded, open label study. Approximately 35 subjects will be enrolled. The trial will require approximately a total of 18 months, including 12 months for enrollment, with an additional 6 months for patient follow-up, data collection and study closure.

Each subject will participate in the trial from the time the subject signs the Informed Consent Form (ICF) through the final contact. After a screening phase of up to 21 days, eligible subjects will receive PEGPH20 beginning with Cycle 1 Day 1, on Days 1, 8 15 of every 3 week-cycles and pembrolizumab beginning on Cycle 1 Day 1 (2-4 hrs after PEGPH20), every 3-week-cycles.

Treatment with PEGPH20 and pembrolizumab will continue until progressive disease (PD), unacceptable adverse events (AEs), intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment, investigator's decision to withdraw the subject, subject withdraws consent, pregnancy of the subject, noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure requirements, subject receives 35 treatments (approximately 24 months) of pembrolizumab, or administrative reasons requiring cessation of treatment. Subjects who discontinue for reasons other than PD will have post-treatment follow-up for disease status until PD, initiating a non-study cancer treatment, withdrawing consent, or becoming lost to follow-up. All subjects will be followed by telephone for overall survival (OS) until death, withdrawal of consent, or the end of the study.

After the end of treatment, each subject will be followed for 30 days for AE monitoring. Serious adverse events (SAE) and events of clinical interest (ECI) will be collected for 90 days after the end of treatment or for 30 days after the end of treatment if the subject initiates new anticancer therapy, whichever is earlier.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Neoplasms
DRUG: PEGPH20|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Progression Free Survival, Evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) for patients treated with pembrolizumab and PEGPH20, PFS will be assessed from Date of registration through study closure, up to 24 months. PFS is calculated as the number of days from date of registration to date of disease progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause.
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Evaluate the safety and tolerability of this treatment combination as assessed by CTCAE v5.0., Safety and Tolerability using CTCAE v5.0 will be assessed from Day 1 of study treatment through 30-days past the last study treatment per patient, through study closure, up to 24 months.|Overall Response Rate, Evaluate the Overall Response Rate (ORR, CR + PR) based on RECIST v1.1, ORR is assessed from Day 1 of treatment to study closure, up to 24 months. ORR is calculated by adding the Complete Responses (CR) with the Partial Responses (PR), based on RECIST v1.1, recorded at each disease evaluation for each patient.|Disease Control Rate, Evaluate Disease Control Rate (DCR, CR +PR+SD), DCR is assessed from Day 1 of treatment to study closure, up to 24 months. DCR is calculated by adding the Complete Responses, Partial Responses and Stable Disease, based on RECIST v1.1, recorded at each disease evaluation for each patient.|Duration of Response, Evaluate the Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is assessed from Day 1 of treatment to study closure, up to 24 months. DOR is calculated for patients who achieve a CR or PR, as the number of days from the date of response to the date of progression, or death, due to any cause.|Overall Survival, Evaluate the Overall Survival, Overall Survival is assessed from date of registration to study closure, up to 24 months. Overall Survival is calculated as the number of days from date of registration to date of death due to any cause.
Evaluate Plasma Hyaluronan (HA) levels, Evaluate pre-and post-treatments plasma hyaluronan (HA) levels in blood samples, and correlate with ORR, PFS, and OS, Plasma Hyaluronan (HA) levels are measured in blood samples taken at Day 1 of every treatment cycle (1 cycle = 3 weeks), during each patient's study treatment, with data from these samples assessed until study closure, up to 24 months.|Evaluate immunological biomarkers using flow cytometry in tumor tissue samples, Evaluate pre-and post-treatment immunological biomarkers (the percentage and absolute count (cells/mm3) of T-cell subsets) using flow cytometry, in tumor tissue samples and correlate with ORR, PFS, and OS, Immunological biomarkers using flow cytometry are measured in tumor tissue samples taken at 3 timepoints during each patient's study treatment, with data from these samples assessed until study closure, up to 24 months.|Evaluate immunological biomarkers--T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing in tumor tissue samples, Evaluate pre-and post-treatment immunological biomarkers of T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing in tumor tissue samples, and correlate with ORR, PFS, and OS, Immunological biomarkers of T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing are measured in tumor tissue samples taken at 3 timepoints during each patient's study treatment, with data from these samples assessed until study closure, up to 24 months.|Evaluate immunological biomarkers--focused gene profiling of the immune transcriptome, Evaluate pre-and post-treatment immunological biomarkers--focused gene profiling of the immune transriptome--in tumor tissue samples, and correlate with ORR, PFS, and OS, Immunological biomarkers--focused gene profiling of the immune transcriptome--are measured in tumor tissue samples taken at 3 timepoints during each patient's study treatment, with data assessed until study closure, up to 24 months.|Evaluate immunological biomarkers--Immunohistochemistry (IHC) for T-cells, B-cells, and macrophages subsets, Evaluate pre-and post-treatment immunological biomarkers--IHC of T-cells, B-cells, and macrophages subsets-- in tumor tissue samples, and correlate with ORR, PFS, and OS, Immunological biomarkers--IHC of T-cells, B-cells and macrophages subsets are measured in tumor tissue samples taken at 3 timepoints during each patient's study treatment, with data assessed until study closure, up to 24 months.|Evaluate Blood Translational Biomarker--Circulating cytokines/chemokines in plasma, Evaluate pre-and post-treatment Translational biomarkers of circulating cytokines/chemokines in plasma blood samples and correlate with ORR, PFS, and OS, The Translational Biomarkers-- circulating cytokines/chemokines in plasma-- are measured in blood samples taken at 3 timepoints during each patient's study treatment, with data from these samples assessed until study closure, up to 24 months.|Evaluate Blood Translational Biomarkers--flow cytometry, Evaluate pre-and post-treatment Translational biomarkers in blood samples (the percentage and absolute count (cells/mm3) of T-cell subsets) using flow cytometry, and correlate with ORR, PFS, and OS, The Translational Biomarkers using flow cytometry are measured in blood samples taken at 3 timepoints during each patient's study treatment, with data assessed until study closure, up to 24 months.|Evaluate Blood Translational Biomarkers--T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing, Evaluate pre-and post-treatment Translational biomarkers of T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing in blood samples and correlate with ORR, PFS, and OS, The Translational Biomarker-- T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing-- are measured in blood samples taken at 3 timepoints during each patient's study treatment, with data from these samples assessed until study closure, up to 24 months.
Combination strategies geared towards blocking the PD1/PD-L1 inhibitory pathway, such as with pembrolizumab, concurrent with stroma depletion (PEGPH20) may induce synergistic anti-cancer activity and immune responses in pancreatic cancer. Effective harnessing of the immune system and rational combinations with stroma-targeting biological agents (PEGPH20) is a novel field that needs to be explored in pancreatic cancer. This phase II trial will determine the efficacy of pembrolizumab plus PEGPH20 in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients who have HA-high tumor expression. Stroma and immune-related biomarkers will be tested prospectively in blood and tumor biopsies at baseline, after 6 weeks of therapy, and at time of cancer progression. A phase I study with pembrolizumab and PEGPH20 is ongoing in lung and gastric cancer patients (NCT02563548), and demonstrated safety and tolerability of this combination at the doses administered in this study (Halozyme data).

Immunotherapies have the potential to induce durable therapeutic responses although this typically occurs in a small fraction of patients. Biomarker-guided patient selection can, in principle, identify those patients most likely to benefit. The investigators hypothesize that stroma remodeling with PEGPH20 will potentiate effector CD8 T cell lymphocyte infiltration and sensitize pancreatic cancer to immune therapy, and that immunologic, and/or genomic biomarkers will identify patient subsets most likely to benefit. As examples, MSI-high status and high tumor mutational burden (hypermutation) have been linked to sensitivity to immune checkpoint inhibitors (Le et al. 2015, Le et al. 2016).

Assays may include but are not limited to: Immunohistochemical analysis, profiling of the immune transcriptome, circulating cytokine analyses, flow cytometric analyses of peripheral and intratumoral immune response.

This is an open label non-randomized Phase II trial for patients with previously treated metastatic ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma with HA-high expression, to assess the progression-free survival rate (PFS) of patients treated with this combination therapy. Secondary endpoints will assess safety and tolerability, overall response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR= CR+PR+SD), duration of response and stable disease (DOR), and overall survival (OS).

There will be an estimated 35 patients enrolled into the study, using 5 centers in the U.S.

Overall response rates as well as individual categories of response (CR, PR, SD, and PD) will be determined using RECIST 1.1. Time-to-event endpoints, including PFS and OS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Toxicity (adverse events) will be recorded using the NCI CTCAE, version 5.0 (published Nov 2017, Appendix B).

All patients will start treatment with PEGPH20 3 microgram/kg IV weekly x 3, and pembrolizumab 200 mg IV every 3 weeks, in 3-week cycles.

Patients may remain on treatment with PEGPH20 in combination with pembrolizumab as long as they are receiving clinical benefit, until disease progression per RECIST 1.1 criteria, or until untolerable toxicity develops, whichever comes first. If no disease progression, patients will be allowed to remain on study treatment for up to 24 months. If no disease progression, but with unacceptable toxicity from PEGPH20, patients will be allowed to continue on pembrolizumab alone for up to 24 months if deemed appropriate by the investigator. If pembrolizumab needs to be discontinued for toxicity, patients may continue treatment with PEGPH20 alone.

The estimated duration for accrual is anticipated to be 12 months. Patients will be followed up for a minimum of 6 months. The overall study duration is estimated at approximately 18 months.