An HPV Vaccine Provider Intervention in Safety Net Clinics
The purpose of this study is to develop, deliver and evaluate a provider intervention for mothers and their children to encourage receipt of the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine in the children and appropriate cervical cancer screening in the mothers.
Human Papillomavirus|Uterine Cervical Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Educational materials
Number of children participants who completed the 3-dose HPV vaccine series, Although completion of the 3-dose HPV vaccine series is recommended within 6 months, the investigators measured completion within 12 months., 12 months
Number of mother participants who received appropriate cervical cancer screening, Cervical cancer screening is no longer recommended annually so the investigators measured receipt of a Pap smear as needed within a 12 month period., 12 months
In this study the investigators utilized Community Based Participatory Research approaches in combination with our previous and ongoing research, patient and provider education materials available from professional organizations, and qualitative information obtained from provider in-depth interviews and parent/daughter focus groups to develop a provider intervention to encourage receipt of the HPV vaccine, and appropriate cancer screening in African Americans and Hispanics. A focus of the study was the formation of a Community Advisory Board (CAB) which provided input into the development and modification of the provider intervention. Safety net clinics in Nashville and Memphis served as intervention sites, and in Chattanooga and Nashville (Meharry) served as control sites. Mothers and children at the intervention sites viewed a 5-minute video in the exam room during any visit type before seeing the provider, and received an information sheet with a list of suggested questions to ask the provider. Mothers and children at the control sites received usual care. The selected study sites identified cervical cancer screening as a priority area based on the needs assessments conducted as part of the Meharry Medical College Community Health Center-Community Network Program (CHC-CNP). The investigators conducted pre- and post-intervention quantitative surveys with mothers and their children to evaluate whether the provider intervention was effective in improving HPV vaccination coverage, and cervical cancer screening rates. The investigators abstracted medical records and have indicated this in the HIPAA privacy form. After conducting pre- and post-intervention surveys and abstracting medical records, the investigators found that increasing HPV vaccine uptake requires more intensive, multicomponent interventions.