FDHT PET and Bicalutamide in Metastatic Breast Cancer
Rationale: The purpose is to evaluate whether non-invasive in vivo imaging of androgen receptor (AR) presence in metastatic breast cancer patients by means of 18F-fluoro-dihydrotestosterone positron emission tomography (FDHT-PET) can be used to predict (early) treatment response to, and optimal dosing of, the anti androgen bicalutamide. The ultimate goal is to contribute to optimal selection of breast cancer patients for anti androgen treatment. Objective: Feasibility to detect a diffrence in uptake on 18F-FDHT scan after 6 weeks of treatment with bicalutamide in metastatic breast cancer patients. Secondary Objectives: to describe whether changes in 18F-FDHT tracer uptake after six weeks associates with response to bicalutamide, to describe whether changes in AR availability are different for breast cancer subgroups during treatment with bicalutamide and to describe whether 18F-FDHT tracer uptake is influenced by the amount of AR tumor expression. Study design: This is a single arm, one stage feasibility study, which will be executed in the University Medical Center Groningen, The Netherlands. The primary endpoint of the study is to evaluate the difference in 18F-FDHT uptake in tumor lesions after 6 weeks of bicalutamide treatment in patients with AR-positive metastatic breast cancer. Patients will be treated with bicalutamide until progression or unacceptable toxicity is encountered. Study population: The investigators will include 20 postmenopausal metastatic breast cancer patients with an AR positive, HER2 negative tumor. Patients should be restaged clinically with bone scintigraphy and CT scan within a 6 week timeframe of the PET examinations. Intervention: All patients will receive a baseline FDHT-PET scan and start with bicalutamide treatment 150mg daily. During follow-up patients will receive one FDHT-PET scan after 6 weeks. Treatment with bicalutamide will continue until progression or unacceptable toxicity is encountered. Main study endpoint: The percent difference in 18F-FDHT uptake in tumor lesions after 6 weeks of monotherapy bicalutamide. A minimum decrease of 20% in 18F-FDHT uptake after 6 weeks compared to baseline uptake with an α of 0.05 and a power of 80%, is considered clinical significant.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Bicalutamide|PROCEDURE: FDHT PET
quantify residual AR binding sites in metastatic breast cancer, To quantify residual AR binding sites in metastatic breast cancer after 6 weeks of treatment with bicalutamide., 6 weeks
determine whether changes in 18F-FDHT uptake, To determine whether changes in 18F-FDHT uptake after 6 weeks associates with response to bicalutamide., 6 weeks|Influence amount of AR tumor expression, To determine whether 18F-FDHT tracer uptake is influenced by the amount of AR tumor expression., 6 weeks|Difference in changes in AR availability, To determine whether changes in AR availability are different for breast cancer subgroups during treatment with bicalutamide, 6 weeks
Rationale: The purpose is to evaluate whether non-invasive in vivo imaging of androgen receptor (AR) presence in metastatic breast cancer patients by means of 18F-fluoro-dihydrotestosterone positron emission tomography (FDHT-PET) can be used to predict (early) treatment response to, and optimal dosing of, the anti androgen bicalutamide. The ultimate goal is to contribute to optimal selection of breast cancer patients for anti androgen treatment. Objective: Feasibility to detect a diffrence in uptake on 18F-FDHT scan after 6 weeks of treatment with bicalutamide in metastatic breast cancer patients. Secondary Objectives: to describe whether changes in 18F-FDHT tracer uptake after six weeks associates with response to bicalutamide, to describe whether changes in AR availability are different for breast cancer subgroups during treatment with bicalutamide and to describe whether 18F-FDHT tracer uptake is influenced by the amount of AR tumor expression. Study design: This is a single arm, one stage feasibility study, which will be executed in the University Medical Center Groningen, The Netherlands. The primary endpoint of the study is to evaluate the difference in 18F-FDHT uptake in tumor lesions after 6 weeks of bicalutamide treatment in patients with AR-positive metastatic breast cancer. Patients will be treated with bicalutamide until progression or unacceptable toxicity is encountered. Study population: The investigators will include 20 postmenopausal metastatic breast cancer patients with an AR positive, HER2 negative tumor. Patients should be restaged clinically with bone scintigraphy and CT scan within a 6 week timeframe of the PET examinations. Intervention: All patients will receive a baseline FDHT-PET scan and start with bicalutamide treatment 150mg daily. During follow-up patients will receive one FDHT-PET scan after 6 weeks. Treatment with bicalutamide will continue until progression or unacceptable toxicity is encountered. Main study endpoint: The percent difference in 18F-FDHT uptake in tumor lesions after 6 weeks of monotherapy bicalutamide. A minimum decrease of 20% in 18F-FDHT uptake after 6 weeks compared to baseline uptake with an α of 0.05 and a power of 80%, is considered clinical significant.