PolyPEPI1018 Vaccine and CDx for the Treatment of Metastatic Colorectal Cancer (OBERTO)
Phase I/II clinical trial investigates the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity and preliminary efficacy of multiple doses of PolyPEPI1018 CRC vaccine as an add-on treatment to the standard-of-care maintenance therapy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Clinical responses will be evaluated by indiction of T cell responses, T lymphocyte infiltration in accessible biopsy sites, and by objective tumor responses. This study will also explore the accuracy of the predicted T cell responses in each patient using the candidate companion diagnostic test and the correlations between clinical responses and predicted T cell responses.
Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: PolyPEPI1018 CRC Vaccine
Number of Participants With Treatment Related Adverse Events, Occurrence of at least 1 ≥Grade 4 local adverse event (AE) or 1 ≥Grade 3 systemic AE and/or signs/symptoms, lab toxicities, and/or clinical events that is probably or definitely related to study treatment, from 1st vaccination to 21 days after last vaccinations, up to 41 weeks
Number of Participants Having T Cell Immune Response, Measured CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses from each subject for each antigen of the vaccine, 12 weeks|Number of Predicted Antigen Specific T Cell Responses Per Patient, Epitopes restricted to multiple HLA class I alleles (Personal Epitope, PEPI) of a subject were predicted. PEPIs determined for each vaccine antigen can predict the antigen-specific T cell responses for each patient., 21 days
Number of Participants With Objective Tumor Responses - Objective Response Rate (RECIST v1.1), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR.

CT scans were performed at screening and weeks 6,12 after each vaccination. The objective response were based on for each subject's last CT scan evaluation., 12 weeks|Number of Participants With Objective Tumor Responses - Disease Control Rate (Best Overall Response is Partial Response or Stable Disease), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD) \<30% increase compare to smallest sum of the longest diameter of target lesions.

CT scans were performed at screening and weeks 6,12 after each vaccination. The DCR were counted as the best response (PR or SD) for each subject's during the trial., 12 weeks|Number of Participants Having Induced Recruitment of TILs, Assessments of TILs was performed using IHC (Immunoscore CR) CD3/CD8 testing on liver biopsy tissue samples obtained from subjects during a time course from baseline until the Last Visit. The CD3+ and CD8+ cell densities were determined in the core tumor and invasive margin using Immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining followed by digital pathology., Last visit, up to 38 weeks
This is a Phase I/II, open-label, single-arm, multicenter study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity and efficacy of a multiple subcutaneous injection of PolyPEPI1018 as an add-on immunotherapy to the standard-of-care maintenance therapy in approximately 15 subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer.

The first part of the study investigates the administration of a single vaccine dose during 12-week follow-up period on an outpatient basis. Screening is performed in parallel with the subject's completion of the standard-of-care first-line treatment and initiation of the standard-of-care maintenance treatment. A single dose of PolyPEPI1018 is administered after the subject initiates the maintenance regimen, and within 3 weeks after the eligibility CT scan was performed. Subjects are monitored every 3 weeks for 12 weeks.

The second part of the study investigates the administration of 3 vaccine doses (Weeks 0, 13, 26) then 12 weeks follow-up on an outpatient basis.