Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Stage II-III HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to look at the safety and immune response to a vaccine used in patients previously treated for HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2) positive breast cancer.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Male Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: HER-2/neu peptide vaccine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Proportion of patients who experience toxicities of attribution during the course of treatment (grades 3-5 of the NCI's Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program [CTEP] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0) for 2 years., The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Assessed up to 2 years following final immunization|To determine the ability of this vaccination protocol to elicit an immune response as measured by activated HER-2/neu-specific T lymphocytes or high-affinity antibodies, Immune responses to to the vaccine components will be periodically assessed using various assays measuring cytokine release, frequency of T cells, and antibody generation., 30 months
Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival is defined as the time from registration to documentation of disease recurrence, second primary, or death without disease recurrence or second primary. The distribution of disease-free and overall survival times will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., 30 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile of a peptide-based vaccine targeting HER-2/neu, in patients with stage II/III HER-2 positive breast cancer.

II. To determine the ability of this vaccination protocol to elicit an immune response as measured by activated HER-2/neu-specific T lymphocytes or high-affinity antibodies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compile descriptive follow-up data regarding vital status and disease recurrence.

II. To determine if HER-2/neu peptide 885 generates a T cell response that is specific to HER-2/neu or is cross-reactive with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) protein.

III. To determine if the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR epitopes contain HLA class I embedded epitopes.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive HER-2/neu peptide vaccine intradermally (ID) every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 additional years.