Feasibility of Monitoring Patients During Radiotherapy Using Biometric Sensor Data: the OncoWatch Study 1.0
The aim of the study is to determine the adherence to using an Apple Watch during curative intended radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. Secondly it will bring new insights to the patient's activity levels and how heart rate varies during treatment course.
Head and Neck Cancer
DEVICE: Wearable sensor
Number of participants who could wear the device more than 12 hours per day, To determine the feasibility of using an Apple Watch to obtain biometric data for patients undergoing head and neck locoregional therapy throughout the duration of radiotherapy, 3 months
Data acquisition rate, Percentage of successful data acquisition events, 3 months
Change in heart rate, Description of change in hear rate during radiotherapy, 3 months|Change in physical activity (steps per day), Description of change insteps per day during radiotherapy, 3 months
Patients with head and neck cancer (HNC) experience severe side effects during radiotherapy (RT). Ongoing technological advances in wearable biometric sensors allow for real-time collection of objective data e.g. physical activity and heart rate, which in the future might help to detect and act against side effects before they become severe. A smartwatch such as the Apple Watch allows for objective data monitoring outside hospital with minimal effort for the patient. To find out if such tools can be implemented in the oncological setting feasibility studies are needed.

The aim of the study is to determine the adherence to using an Apple Watch during curative intended radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. Secondly it will bring new insights to the patient's activity levels and how heart rate varies during treatment course.

The study will assess the feasibility of using the Apple Watch for home monitoring of patients with HNC. It will bring new insights to the patient's activity levels and how heart rate varies during treatment course. This is important knowledge before further investigating how biometric data can be used as part of symptom monitoring.