Diagnostic Performance Assessment of Qualitative Ifobt and Quantitative Ifobt for Advanced Neoplastic
In Argentina, there is vast experience in qualitative iFOBT population screening that is part of the CRC Prevention and Early Detection National Program. The screening's cut-off point is at 50 ng/mL buffer. Its positivity rate for 2019 has been an average of 26.15%, over the double of the one reported in the international literature (7.5-11%) for this cut-off point (1). There are no studies that assess such technology and suggest an appropriate cut-off point for this population. The goal of this study is to assess the diagnostic performance of the qualitative iFOBT used in the present and the quantitative iFOBT with various cut-off points for advanced neoplastic wound screening (colorectal cancer and advanced adenoma) in an Argentine patient cohort.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: quantitative and qualitative iFOBTs
diagnostic performance, To determine the diagnostic performance of the quantitative iFOBT with various cut-off points and the qualitative iFOBT, compared to the VCC, when detecting advanced colon neoplasms., 2 years
qualitative iFOBT positivity rate, To set the qualitative iFOBT positivity rate at 50 ng/mL in a controlled Argentine cohort., 2 years
In Argentina, there is vast experience in qualitative iFOBT population screening that is part of the CRC Prevention and Early Detection National Program. The screening's cut-off point is at 50 ng/mL buffer. Its positivity rate for 2019 has been an average of 26.15%, over the double of the one reported in the international literature (7.5-11%) for this cut-off point (1). There are no studies that assess such technology and suggest an appropriate cut-off point for this population. The goal of this study is to assess the diagnostic performance of the qualitative iFOBT used in the present and the quantitative iFOBT with various cut-off points for advanced neoplastic wound screening (colorectal cancer and advanced adenoma) in an Argentine patient cohort.