Testing the Combination of Two Experimental Drugs MK-3475 (Pembrolizumab) and Interferon-gamma for the Treatment of Mycosis Fungoides and Sézary Syndrome and Advanced Synovial Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab and interferon gamma-1b work in treating patients with stage IB-IVB mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome that has come back (relapsed) or has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Interferon gamma-1b may boost the immune system activity. Giving pembrolizumab and interferon gamma-1b together may work better in treating patients with stage IB-IVB mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome.
Metastatic Myxoid Liposarcoma|Metastatic Round Cell Liposarcoma|Metastatic Synovial Sarcoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome|Refractory Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome|Stage IB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage II Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage IIA Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage IIB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage III Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage IV Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage IVA Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Stage IVB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v7|Unresectable Synovial Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Interferon Gamma-1b|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Participants in Treatment Group 1 will be assessed for response and progression using standard response criteria in patients with Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary syndrome. Per Global Response Score determined by evaluating skin, lymph nodes, internal organs (viscera), and blood specimens: Complete Response (CR), complete disappearance of all clinical evidence of disease; Partial Response (PR), regression of measurable disease.

Participants in Treatment Group 2 will be assessed for response and progression using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Complete Response (CR) disappearance of all lesions and no new lesion; Partial Response (PR), 30% or greater reduction in tumor size and no new lesions.

The ORR is defined as CR combined with PR. Will be assessed using binomial proportion.

Best response at any timepoint was used to determine ORR., Up to 2 years
Incidence of Adverse Events, Will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 2 years and 1 months|Time to Response (TTR), Will use simple statistics., Time interval between the date of first treatment and the date of response (complete response [CR]/partial response [PR]), up to 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), Will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time interval between the date of first response (CR/PR) and the date of progression, up to 2 years and 11 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method, Time from enrollment to disease progression or death, whichever occurs earlier, based upon investigator assessment, up to 3 years|Event-free Survival (EFS), Will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Termination due to toxicity, initiation of next significant treatment, progressive disease, or death of any cause, up to 2 years|Rate of Overall Response Duration Beyond 12 Months (ORR12), Will be assessed per global assessment of mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome (confirmed \& investigator assessed). Will use binomial distribution., From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date beyond 12 months that recurrent disease is objectively documented, up to 2 years
Biomarkers in Tumor and Blood Assessed by Immunohistochemistry, Mass Spectrometry, Nanostring, Sequencing, and Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay, Clinical response (as measured by the primary and secondary endpoints) to combination immunotherapy regimen as a function of biomarkers will be evaluated. All biomarker assays will be run on the clinical trial samples in a blinded manner. Time to event endpoints (DOR, PFS, EFS) will be evaluated using Kaplan-Meier curves generated by biomarker scoring group using the log-rank test. Exploratory outcomes will be summarized with descriptive statistics (primarily proportions and medians) for all biomarkers described above, and additionally, serum IL-10, regulatory T-cells, and activated CD8 T cells. Scatterplots and Kendall's tau estimates will be produced for estimating correlation of PD-1, PDL1, or PD-L2 expression measures and clinical outcome across compartments (skin, lymph node, blood). Comparison of tissue immunohistochemistry markers between pre-treatment and with clinical response or disease progression will be assessed using Wilcoxon signed-rank test., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and interferon gamma-1b (IFN-G) (Actimmune) combination immunotherapy in subjects with previously treated mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome. (Treatment Group 1) II. To determine whether the combination of interferon gamma-1b (ACTIMMUNE) and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) improves the ORR of pembrolizumab in patients with unresectable or metastatic synovial sarcoma. (Treatment Group 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the safety/tolerability and clinical activity of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and IFN-G (Actimmune) in subjects with previously treated mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome with respect to (Treatment Group 1):

Ia. Safety and tolerability. Ib. Time to response (TTR). Ic. Duration of response (DOR). Id. Progression-free survival (PFS). Ie. Event-free survival (EFS). If. Percentage of all patients who have a response duration of at least 12 months (ORR12).

II. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients with advanced synovial sarcoma receiving interferon gamma-1b and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab). (Treatment Group 2) III. To determine the tolerability of the combination of interferon gamma-1b and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. (Treatment Group 2)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the relationship between the following putative biomarkers for combination immunotherapy of MK-3475 pembrolizumab) and IFN-gamma (Actimmune) and clinical outcomes (as measured by safety/tolerability and ORR, DOR, PFS, EFS) in subjects with previously treated mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome, including tumor/microenvironment (PD-1/PD-L1/PD-L2 expression, cytotoxic T lymphocyte \[CTL\]s, regulatory T cell \[Treg\]s, macrophages, dendritic cell \[DC\]s; nanostring gene expression profile), systemic immune response (flow cytometry, mass cytometry \[CyTOF\], Luminex multiplexed cytokine profile), and molecular/genomic immune correlates (exome sequencing, high throughput sequencing \[HTS\] for T cell receptor \[TCR\]). (Treatment Group 1)

II. To investigate paired, serial biopsy specimens from pre-treatment and 8-12 weeks after starting treatment for the following (Treatment Group 2):

IIa. MHC class I expression (scored by pathologist). IIb. Number of infiltrating T cells per mm\^2. IIc. Tumor associated macrophage number and phenotype using multiplex immunohistochemistry.

IId. T cell clonality. IIe. Gene expression profiling.

III. To investigate peripheral blood samples from patients to determine (Treatment Group 2):

IIIa. The number and phenotype of T cells specific for computed tomography (CT) antigens and potential neo-antigens.

IIb. The phenotype and activation state of circulating monocytes and peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC).

IIc. Cytokines associated with response.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients with Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity. Patients also receive interferon gamma-1b subcutaneously (SC) 3 times per week for 12 weeks, and then follow 3 weeks on and 3 weeks off schedule for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients with advanced synovial sarcoma receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and interferon gamma-1b SC once a week. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 12 weeks for up to 1 year.