Clinical Efficacy in Neoadjuvant Treatment of Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer With Different Immunotypes
To evaluate the clinical efficacy of albumin paclitaxel combined with carelizumab and FLOT in the neoadjuvant treatment of locally advanced gastric cancer with different immune types
Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Camrelizumab|DRUG: Albumin Taxol|DRUG: FLOT scheme
Objective response rate, Objective response rate (ORR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) version. 1.1, and immune-related (ir) RECIST, 4 months
R0 resection rate, The surgical procedure was total or subtotal gastrectomy with 3 weeks after total neoadjuvant therapy, 4 months|Disease control rate, Disease control rate, 4 months|1-year and 3-year OS, 1-year and 3-year OS, 1 and 3 years|1-year and 3-year DFS, 1-year and 3-year DFS, 1 and 3 years|Adverse event, An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. An adverse event (AE) can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal (investigational) product, whether or not related to the medicinal (investigational) product., 3 years|Overall postoperative morbidity rates, Refers to the incidence of early postoperative complications. The early postoperative complication are defined as the event observed within 30 days after surgery, 30 days|30 days mortality rates, Defined as the event observed within 30 days after surgery, 30 days|Duration of postoperative hospital stay, Duration of postoperative hospital stay in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course, 30 days|The prediction performance of Exosome contents (including proteins, nucleic acids), Exosomes were isolated using a Backman Optima XPN-100 instrument. The exosomes morphology was characterized using a HT7700 transmission electron microscope (Hitachi, Co. Ltd., Japan). Fluorescent spectra were recorded using a F96 Pro fluorospectrophotometer (Shanghai Lengguang Technology). The concentration and size distribution of the exosomes were quantified using nanoparticle tracking analysis (NanoSight NS 300, Malvern Instrument). The obtained results were subjected to biostatistical analysis, such as heat map generation, ROC curve establishment, and confusion matrix., 3 years
Background: At present, there is still a lack of prospective data to systematically compare the clinical efficacy of different neoadjuvant therapies in patients with different genotypes. To explore the clinical efficacy and safety of albumin paclitaxel combined with carrelizumab compared with FLOT neoadjuvant therapy in patients with locally advanced gastric cancer of different immune types.

Methods: This study is a multi center prospective study. 216 patients with gastric adenocarcinoma were included in the study to explore the proportion of PD-L1 positive cells in tumor tissue, evaluate the expression of PD-L1, serum HBV DNA level or other biomarkers.