C7R-GD2.CART Cells for Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma and Other GD2 Positive Cancers (GAIL-N)
This study is for patients with neuroblastoma, sarcoma, uveal melanoma, breast cancer, or another cancer that expresses a substance on the cancer cells called GD2. The cancer has either come back after treatment or did not respond to treatment. Because there is no standard treatment at this time, patients are asked to volunteer in a gene transfer research study using special immune cells called T cells. T cells are a type of white blood cell that helps the body fight infection.

The body has different ways of fighting infection and disease. No single way seems perfect for fighting cancers. This research study combines two different ways of fighting cancer: antibodies and T cells. Both antibodies and T cells have been used to treat patients with cancers. They have shown promise but have not been strong enough to cure most patients.

We have found from previous research that we can put a new gene into T cells that will make them recognize cancer cells and kill them. In our last clinical trial we made a gene called a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) from an antibody that recognizes GD2, a substance found on almost all neuroblastoma cells (GD2-CAR). We put this gene into the patients' own T cells and gave them back to 11 neuroblastoma patients. We saw that the cells did grow for a while, but started to disappear from the blood after 2 weeks. We think that if T cells are able to last longer they may have a better chance of killing GD2 positive tumor cells.

Therefore, in this study we will add a new gene to the GD2 T cells that can cause the cells to live longer. T cells need substances called cytokines to survive and the cells may not get enough cytokines after infusion. We have added the gene C7R that gives the cells a constant supply of cytokine and helps them to survive for a longer period of time.

In other studies using T cells, investigators found that giving chemotherapy before the T cell infusion can improve the amount of time the T cells stay in the body and therefore the effect the T cells can have. This is called lymphodepletion and we think that it will allow the T cells to expand and stay longer in the body, and potentially kill cancer cells more effectively.

The GD2-C7R T cells are an investigational product not approved by the Food and Drug Administration.

The purpose of this study is to find the largest safe dose of GD2-C7R T cells, and also to evaluate how long they can be detected in the blood and what affect they have on cancer.
Relapsed Neuroblastoma|Refractory Neuroblastoma|Relapsed Osteosarcoma|Relapsed Ewing Sarcoma|Relapsed Rhabdomyosarcoma|Uveal Melanoma|Phyllodes Breast Tumor
GENETIC: C7R-GD2.CART cells
Determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of C7R-GD2.CART Cells, Toxicity will be evaluated as per the NCI CTCAE version 5.0 with the exception of CRS and neurological toxicities that are related to T-cell infusions., 4 weeks post T cell infusion
Determine Anti-tumor Responses, Number of patients with evaluable/measurable disease who have a partial or complete response according to standard disease evaluation criteria, 6 to 8 weeks post T cell infusion
To prepare the T cells (GD2-C7R T cells), research staff will take some blood from the patient. We will grow the GD2.C7R T cells by infecting the T cells with a retroviral vector (a special virus that can carry a new gene into cells) containing one gene that can recognize and kill cancer cells (GD2.CAR) and the new gene called C7R that will help these cells survive longer. After the new genes have been put into the T cells, the cells will be tested to make sure that they kill GD2-positive cancer cells.

Because we are growing the cells in the laboratory, we will also need to take blood to test for infectious viruses such as hepatitis and HIV (the virus that causes AIDS), and we will also ask patients to complete a questionnaire that is given to blood donors.

The cells generated will be frozen and stored to give back to the patient. Because patients will have received cells with a new gene in them patients will be followed for a total of 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene transfer.

Patients will be assigned a dose of GD2-C7R T cells. The assigned dose of cells is based on body weight and height.

In this study, patients will receive the GD2-C7R cells and may also receive cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. These two drugs are standard chemotherapy medicines and may be given before the T cells to make space in the blood for the T cells to grow after receiving them.

If the patient receives cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, these drugs will be given intravenously (through an i.v. needle inserted in a vein or a central line) for 2 days and then fludarabine alone on the third day.

The patient will be given an injection of GD2-C7R T cells into the vein through an IV line at the assigned dose. Before receiving the T cell infusion, the patient may be given a dose of Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and Tylenol (acetaminophen). The infusion will take between 1 and 10 minutes. We will then monitor the patient in the clinic for about 3 hours. If you tolerate the infusion without severe side effects you may receive another infusion one week later. In this case both infusion will be considered part of one dose. The treatment will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist Hospital. The patient may need to stay in Houston for up to 4 weeks after the infusion so we can monitor for side effects.

The patient will have follow-up visits after the T cell infusion at weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8, then at months 3, 6, 9, and 12, and then twice a year for the next 4 years and annually for the next 10 years for a total of 15 years. The patient will also have scheduled disease evaluations after the T-cell injection at week 6 and then as clinically needed.

After disease re-evaluation, if the patient's disease has not gotten worse, or if in the future it seems the patient might benefit AND the patient has not had a severe side effect caused by the infusion of the GD2-C7R T cells, the patient may be eligible to receive one additional dose of their T cells. The dose will be at the same dose level as the first infusion and separated by at least 6 weeks such that we can make sure the patient has no severe side effects between infusions. The second dose may consist of two infusions again if you received two infusions with the first dose. If the patient receives an additional dose of GD2-C7R T-cells, then they will need to stay in Houston for up to 4 weeks after the infusion as well so we can monitor for side effects.

Medical tests before treatment--

Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests:

* Physical exam
* Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function
* Measurements of the tumor by routine imaging studies and/or bone marrow evaluation. We will use the imaging studies that have been used in the past to best assess the tumor (Computer Tomogram (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and Positron Emission Tomography (PET/CT), Bone Scan, and/or MIBG scan)
* Pulmonary Function Tests (PFT) to see how well your lungs are working

Medical tests during and after treatment--

The patient will receive standard medical tests when they are getting the infusions and afterwards:

* Physical exams
* Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function
* Measurements of the tumor by routine imaging studies and/or bone marrow evaluation 6 weeks after the infusion (if the bone marrow showed tumor before the infusion).

To learn more about the way the GD2-C7R T cells are working and how long they last in the body, an extra amount of blood will be obtained on the day that chemotherapy starts, the day of the T-cell infusion(s) and at the end of the T-cell infusion(s), 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks after the T-cell infusion(s) and every 3 months for the 1st year, every 6 months for the next 4 years and annually for the next 10 years. The amount of blood taken will be based on weight with up to a maximum of 60 ml (12 teaspoons) of blood to be obtained at any one time. For children, the total amount of blood drawn will not be more than 3 ml (less than 1 teaspoon) per 1 kg of body weight on any one day. This volume is considered safe, but may be decreased if the patient is anemic (has a low red blood cell count).

During the time points listed above, if the GD2-C7R T cells are found in the patient's blood at a certain amount, an extra 5 ml (about 1 teaspoon) of blood may need to be collected for additional testing.

If the patient has a procedure where tumor samples are obtained, like a repeat bone marrow evaluation or tumor biopsy, we will request a sample to be used for research purposes.

The patient will receive supportive care for any acute or chronic toxicities, including blood components or antibiotics, and other intervention as appropriate.