Family Cancer Caregivers Receiving a Specific Supportive Care Intervention Pre- and Postloss
Background and study aims The effect of cancer caregiving may have profound impact on the psychosocial health of family caregivers and become evident after loss. Grief following the loss of a close relative is one of the most emotional challenging experience faced by family caregivers. Providing a family based intervention before and after a close relatives´death may positively impact bereavement outcomes. This study aims to assess the impact of a continuing specific supportive care intervention on bereaved family caregivers grief response scores and psychological distress following the loss of a close relative when offered before and after death because of cancer.
Bereavement
BEHAVIORAL: FAM-SOTC-PL
Change in Depression, The Depression Anxiety Stress Scale - DASS (Lovibond \& Lovibond, 1995) is used. The DASS is a 42-item self-report instrument with 3 sub-scales. Each scale comprises 14 items assessing the negative emotional states of depression, anxiety and stress., 3, 5, and 6 months|Change in Anxiety, The Depression Anxiety Stress Scale - DASS (Lovibond \& Lovibond, 1995) is used. The DASS is a 42-item self-report instrument with 3 sub-scales. Each scale comprises 14 items assessing the negative emotional states of depression, anxiety and stress., 3, 5, and 6 months|Change in Stress, The Depression Anxiety Stress Scale - DASS (Lovibond \& Lovibond, 1995) is used. The DASS is a 42-item self-report instrument with 3 sub-scales. Each scale comprises 14 items assessing the negative emotional states of depression, anxiety and stress., 3, 5, and 6 months
This clinical trial is part of a broader research study (registered trial intervention ISRCTN21786830) which aimed to evaluate a palliative care nurse-led family-oriented intervention Family-Strengths Oriented Therapeutic Conversation (FAM-SOTC) to support family caregivers of a close relative with advanced/final stage cancer, in the context of the family when receiving specialized palliative home-care. The purpose of the current trial is to investigate the effects of the FAM-SOTC intervention when additionally delivering the third session of the intervention in this trial; an adapted version; FAM-SOTC Post-Loss and repeated post-intervention measures at 3, 5 and six months post-loss completed by bereaved family caregivers who have prior participated in the FAM-SOTC trial intervention pre-loss are compared to measures at 3, 5 and six months post-loss among bereaved family caregivers in a control group who received usual care pre- and post-loss from the palliative home-care unit. The FAM-SOTC intervention and the FAM-SOTC Post Loss intervention is delivered simultaneously in two separate clinical trials, where two sessions were delivered pre-loss (FAM-SOTC) and one session delivered post-loss (FAM-SOTC-PL).