Ganglion Cell Thickness in Enuresis Nocturna
The precise role of the intrinsic circadian regulatory mechanism behind the pathogenesis of enuresis is not fully understood, but in theory, circadian rhythm irregularity may be the primary pathogenic mechanism not only for urinary outflow mechanisms but also for nocturnal bladder function. The proximity between SCN centers that control AVP release, sleep/arousal, voiding, and baroreregulation may provide the basis for circadian rhythm disturbance in one or more of these biological functions. Ganglion cells containing melanopsin pigment in the retina transmit the information they receive from the outside world about the light-dark state to the SCN via the retinohypothalamic pathway. Peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness, optic nerve head and macula are examined most frequently for the diagnosis of glaucoma and the detection of progression with optical coherence tomography (OCT). If differences in ganglion cell thickness can be detected using OCT in these children, a new avenue in Enuresis Nocturna may be opened.
Enuresis, Nocturnal|Ganglion|Circadian Rhythm Disorders
Difference in ganglion cell thickness in enuretic children, Normal values in RNFL measurements on OCT 75 (lowest)-107.2 (highest), Baseline
The precise role of the intrinsic circadian regulatory mechanism behind the pathogenesis of enuresis is not fully understood, but in theory, circadian rhythm irregularity may be the primary pathogenic mechanism not only for urinary outflow mechanisms but also for nocturnal bladder function. The proximity between SCN centers that control AVP release, sleep/arousal, voiding, and baroreregulation may provide the basis for circadian rhythm disturbance in one or more of these biological functions. Ganglion cells containing melanopsin pigment in the retina transmit the information they receive from the outside world about the light-dark state to the SCN via the retinohypothalamic pathway. Peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness, optic nerve head and macula are examined most frequently for the diagnosis of glaucoma and the detection of progression with optical coherence tomography (OCT). If differences in ganglion cell thickness can be detected using OCT in these children, a new avenue in Enuresis Nocturna may be opened.