MMR/MSI Phenotypes in Prediction of Tumor Vaccine Benefit for Gliomas
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most malignant primary intracranial tumor with a median survival of about 18 months, and new therapies are urgently needed. Tumor vaccines has been shown to improve survival of GBM, but not all patients can benefit from vaccine treatment and biomarkers are urgently needed. Deletion of mismatch repair (MMR) protein and microsatellite instability (MSI) state are important features in the biological evolution of GBM, and may be used as markers for tumor vaccine. Therefore, this project will collect samples from GBM patients before and after vaccine treatment respectively, and evaluate the role of MMR/MSI gene phenotype in predicting vaccine efficacy and the potential molecular mechanism. Moreover, MMR/MSI phenotypes will be assessed by deep-learning and radiomics using images to establish noninvasive markers for vaccine.
Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: DC vaccine
Transcriptomics, The issues collected will be used for transcriptome sequencing to measure gene expression level., 36 months|Immunomics, The issues collected will be used for TCR/BCR sequencing to measure clonality of lymphocytes, 36 months|Proteomics, The issues collected will be used for TCR/BCR sequencing to measure gene expression level in protein, 36 months|Radiomics, The features from images will be extracted using algorithm of Deep-learning or Radiomics, 36 months|IHC analysis, Different expression level of proteins (CD3,CD8,B7-H4, MMR proteins) in Gliomas with different grades and molecular subgroups (300 cases) will be measured using immunohistochemical., 36 months|Genomics, The issues collected will be used for whole genome sequencing or whole exome sequencing to measure gene mutations., 36 months
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most malignant primary intracranial tumor with a median survival of about 18 months, and new therapies are urgently needed. Tumor vaccines has been shown to improve survival of GBM, but not all patients can benefit from vaccine treatment and biomarkers are urgently needed. Deletion of mismatch repair (MMR) protein and microsatellite instability (MSI) state are important features in the biological evolution of GBM, and may be used as markers for tumor vaccine. Therefore, this project will collect samples from GBM patients before and after vaccine treatment respectively, and evaluate the role of MMR/MSI gene phenotype in predicting vaccine efficacy and the potential molecular mechanism. Moreover, MMR/MSI phenotypes will be assessed by deep-learning and radiomics using images to establish noninvasive markers for vaccine.