Ofatumumab for Patients With Previously Untreated Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
The risk of immunosuppression deters many patients from receiving fludarabine, while combination chemotherapy regimens are poorly tolerated by elderly or infirm chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. Previous studies by our group and others have shown that rituximab is safe and well tolerated when used as a single agent in patients with CLL. In addition, maintenance therapy with rituximab was well tolerated by CLL patients, with probable prolongation of progression-free survival (Hainsworth et al. 2003). Based on pre clinical and clinical studies indicating possible increased efficacy of ofatumumab in patients with CLL, we wish to develop an antibody-only regimen for older patients and patients who refuse fludarabine-based regimens.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Ofatumumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The Number of Patients Who Experience an Objective Benefit From Treatment. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 18 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS), To assess the overall response rate of patients with previously untreated CLL or SLL receiving ofatumumab., 18 months|Number of Complete Responses, The Number of Patients Who Experience a Complete Response From Treatment. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions, 18 Months|Number of Partial Responses, The Number of Patients Who Experience a Partial Response From Treatment. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, 18 Months|Safety of the Treatment Regimen, Listing of all non-serious Adverse Events ocurring in 5% of patients or more, 18 Months
The risk of immunosuppression deters many patients from receiving fludarabine, while combination chemotherapy regimens are poorly tolerated by elderly or infirm chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. Previous studies by our group and others have shown that rituximab is safe and well tolerated when used as a single agent in patients with CLL. In addition, maintenance therapy with rituximab was well tolerated by CLL patients, with probable prolongation of progression-free survival (Hainsworth et al. 2003). Based on pre clinical and clinical studies indicating possible increased efficacy of ofatumumab in patients with CLL, we wish to develop an antibody-only regimen for older patients and patients who refuse fludarabine-based regimens.