Acalabrutinib and Duvelisib for the Treatment of Relapsed/Refractory Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects of acalabrutinib and duvelisib and how well they work in treating patients with indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Acalabrutinib inhibits a signaling molecule called Bruton tyrosine kinase and blocks cancer cell proliferation, growth, and survival. Duvelisib is designed to block a protein called PI3 kinase in order to stop cancer growth and cause changes in the immune system that may allow the immune system to better act against cancer cells. Giving acalabrutinib and duvelisib together may work better to block cancer growth than therapy of either drug alone.
Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|DRUG: Duvelisib
Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events and toxicities of the combination regimen will be summarized using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 criteria; toxicities will be tabulated overall and also by dose level., Up to 30 days after completion of treatment|Overall response rate (ORR) (assessed by computed tomography), Will be defined as the proportion of patients achieving a complete or partial response according to the Lugano Lymphoma Response Criteria by 6 months; any eligible patient who begins treatment with the combination regimen will be included in the denominator when calculating the ORR. ORR will be reported with a 95% binomial exact confidence interval., At 6 months
Complete response (CR) (assessed by positron emission tomography), Will be defined as the proportion of patients achieving a complete response according to the Lugano Lymphoma Response Criteria by 6 months; any eligible patient who begins treatment with the combination regimen will be included in the denominator when calculating the CR. CR will be reported with a 95% binomial exact confidence interval., At 6 months|Duration of response (DOR), Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Approximate 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for median DOR will be computed using the formula proposed by Brookmeyer and Crowley., Time from the first tumor assessment supports the response to the time of confirmed disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 60 months|Progression-free survival, PFS rates at 2-year and 95% CIs will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Median PFS and its 95% CI will be calculated., Time from first dose to documented disease progression, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed at 2 years|Patient reported outcomes (PROs), This will be a descriptive outcome that will be reported cumulatively rather than individual domains. Measures and assessment points are as follows: Sociodemographics (Screening only), PRO-CTCAE and Mood (POMS-s) C1 thru 12-months (10 data points), Stress (IES) and Quality of Life (SF-36), C1 thru 12-months (4 data points), and Life Events, Social Network Index (SNI), and Anxiety (GAD-7) and Depressive (PHQ-9) symptoms (Screening/C1 and 12 months)., Up to 12 months
Biomarker analyses, The effect of acalabrutinib and duvelisib will be analyzed on blood and tissue (lymph node or bone marrow, if involved) samples. Correlations between subject characteristics and outcome measures and correlations among outcomes measures will be explored using regression models or other appropriate techniques., Up to 60 months|Pharmacokinetics analyses, Blood samples will be collected at baseline, after the first dose, and at a steady state for all the patients at each dose level during the phase 1 portion of the study. This will enable us to understand the impact that each study drug may have on the other at these time points., Up to 60 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of acalabrutinib and duvelisib in patients with relapsed or refractory indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL).

II. Determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). III. To estimate the overall response rate (ORR, Lugano 2014, computed tomography \[CT\] based) of acalabrutinib in combination with duvelisib at 6 months in follicular lymphoma (FL) and marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) cohorts.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the activity of acalabrutinib and duvelisib as measured by ORR based on positron emission tomography (PET) scan at 6 months, duration of response (DOR) and 2-year progression-free survival (PFS).

II. To capture patient-reported outcomes (PROs).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the correlation of the clinical activity of acalabrutinib in combination with duvelisib with established biomarkers and identify putative novel markers.

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of duvelisib, followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive acalabrutinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID), and duvelisib PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 19, patients receive acalabrutinib PO BID for up to 60 months in absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 3 months thereafter.