Lymphocyte Re-infusion During Immune Suppression to Treat Metastatic Melanoma
This experiment will test the safety and effectiveness of a treatment for melanoma in which certain lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell) are taken from the patient, grown in the laboratory, and returned after the patient's immune system has been weakened with immune-suppressing drugs. Some patients will also receive interleukin-2 (IL-2), a drug that may enhance the activity of the re-infused lymphocytes.

Patients with metastatic melanoma (melanoma whose tumor has spread) who have been treated unsuccessfully with gp100 vaccination may participate in this study. They will undergo apheresis or a tumor biopsy, or both, to collect lymphocytes. In apheresis, whole blood is drawn through a needle in the arm. A machine separates the blood components and removes the white cells. The rest of the blood is returned to the donor through a needle in the other arm. A biopsy is a surgical procedure to remove a small piece of tumor tissue.

Several weeks before the lymphocytes are collected, patients will receive injections of growth colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) every day for five days. This drug stimulates white cell production, permitting as many cells as possible to be obtained during collection. The lymphocytes will then be grown in larger numbers in the laboratory.

Seven days before the cells are re-infused, the patient is admitted to the hospital and a catheter (small tube) is placed in a large vein in the chest or neck. Two drugs, cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, are given through the tube. These drugs suppress the immune system so that it will not interfere with the work of the reinfused lymphocytes. The lymphocytes are then injected through the catheter over a 30-minute period. After the infusion, patients who receive IL-2 will be given the drug in a high dose over a 15-minute period every eight hours for up to five days. Patients whose condition does not permit high-dose IL-2, such as those with a heart condition or lung problem, may receive a low-dose regimen, with the drug given as a shot under the skin of the thigh or abdomen for five days followed by a 2-day break, continuing for a total of six weeks. These patients receive a higher dose the first week and then half that dose the next five weeks.

Blood and tissue samples will be taken before and during the study to evaluate the size of the tumor and assess treatment. If, 3-5 weeks after therapy is completed, the patient's tumor has stabilized or shrunk, the entire treatment, except for chemotherapy, may be repeated two more times.
Melanoma|Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: gp100:209-217 (210M)|DRUG: Montanide ISA-51|DRUG: IL-2|DRUG: MART-1:26-35(27L)|BIOLOGICAL: Abl cells|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: GCSF (Growth colony stimulating factor)|PROCEDURE: Apheresis
Clinical Response, Complete response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all clinical evidence of disease. Partial response (PR) is a 50% or greater decrease in the sum of the products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions for at least one month. No new lesions may appear, and none may increase. Minor response (MR) is a 25-49% decrease in the sum of the products of the perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. Appearance of new lesions following a PR or CR are considered relapses. Patients with progressive disease (PD) and no evidence of stable disease will be taken off study after receiving IL-2., Every three to four weeks after the treatment, for up to 5 years.
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Here is the number of participants with adverse events. For a detailed list of adverse events see the adverse event module., 10.5 months
Patients with metastatic melanoma who are human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and Hepatitis B negative and who have previously progressed after receiving standard therapy will receive a nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine and then will be treated by the adoptive transfer of lymphocytes reactive with shared antigens on their tumors. This study will evaluate the toxicity, immunologic effects and potential therapeutic role of this treatment.