The Effect of Mindfulness-based Yoga and Meditation on Some Parameters in Breast Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of mindfulness-based meditation and yoga on stress, self-esteem, body image and sexual adjustment in breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-based Meditation and Yoga program
Perceived Stress Scale, The Perceived Stress Scale developed by Cohen, Kamarck and Mermelstein (1983) consists of 14 items and has 2 sub-dimensions (perception of inadequate self-efficacy and perception of stress/discomfort). Individuals are asked to rate on a 5-point Likert scale how often they have experienced certain feelings or thoughts in the last month., Week 1 (pre-test), Week 8 (final test) and 2nd month (follow-up measurement)
Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale, Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale is a self-report scale consisting of 63 multiple-choice questions. The scale consists of twelve subcategories. Rosenberg stated that the subscales can be used separately in research if desired. For the purpose of the study, the first '10' items of the scale will be used to measure self-esteem., Week 1 (pre-test), Week 8 (final test) and 2nd month (follow-up measurement)|Sexual Compliance and Body Image Scale, The scale was developed by Dalton et al. to assess body image and sexuality in postoperative women with breast cancer. It consists of two separate scales, the Body Image Scale and the Sexual Adjustment Scale. The six-item Body Image Scale has two subscales, namely before body image score and after body image score. These subscales measure body image before and after breast cancer diagnosis. The eight-item Sexual Adjustment Scale has three subscales: sexual adjustment, sexual functioning and sexual importance of breasts score., Week 1 (pre-test), Week 8 (final test) and 2nd month (follow-up measurement)|Female Sexual Function Scale, It is a personal tool for measuring sexual function that has been validated in women who have been clinically diagnosed with female sexual dysfunction. The Female Sexual Function Scale was developed by Rosen et al. in the USA in 2000 as a 19-item multidimensional scale to assess female sexual function., Week 1 (pre-test), Week 8 (final test) and 2nd month (follow-up measurement)
The study was conducted in a single-center, prospective (pretest-posttest-2. month follow-up), two-arm (1:1), randomized controlled experimental design.

In this study, the effects of an 8-week structured mindfulness-based meditation and yoga program on stress, self-esteem, body image and sexual adjustment will be evaluated in women undergoing modified radical mastectomy. The 8-week interventions were conducted by the researcher. The researcher who performed these applications has a certificate of mindfulness meditation, yoga, breathing and movement trainer. Due to the nature of the research, the researcher is involved in the implementation of the mindfulness-based meditation and yoga program, data collection and data entry into the system. At the same time, the women in the experimental group had to be informed about the research. Therefore, researcher and participant blinding could not be performed. However, randomization was performed to prevent selection bias (1:1). The randomization process was performed by a statistical expert other than the researcher and communicated to the researcher. The participants included in the study were numbered from 1 to 41, preserving their random order in the list received from the hospital. The groups were divided into Group 1 and Group 2 by the statistician and the first group was determined as the experimental group and the second group as the control group by lottery method. The randomization table was created by making use of "http://calculatorsoup.com". Before the 8-week process started, 3 measurements were made to the participants: pre-test, post-test at the end of 8 weeks and follow-up measurement 2 months after the application.