Evaluation of the Safety and the Efficacy of Transanal TME in Difficult Cases
The purpose of this study is evaluation of the safety and the efficacy of transanal total mesorectal excision in difficult case.

Difficult case is defined as below;

- If any one of the following (1 or 2 or 3)

1. BMI: 30 or more
2. Tumor size: more than 7cm in long diameter
3. CRM: mesorectal fascia involvement or less than 1 mm on MRI
Rectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Transanal total mesorectal excision
TME quality & circumferential resection margin (CRM), The quality of the mesorectum was determined using pathology reports and scored using three grades:

* Complete: intact mesorectum with only minor irregularities of a smooth mesorectal surface. No defect is deeper than 5 mm, and there is no coning toward the distal margin of the specimen. There is a smooth circumferential resection margin on slicing.
* Nearly complete: moderate bulk to the mesorectum, but irregularity of the mesorectal surface. Moderate coning of the specimen is allowed. At no site is the muscularis propria visible, with the exception of the insertion of the levator muscles.
* Incomplete: little bulk to mesorectum with defects down onto muscularis propria and/or very irregular circumferential resection margin., the day of surgery
30-day postoperative complications, The Clavien-Dindo Classification of Surgical Complications. Grade I: Any deviation from the normal postoperative course without the need for pharmacological treatment or surgical, endoscopic and radiological interventions.

Grade II: Requiring pharmacological treatment with drugs other than such allowed for grade I complications.

Grade III: : Requiring surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention. Grade IV: Life-threatening complication (including CNS complications)‡ requiring IC/ICU-management.

Grade V: Death of a patient, 1 month after surgery|Number of harvested Lymph Nodes, the day of surgery
2-year local recurrence free survival, 2 years after surgery|5-year overall survival, 5 years after surgery
Subjects will have their rectal cancer removed using a technique combining surgery through the anus and standard laparoscopy. Transanal visualization will be using endoscopy. At the end of the procedure, the rectum will be removed though the anus or ileostomy formation site, the bowel will be re-connected to the anus, and a temporary diverting stoma will be created, which is standard of care following surgery for this type of cancer.