The Clinical Study of CD20 CAR-T Cells in Patients With Relapsed and Refractory B Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This is a single arm, open-label study to evaluate the safety, tolerance and efficacy of CD20 CAR-T Cells in patients with relapsed and refractory B cell non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. Subjects receive a single intravenous infusion of CD20-CART cells per treatment course.
Relapsed and Refractory B Cell Lymphoma|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: CD20 CAR-T
The Adverse events (AEs), Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 4 weeks|Expression of CD20 CART cells, Expression of CD20 CART cells detected by flow cytometry in blood and bone marrow, 2 years|Detection of CD20 CART cells, Detection of CD20 CART cells in blood, bone marrow by Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (q-PCR)., 2 years|Graft Activity Endpoint Detection, The vector copy number (VCN) of the exogenous CAR vector in the blood and bone marrow., 2 years
Overall remission rate (ORR), 2 years|Complete Remission (CR), 2 years|Partial Remission (PR), 2 years|To evaluate the duration of remission (DOR), 2 years|To evaluate the Progression-free survival (PFS), 2 years|To evaluate the Overall survival (OS), 2 years
The maximum dose was determined according to the dose escalation test. Based on the number of CART cells per kg body weight which was proved to be safe and effective, all the subjects were treated with one single dose of CD20 CART cells per treatment course. The dose escalation test was designed to evaluate the four dose levels of CD20-CART (1 × 10 \^ 6 cells/kg,2 × 10 \^ 6 cells/kg,4 × 10 \^ 6 cells/kg,8 × 10 \^ 6 cells/kg). Each CD20-CART infusion will be carried out on day 0. Each subject was observed for at least 4 weeks after the last infusion. If there was no dose-limited toxicity (DLT), it is necessary to continue multiple treatment courses at this dose level. The detailed administration time and dose were decided by the researchers. The observation period was 4 weeks after the end of the course of treatment. If 2 or more cases of DLT occurred at a certain dose level, the prior dose level was the maximum tolerable dose of (MTD). If one case of DLT occurred, 3 subjects were added to the group. If there were no DLT in 3 cases, the next dose level would be estimated. If at least 1 case of DLT occurred in the 3 cases, the prior dose was the maximum tolerated dose of (MTD). If there were no DLT at the maximum dose, the maximum tolerant dose was the maximum dose.