Lenalidomide and High Dose Melphalan Followed by Autologous Stem Cell Transplant in Multiple Myeloma
This is a research study for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma or multiple myeloma has returned (relapsed). Multiple myeloma is a type of cancer that begins in white blood cells called plasma cells. Plasma cells make proteins that help fight infections. Current therapy for multiple myeloma includes high dose chemotherapy and autologous (patient's own cells) stem cell transplantation.

There will be two parts (or phases) to this study:

The purpose of the first part is to find the highest dose of a drug called lenalidomide (Revlimid®) that can be given in combination with high dose melphalan without causing severe adverse events.

The purpose of the second part is to find out the effects of this treatment (good and bad) on multiple myeloma patients.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Lenalidomide plus Melphalan during autologous stem cell transplantation|DRUG: Lenalidomide maintenance
Phase I: Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicity, The number of patients who had a DLT during the dose finding portion (Phase I) of the trial for the safety of lenalidomide when used in combination with high dose melphalan in the setting of autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with multiple myeloma., up to 1 month|Phase II: Overall Response Rate, Evaluate the overall response rate of patients receiving therapy. Patients are considered as having a response if their overall response is Partial Response or better (CR+sCR+VGPR+PR). The percentage of patients achieving this and the exact 95% confidence interval will be calculated. Responses will be defined using the response criteria determined by the International Working Group for Multiple Myeloma (CR= Negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; sCR=CR as defined above plus normal FLC ratio and absence of clonal cells in bone marrow by immunohistochemistry or immunoflurorescence; VGPR=Serum and urine M-component detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or 90% or greater reduction in serum M-component plus urine M-component\<100 mg per 24 h; PR=\>=50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-h urinary M-protein by \>=90% or to \<200mg per 24 h)., up to 5 years
Phase II: Treatment-Related Adverse Events Grade 3 or Higher, Number of unique patients who had a treatment-related (possible, probable or definite) adverse events that were graded 3 or higher., up to 5 years
Lenalidomide is a drug that interferes with the development of tiny blood vessels that help tumors grow. Lenalidomide in combination with dexamethasone is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma. It is also approved for the treatment of specific types of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), another blood cancer. Other research studies using lenalidomide in combination with other drugs in subjects with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma also show good response rate.

High dose melphalan is approved by the FDA and is commonly used in multiple myeloma treatment prior to stem cell transplantation. This combination of lenalidomide, high-dose melphalan and stem cell transplantation has not been studied in newly diagnosed and relapsed multiple myeloma, so it is considered experimental. In research studies, "experimental" refers to a drug or procedure that has undergone basic laboratory testing and received approval from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be tested in human subjects. A drug or procedure may be approved by the FDA for use in one disease or condition, but be considered experimental in other diseases or conditions.

In this study, lenalidomide will be given together with melphalan (chemotherapy) with the hope that more disease will be killed before the stem cell transplant. Three months after the transplant, patients will take lenalidomide again with the hope that this will help prolong the time when the disease is in remission.