Hyperthermia Combined With Neoadjuvant Radiochemotherapy for LARC
The purpose of this study is to determine whether adding deep hyperthermia to neoadjuvant concurrent radiochemotherapy could improve T-downstaging rate for locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC).
Hyperthermia|Radiotherapy
PROCEDURE: Deep Hyperthermia
Tumor T-downstaging rate, T-downstaging is defined as the postoperative pathological T stage lower than the original T stage by imaging before treatment., 12 weeks
Tumor shrinkage percentage, （tumor volume before treatment-tumor volume before neoadjuvant treatment) /（ tumor volume before neoadjuvant treatment）, 12 weeks|Complete tumor resection rate, （patient number of R0 resection）/（total number of patients undergoing surgery）, 12 weeks|Pathological complete response rate, （number of patients with no residual tumors after neoadjuvant therapy）/（total number of patients undergoing surgery）, 12 weeks|Perioperative complication rate, （number of patients with complications before or after surgery）/（total number of patients undergoing surgery）, 4 months|Anal retention rate, （number of patients with anus preservation after surgery）/（total number of patients undergoing surgery）, 12 weeks|Disease-free survival, the time from random day to disease progression or death (whichever occurs first);, 3 year|Overall survival, the time between a random day and the day of death from any cause., 3 year|36-Item Short-Form Health Survey（SF-36）, The minimum and maximum values of SF-36 are 30 and 150. Higher score means a better quality of life., 3 year|Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30（QLQ-C30）, The minimum and maximum values of QLQ-C30 are 0 and 100. Higher score means a better quality of life., 3year
The purpose of this study is to determine whether adding deep hyperthermia to neoadjuvant concurrent radiochemotherapy could improve T-downstaging rate for locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC). The sample size is 142. Patients with LARC (T3-4/N+) will be randomly divided into intervention group and control group. For intervention group, the neoadjuvant therapy is hyperthermia combined with concurrent radiochemotherapy. For control group, the neoadjuvant treatment is concurrent radiochemotherapy. T-downstaging rate will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of deep hyperthermia. T-downstaging is defined as the postoperative pathological T stage lower than the original T stage by imaging before treatment.