Short-course Versus Long-course Pre-operative Chemotherapy With mFOLFIRINOX or PAXG (CASSANDRA TRIAL)
The main aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of short-course versus long-course pre-operative chemotherapy with PAXG or mFOLFIRINOX in patients who receive a diagnosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) resectable or borderline resectable.
Pancreas Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: PAXG|DRUG: mFOLFIRINOX|DRUG: short-course chemotherapy|DRUG: long-course chemotherapy
Event-free survival, to compare in terms of event free survival (EFS) the efficacy of PAXG to that of mFOLFIRINOX. EFS is defined as the time from randomization to: RECIST 1.1 progression \[At least a 20 percent increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20 percent, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression\]; CA19.9 failure (defined as 2 consecutive increases of serum level ≥20 percent, separated by at least 4 weeks); recurrence; preoperative or intraoperative unresectability; intraoperative evidence of metastases; death for any cause; whichever occurs first. R1 resections will NOT be considered as events whereas R2 resections will be., 12 weeks|Event-free survival, to compare in terms of event free survival (EFS) the efficacy of 4 months pre-operative and 2 months postoperative chemotherapy to that of 6 months of pre-operative chemotherapy . EFS is defined as the time from randomization to: RECIST 1.1 progression \[At least a 20 percent increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20 percent, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression\]; CA19.9 failure (defined as 2 consecutive increases of serum level ≥20 percent, separated by at least 4 weeks); recurrence; preoperative or intraoperative unresectability; intraoperative evidence of metastases; death for any cause; whichever occurs first. R1 resections will NOT be considered as events whereas R2 resections will be., 12 weeks
Overall survival, the time between the date of the patient's enrollment and the death of the patient for any cause or the last time the patient was seen alive, 36 months|RECIST 1.1 radiological response, Radiological response evaluation during the treatment by using RECIST 1.1 criteria, 4-6 months|Ca19.9 response rate, Biochemical response evaluation during the treatment by using this specific marker, 4-6 months|Surgery outcome, The evaluation of resectability rate., 4-6 months after chemotherapy|Surgery outcome, The evaluation of surgical mortality and morbidity rate., 4-6 months after chemotherapy|Surgery outcome, The evaluation of intra- and post-operative metastasis rate., 4-6 months after chemotherapy|Surgery outcome, The evaluation of N0 and R0 resections rate., 4-6 months after chemotherapy|Incidence of Treatment Adverse Events, The evaluation of drugs safety and tolerability by SAE report, 4-6 months|Quality of life, Impact of treatment on quality of life assessed by the latest version of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), 4-6 months|Quality of life, Impact of treatment on quality of life assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life scale for pancreatic cancer (EORTC QLQ - PAN26), 4-6 months
Pancreatic cancer is the seventh cause of death in cancer patients and more than 94% of affected patients die of cancer disease. In the majority of cases, the diagnosis is done at an advanced stage and only 10-20% of patients can be treated with a surgical resection. For this neoplasia, a radical resection may be an effective treatment. Nevertheless, results obtained with surgery alone are rather inadequate, showing a median survival of 12-14 months and 2-year survival of almost 20%: it seems evident the necessity to use complementary treatments in order to improve survival rate in this group of patients.

Pancreatic cancer can relapse locally, at the level of tumoral bed, of the regional lymph nodes, on the immediately adjacent peritoneal surface or on contiguous organs. Also, distant metastases are quite frequent, mainly to the liver, at the entire peritoneal surface and, rarely, to the extra-abdominal organs. The rapid appearance of these metastases after surgical resection strongly suggests the presence of subclinical metastatic diffusion at an early phase of the disease.

Currently, combination chemotherapy based on the mFOLFIRINOX regimen is considered the therapeutic standard in the adjuvant setting, in young and fit patients. Unfortunately, mFOLFIRINOX is burdened with strong haematological and extra-haematologic toxicity and just 2/3 of patients are able to complete the treatment. Recently, PAXG regimen \[(Cisplatin (P), Abraxane (A), Capecitabine (X), Gemcitabine (G)\] when compared to AG in randomized studies, showed an improvement in terms of progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival in borderline resectable, locally advanced and metastatic patients. To date, several ongoing randomized trials are investigating the efficacy of perioperative or neoadjuvant strategies in early stage PDAC. Only few studies are available regarding neoadjuvant treatment: some are outdated, numerically inconsistent, retrospective, or not randomized. In this scenario, it aims to better investigate pre-operative therapeutic strategy.

For this purpose, two randomizations are planned.

1. FIRST RANDOMIZATION. Eligible patients will be randomized (1:1), stratifying by basal CA19.9 level (\<5 ULN vs ≥ 5ULN) and centre to receive:

   PAXG or mFOLFIRINOX for 4 months
2. SECOND RANDOMIZATION. Patients without progression or limiting toxicity after 4 months of the assigned chemotherapy in the study, will be randomized (1:1), stratifying by treatment assigned by the first randomization, to receive 2 further months of the same chemotherapy either BEFORE or AFTER surgery.