Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With High Risk Locally Advanced Head and Neck Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in treating participants with head and neck cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes and is at high risk for continuing to spread because the participant cannot undergo standard chemotherapy. Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a specialized radiation therapy that delivers radiation directly to the tumor in smaller doses over several days, which may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Recurrent Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|DEVICE: Positron Emission Tomography|DEVICE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Head and Neck SBRT, Maximum tolerated dose of SBRT in this patient population determined by the dose escalation design with doses '40Gy' and '45Gy all in 5 fractions'., 3 months|Incidence of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Number of patients with dose limiting toxicity events graded according to CTCAE Version 4.0, 3 months from start of treatment
Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used to plot overall survival - the number of patients alive at 12 months followup, Up to 12 months|Local Progression Free Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used to plot local progression free survival., Up to 12 months|Response Measured According to Standard Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Trend tests will be used to investigate the relationship between SBRT dose and response., Up to 12 months|Incidence of SBRT Related Morbidity, Number of patients who experiences SBRT-related morbidity according to NCI CTCAE v 4.0, Up to 12 months|Quality of Life Assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head and Neck Questionnaire, Repeated analysis of variance measures will be used to analyze the quality of life data., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the maximum tolerated dose of head and neck stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in a high risk participant population ineligible for standard chemoradiotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess profiles of SBRT toxicity and examine participant (including co-morbidities), tumor and treatment related factors that are associated with SBRT related toxicity.

II. Identify any dose volume parameters that are associated with SBRT related toxicity.

III. Explore potential dose response relationships between higher SBRT dosing and radiographic response.

IV. Assess impact of SBRT on participants' quality of life.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Participants undergo SBRT in 5 fractions at least 40 hours apart over 10-18 days.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 0.5, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.