Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy Trial Comparing Quality of Life in Patients With Stage IIIC-IV Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy works in improving quality of life in patients with stage IIIC-IV ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. In hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy, the chemotherapy is warmed before being used and may help the drugs get into the cancer cells better, minimize the toxicity of the drugs on normal cells, and help to kill any cancer cells left over after surgery.
Stage IIIC Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIC Primary Peritoneal Cancer|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Cytoreductive Surgery
Quality of life (QOL) assessed using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian questionnaire, The longitudinal data of QOL will be displayed graphically with individual trajectories. Repeated measures analysis of covariance models will be used for the primary analysis. The baseline QOL visit (as a categorical variable), randomization assignment, and a randomization by visit interaction will be included in the model. The test for the randomization effect at the 6-week post-treatment will be performed using a contrast of the 6-week randomization means. An unstructured covariance matrix will be used., At 6 weeks post treatment
Abdominal discomfort assessed using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Abdominal Discomfort questionnaire, Abdominal discomfort will be compared between the two treatment arms. The data will be analyzed using Poisson model with GEEs to account for the dependency between repeated measures. This approach will be treated as a sensitivity analysis., Up to 6 months|Incidence of toxicities evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, The toxicities will be measured by the number and severity of adverse events defined by CTCAE version 5.0. The count data will be compared assuming a Poisson distribution., Up to 3 months|Neurotoxicity assessed using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity questionnaire, Neurotoxicity will be compared between the two treatment arms. The data will be analyzed using Poisson model with generalized estimating equations (GEEs) to account for the dependency between repeated measures. This approach will be treated as a sensitivity analysis., Up to 6 months|Progression free survival, Progression free survival will be compared between the two treatment arms using survival analysis. The follow-up time will be calculated from the date of end of treatment. Survival will be measured up to the time until progression, date of last contact, or death, whichever comes first. Kaplan-Meier survival curves will be used to estimate the survival probabilities by treatment arms. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to calculate the hazards ratio and its confidence interval for the treatment effect., Up to 1 year|Quality of life (QOL) assessed using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian, The test for the randomization effect will be performed using contrasts., At 3 months post treatment|Quality of life (QOL) in patients with advanced ovarian cancer assessed using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian, The test for the randomization effect will be performed using contrasts., At 6 months post treatment|Response rates evaluated according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, The best response using RECIST criteria will be compared between the two treatment arms over time using GEEs to account for the dependency between repeated measures. Logit link and binomial distribution will be applied. The randomization assignment, visit (as a categorical variable), and interaction between randomization and visit will be included in the model. Contrasts will be used to compare the best response at each time point., Up to 1 year post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare quality of life in patients with advanced ovarian cancer treated with standard of care (SOC) neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) followed by cytoreductive surgery (CRS) with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) at 6 weeks post-treatment versus quality of life (QOL) patients treatment with intravenous-therapy (IV) chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe quality of life in patients with advanced ovarian cancer treated with NAC followed by CRS with HIPEC at 3 and 6 months post-treatment.

II. To describe neurotoxicity in patients with advanced ovarian cancer treated with NAC followed by CRS with HIPEC.

III. To describe abdominal discomfort in patients with advanced ovarian cancer treated with NAC followed by CRS with HIPEC.

IV. To describe toxicities in patients with advanced ovarian cancer treated with NAC followed by CRS with HIPEC.

V. To describe the response rate in patients with advanced ovarian cancer treated with NAC followed by CRS with HIPEC.

VI. To describe progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with advanced ovarian cancer treated with NAC followed by CRS with HIPEC.

OUTLINE: Beginning 4-8 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo CRS. Patients then receive carboplatin intraperitoneally (IP) over 90 minutes immediately following CRS.

After completion of chemotherapy, patients are followed up at 30 days, and 3, 6, and 12 months.