GAMEC-II, Risk-adapted Protocol for Relapsed Germ Cell Tumours (GCT)
St Bartholomew's hospital completed a study using the regimen GAMEC (PEG-filgrastim, actinomycin-D, methotrexate, etoposide, cisplatin). The results of this study showed that 50% of patients with relapsed testicular cancer could be cured using this treatment. These results are very encouraging and compare very favourably to other treatment protocols. In reviewing this study, it became clear that of the 5 cycles of treatment which were proposed, the first 3 seemed to matter and the last 2 did not appear important. In addition there was a group of patients who appeared to do particularly well namely patients under the age of 35 and those who had a normal LDH (lactate dehydrogenase). LDH is a blood test which monitors cancer activity. Selecting patients which fill both these criteria, this trial aims to see whether the investigators can maintain the good results the investigators have seen but using only 3 cycles of treatment. This will therefore shorten the treatment from 10 weeks to 6 weeks, thus reducing the side effects.
Testicular Neoplasms
DRUG: Pegfilgrastim|DRUG: Dactinomycin|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Epirubicin
Response rate to GAMEC-S or GAMEC-A, Tumour markers, clinical and radiological assessment of disease and/or examination of resected tissue (if surgery is done), 6 weekly
Relapse-free survival, CT-scan chest, abdomen and pelvis (continued pelvic scanning is dependent whether disease present), Monthly for 1 year, 2 monthly for 2nd year, 3 monthly 3rd year, annually there after|Overall survival, 5 years
GAMEC-II (GAMEC -S \& GAMEC-A) is an open-labelled, non-randomised clinical trial in patients with relapsed germ cell tumours (GCT) and its objectives are:

1. To establish the response rates to GAMEC-S or GAMEC-A
2. To establish the safety and efficacy of substitution of epirubicin for etoposide (GAMEC-A regimen)
3. To establish the toxicity of GAMEC-A
4. To establish progression free survival (PFS)
5. To establish whether shortening GAMEC-S in patients without adverse prognostic factors reduces toxicity without compromising survival.