Hepatobiliary Tumors Tissue Samples Acquisition
Hepatobiliary tumors have a poor prognosis and high individual heterogeneity, so it is of great significance to find important prognostic markers and then screen out specific subgroups of people; meanwhile, chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, and healthy control participants also need to show the evolution of tumors and discover specific diagnostic markers as a control group. Moreover, targeted therapy and immunotherapy make cancer treatment enter a new field, but only part of patients achieve response rates and reach clinical benefit. However, these drugs are expensive and can cause treatment-related adverse events. Therefore, reliable biomarkers identification is needed to help predict the response to these treatment options in order to screen patients with better responsiveness and avoid wasting money. Multi-omics research can reveal the characteristics of hepatobiliary tumors more deeply and find meaningful therapeutic targets.

Therefore, 450 patients at least 18 years of age with hepatobiliary tumors were included in this study.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Cholangiocarcinoma|Gallbladder Cancer|Biliary Tract Cancer|Liver Cancer|Precancerous Condition|Benign Hepatobiliary Disease|Healthy, no Evidence of Disease
OTHER: Gene expression analysis|OTHER: Genomic analysis|OTHER: Protein expression analysis|OTHER: Proteomic profiling|OTHER: Polymerase chain reaction|OTHER: Mass spectrometry|OTHER: Immunohistochemistry|OTHER: Metabolomics profiling|OTHER: Methylation and epigenetic analysis|OTHER: Liquid biopsy analysis|OTHER: Laboratory biomarker analysis
Collected samples, Collected normal tissue, tumor samples, blood, urine, feces, ascites, bile samples from patients with hepatobiliary cancers, through study completion, an average of 5 years
Biomarkers of resectable disease-free recurrence (DFS) and overall survival (OS), through study completion, an average of 5 years|Biomarkers of evolution of tumors and discover specific diagnostic markers for hepatobiliary tumors, through study completion, an average of 5 years|Biomarkers of the efficacy of target and immunotherapy for advanced hepatobiliary tumors, through study completion, an average of 5 years|Multi-omics analysis to further type and find therapeutic targets, through study completion, an average of 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

1. Observe the biomarkers of resectable hepatobiliary tumor recurrence (DFS) and survival (OS);
2. Observe the evolution of tumors and discover specific diagnostic markers as a control group.
3. Observe the response (ORR), progression (PFS) and survival (OS) biomarkers of targeted immunotherapy for advanced hepatobiliary tumors;
4. To elaborate on the multi-omics study of hepatobiliary tumors, to further subtype and find therapeutic targets