Everolimus in Treating Patients With Recurrent Low-Grade Glioma
This phase II trial studies how well everolimus works in treating patients with recurrent low-grade glioma. Everolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth or by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Adult Diffuse Astrocytoma|Adult Mixed Glioma|Adult Oligodendroglioma|Adult Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Neoplasm
DRUG: Everolimus|OTHER: Archival Tissue Analysis
Progression-free Survival at 6 Months., Number of patients alive without progressive disease at 6 months. Assessment of progression was defined by RANO as a 25% increase in the sum of all the products of measurable lesions, clear worsening of any evaluable disease or any new lesion, At 6 months after treatment start
RAD001 Safety Profile in Patients With Recurrent LLG, Grade 4-5 treatment related adverse events as defined by CTCAE 3.0, 13 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) in Patients Treated With RAD001., Objective response is defined as complete or partial response as defined by RANO criteria as determined by MRI and steroid requirement. Complete response was defined by disappearance of all measurable disease with minimal or no steroids; a partial response was defined as 50% in sum of all products in perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions with no new lesions on stable or decreasing steroids., 12 months|Overall Survival (OS) in Patients Treated With RAD001., Number of years from the day the patient started treatment until the date of death, an average of 5 years., Time from registration till death, an average of 5 years|To Assess the Correlation of Activation of the PI3K/mTOR Pathway With Survival, Survival of patients with p-S6 staining of \>19% (activated pathway), 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To determine progression-free survival at 6 months associated with use of RAD001 (everolimus) in patients initially diagnosed with low-grade glioma who undergo biopsy or subtotal resection at the time of recurrence with pathologic evidence of recurrent low-grade glioma (LGG).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To further delineate the safety profile of RAD001 in patients with recurrent LGG.
2. To assess overall survival (OS) in patients treated with RAD001.
3. To assess the objective response rate (ORR) in patients treated with RAD001.
4. To assess the correlation of protein kinase B (PKB)/Akt and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression with response, progression status by 6 months, and OS in patients treated with RAD001.