Early Blocking Strategy for Metachronous Liver Metastasis of Colorectal Cancer Based on Pre-hepatic CTC Detection
In this study, the Quintuple method was applied for early intervention of prehepatic CTC-positive bowel cancer patients without dominant liver metastasis, aiming to explore the blocking effect of the Quintuple method on the metachronous liver metastases of colorectal cancer. A one-arm randomized clinical trial was conducted, and the patients were grouped according to their treatment methods. The patients with metachronous liver metastases were used as the end point of the experiment to evaluate the blocking effect of quintuple therapy.
Preventive Effect of Quintuple Therapy on Metachronous Liver Metastases in Patients With Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: S1|DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Metronidazole|DRUG: Vitamin A|DRUG: Folic acid|DRUG: Capecitabine
Metachronous liver metastasis rate, The Metachronous liver metastasis rate is the proportion of CTC-positive patients with metachronous liver metastases after conventional therapy or quintuple method intervention., Up to approximately 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is the time interval from the start of treatment to death due to any reason or lost of follow-up. For subjects who survived or were lost to follow-up by the data analysis cutoff date, survival was truncated by the subject's last known survival time., Up to approximately 3 years
Patients diagnosed with colorectal cancer, clinical stage I to III, underwent radical surgery, and prehepatic CTC≥1 were enrolled. Patients were randomly divided into Conventional treatment group and Quintuple method treatment group. Patients in the Conventional treatment group received conventional treatment according to the NCCN Guidelines for Colorectal Cancer 2023 edition. For patients in the Quintuple method treatment group, Quintuple method intervention was adopted, that is, combined with SOX regimen chemotherapy, low-dose cetuximab targeted therapy and three-drug regimen of folic acid, vitamin A and metronidazole. Specific drug dosages were as follows: SOX regimen was administered every three weeks, d1 was given oxaliplatin intravenously, the dosage was 130mg/ m2 \* patient's body surface area, d2-d15 was taken orally by Digio, 20mg three times a day each time. Cetuximab combined with chemotherapy was administered intravenously, once every three weeks, before oxaliplatin, and the dosage was 250mg/ m2 \* patient's body surface area. Metronidazole 0.4g/ time, once a day; Vitamin A 25,000 units/time, once a day; Folic acid 0.4mg/ time, once a day. The last three drugs were continued until the end of all chemotherapy cycles. The above regimen lasted for 6 to 8 sessions, and enrolled patients were reviewed every 3 months for colorectal cancer-related tumor markers, including MRI and CT imaging. The primary endpoint was radiographically confirmed metachronous liver metastases, and the secondary endpoint was death, observed for 3 years.