Combination Chemotherapy and Donor Stem Cell Transplant Followed by Ixazomib Citrate Maintenance Therapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed High-Risk Multiple Myeloma
This phase Ib trial studies the side effects of combination chemotherapy and donor stem cell transplant followed by ixazomib citrate maintenance therapy in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has returned after a period of improvement and is likely to recur (come back), or spread. Giving chemotherapy before a donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cells in the bone marrow, including normal blood-forming cells (stem cells) and cancer cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Giving ixazomib citrate after the transplant may improve the overall treatment outcome without causing additional toxicities.
Plasma Cell Leukemia|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Carmustine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ixazomib Citrate|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Methotrexate|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Tacrolimus
Transplant related mortality (TRM), Time to event analysis will be conducted to estimate day 100 TRM and its confidence interval among those who receive carmustine, cytarabine, etoposide, melphalan (BEAM) allogeneic transplantation., At day 100|Incidence of grade III-IV acute (or overlap) graft versus host disease (GvHD) and ixazomib related grade III-IV toxicity, Time to event analysis will be conducted to estimate the incidence of acute (or overlap) GvHD and grade III-IV treatment related toxicity among those who receive ixazomib maintenance therapy, accounting for possible competing risks and events. All treatment related toxicity will be tabulated and summarized by severity and major organ categories defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Safety of BEAM (carmustine, cytarabine, etoposide, melphalan) allogeneic transplant within 100 days, defined as the day 100 transplant related mortality (TRM).

II. Safety of oral ixazomib maintenance therapy from day 100 post allogeneic transplant up to 2 years, defined by the incidence of grade III-IV acute (or overlap) graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) and grade III-IV ixazomib related toxicity.

OUTLINE:

BEAM CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive carmustine on day -6, cytarabine and etoposide on days -5 to -2, and melphalan on day -1.

PERIPHERAL BLOOD STEM CELL TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus intravenously (IV) or orally (PO) on days -2 to at least 6 months with a taper as early as 3 months post-transplant and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Beginning between days 100 and 180 post-transplant, patients receive ixazomib PO on days 1 and 14 or days 1, 8, and 15 if the principal investigator deems it medically important. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days through 4 months post last dose of ixazomib.