Selinexor in Combination With Irinotecan in Adenocarcinoma of Stomach and Distal Esophagus
The main purpose of this study is to see whether the combination of selinexor (KPT-330) and irinotecan can help people with esophageal or stomach cancer. Researchers also want to find out if the combination of selinexor (KPT-330) and irinotecan is safe and tolerable.
Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Irinotecan
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD for study is defined as the highest dose level at which 1 or less of 6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT)., Up to 18 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression will be evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1). Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions)., Up to 18 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Only those participants who have measurable disease present at baseline, have received at least one cycle of therapy, and have had their disease re-evaluated will be considered evaluable for response. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 18 months|Best Overall Response, The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). Response will be evaluated using RECIST guideline V 1.1. Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria., Up to 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival is defined as the time period from start of treatment to death., Up to 18 months
This is an open label, single group, non-randomized, phase I study with cohort expansion that utilizes the standard 3+3 design for dose. The dose of selinexor will be escalated in combination with the standard doses of irinotecan. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for study is defined as the highest dose level at which 1 or less of 6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity DLT.

Once the MTD is reached and/or the recommended dose for expansion is determined, an additional cohort of 15 patients with advanced gastric or esophageal cancer will be accrued to better define the safety and tolerability of the combination regimen.