Early Detection of Anastomotic Leakage by Microdialysis Catheters
Anastomotic leakage of the pancreatojejunostomy is often discovered with considerable delay, causing severe peritonitis, hemorrhage due to erosion of vessels, sepsis, and death. Microdialysis catheters can detect focal inflammation and ischemia, and has a potential for early detection of anastomotic leakage. This observational study will examine if monitoring with microdialysis catheters can detect anastomotic leakage after pancreaticoduodenectomy earlier than current standard of care.
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreaticoduodenal; Fistula|Pancreas; Fistula|Pancreatic Fistula
PROCEDURE: Pancreaticoduodenectomy microdialysis catheter analyses
Glycerol concentration postoperatively, Glycerol concentration of the microdialysate is measured hourly during the first 24 hours and thereafter every 2-4 hours during hospitalization at an average of 10 days after surgery, Measured hourly during the first 24 hours and thereafter every 2-4 hours during hospitalization at an average of 10 days after surgery|Glucose concentration postoperatively, Glucose concentration of the microdialysate is measured hourly during the first 24 hours and thereafter every 2-4 hours during hospitalization at an average of 10 days after surgery, Measured hourly after surgery during the first 24 hours and thereafter every 2-4 hours during hospitalization at an average of 10 days after surgery|Lactate concentration postoperatively, Lactate concentration of the microdialysate is measured hourly during the first 24 hours and thereafter every 2-4 hours during hospitalization at an average of 10 days after surgery, Measured hourly after surgery during the first 24 hours after surgery and thereafter every 2-4 hours during hospitalization at an average of 10 days after surgery|Pyruvate concentration postoperatively, Pyruvate concentration of the microdialysate is measured hourly during the first 24 hours and thereafter every 2-4 hours during hospitalization at an average of 10 days after surgery, Measured hourly after surgery during the first 24 hours and thereafter every 2-4 hours during hospitalization at an average of 10 days after surgery
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple´s procedure) offers the only potential cure for patients with tumor in the head of the pancreas, bile duct or periampullary region. This procedure is associated with high perioperative and postoperative mortality and morbidity. Postoperative pancreatic fistulae (POPF) is the most feared complication, and is often discovered with significant delay resulting in development of organ dysfunction and sepsis. Current standard for clinical detection of POPF is limited and nonspecific.

Microdialysis catheters allow bedside measurements of metabolism such as lactate, pyruvate, glucose and glycerol. The method has a high sensitivity and specificity in detecting complications in several types of abdominal surgery. However, microdialysis used after pancreaticoduodenectomy is not well documented. This observational study examine if monitoring with microdialysis catheters can detect anastomotic leakage after pancreaticoduodenectomy earlier than current standard of care.