Study of Tarceva and Targretin Oral Capsules in Patients With Advanced Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to learn about the effects of two new anticancer drugs, erlotinib (Tarceva) and bexarotene (Targretin), when treating patients with advanced lung cancer.

Erlotinib is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Bexarotene is approved by the FDA for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. This combination of drugs is experimental.
Carcinoma, Non-small-cell Lung
DRUG: erlotinib and bexarotene
Radiographic Response Rates, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Correlation of Early PET Responses With Objective Radiographic Responses., PET response is assessed based on the guidelines of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) PET Study Group (Eur J Cancer 1999; 35(13):1773-82). PET response refers to the presence and measurement of the most current PET scan imaging when compared to baseline imaging. The amount of reduction in the disease from baseline to current imaging determines the extent to which the cancer has responded to treatment. Radiographic response is per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Progression-free Survival and Overall Survival, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Evaluation of EGFR Mutations in Tumor Biopsies and Correlation of EGFR Mutations With Objective Radiographic Responses., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
This is a single institution open label phase II trial. Consecutive, eligible patients presenting with the diagnosis of advanced NSCLC are to be enrolled in this study. All eligible patients will receive continuous daily oral erlotinib 150 mg (Tarceva™) with daily bexarotene oral capsules 400 mg/m2 (Targretin®). The two agents will be taken at the same time. We anticipate the maximum accrual of 40 patients to this trial.

Patients will be evaluated by history, physical examination, and laboratory assessment every 4 weeks. Radiographic disease assessments by chest radiograph will be obtained every 4 weeks and computer tomography every 8 weeks or longer if clinically indicated. Whole body PET scan will be obtained at 10 days and 8 weeks. All radiographic studies will be sent to Medical Metrix Solutions (MMS) for an independent radiographic review of tumor response.