A Trial of Targeted Therapies for Patients With Slow-Flow or Fast-Flow Vascular Malformations
Recent studies have demonstrated that growth of vascular malformations can be driven by genetic variants in one of 2 signalling pathways. Targeted drugs specific to these pathways have been developed and shown to be effective in treating cancer. This study will describe the effectiveness of (i) 48 weeks of alpelisib therapy for participants with slow-flow vascular malformations and a gene mutation in one of these signalling pathways (module 1) and (ii) 48 weeks of mirdametinib therapy for participants with fast-flow vascular malformations and a gene mutations in the other signalling pathway (module 2).
Slow-Flow Vascular Malformation|Fast-Flow Vascular Malformation|Vascular Malformations|Venous Malformation|Lymphatic Malformation, Low Flow|Lymphatic Malformation|Lymphangioma|Arteriovenous Malformations|Venous Malformation, Low Flow|Cystic Hygroma|Vascular Anomaly|Vascular Anomalies|PI3K Gene Mutation|MAP2K1 Gene Mutation|PIK3CA-related Overgrowth Spectrum|Arteriovenous Malformation (AVM)|KRAS G12C|KRAS G12D
DRUG: Alpelisib|DRUG: Mirdametinib
The number of participants who achieve or exceed a predetermined threshold of improvement in their most significant symptom at 48 weeks based on the Vascular Malformation Patient Specific Outcome Measure (VM-PSOM)., Vascular malformations present with a range of different symptoms. Therefore, there is no single outcome measure that can capture the effectiveness of a systemic treatment across different patients. Thus for this study, an individualised primary outcome for each patient informed by their symptoms will be used, termed the Vascular Malformation Patient Specific Outcome Measure (VM-PSOM). The study "Outcome Committee" will define an individualised primary outcome for each patient informed by their symptoms and vascular malformation features prior to starting trial treatments. The VM-PSOM endpoint will therefore define a binary outcome for each patients (achieved or failed to reach the threshold improvement in the chosen measure)., At 48 weeks
The number of participants who achieve or exceed a predetermined threshold of improvement in their most significant symptom at the 168-day timepoint based on the Vascular Malformation Patient Specific Outcome Measure (VM-PSOM)., VM-PSOM response at the 168 day follow-up visit assessment compared with the 48 week (end-of-treatment) VM-PSOM., 48 weeks, 168-day follow-up|The number of participants with an objective response (defined as ≥ 20% reduction from index date in the sum of measurable target lesion volume) by volumetric analysis on MRI., Objective response rate by volumetric MRI assessment comparing 48 week (end-of-treatment) MRI with baseline MRI. MRI scan will only be performed in patients where their vascular malformation is feasibly evaluable by MRI scan. Objective response is defined as ≥ 20% reduction from index date in the sum of measurable target lesion volume by volumetric analysis on MRI., Baseline, 48 weeks|Change in symptoms score as recorded on the OVAMA (Outcome measures for VAscular MAlformations) questionnaire., The mean scores in the OVAMA (Outcome measures for VAscular MAlformations) questionnaire will be calculated and analysed at specified time points. This is a set of questions developed specifically to measure symptom burden from vascular malformations. These questions are open-ended to allow the subject to describe how they feel. The questions are more tightly structured to allow comparison of answers to other people with vascular malformations. The questions have been designed in a way to determine if symptoms are getting better over time., Time frame: Baseline, 48 weeks|Change in symptoms score as recorded on the OVAMA (Outcome measures for VAscular MAlformations) which is a set of questions developed specifically to measure symptom burden from vascular malformations., The mean scores in the OVAMA (Outcome measures for VAscular MAlformations) questionnaire will be calculated and analysed at specified time points., Time frame: 48 weeks, Day 168 follow-up|The number of patients who experience adverse events as defined by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) v5., From Baseline to Day 168 follow-up
TARGET-VM is a modular open-label, signal seeking, phase II trial of targeted therapies for patients with vascular malformations. Patients with vascular malformations which are refractory to standard therapies, or in whom standard therapy is not appropriate, are potentially eligible for the clinical trial. Vascular malformations will be classified as slow-flow or fast-flow lesions using established clinical criteria. Genetic testing to identify causative variants in genes affecting the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signalling pathway for slow-flow vascular malformations or the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway for fast-flow vascular malformations must be performed using research protocols or commercial testing assays that are external to this clinical trial.

The study consists of individual modules, each evaluating the clinical efficacy of 48 weeks of targeted therapy. The treatment modules are:

1. Module 1 - Treatment for slow-flow vascular malformations Eligible patients with slow-flow vascular malformations with an identified causative variant in the PI3K signalling pathway will receive alpelisib, an oral alpha-specific PI3-kinase inhibitor for a total duration of 48 weeks as monotherapy (treatment period), followed by 24 weeks of follow-up (follow-up period).
2. Module 2 - Treatment for fast-flow vascular malformations Eligible patients with fast-flow vascular malformations with an identified causative variant in the MAPK signalling pathway will receive mirdametinib, an investigational oral MEK inhibitor for a total duration of 48 weeks as monotherapy (treatment period), followed by 24 weeks of follow-up (follow-up period).

TARGET-VM will be conducted only in Victoria, Australia.