Azacitidine and Entinostat in Treating Patients With Advanced Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well giving azacitidine and entinostat work in treating patients with advanced breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Entinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving azacitidine together with entinostat may kill more tumor cells.
Male Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Entinostat|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Confirmed Response Rate (Percentage of Participants With Complete or Partial Response Noted as the Objective Status on Two Consecutive Evaluations at Least 4 Weeks Apart) Assessed by RECIST, Percentage of participants with complete or partial response will be estimated independently for each cohort by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., Up to 3 years
Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate estimated by the number of patients who achieve a confirmed response plus the number of patients who have stable disease for a duration of at least 6 months divided by the total number of evaluable patients. All evaluable patients will be used for this analysis., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Median number of months alive, estimated by Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Median number of months without progression. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., 6 months
Number of Participants With Change in Expression of Relevant Genes (e.g., ER Alpha and RAR Beta) Evaluated by Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), Number of participants with a change in candidate gene re-expression of ER-alpha and RAR beta evaluated by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)., Baseline to up to 8 weeks|Circulating DNA Evaluated Using QM-MSP, Data will also be graphically displayed showing trend in median values across time. Nonparametric Wilcoxon signed rank tests will be used to determine whether or not the data shows evidence of changes from baseline., Up to 8 weeks|Confirmed Response Rate to Azacitidine and Entinostat Plus the Addition of Hormone Therapy, Will be estimated in each cohort. All evaluable patients who receive hormonal therapy will be used for this analysis., Up to 3 years|Feasibility of the Addition of Hormone Therapy, Evaluated by Calculating the Number of Patients With Disease Progression That go on to Receive Hormonal Therapy, Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Change in Gene Methylation Evaluated Using Quantitative Multiple Methylation-specific Polymerase Chain Reaction (QM-MSP), Up to 8 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria of the combination of azacitidine (5-AZA) and entinostat in women with advanced breast cancer; triple-negative and hormone-refractory.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of 5-AZA and entinostat in women with advanced breast cancer.

II. To determine progression-free survival, overall survival, and clinical benefit rate of the combination of 5-AZA and entinostat.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect safety and toxicity data as well as the feasibility and response rate where hormonal therapy is added to the combination under investigation at the time of progressive disease. (Exploratory) II. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of 5-AZA (full profile) and entinostat (trough concentrations) in patients with advanced breast cancer. (Exploratory) III. To assess serum cytidine deaminase pharmacogenetics and phenotypic activity as a potential biomarker of response to 5-AZA. (Exploratory) IV. To evaluate baseline and change in candidate gene re-expression (e.g., estrogen receptor \[ER\] alpha, retinoic acid receptor \[RAR\] beta) in malignant tissue obtained from selected patients through fine-needle aspiration (FNA) and core biopsy, prior to and following combination therapy. (Exploratory) V. To evaluate baseline and change in gene methylation silencing in circulating deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) obtained prior to and following combination therapy. (Exploratory) VI. To evaluate baseline and change in gene methylation in malignant tissue obtained through FNA and core biopsy. (Exploratory)

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5 and 8-10, and entinostat orally (PO) on days 3 and 10. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with progressive disease may continue azacitidine and entinostat in combination with hormonal therapy, at treating physician discretion, or undergo event monitoring.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 3 years.