Bicalutamide With or Without Metformin for Biochemical Recurrence in Overweight or Obese Prostate Cancer Patients
Obesity and metabolic syndrome are prevalent among prostate cancer patients. Having an elevated insulin level in the blood is associated with a shorter median time to cancer progression and median overall survival in patients with an elevated PSA after prior treatment. Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) with drugs like bicalutamide is frequently used in this patient population,with no proven benefit, which may increase mortality and morbidity.This study evaluates how metformin in combination with bicalutamide affects prostate cancer.
Cancer of Prostate
DRUG: Observation and Bicalutamide|DRUG: Metformin and Bicalutamide
Biochemical Response Rate Based on PSA, Participants with undetectable PSA after 32 weeks, 32 weeks
PSA Decline ≥ 85% at 32 Weeks, Number of patients with PSA decline ≥ 85% after 32 weeks, 32 Weeks|PSA Decline, Number of patients with PSA decline after 8 weeks (observation vs metformin), 8 Weeks|Median PSA Decline, Median PSA decline after 8 weeks % (range), 8 weeks|BMI Decline After 32 Weeks, Number of patients with BMI decline after 32 weeks, 32 Weeks
1 Cycle = 28 days = 4 weeks. Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis ӿ Metformin starting dose is 500 mg BID, will be gradually increased to target dose of 1000mg BID.

Treatment ARM A Cycles 1 - 2: Observation without treatment Cycles 3 - 8: Bicalutamide 50 mg daily, orally, continuously to the end of study (week 32).

Treatment ARM B Cycles 1 - 2: In order to minimize gastrointestinal discomfort, metformin dosing will be ramped up over a period of 2 weeks. Metformin treatment will be started at 500 mg BID (Dose Level -2) and increased by an increment of 500 mg daily every week +/- 2 days provided no grade 2 or higher gastrointestinal toxicity is noted. If grade 2 or greater gastrointestinal toxicity occurs during the first 4 weeks of treatment, the subject will be evaluated every 2 weeks until resolution of toxicity to grade 0 or 1 and, then, the metformin dose will be increased to the next dose level. The target dose of metformin is 1000 mg BID.