Aflibercept +/- LV5FU2 in First Line of Non-resectalbe Metastatic Colorectal Cancers
This is what the FFCD 11-01 - PRODIGE 25 trial proposes to study, as a preliminary for strategic studies evaluating the usefulness of including targeted therapeutics from the first line with aflibercept +/- LV5FU2.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: aflibercept|DRUG: LV5FU2
The Primary Objective Was the Percentage of Patients Alive and Without Progression 6 Months After the Randomization., Progression was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST 1.1 criteria based on imaging studies performed every 8 weeks, even in case of deferred treatments. Clinical progressions, not confirmed on imaging, were not be counted in the primary endpoint, At 6 months after randomization
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the patient's death (all causes). For alive patients, the date of the latest news was taken into account, Up to 3 years after the treatment start|Progression-free Survival (PPFS), It was defined as the time between t randomization and the date of the first radiological progression (RECIST 1.1 criteria) according to the investigator or death; Patients alive without progression were censored at the date of last news, up to 12 months after randomization
The aflibercept-5-FU combination has never been evaluated as yet. Aflibercept, at a dose of 4 mg/kg, has already been used in combination with 5-FU at the doses used in the simplified LV5FU2 regimen (folinic acid 400 mg/m2 IV in 90 min, then 5-FU 400 mg/m2 IV bolus on D1, followed by continuous perfusion of 5-FU 2,400 mg/m2 in 46h) (23) as part of the above-mentioned VELOUR trial, evaluating its combination with FOLFIRI (= simplified LV5FU2 + irinotecan). This trial was preceded by a phase I trial validating the doses used (24). It is therefore not necessary to perform a phase I trial if you use the same doses of 5-FU without irinotecan, within the context of a strategy for reducing toxicity in patients to be treated over a long period, and not search for the maximum tolerated dose of the combination.

The aflibercept-LV5FU2 combination can be useful for patients who will never be resectable or operable, and for whom 5-FU monotherapy can be suggested to delay the toxicities of combined chemotherapies. Within this context, it is possible for aflibercept to provide a survival benefit. The previous VELOUR trial (18) did not indicate that toxicity would have a major effect on quality of life and increase the hope of prolonged progression-free survival in the arm with aflibercept.

This is what the FFCD 11-01 - PRODIGE 25 trial proposes to study, as a preliminary for strategic studies evaluating the usefulness of including targeted therapeutics from the first line.

This trial will evaluate the efficacy of the combination and its tolerance by studying toxicities and quality of life. Quality of life will be studied via the EORTC questionnaire QLQ-C30.

The thymidylate synthase polymorphism type 2R2R-2R3R versus 3R3R seems to predict greater efficacy of 5-FU monotherapy. Stratification in this criterion will confirm or negate the prognostic or predictive nature of 5-FU efficacy linked to these polymorphisms.

The draft version of this trial has been studied and evaluated by the scientific council of the Fédération Francophone de Cancérologie Digestive (FFCD) then the Digestive Group of the Fédération Nationale des Centres de Lutte Contre le Cancer (FNCLCC) within the framework of their Partnership for Research in Digestive Oncology (PRODIGE cooperation).