Phase 1/2 Study of Motolimod, Doxorubicin, and Durvalumab in Recurrent, Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Cancer
This is an ongoing Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, non-randomized study of MEDI4736 (durvalumab) in subjects with recurrent, platinum-resistant ovarian cancer who are scheduled to receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD).The primary objective of Phase 1 is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and safety profile, with a secondary objective to evaluate the clinical efficacy as measured by progression-free survival (PFS) rate at 6 months (PFS-6). The primary objective of Phase 2 is the evaluation of clinical efficacy as measured by PFS-6. For both phases, secondary objectives include evaluation of clinical efficacy as measured by overall response rate, PFS, and overall survival (OS), safety and tolerability, and immunological responses.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin|DRUG: Motolimod
Number of Subjects With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), The primary endpoint in Phase 1 and a secondary endpoint in Phase 2 is the safety/tolerability of study treatment. Toxicity is graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. Adverse events (AEs) are reported based on clinical laboratory tests, vital signs, physical examinations, and any other medically indicated assessments, including subject interviews, from the time informed consent is signed through 90 days after the last dose of study treatment. Treatment-emergent AEs are those that occurred or worsened after administration of the first dose of study treatment., Up to 3.05 years|Progression-free Survival Rate at 6 Months (PFS-6) by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, PFS-6 according to RECIST 1.1 is the primary endpoint in Phase 2 and a secondary endpoint in Phase 1, where PFS is measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression or to the date of death, if disease progression does not occur. Per RECIST 1.1, progressive disease (PD) is defined as a ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (Eisenhauer et al 2009)., Up to 6 months for each subject
Number of Subjects With Best Overall Tumor Response by RECIST 1.1, Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to RECIST 1.1 at Screening (up to 14 days before the first dose of study treatment), every 3 cycles during study treatment, and during on-study follow-up approximately 3 months after the last disease assessment. Per RECIST 1.1, target lesions are categorized as follows: complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions; partial response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; PD: ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; stable disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria (Eisenhauer et al 2009)., Up to 36.6 months|Median PFS by RECIST 1.1 as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, PFS is measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 or to the date of death, if disease progression does not occur. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as a ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (Eisenhauer et al 2009)., Up to 36.6 months|PFS-12 by RECIST 1.1 as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, PFS is measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 or to the date of death, if disease progression does not occur. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as a ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (Eisenhauer et al 2009)., Up to 12 months for each subject|Number of Subjects With Best Overall Tumor Response by the Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST), Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to irRECIST at Screening (up to 14 days before the first dose of study treatment), every 3 cycles during study treatment, and during on-study follow-up approximately 3 months after the last disease assessment. Per irRECIST, measurable lesions are categorized as follows: irCR: Complete disappearance of all target lesions; irPR: ≥ 30% decrease from baseline in the total measurable tumor burden (TMTB); irPD: ≥ 20% increase from nadir in TMTB; irSD: not meeting above criteria (Bohnsack et al 2014)., Up to 36.6 months|PFS-6 by irRECIST as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, PFS is measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression according to irRECIST or to the date of death, if disease progression does not occur. Per irRECIST, irPD is defined as a ≥ 20% increase from nadir in the TMTB (Bohnsack et al 2014)., Up to 6 months for each subject|PFS-12 by irRECIST as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, PFS is measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression according to irRECIST or to the date of death, if disease progression does not occur. Per irRECIST, irPD is defined as a ≥ 20% increase from nadir in the TMTB (Bohnsack et al 2014)., Up to 12 months for each subject|Median PFS by irRECIST as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, PFS is measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression according to irRECIST or to the date of death, if disease progression does not occur. Per irRECIST, irPD is defined as a ≥ 20% increase from nadir in the TMTB (Bohnsack et al 2014)., Up to 36.6 months|Median Overall Survival (OS) as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, After completion of treatment, all subjects are followed for survival every 3 months for up to 3 years following initiation of study treatment or or for subjects continuing treatment, completion of study treatment whichever was longer. OS is measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of death or last follow-up. Subjects lost to follow-up are censored on the date when they were last known to be alive., Up to 36.6 months
In the completed Phase 1 part of the study, eligible subjects were enrolled using a standard 3 + 3 design to identify the MTD (i.e., the highest dose for which fewer than 33% of subjects experienced a dose-limiting toxicity \[DLT\]) of combination study treatment. All dose levels in Phase 1 included intravenous (IV) PLD (40 mg/m\^2) in combination with subcutaneous (SC) motolimod (2.0 or 2.5 mg/m\^2), using a starting dose of 3 mg/kg of IV durvalumab given every 2 weeks (Q2W) or 1500 mg of IV durvalumab given every 4 weeks (Q4W). All subjects in a cohort had their safety data reviewed for DLTs before proceeding with cohort expansion.

After completion of Phase 1 and determination of the durvalumab MTD to be carried forward into Phase 2, availability of data from another study (NCT01666444) indicated a lack of additive efficacy when motolimod was administered with PLD compared with PLD alone. As such, motolimod dosing was discontinued for all subjects in Study LUD2014-001 after completion of Phase 1. Subjects who had initiated treatment may have continued to receive PLD and durvalumab at their respective dose levels but must have discontinued motolimod. Thus, in the fully-accrued but ongoing Phase 2 portion of the study, subjects received only PLD (40 mg/m\^2) in combination with durvalumab at the MTD determined in Phase 1 (1500 mg every 4 weeks \[Q4W\]).

Subjects are treated in the Core Study for an initial 12 cycles (28 days each) according to their treatment assignment. Durvalumab treatment may be extended for subjects who complete the Core Study with stable disease or better and upon agreement among the subject, Sponsor, and Investigator; extended durvalumab monotherapy may continue until confirmed disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or other discontinuation criteria are met.

Subjects are followed on study for 90 days after the last drug administration and off study every 3 months for 3 years from the date of the first dose of study treatment.