Sorafenib in Treating Patients Who Are Undergoing Surgery for Metastatic Kidney Cancer
Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving sorafenib before and after surgery may be an effective treatment for kidney cancer. This phase II trial is studying how well sorafenib works in treating patients who are undergoing surgery for metastatic kidney cancer.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Efficacy of BAY 43-9006 by Evaluating Response Rate, Response rate (participants with response/total number participants) where number of participants with response evaluated using international criteria proposed by (RECIST) Committee of: Complete Response: Disappearance all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): \> 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, reference baseline sum LD. Progressive Disease (PD): \> 20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions, reference smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started or appearance of 1 or \> new lesions; Stable Disease:

Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, reference smallest sum LD since treatment started., Every 2 weeks during 4 week cycle
Duration of Overall Response, Duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for Complete Response or Partial Response (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started), measured in days., Following 10 weeks of treatment, followed every 2 weeks or until disease progression|Overall Survival, The number of participants surviving from baseline (treatment) to death due to any cause measured in days., Up to 2 years|Time to Progression, Time, in weeks, after treatment until disease progresses. Repeat radiologic studies to evaluate disease progression or response after 10 weeks of BAY 43 9006 therapy., Following 10 weeks of treatment or until disease progression
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Efficacy of BAY 43-9006 (sorafenib tosylate) by evaluating response rate. II. Toxicities of BAY 43-9006 in metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). III. Intraoperative and peri/postoperative safety of BAY 43-9006.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Time to progression. II. Duration of response. II. Overall Survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Tissue expression of VEGFR-2/phospho-VEGFR-2, PDGFR/phospho-PDGFR, FGFR/phospho-FGFR, ERK/phospho-ERK, RAF-1/phospho-RAF-1, p38/phospho-p38, Akt/phospho-Akt, P27, Ki67, TGF-alpha, and TUNEL pre- and post- therapy (optional studies).

II. Oligonucleotide analysis of tissue pre- and post-therapy (optional studies).

OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized study. Patients are sequentially assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo cytoreductive nephrectomy on day 1. Patients then receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 15-84.

GROUP II: Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-7. Patients undergo cytoreductive nephrectomy on day 8. Patients then receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 22-84.

GROUP III: Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28. Patients undergo cytoreductive nephrectomy on day 29. Patients then receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 43-84.

In all groups, patients with stable or regressing disease continue to receive oral sorafenib twice daily for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Some patients may continue treatment for longer than 1 year at the discretion of the investigator.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 45 patients (15 per treatment group) will be accrued for this study within 1 year.