An Efficacy and Safety Study of Enzalutamide Plus Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) Versus Placebo Plus ADT in Chinese Patients With Metastatic Hormone Sensitive Prostate Cancer (mHSPC)
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of enzalutamide plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) versus placebo plus ADT in Chinese subjects with metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC). The study was conducted in two phases: Double-Blind treatment phase and open-label phase.
Metastatic Hormone Sensitive Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT)
Time to Prostrate Specific Antigen (PSA) Progression, Time to PSA progression was calculated as the time from the date of randomization to the first observation of PSA progression. PSA progression was defined as a ≥ 25% increase and an absolute increase of ≥ 2 microgram/liter (μg/L) (2 nanogram/milliliter \[ng/mL\]) above the nadir (i.e., lowest PSA value observed post baseline or at baseline), which was confirmed by a second consecutive value at least 3 weeks later. Time to event analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., From the date of randomization to the first observation of PSA progression (up to 38 months)
Radiographic Progression-Free Survival (rPFS), An rPFS event was defined as the time from randomization to the first objective evidence of radiographic disease progression assessed by investigator or death (defined as death from any cause within 24 weeks from study drug discontinuation), whichever occurred first. Radiographic disease progression was defined as progressive disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 for soft tissue disease or by appearance of 2 or more new lesions on bone scan. Time to event analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., up to 38 months|Time to First Symptomatic Skeletal Event (SSE), Time to first SSE was defined as the time from randomization to the occurrence of the first SSE. SSE was defined as radiation or surgery to bone, clinically apparent pathological bone fracture or spinal cord compression. Time to event analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Up to 38 months|Time to Castration Resistance, Castration resistance was defined as occurrence of radiographic disease progression, PSA progression or SSE with castrate levels of testosterone (\< 50 ng/dL). Time to castration resistance was defined as the time from randomization to the first castration resistant event (radiographic disease progression, PSA progression or SSE), whichever occurred first. PSA progression was defined as a ≥ 25% increase and an absolute increase of ≥ 2 μg/L (2 ng/mL) above the nadir (i.e., lowest PSA value observed post baseline or at baseline), which was confirmed by a second consecutive value at least 3 weeks later. Radiographic disease progression was defined as progressive disease by RECIST version 1.1 for soft tissue disease or by appearance of 2 or more new lesions on bone scan. SSE was defined as radiation or surgery to bone, clinically apparent pathological bone fracture or spinal cord compression. Time to event analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Up to 38 months|Percentage of Participants With PSA Response (≥ 50%), The PSA response rate ≥50% is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population with maximal PSA declines of at least 50% at any time and at each visit for participants with detectable PSA at baseline and at least 1 post-baseline assessment., Up to 38 months|Percentage of Participants With PSA Response (≥ 90%), The PSA response rate ≥90% is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population with maximal PSA declines of at least 90% at any time and at each visit for participants with detectable PSA at baseline and at least 1 post-baseline assessment., Up to 38 months|Time to Initiation of New Antineoplastic Therapy, Time to initiate of a new antineoplastic therapy (including cytotoxic and hormone therapies) was defined as the time interval from randomization to the date of the first dose administration of the first antineoplastic therapy. Time to event analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Up to 38 months|Percentage of Participants With Undetectable PSA (< 0.2 ng/mL), The PSA undetectable rate was defined as the percentage of participants with detectable (≥ 0.2 ng/mL) PSA at baseline, which became undetectable (\< 0.2 ng/mL) during study treatment. Only participants with detectable PSA at baseline was included in the analysis., Up to 38 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with measurable disease at baseline who achieved a complete or partial response (CR or PR) in their soft tissue disease using the RECIST version 1.1 criteria, CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease. No new lesions. PR was defined as \>=30% decrease on study under baseline of the sum of longest diameters of all target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions., Up to 38 months
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of enzalutamide plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) versus placebo plus ADT in Chinese subjects with metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC). The study was conducted in two phases: Double-Blind treatment phase and open-label phase.