Clinical, patHOlogical and Imaging Project of nEuro-oncology (HOPE)
Glioma disease is the most common primary malignant tumor of the central nervous system, with an annual incidence of about 3-8 people per 100,000 population, of which glioblastoma with the highest degree of malignancy and the worst prognosis accounts for 70-75%. The construction goal of this project is to construct a multivariate retrospective glioma database (3000 cases) integrating clinical information, magnetic resonance imaging examination and molecular pathological results, and a prospective glioma database (500 cases) integrating advanced magnetic resonance sequences. It aims to form a standardized database integrating clinical-prognostic information, magnetic resonance imaging and pathological results. Based on the construction of the above standardized database, the specifications for the acquisition of cranial magnetic resonance images, the image segmentation and labeling process, and the expert consensus on database construction and use management of glioma diseases were established. Form a multimodal, large-capacity, high-quality, and rich medical imaging database that conforms to the characteristics of Chinese groups and clinical diagnosis and treatment norms; On this basis, the data are dynamically updated, in-depth mining, and the classification and grading standards of glioma diseases, prognosis judgment criteria and treatment efficacy evaluation system are formulated.
Glioma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: This study does not intervene in this process.
Establish standardized clinical-MRI -molecular markers database for glioma, 1) Collect clinical, MRI and molecular markers data of glioma patients; 2) Establish a standardized tumor labeling database; 3) Establish an automatic segmentation and recognition model of glioma, 2022.01-2024.12|Establish an accurate MRI-based deep-learning model for the prediction of glioma, 1) Build an accurate MRI-based deep-learning model with retrospective data. 2) The multicenter data was used to verify the repeatability and widespread use of the model again, 2022.01-2024.12
Glioma disease is the most common primary malignant tumor of the central nervous system, with an annual incidence of about 3-8 people per 100,000 population, of which glioblastoma with the highest degree of malignancy and the worst prognosis accounts for 70-75%. The construction goal of this project is to construct a multivariate retrospective glioma database (3000 cases) integrating clinical information, magnetic resonance imaging examination and molecular pathological results, and a prospective glioma database (500 cases) integrating advanced magnetic resonance sequences. It aims to form a standardized database integrating clinical-prognostic information, magnetic resonance imaging and pathological results. Based on the construction of the above standardized database, the specifications for the acquisition of cranial magnetic resonance images, the image segmentation and labeling process, and the expert consensus on database construction and use management of glioma diseases were established. Form a multimodal, large-capacity, high-quality, and rich medical imaging database that conforms to the characteristics of Chinese groups and clinical diagnosis and treatment norms; On this basis, the data are dynamically updated, in-depth mining, and the classification and grading standards of glioma diseases, prognosis judgment criteria and treatment efficacy evaluation system are formulated.