Testing Counseling and Mobile Health Interventions to Improve Physical Activity and Diet Quality in Survivors of Childhood Cancer
This clinical trial evaluates several behavioral interventions for the improvement of physical activity in cancer patients. Childhood and adolescent/young adult cancer survivors have been reported to have poor diet quality and rarely meet recommended physical activity guidelines. This trial aims to see whether a tailored intervention based on self-determination theory may help to improve physical activity and dietary change.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Interview
Sedentary time, \<100 counts/minute as measured by research-grade accelerometry, Up to 12 months|Healthy Eating Index (HEI)-2015 score, On a scale of 100 (perfect score) as measured by Food Frequency Questionnaire, Up to 12 months
Participant engagement, As measured by: 1) response to clinician action plans \[score of 0-10; 10 being most engaged\]; 2) use of mHealth apps \[e.g., number of days with daily steps ≥500; number of days with recorded calories ≥500; social media interactions counting viewing, liking, or posting comments\]; and 3) number of sessions completed with lifestyle health coach and coach's rating of engagement \[score of 0-10; 10 being most engaged\], Up to 12 months|Health-related self-efficacy scale, Per Schwarzer R, et al. and converted to T-score (higher equaling greater self-efficacy), Up to 12 months|Multidimensional Health Locus of Control Scale, Per Wallston KA, et al. with 3 subscales: internal, chance, and powerful others (each scored from 6-36, with higher values indicating greater agreement with that subscale's locus on control beliefs), Up to 12 months
OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to Arms 1, 2, or 3.

ARM 1: Patients receive a personalized clinician-led self-management telehealth session at baseline and 2 months. Patients with poor response at 3 months are randomized to Arm 2 or 4, otherwise patients receive the same telehealth session at months 4 and 6. Patients may receive 2 additional telehealth sessions after 6 months.

ARM 2: Patients receive personalized goal setting for daily steps and activity (updated weekly) and 3 dietary goals (updated monthly) with social media peer support for 6 months. Patients with poor response at 3 months are randomized to Arms 1 or 4. Patients may receive personalized goal setting for daily steps and activity (updated monthly) and dietary goals (updated every 2 months) after 6 months.

ARM 3: Patients receive no intervention for 12 months. After 12 months, they may optionally receive their choice of intervention for up to 6 months.

ARM 4: Patients receive remote sessions with a health coach every 1-2 weeks for 6 months. Patients may continue to receive remote sessions once a month after 6 months.