Pembrolizumab and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Intermediate or High-Grade Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This phase I/II trial studies pembrolizumab and radiation therapy in treating patients with intermediate or high-grade soft tissue sarcoma. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving pembrolizumab and radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with soft tissue sarcoma.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Soft Tissue Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Rate of Complete Tumor Necrosis, Necrosis greater than or equal to 90% at pathologic assessment at time of surgery, From baseline through wound care follow-up visit (up to 8 months)
Incidence of Adverse Events, Treatment-related adverse events (AEs) experienced by participants evaluated by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0 and determined to be possibly related, probably related, or definitely related to either pembrolizumab therapy, radiation therapy, or both., Through the wound care follow-up visit (up to 8 months)|Partial Response Rate, Proportion of patients who achieved a partial response based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., From baseline through wound care follow-up visit (up to 8 months)|Complete Response Rate, Rate of disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10mm as defined per RECIST v1.1. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., From baseline through wound care follow-up visit (up to 8 months)|Overall Response Rate, Rate of participants who experienced a Complete Response (CR) + Partial Reponse (PR) as defined per RECIST v1.1 criteria. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., From baseline through wound care follow-up visit (up to 8 months)
OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) per institutional standard at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance as an outpatient therapy. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks, up to a maximum of three doses, for 3 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy daily for 5-6 weeks beginning on Day 1 of Week 2.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days after last dose, 90 days after last dose, 30 days after post-operative visit (wound care follow-up), and then every 12 weeks for up to 1 year, then every 6 months up to 5 years.