An Extension Study of 12 mg Proellex® (Telapristone Acetate) Administered Orally in the Treatment of Premenopausal Women With Confirmed Symptomatic Uterine Fibroids
To determine the safety of extended treatment with Proellex® in women who have successfully completed either study ZPV-201 \[NCT02323646\] or ZPU-203 \[NCT02301897\] and meet eligibility criteria.
Uterine Fibroids
DRUG: Telapristone acetate
Percentage of Participants in Amenorrhea, Amenorrhea was defined as no bleeding intensity score greater than 1 using the Daily Diary Card during the 28 days leading up to the last day of dosing at Week 18. Bleeding intensity was graded on a 5-point scale where: 0=no bleeding to 4=heavy bleeding., At the end of 18 weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in Total Uterine Fibroid System Quality of Life Survey System Severity (UFS-SSS) Score, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. Each question was answered on a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. The sum of the total scores was transformed to a range of 0=no symptoms (best) to 100=most severe symptoms (worst). A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 1, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 1: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "heavy bleeding during your menstrual period"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 2, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 2: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "passing blood clots during your menstrual period"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 3, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 3: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "fluctuation in the duration of your menstrual period compared to your previous cycle"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 4, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 4: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "fluctuation in the length of your monthly cycle compared to your previous cycles"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 5, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 5: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "feeling tightness or pressure in your pelvic area"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 6, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 6: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "frequent urination during the daytime hours"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 7, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 7: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "frequent night time urination"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 8, UFS-SSS is an 8-question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 8: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "feeling fatigued"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Change From Baseline in Pictorial Blood Loss Assessment Chart (PBAC) Score, Uterine bleeding was assessed with the use of the PBAC, a validated self-reporting method to estimate menstrual blood loss. Participants recorded daily the number of tampons and towels used and the degree to which individual items were soiled with blood (plus small or large clots). Pictorial scores range from score 1 for slightly stained tampon/towel, 5 for a partially stained tampon/towel, 10 for a completely saturated tampon, 20 for a completely saturated towel, and 5 for each episode of flooding and for each blood clot larger than a quarter in size. Total score can range from 0 (no bleeding) to \>500. Higher scores indicate more bleeding. Lower scores indicate less bleeding. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement (reduction in bleeding)., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1|Percentage Change From Baseline in Total Uterine Fibroid Volume, The total uterine fibroid volume was measured by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1
This study will be for participants who had completed either ZPV-201 or ZPU-203.