MLN 9708 in Induction and Consolidation for Adults With AML >= 60 Years of Age
This research study is evaluating drugs called Millennium 9708 (referred to as MLN9708) in combination with standard therapy for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) consisting of daunorubicin and cytarabine as a possible treatment for the patient AML.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: MLN9708|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin
MTD/recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of MLN9708 in combination with induction chemotherapy, Safety of MLN9708 in induction, 1 year|MTD/RP2D of MLN9708 with combination with consolidation chemotherapy, Safety of MLN9708 in consolidation tested separately, 1 year
Dose Limiting Toxicities of MLN9708, Generally by NCI CTCAE: grade 3 neuropathy, grade 3 non-hematological toxicity that does not resolve to grade 2, grade 4 hematological toxicity not due to persistent AML that persists, 1 year|Disease Free Survival (DFS), Duration in weeks or months from determination of remission to time of relapse or death, 2 Years: Complete remission (CR) or complete remission without platelet recovery (CRp) to relapse or death, whichever comes first, for patients who receive study drug in induction and regardless of consolidation therapy|Overall Survival (OS), Duration in weeks or months from day 1 of protocol treatment to time of death, 2 Years|Remission Rate, Percentage of patients starting day 1 treatment that achieve a remission (CR or CRp), 2 years|Relationship between CD74 expression and remission, DFS, OS, Degree of CD74 expression on leukemia blasts compared to the rate of remission and length of DFS and OS., 2 Years
This research study is a clinical trial comprised of two Phase I portions an induction treatment (initial treatment), and a consolidation treatment (which is given later). The patient is being asked to participate in one or both phase I portions of this study.

A phase I study tests the safety of an investigational drug or combination of drugs. Phase I studies also try to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drugs to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug combination is being studied. It also means that the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the drug combination for the participant's type of cancer.

In this research study, the investigators are studying the safety and tolerability of MLN9708 in combination with standard treatment for adults 60 years of age or older with AML.

In the first phase I portion of treatment ("induction") participants will receive MLN9708 in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine. Once the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of MLN9708 is established in this induction portion, up to 36 additional participants will be enrolled in the portion focusing on consolidation.

The drugs daunorubicin and cytarabine have been approved by the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration). MLN9708 is not approved by the FDA.