Melatonin Intervention For Neurocognitive Deficits in the St. Jude Lifetime Cohort
Primary objective:

1. To examine the efficacy of melatonin treatment on neurocognitive functioning in adult survivors of childhood cancer.

Secondary objectives:

1. To evaluate the efficacy of melatonin treatment on delayed sleep onset latency in long-term childhood cancer survivors.
2. To investigate whether improvement in sleep onset latency due to melatonin treatment is associated with neurocognitive improvement in long-term childhood cancer survivors.

This study is a randomized double-blind placebo controlled trial of time release melatonin for adult survivors of childhood cancer who demonstrate impaired neurocognitive functioning and/or difficulty falling asleep.
Cancer Malignancies
DRUG: melatonin|DRUG: placebo
Neurocognitive Function as Measured by Performance on Standardized Tests of Attention, Memory, and Executive Function., Efficacy of melatonin treatment on neurocognitive functioning in adult survivors of childhood cancer (Cohorts 1 and 2 only). The measures were analyzed to compare change in neurocognitive performance from baseline to 6 months between active treatment and placebo groups. The unit of measure is a standardized z-score with a mean of 0 and standard deviation of 1. A higher z-score represents a better outcome., Baseline and 6 months after start of therapy
Sleep Onset Latency as Measured by Actigraphy and Self-report., Efficacy of melatonin on delayed sleep onset latency in long-term childhood cancer survivors (Cohorts 2 and 3 only). The measures were analyzed to compare change in sleep onset latency from baseline to 6 months between active treatment and placebo groups., Baseline and six months after start of therapy|Neurocognitive Function as Measured by Performance on Standardized Tests of Attention, Memory, and Executive Function, and Sleep Onset Latency as Measured by Actigraphy and Self-report., Investigate whether improvement in sleep onset latency due to melatonin treatment is associated with neurocognitive improvement in long-term childhood cancer survivors (Cohort 2). The change in neurocognitive performance from baseline to 6 months will be examined in relation to change in sleep onset latency. The unit of measure is a standardized z-score with a mean of 0 and standard deviation of 1. The unit of measurement is a correlation coefficient (Pearson's R2). The range is from -1.0 to 1.0. A zero indicates no correlation while values closer to -1.0 or 1.0 reflect a stronger association. A negative correlation suggests that as sleep latency decreased, neurocognitive functioning improved., Baseline and six months after start of therapy
All participants undergo a general neurocognitive evaluation at baseline and 6-month follow-up, focused on assessment of intelligence, academic skills, attention, processing speed, memory and executive functions.

Sleep parameters using self-report and actigraphy will be assessed at three time points during the study: Baseline, 3-months, and 6-months.

Participants will be divided into 3 mutually exclusive groups:

* Cohort 1: Participant has neurocognitive impairment defined as performance on at least one measure of attention, memory, and/or executive functioning at or below the 10th percentile, AND is absent of delayed sleep onset latency defined as an inability to fall asleep within 30 minutes less than once a week during the past month.
* Cohort 2: Participant has neurocognitive impairment defined as performance on at least one measure of attention, memory, and/or executive functioning at or below the 10th percentile, AND has delayed sleep onset latency defined as self-report of an inability to fall asleep within 30 minutes at least once a week during the past month.
* Cohort 3: Participant is absent of neurocognitive impairment defined as performance \>10th percentile on all six measures of attention, memory, and executive functioning, AND has delayed sleep onset latency defined as self-report of an inability to fall asleep within 30 minutes \> once a week during the past month.

Within each group, participants will be randomly assigned to take either 3 mgs of time release melatonin or placebo 1-2 hours before bedtime each night for 6 months.

Psychosocial measures of health-related quality of life and psychological distress will be completed at baseline and following 6 months of melatonin/placebo treatment.

Biological samples for serum melatonin levels will be collected at baseline and at the 6 month follow-up evaluation.