Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Atezolizumab in Treating Patients With Stage III Colon Cancer and Deficient DNA Mismatch Repair
This phase III trial studies combination chemotherapy and atezolizumab to see how well it works compared with combination chemotherapy alone in treating patients with stage III colon cancer and deficient deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mismatch repair. Drugs used in combination chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving combination chemotherapy with atezolizumab may work better than combination chemotherapy alone in treating patients with colon cancer.
Colon Adenocarcinoma|DNA Repair Disorder|Lynch Syndrome|Stage III Colon Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Disease free survival (DFS), DFS will be compared between treatment arms using the stratified log rank test at one-sided level 0.025. If zero DFS events are observed in a certain stratum at an interim analysis and unstratified log-rank is used, all subsequent analyses for DFS will use unstratified log-rank test. The hazard ratio (HR) for DFS will be estimated using a stratified Cox proportional hazards model and the 95 percent confidence interval (CI) for the HR will be provided. Results from an unstratified analysis will also be provided. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the median DFS for each treatment arm, and Kaplan-Meier curves will be produced. Brookmeyer Crowley methodology will be used to construct the 95 percent CI for the median DFS for each treatment arm., From the time from randomization to first documentation of disease recurrent or death, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival, The distribution of overall survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Overall survival will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test, only if DFS is statistically significant. The HR for OS will be estimated using a Cox proportional hazards model and the 95 percent CI for the HR will be provided. If a stratified log-rank test is used, stratified HR will be considered, and if an unstratified log-rank test is used, unstratified HR will be considered., From the time from randomization to death, from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Frequency tables will be reviewed to determine the patterns. The overall adverse event rates will be compared between treatment arms using Chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test if the data in contingency table is sparse)., Up to 30 days after last treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether atezolizumab combined with fluorouracil (FOLFOX) and its continuation as monotherapy can significantly improve disease-free survival (DFS) compared to FOLFOX alone in patients with stage III colon cancers and deficient DNA mismatch repair (dMMR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether atezolizumab combined with FOLFOX and its continuation as monotherapy can significantly improve overall survival compared to FOLFOX alone in patients with stage III colon cancers and dMMR.

II. To assess the adverse events (AE) profile and safety of each treatment arm, using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and patient related outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE (among patients aged \>= 18 years).

QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the impact of the addition of atezolizumab to FOLFOX on patient-reported neuropathy, health-related quality of life (QOL), and functional domains of health-related QOL.

II. To access the efficacy of atezolizumab adjusting for baseline QOL and fatigue measurements.

POTENTIAL CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the "immunoscore" can predict the efficacy of atezolizumab for disease-free survival among patients with stage III colon cancer.

II. To assess whether circulating immune cell populations can predict the efficacy of atezolizumab as adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer.

III. To explore the associations of genomic alterations identified in cell-free (cf)DNA with DFS in patients treated with FOLFOX with or without atezolizumab.

IV. To assess whether soluble markers of systemic inflammation in blood can predict the efficacy of atezolizumab as adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer.

V. To assess the relationship between baseline plasma 25(OH) D levels, change in 25(OH)D levels, and DFS and overall survival (OS) in patients with stage III colon cancer receiving FOLFOX +/- atezolizumab.

VI. To determine the ability of using fecal microbiota and their metabolic products to predict survival benefit from anti-PD-L1 antibody therapy in dMMR colon cancer patients.

VII. To determine if hypermutation or hyper-indel status is associated with response to atezolizumab.

VIII. To determine if unique messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression signatures are predictive of disease-free survival among patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy for stage III colon cancer.

IX. To determine if the efficacy of atezolizumab differs among dMMR cancers due to germline MMR mutation (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2) versus those with MLH1 hypermethylation and CIMP in patients with stage III colon cancer.

X. To identify overall mutational burden and number of putative tumor neoantigens in colon carcinoma specimens.

XI. To determine changes in growth patterns compared to baseline (relative to age-specific standards for height and weight). (Patients aged 12 to \< 18 years to evaluate the impact of atezolizumab on growth and development patterns in this population) XII. To determine changes in development patterns compared to baseline (relative to onset of menarche \[for females\] and pubertal changes). (Patients aged 12 to \< 18 years to evaluate the impact of atezolizumab on growth and development patterns in this population)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV as a bolus on day 1, then continuously over 46 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes starting on day 1 of cycle 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 25 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) every 6 months for the first 2 years, then for years 3-5 or until evidence of relapse, whichever comes first. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV as a bolus on day 1, then continuously over 46 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT or MRI every 6 months for the first 2 years, then for years 3-5 or until evidence of relapse, whichever comes first. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for recurrence every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for 3 years. Patients are also followed up for survival every 6 months for up to 8 years.