Sleep Coach: A Mobile App to Address Insomnia Symptoms Among Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial will evaluate the adherence, usefulness, satisfaction and effect size for the Sleep Coach app as an intervention for insomnia in 30 adult post-treatment cancer survivors.
Insomnia|Breast Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Colon Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Sleep Coach App
Percentage of participants engaging with the app at least 4 days/week, Adherence will be evaluated using data gathered from the application. Participants will be asked to interact daily with the application and will be deemed adherent if they interact with the app at least 4 times per week for the duration (7 weeks) of the study. Adherence rate will be the number of participants deemed adherent / total number of participants., 7 weeks|Percentage of participants that find the intervention useful, Usefulness will be assessed using a survey developed by the investigators of this study called the User Experience Survey, which is based upon the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT). The survey assesses perceived ease of use and usefulness of the Sleep Coach app as well as participant satisfaction with the app. To assess usefulness, participants are asked to rate the usefulness of 10 different features of the Sleep Coach app on a scale of 1 to 4, with higher scores indicating greater usefulness. Participants who rate at least one app feature 2 or greater will be considered as finding the intervention useful., 7 weeks|Percentage of participants satisfied with the intervention, Satisfaction will be assessed using 2 questions from the User Experience Survey: one to determine the level of overall satisfaction with the app and the other to determine the level of willingness to recommend the app to others. Satisfaction questions are rated on a scale of 1 to 5, with higher scores indicating greater agreement/satisfaction. Participants who rate both questions 4 or greater will be considered satisfied with the Sleep Coach app., 7 weeks
Effect size of the intervention as measured by the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI)., The ISI is a 7-item questionnaire used to measure a patient's perceptions of the nature, impact and severity of insomnia. Items are scored on a scale of 0 to 4, with higher scores indicating more severe insomnia. Cohen's d or f will be calculated from baseline to week 7 to assess the effect size of the intervention., baseline to 7 weeks
Difficulty sleeping, falling and/or staying asleep, is common in people after they have been diagnosed and treated for cancer. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I) is considered to be the preferred treatment but until now, there has been limited access for most people to CBT-I because it has required an in-person visit with a trained therapist. This research study is to test a mobile CBT-I app called MI Sleep Coach to deliver CBT-I. The goal of this study is to understand if people are willing to use the app, if they find it useful in helping with sleep difficulty and if they are satisfied with using it. The investigators hope to use information from this small feasibility study to study the effectiveness of the app in a larger group of cancer survivors and ultimately to help cancer survivors with sleep difficulties to sleep better.