Morbidity, Long-term Side Effects and Quality of Life in Germ-cell Tumor Long Survivors Treated with High-dose Chemotherapy and Autologous Stem Cell Transplant
Intensified chemotherapy is an effective treatment in 30-70% of patients with refractory germ cell tumor. Since most cases are diagnosed before the age of 40, survivors can expect to live another 30 to 50 years after being successfully treated. Long-term side effects and physical and emotional consequences can therefore have a significant impact on daily life. To date, no data of this type is available in France. This study will help clinicians better understand the long-term consequences for relapsed patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy.
Germ Cell Tumor
OTHER: quality of life questionnaire
Compare the quality of life between the three groups measured with the EORTC-QLQ C-30 questionnaire., To compare the quality of life in long-term survivors of germ cell cancers after high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplant with a group of coetaneous patients treated by orchidectomy only for localized testicular tumor and a group of patients of the same age treated with first line cisplatin-based chemotherapy for good or intermediate prognosis advanced germ cell tumor., Day 1
Compare late side effects between the three groups., Day 1|Compare correlated morbidities between the three groups., Day 1|Compare fatigue measured by the MFI-20 scale between the three groups., Day 1|Compare symptoms of post-traumatic stress measured by the IES scale between the three groups., Day 1|Compare current social and professional situation between the three groups., Day 1
Intensified chemotherapy is an effective treatment in 30-70% of patients with refractory germ cell tumor. Since most cases are diagnosed before the age of 40, survivors can expect to live another 30 to 50 years after being successfully treated. Long-term side effects and physical and emotional consequences can therefore have a significant impact on daily life. To date, no data of this type is available in France. This study will help clinicians better understand the long-term consequences for relapsed patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy.