Nivolumab, Cabozantinib S-Malate, and Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This partially randomized phase II trial studies how well nivolumab, cabozantinib s-malate, and ipilimumab work in treating patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer that has come back. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab and ipilimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Cabozantinib s-malate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving nivolumab, cabozantinib s-malate, and ipilimumab may work better than cabozantinib s-malate alone in treating patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
Metastatic Lung Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Cabozantinib|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as time from randomization to documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined as appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Every 3 months up to 4 years and 2 months
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as time from randomization to death or date last known alive., Every 3 months up to 4 years and 2 months|Best Overall Response, Best overall response was evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Response is defined as either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR).

Complete response is defined as disappearance of all lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

For Arm T patients, to be assigned a status of CR or PR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no less than four weeks after the criteria for response are first met. Arm A, B, and C patients do not require confirmation scans for CR or PR., Every 3 months up to 4 years and 2 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS) by Programmed Death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) Status, Progression-free survival is defined as time from randomization to documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined as appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Every 3 months for 5 years|The Distribution of Best Overall Response by RECIST 1.1 Criteria, Uni-dimensional Immune Response Criteria (iRRC) and Immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST) Criteria, Best overall response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria:

Response is defined as either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Complete response is defined as disappearance of all lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Response by iRRC is defined as per RECIST1.1.

Measurements of iRECIST response will be performed as described by Seymour et al with time point and over all response assessments categorized as immune complete response (iCR), immune partial response (iPR), immune stable disease (iSD), immune unconfirmed progressive disease (iUPD) and confirmed progressive disease (iCPD)., Every 3 months for 5 years|Response Per RECIST1.1 Performed by Central Review and by Site Study Personnel, Best overall response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria:

Response is defined as either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Complete response is defined as disappearance of all lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Every 3 months for 5 years|Effects of Tobacco on Provider-reported Cancer-treatment Toxicity and Dose Modifications, A combined analysis of the data from the selected Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) and the American College of Radiology Imaging Network (ACRIN) trials is planned. Data collected from the tobacco use assessment in each parent study will not be analyzed and reported in the clinical study report., Assessed every 4 weeks until 30 days after treatment completion, up to 5 years|Effects of Tobacco on Patient-reported Physical Symptoms and Psychological Symptoms, A combined analysis of the data from the selected ECOG-ACRIN trials is planned. Data collected from the tobacco use assessment in each parent study will not be analyzed and reported in the clinical study report.

Psychological Symptom Assessment:

Anxiety \& Depression: (The Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS®)). The 4-item Short Form PROMIS® for anxiety and depression will be administered. Score ranges between 4 and 20. Higher scores indicate more anxiety/depression.

Physical Symptom Assessment by Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT): Six symptom items (general pain, fatigue, nausea, cough, sleep difficulties, shortness of breath) from FACIT will be used for evaluation. Score ranges between 5 and 20. Higher scores indicate higher shame., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Assessment of Quitting Behaviors, Behavioral Counseling/Support and Cessation Medication Utilization, A combined analysis of the data from the selected ECOG-ACRIN trials is planned. Data collected from the tobacco use assessment in each parent study will not be analyzed and reported in the clinical study report., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Effects of Tobacco Use and Exposure on Treatment Duration, Relative Dose Intensity, and Therapeutic Benefit, A combined analysis of the data from the selected ECOG-ACRIN trials is planned. Data collected from the tobacco use assessment in each parent study will not be analyzed and reported in the clinical study report., Assessed every 3 months for 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate whether combination therapy of nivolumab and cabozantinib s-malate (cabozantinib), or of nivolumab and cabozantinib, and ipilimumab as compared to nivolumab alone, extends progression-free survival (PFS) for this patient population with non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the overall survival for each arm of the trial. II. To estimate the best overall response rate for each arm of the trial. III. To estimate the progression free survival of the targeted therapy arm of the trial.

IV. To describe the toxicity profile of monotherapy with nivolumab, and the combination of nivolumab and cabozantinib, and the combination of nivolumab and cabozantinib and ipilimumab, in this patient population with non-squamous NSCLC.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To adjust progression free survival for each arm based on PD-L1 tumor status.

IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe time point tumor response assessment, overall best response and progression-free survival using the conventional Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and the exploratory uni-dimensional immune response criteria (iRRC) and the imaging (i)RECIST criteria with all measurements performed by the central review.

II. To compare RECIST 1.1 imaging response assessment measurements (time point response assessment and overall best response) assess by site study personnel to those performed by central review.

EXPLORATORY TOBACCO USE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events (both clinical and hematologic) and dose modifications).

II. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and psychological symptoms.

III. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication utilization.

IV. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms. Patients with ROS1 gene rearrangement, MET exon 14 splice mutations, MET high amplification, or RET gene rearrangement are assigned to Arm T.

ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab at 480 mg intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive nivolumab at 480 mg IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib s-malate at 40 mg orally (PO) daily on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C: Patients receive nivolumab at 480 mg IV over 60 minutes on day 1, cabozantinib s-malate at 40 mg PO daily on days 1-28, and ipilimumab at 1 mg/kg IV over 90 minutes every 8 weeks. Cycles for nivolumab and cabozantinib s-malate repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM T: Patients with ROS1 gene rearrangement, MET exon 14 splice mutations, MET high amplification, or RET gene rearrangement receive nivolumab at 480 mg IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib s-malate at 40 mg PO daily on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 5 years.