QL1706 As Second-line Treatment in Patients with Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This is a phase I trial to assess the safety and preliminary efficacy of QL1706 in Treating Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients refractory to prior immunotherapy.
HCC - Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: QL1706
Median progression-free survival(mPFS), measured from the date of first treatment to radiographically documented progression according to mRECIST 1.1 or death from any cause (whichever occurs first). Participants alive and without disease progression or lost to follow-up will be censored at the date of their last radiographic assessment., From randomization to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs earlier, assessed up to 1 year
overall response rate (ORR) measured by mRECIST criteria, Complete response (CR): Disappearance of any intra-tumoral arterial enhancement in all target lesions; Partial response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of viable (enhancement in the arterial phase) target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the diameters of target lesions; Stable disease (SD): Any cases that do not qualify for either partial response or progressive disease; Progressive disease (PD): An increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of viable (enhancing) target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of viable (enhancing) target lesions recorded since treatment started.

ORR=CR+PR., rom the date of first treatment to radiographically documented progression according to mRECIST, assessed up to 2 year|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS): measured from date of first treatment to the date of death from any cause. Participants alive or lost to follow-up will be censored at the date of their last visit., from the date of first treatment to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 2 year|Disease control rate (DCR), Percentage of patients that had a CR, PR, or SD ≥ 6 months per mRECIST, from the date of first treatment to radiographically documented response according to mRECIST, assessed up to 2 year|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Adverse Events, Up to 21 days post-the last treatment
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have produced encouraging results in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Nonetheless, single-agent ICIs are effective in only 15% to 20% of HCC patients. According to the phase 3 LEAP-002 trial, lenvatinib combined with pembrolizumab provides a limited survival advantage over lenvatinib. In China, local treatments combined with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and anti-PD-1 antibodies have been used as the first-line treatment of advanced HCC. However, due to the heterogeneity of cancer, patient responses to monotherapy or combination therapy vary considerably, and only some patients benefit from such therapy. Hence, there is an unmet need to investigate the appropriate treatment for the rapidly expanding group of patients with advanced HCC who had tumor progression on prior anti-PD-1 therapies. QL1706 (PSB205) is a single bifunctional MabPair (a novel technical platform) product consisting of two engineered monoclonal antibodies (anti-PD-1 IgG4 and anti-CTLA-4 IgG1), with a shorter elimination half-life (t1/2) for CTLA-4. The Single-arm, single-center study aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of QL1706 in treating advanced HCC refractory to prior PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitors.