DNA Plasmid-encoding Interleukin-12/HPV DNA Plasmids Therapeutic Vaccine INO-3112 and Durvalumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Human Papillomavirus Associated Cancers
This phase II trial studies how well deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) plasmid-encoding interleukin-12/human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA plasmids therapeutic vaccine INO-3112 and durvalumab work in treating patients with human papillomavirus associated cancers that have come back or spread to other places in the body. Vaccines made from a gene-modified virus may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving DNA plasmid-encoding interleukin-12/HPV DNA plasmids therapeutic vaccine INO-3112 and durvalumab may work better in treating patients with human papillomavirus associated cancers.
Human Papillomavirus-16 Positive|Human Papillomavirus-18 Positive|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm|Recurrent Anal Canal Carcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Recurrent Malignant Neoplasm|Recurrent Penile Carcinoma|Recurrent Vaginal Carcinoma|Recurrent Vulvar Carcinoma|Refractory Malignant Neoplasm|Stage IV Anal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Penile Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: DNA Plasmid-encoding Interleukin-12/HPV DNA Plasmids Therapeutic Vaccine MEDI0457|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Will be evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. Will be estimated with 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years
Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate is defined as N (%) patients with CR, PR, or SD by 24 weeks on study using RECIST version 1.1. For SD determination for DCR, the patient must have lack of progression for the first 24 weeks on study. Disease control rate will be assessed in the Response-evaluable and As-treated populations. Will be evaluated by RECIST version 1.1. Will be estimated with 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Surival is defined as time in months from start of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression as assessed by RECIST v1.1; Will be summarized using the method of Kaplan and Meier and Cox proportional hazards models., Up to 2 years|Median Overall Survival, Will be summarized using the method of Kaplan and Meier and Cox proportional hazards models., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of DNA plasmid-encoding interleukin-12/HPV DNA plasmids therapeutic vaccine INO-3112 (MEDI0457) in combination with durvalumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile of MEDI0457 in combination with durvalumab in patients with recurrent/metastatic human papilloma virus (HPV) 16- or 18- associated cancer.

II. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with recurrent/metastatic incurable HPV-16/18 positive solid malignancies receiving the combination of MEDI0457and durvalumab.

III. To evaluate objective response rate (ORR) by immune-related criteria of the combination of MEDI0457 and durvalumab in patients with recurrent/metastatic incurable HPV-16/18 positive solid malignancies.

IV. To evaluate the disease control rate at 24 weeks.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the cellular and humoral immune response to immunotherapy with MEDI0457 in combination with durvalumab,

II. To examine the correlation between anti tumor activity and biomarkers including:

IIa. HPV-specific cellular and humoral responses. IIb. Programmed death ligand 1 status. IIc. The number of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, HPV 16/18 E6/E7 deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) levels and HPV 16/18 E6/E7 DNA sequence in biopsy tissue and plasma.

III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics and anti-drug antibodies (ADA) for durvalumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive DNA plasmid-encoding interleukin-12/HPV DNA plasmids therapeutic vaccine INO-3112 intramuscularly (IM) and via electroporation at 1, 3, 7, and 12 weeks and durvalumab intravenously (IV) at 4, 8, and 12 weeks. Starting week 12, cycles repeat every 8 weeks for DNA plasmid-encoding interleukin-12/HPV DNA plasmids therapeutic vaccine INO-3112 and every 4 weeks for up to 13 doses of durvalumab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 days, every 3 months for 12 months, and then every 6 months thereafter.