Clofarabine With Cytarabine for Patients With Minimal Residual Disease Positive Leukemia
This study will test the ability of clofarabine + cytarabine to eliminate minimal residual disease (MRD) in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients whose bone marrows exhibit complete remission by morphology. The toxicity profile of this regimen will be evaluated in addition to toxicity experienced by patients who proceed to stem cell transplant. Overall length of remission will also be collected.
Minimal Residual Disease|Leukemia, Lymphoblastic, Acute|Leukemia, Myelogenous, Acute
DRUG: Clofarabine|DRUG: Cytarabine intravenous|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Intrathecal (IT) Cytarabine
Minimal Residual Disease (MRD), To be assessed in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients whose bone marrows exhibit complete remission by morphology. Patient's bone marrow will be evaluated for the amount of minimal residual disease (MRD) present after treatment on courses 1 and 2., Sample collected between Days 22-36 of courses 1 and 2
Number of Patients With Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Treatment related toxicities that preclude proceeding to HSCT by day 56 of the treatment course., Beginning with the first dose of investigational product until day 56 of treatment course, an average of 1 year|Occurrence of Toxicity During Hematopoietic Cell Transplant (HCT) for Patients Who Achieve Remission and Proceed to Transplant, After the patient completes therapy on this protocol, data will continue to be collected regarding whether the patient proceeded to HCT. Toxicity and adverse event information will be collected., Every 3 months for life following completion of protocol therapy.
Recent studies have demonstrated that even low levels of minimum residual disease (MRD) (\>0.01% abnormal blasts) after aggressive re-induction therapy indicate a relatively poor outcome in relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients, including those who proceed to allogeneic stem cell transplant (alloSCT). A similarly poor prognosis was seen in pediatric acute myelogenous leukemia patients with sub-morphologic disease prior to alloSCT. Studies to identify therapies that can eliminate persistent leukemia, have low toxicity profiles and can serve as a bridge to transplant are needed.

This study will test the ability of clofarabine + cytarabine to eliminate minimal residual disease (MRD) in acute myelogenous leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients whose bone marrows exhibit complete remission by morphology. The toxicity profile of this regimen will be evaluated in addition to toxicity experienced by patients who proceed to stem cell transplant. Overall length of remission will also be collected.