Evaluation of Oral Care to Prevent Oral Mucositis in ER Positive MBC Patients Treated With Everolimus: Phase 3 RCT
To examine whether the occurrence of oral mucositis can be reduced by dental oral management in patients by comparing the use of dental oral management through instruction by dental and oral surgeons (dental oral management group) and an observation group (brushing instruction only group) in a randomized, controlled study in females that are using everolimus for estrogen receptor-positive, hormone therapy-resistant refractory breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Oral management|DRUG: Everolimus
Incidence of oral mucositis (Over Grade 1) after everolimus treatment, Incidence of oral mucositis in Grade 1 or more, is evaluated by an oncologist., Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment
Incidence of oral mucositis (Over Grade 2), Incidence of oral mucositis in Grade 2 or more, is evaluated by an oncologist., Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Incidence of oral mucositis (Over Grade 3), Incidence of oral mucositis in Grade 3 or more, is evaluated by an oncologist., Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Incidence of oral mucositis (Over Grade 1), Incidence of oral mucositis in Grade 1 or more, is evaluated by a dental and oral surgeon, Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Incidence of oral mucositis (Over Grade 2), Incidence of oral mucositis in Grade 2 or more, is evaluated by a dental and oral surgeon, Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Incidence of oral mucositis (Over Grade 3), Incidence of oral mucositis in Grade 3 or more, is evaluated by a dental and oral surgeon, Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Time to the onset of oral mucositis, Time to the onset of mucositis is evaluated by an oncologist or a dental/oral surgeon, Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Duration of each Grade of oral mucositis, Duration of each Grade of mucositis is evaluated by an oncologist or a dental/oral surgeon, respectively, Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Each ratio of patients in suspension, or dose-reduction of everolimus treatment due to oral mucositis, Suspension or dose-reduction of everolimus treatment is evaluated by an oncologist, Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Oral Assessment Guide (Revised), Oral assessment guide is evaluated by a dental/oral surgeon, Patients are followed up for 8 weeks after initial enrollment|Health-related quality of life (HRQOL), Following QOL questionnaire from (in Japanese) are used for evaluation: FACT-G, GOHAI and SF-36, Evaluations are executed after the patient enrollment, 4 weeks and the end (8 weeks) of the initiation of the treatment.
To examine whether the occurrence of oral mucositis can be reduced by dental oral management in patients by comparing the use of dental oral management through instruction by dental surgeons or oral surgeons (hereafter referred to as, "dental and oral surgeons") and an observation group in a randomized, controlled study in females that are using everolimus for estrogen receptor-positive, hormone therapy-resistant refractory breast cancer.

The objectives of this study are as described below.

1. To examine whether the occurrence of oral mucositis can be reduced by implementing dental oral management prior to everolimus treatment.
2. To examine whether the frequency and duration of oral mucositis can be reduced and reductions in the dose of everolimus can be reduced by implementing dental oral management prior to everolimus treatment.
3. To examine whether treatment of oral mucositis of over Grade 1 with dexaltin ointment as dental oral management can reduce the occurrence of Grade 2 oral mucositis.
4. To evaluate the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in a group that implements dental oral management prior to everolimus treatment and a group that does not.
5. To establish and strengthen cooperation and organize and expand and information distribution network through the participation of oncologists and specialists in breast cancer treatment (hereafter referred to as, "oncologists") and dental and oral surgeons in clinical studies.