Pembrolizumab and Pelareorep in Treating Patients With Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well pembrolizumab in combination with pelareorep work in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may induce changes in the body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. A virus, called reovirus (pelareorep), which has been changed in a certain way, may be able to kill tumor cells without damaging normal cells. Giving pembrolizumab in combination with pelareorep may work better in treating patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Wild-type Reovirus
Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version (v) 1.1, To determine the overall response rate (ORR) by RECIST v 1.1 criteria for the combination of pembrolizumab with pelareorep. ORR is defined as the number of patients who have a complete or partial response to therapy (CR or PR). The Simon 2 stage design for this study requires 2 or more PR or CR in Stage 1 to continue accrual for Stage 2. Per RECIST v. 1.1: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Patients who have taken one dose of either study drug, and completed the first on study scan (last week of Cycle 3) are evaluable. If a patient drops out of the study before the first scan, due to clinical progression, they are evaluable and will not be replaced., Last week of Cycle 3 (1 Cycle = 21 days)
Median Progression Free Survival (mPFS) by RECIST v 1.1, Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including baseline if that is the smallest). In addition, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression. Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival at One Year (12 Months), Measured from time of treatment initiation until death for any reason. Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., At 1 year|Overall Survival (OS) at Two Years (24 Months), Measured from time of treatment initiation until death for any reason. Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., At 2 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), Measured from time of treatment initiation until death from any cause. Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., Up to 2 years|Number of Patients With Adverse Events at Grade 3 Per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.03, Adverse events graded 3 using CTCAE 4.03 where:

Mild (grade 1): the event causes discomfort without disruption of normal daily activities.

Moderate (grade 2): the event causes discomfort that affects normal daily activities.

Severe (grade 3): the event makes the patient unable to perform normal daily activities or significantly affects his/her clinical status.

Life-threatening (grade 4): the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event.

Fatal (grade 5): the event caused death., Up to 30 days after last dose|Immune Response Determined by Analysis of pre-and Post- Treatment Biopsies and Blood-based Immune Markers, Will be assessed for change using paired statistical methods such as paired t-tests or signed rank tests., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1 criteria of pembrolizumab in combination with Reovirus Serotype 3 ? Dearing Strain (pelareorep).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine progression free survival by RECIST v 1.1 criteria, as well as 1- year, 2-year and median overall survival with pembrolizumab in combination with pelareorep.

II. To determine safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab and pelareorep when administered in combination as determined by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 4.03.

III. To determine the effects (immune response) of pembrolizumab and pelareorep when administered in combination as determined by analysis of pre-and post-treatment biopsies and blood-based immune markers.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure the overall response rate (ORR) by using Immune-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST) criteria, for the combination of pembrolizumab and pelareorep.

II. To determine progression free survival by iRECIST criteria as well as 1-year, 2-year and median overall survival with pembrolizumab in combination with pelareorep.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 32 courses in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, development of an inter-current illness that prevents further administration of treatment, patient decides to withdraw, patients not experiencing clinical benefit in the judgment of the Investigator, or the treating investigator determines that the patient should be taken off treatment for any reason. Patients also receive Pelareorep IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 2, 3, and 8 in course 1 and on days 1 and 8 of subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, development of an inter-current illness that prevents further administration of treatment, patient decides to withdraw, patients not experiencing clinical benefit in the judgment of the Investigator, or the treating investigator determines that the patient should be taken off treatment for any reason. Patients who stop study therapy with stable disease (SD) or better may be eligible for up to 1 year of additional Pelareorep and pembrolizumab therapy if they progress after stopping study treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.