VEGF Trap in Treating Patients With Recurrent, Locally Advanced, or Metastatic Cancer of the Urothelium
This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well VEGF Trap works in treating patients with recurrent, locally advanced, or metastatic cancer of the urothelium. VEGF Trap may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Adenocarcinoma of the Bladder|Distal Urethral Cancer|Metastatic Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Proximal Urethral Cancer|Recurrent Bladder Cancer|Recurrent Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Recurrent Urethral Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder|Stage III Bladder Cancer|Stage III Urethral Cancer|Stage IV Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder|Urethral Cancer Associated With Invasive Bladder Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: ziv-aflibercept|OTHER: pharmacological study
Tumor Response Rate, Response rate (RR) and progression free survival (PFS) were assessed in a 2-stage accrual design (22+18). A maximum of 40 patients were to be accrued to rule out a null hypothesized RR of 4% and PFS of 3 months versus alternative of 15% RR and 5.4 months PFS (corresponding to 4 month PFS of 40% vs 60%) with α=0.12 and β=0.19. If no more than 1 objective response (no more than 4.5%), and no more than 10 instances of 4-month PFS (no more than 45%), were observed among the initial 22 patients, the study would be terminated early and declared negative. Tumor response was evaluated by CT or MRI using RECIST v1.0 criteria.

Responders were confirmed partial or complete responses to treatment., From the start of the treatment until disease progression or recurrence, assessed up to 4 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions PFS using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From start of treatment to time of progression, assessed up to 4 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate in patients with recurrent, locoregionally advanced, or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium treated with VEGF Trap.

II. Determine the time to progression in patients treated with this drug. III. Determine overall survival of patients treated with this drug. IV. Determine the tolerability and safety of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive VEGF Trap IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood collection periodically during study for pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic correlative studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.