Rolapitant Hydrochloride in Preventing Nausea/Vomiting in Patients With Sarcoma Receiving Chemotherapy
This randomized phase II trial studies how well rolapitant hydrochloride works in preventing nausea/vomiting in patients with sarcoma receiving chemotherapy. Antiemetic drugs, such as rolapitant hydrochloride, may help control or prevent nausea and vomiting in patients treated with chemotherapy.
Locally Advanced Sarcoma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Fosaprepitant Dimeglumine|DRUG: Ifosfamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mesna|DRUG: Ondansetron|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Rolapitant Hydrochloride|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR) of Rolapitant Hydrochloride Administered as a Single-dose, Complete response (CR) no emetic episodes and no rescue medications., Days 1-10
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the effect of rolapitant hydrochloride (rolapitant) on nausea/vomiting in patients with sarcoma receiving multi-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC) regimen of doxorubicin and ifosfamide (AI).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity of rolapitant in patients receiving AI regimen. II. To evaluate the effects of rolapitant on patient reported outcomes.

OUTLINE:

PART I: Patients receive dexamethasone intravenously (IV) daily and ondansetron IV on days 1-5, and rolapitant hydrochloride orally (PO) on day 1.

PART II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive treatment as in part I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive dexamethasone IV and ondansetron IV on days 1-5, and fosaprepitant dimeglumine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 of cycle 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CHEMOTHERAPY: All patients receive doxorubicin IV over 72 hours, mesna IV, and ifosfamide IV over 3 hours on days 1-4 or 1-5. Patients with sarcomas of small cell histology receive vincristine sulfate IV on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks following blood count and patient recovery from any acute toxicities.