Surgical Site Infiltration of Exparel vs TAP Block With Exparel in Patients Undergoing Laparotomy Via Midline Incision
This is a randomized-controlled prospective study to be conducted at Danbury Hospital and Norwalk Hospital to compare postoperative opioid consumption and pain scores of patients with suspected or known gynecologic malignancies undergoing midline laparotomy who received TAP block with liposomal bupivacaine versus surgical site infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine.

Primary outcome: Total postoperative opioid consumption as measured by morphine equivalents over 48 hour period.

Secondary outcomes include: Pain scores (based on visual analog scale 1-10) at 2 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours and 48 hours postoperatively at rest and upon exertion (Valsalva maneuver), Severity of nausea, Episodes of vomiting, Total antiemetics consumption over 48 hour period.
Postoperative Pain|Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting|Opioid Use
PROCEDURE: TAP Block|PROCEDURE: Surgical Site Infiltration|DRUG: Exparel
Total postoperative opioid consumption over 48 hours, Total postoperative opioid consumption as measured by morphine milligram equivalents (MME), over 48 hour period after surgery
Pain scores at rest and upon exertion, Pain scores based on Wong-baker FACES Pain Rating Scale (Visual analog scale (VAS)) at rest and upon exertion (Valsalva maneuver) will be collected in person or over the phone. 0 - no hurt, 2 - hurts little bit, 4 - hurts little more, 6 - hurts even more, 8 - hurts whole lot, 10 - hurts worst., 2 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours and 48 hours postoperatively|Severity of nausea, Severity of nausea will be collected in person or over the phone. Severity of Nausea Scale:- 0 = none, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, 3 = severe, 2, 6, 12, 24, & 48 hours postoperatively|Episodes of vomiting, Total number of vomiting episodes will be collected from medical record., 48 hours postoperatively|Total antiemetics consumption, Total antiemetics consumption (type of antiemetic, mode of administration, dose, time of administration) will be collected from medical record., 48 hour postoperatively
Recent studies suggest surgical site infiltration of local anesthetic into the preperitoneal, subfascial and/or subcutaneous planes as an alternative approach. The literature suggests this offers superior pain relief and significantly reduced morphine consumption. This procedure has been shown to provide excellent analgesia in open inguinal hernia repair and colorectal procedures up to 72 hours after a single injection. However, there is limited published data comparing TAP block with liposomal bupivacaine and surgical site infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine in open hysterectomy patients.

The investigators propose to prospectively study the efficacy of surgical site infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine versus TAP block with liposomal bupivacaine in patients with suspected or known gynecologic malignancies undergoing midline laparotomy. The investigators hypothesize that surgical site infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine is more effective than TAP block with liposomal bupivacaine in this patient population. The investigators primary outcome will be postoperative total 48 hour opioid consumption.

Secondary outcomes will include visual analog scale (VAS) pain scores at rest and upon exertion (Valsalva maneuver) at 2 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours and 48 hours postoperatively, severity of nausea, episodes of vomiting and total antiemetics consumption postoperatively. Pain scores and severity of nausea scores will be collected in person or over the phone.

The investigators expect the results of this study to demonstrate that surgical site infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine in patients with suspected or known gynecologic malignancies undergoing midline laparotomy may help shorten the recovery period and reduce the need for postoperative opioid medications. Furthermore, generally patients undergoing procedures such as tumor debulking and lymph node dissection would have an extended hospitalization. If surgical site infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine administration is found to decrease the length of hospitalization (versus TAP Block with liposomal bupivacaine), it will significantly decrease the health care costs.