BAY88-8223, Does Response Study in HRPC Patients
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the investigational radioisotope Radium-223, Xofigo (Alpharadin), in treatment of men with prostate cancer and bone metastases that no longer respond to hormonal treatment.
Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer|Bone Metastases
DRUG: Radium-223 dichloride (BAY88-8223)
Pain Assessment (using a 100mm Visual Analogue Scale), 16 weeks|Analgesic consumption, 16 weeks
Reduction of pain: the pain dimension of Quality of Life assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) form, with total pain score and subtotals, after injection and compared to scores at baseline, 16 weeks|Duration of pain relief: measured as the time between the first and last evaluation time points at which the pain response criteria were met, 16 weeks|The safety of radium-223: the total safety profile including adverse events and clinical laboratory measurements, with emphasis on haematological toxicity. Adverse events will be recorded continuously during the study period., 2 years|The date of death (if within 24 months after the injection of study drug), 2 years
The study is designed to investigate whether there is a dose-response relationship for radium-223 in patients with painful bone metastases secondary to prostate carcinoma regarding palliation of bone pain. The palliative efficacy will be established through assessments of bone pain and consumption of analgesia. Furthermore, the aim is to find the most efficient dose with an acceptable safety profile. The safety will be assessed through measurements of adverse events, and acute haematological toxicity during the study period. Long-term chronic toxicity, and the overall survival at one and two years post treatment will also be assessed.

This is a double-blind, dose-response, randomized, multi-centre phase II efficacy and safety study of radium- 223. The clinical sites will enroll a total of 100 eligible patients. The treatment is a single intravenous administration of radium-223.

The target population is patients suffering from bone pain due to skeletal metastasis secondary to hormone refractory prostate cancer.