Lateral Pelvic Lymph Node Dissection for Rectal Neuroendocrine Neoplasms Undergoing Laparoscopic Total Mesenteric Excision
The purpose of this study is to investigate the metastatic status of lateral pelvic lymph nodes in rectal neuroendocrine neoplasms (rNENs) undergoing laparoscopic total mesenteric excision (TME). The hypothesis is that the rate of lateral lymph node metastasis is underestimated in rNENs undergoing TME, necessitating concurrent lateral Pelvic lymph node dissection.
Rectal Neuroendocrine Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: lateral pelvic lymph node dissection
The rate of lateral pelvic lymph node metastasis, The rate of lateral pelvic lymph node metastasis = lateral pelvic lymph node metastasis cases/all cases., up to 14 days
The rate of lymph node metastasis, The rate of lymph node metastasis = lymph node metastasis cases/all cases., up to 14 days|Disease-free survival rate, Disease-free survival (DFS) is a number that tells the chances of staying free of a disease or cancer after a particular treatment. It is the percentage of individuals in the treatment group who are likely to be free of the signs and symptoms of a disease after a specified duration of time., three years|Overall survival rate, The time from diagnosis to (for any reason) death., three years|Locoregional recurrence free survival rate, Locoregional Recurrence Free Survival is defined as the time interval between the day of diagnosis in the study and the date of local relapse/recurrence or regional relapse/recurrence whichever occurs first., three year|Radical resection (R0), R0 resection rate is R0 resection probability of radical surgery in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer after neoadjuvant therapy, up to 14 years
This study is a prospective single-arm clinical study. 30 patients with rNENs undergoing TME are planned to be included in the study. The purpose of this study is to investigate the metastatic status of lateral pelvic lymph nodes in (rNENs) undergoing laparoscopic TME. The primary endpoint is the rate of lateral pelvic lymph nodes metastasis. The primary hypothesis was the rate of lateral lymph node metastasis is underestimated in rNENs undergoing TME, necessitating concurrent lateral Pelvic lymph node dissection.

This study seeks to report for the first time the true status of lateral pelvic lymph node metastasis in these patients. In addition, the proportion of patients with radical resection (R0), surgical complication profile, and quality of life (QoL) are also secondary endpoints.