Study of Nivolumab Combined With Ipilimumab Versus Pemetrexed and Cisplatin or Carboplatin as First Line Therapy in Unresectable Pleural Mesothelioma Patients
The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness and tolerability of the combination of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab compared to Pemetrexed and Cisplatin or Carboplatin in patients with unresectable pleural mesothelioma.
Mesothelioma
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival was defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause. A participant who has not died was censored at last known date alive., From randomization to the date of death (Up to 40 Months)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate is defined as the percentage of randomized participants who achieve a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) assessments. Per adapted m-RECIST for pleural mesothelioma, each single tumor measurement must be at least 10 mm in length to qualify as measureable disease and contribute to the sum that defines the pleural uni-variate measure. Per RECIST 1.1 for solid tumors, confirmation of response required:

CR=Disappearance of all target lesions; PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the Total Tumor Measurement; Progressive disease (PD)=At least a 20% increase in the sum of the Total Tumor Measurement., From randomization date to the date of objectively documented progression or the date of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first (Up to 76 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate is defined as the percentage of all randomized participants whose Best Overall Response was complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) or Non-CR/Non-PD as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR). Per adapted m-RECIST for pleural mesothelioma, each single tumor measurement must be at least 10 mm in length to qualify as measureable disease and contribute to the sum that defines the pleural uni-variate measure. Per RECIST 1.1 for solid tumors, confirmation of response required:

CR=Disappearance of all target lesions; PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the Total Tumor Measurement; Progressive disease (PD)=At least a 20% increase in the sum of the Total Tumor Measurement; SD=Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD; Non-CR/Non-PD: Persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s)., From randomization date to the date of objectively documented progression or the date of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first (Up to 76 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first documented tumor progression per Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) assessments (using adapted m-RECIST and RECIST 1.1), or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Participants who received subsequent anticancer therapy prior to documented progression were censored at the date of the last evaluable tumor assessment conducted on or prior to the date of initiation of the subsequent anticancer therapy.

Progressive disease (PD)=At least a 20% increase in the sum of the Total Tumor Measurement., From randomization date to the date of first documented tumor progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. (up to 76 months)|Overall Survival (OS) According to PD-L1 Expression Level, PD-L1 Expression is defined as the percent of tumor cells membrane staining in a minimum of 100 evaluable tumor cells per validated Dako PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay. This is referred to as quantifiable PD-L1 expression and efficacy is determined by overall survival (OS) analysis. OS was defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause. A participant who has not died was censored at last known date alive., From randomization date to the date of death (Up to 76 Months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) According to PD-L1 Expression Level, PD-L1 Expression is defined as the percent of tumor cells membrane staining in a minimum of 100 evaluable tumor cells per validated Dako PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay. This is referred to as quantifiable PD-L1 expression and efficacy is determined by progression free survival (PFS) analysis. PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first documented tumor progression per Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) assessments (using adapted m-RECIST and RECIST 1.1), or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Participants who received subsequent anticancer therapy prior to documented progression were censored at the date of the last evaluable tumor assessment conducted on or prior to the date of initiation of the subsequent anticancer therapy.

Progressive disease (PD)=At least a 20% increase in the sum of the Total Tumor Measurement., From randomization date to the date of first documented tumor progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. (up to 76 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR) According to PD-L1 Expression Level, PD-L1 Expression is defined as the percent of tumor cells membrane staining in a minimum of 100 evaluable tumor cells per validated Dako PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay. This is referred to as quantifiable PD-L1 expression and efficacy is determined by objective response rate (ORR) analysis. ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) assessments. Per adapted m-RECIST for pleural mesothelioma, each single tumor measurement must be at least 10 mm in length to qualify as measureable disease and contribute to the sum that defines the pleural uni-variate measure.

per RECIST 1.1 for solid tumors, confirmation of response required: CR=Disappearance of all target lesions; PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the Total Tumor Measurement; Progressive disease (PD)=At least a 20% increase in the sum of the Total Tumor Measurement., From randomization date to the date of objectively documented progression or the date of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first (Up to 76 months)
The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness and tolerability of the combination of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab compared to Pemetrexed and Cisplatin or Carboplatin in patients with unresectable pleural mesothelioma.