Study of CXCR5 Modified EGFE Chimeric Antigen Receptor Autologous T Cells in EGFR- Positive Patients With Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This study is a clinical study on the safety, efficacy and I phase of single center, single arm, open-dose climbing, intravenous infusion of Anti- Epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR) Chimeric Antigen Receptor(CAR) T cells modified by C-X-C Chemokine receptor type 5(CXCR 5) in patients with advanced adult non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC).
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: CXCR5 modified EGFR Chimeric Antigen Receptor Autologous T cells
Safety by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0., The type, frequency, severity, and duration of adverse events as a result of EGFR CAR T cells infusion will be summarized., In CAR-T cells infusion, up to 52 weeks.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST 1.1) assessed by MRI or CT. ORR is the percentage of patients at Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (according to independent review), prior to progression or further anti-cancer therapy., In CAR-T cells infusion, up to 52 weeks.
Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of CAR T cells in patients., Cmax of CAR T cells in patients is monitored by flow or qPCR., In CAR-T cells infusion, up to 6 weeks.|Peak plasma time (Tmax) of CAR T cells in patients., Tmax of CAR T cells in patients is monitored by flow or qPCR., In CAR-T cells infusion, up to 6 weeks.|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of CAR T cells in patients., AUC of CAR T cells in patients is monitored by flow or qPCR., In CAR-T cells infusion, up to 6 weeks.
Duration of Response (DOR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST v1.1) assessed by MRI or CT., In CAR-T cells infusion, up to 52 weeks.|Time to Response (TTR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST v1.1) assessed by MRI or CT., In CAR-T cells infusion, up to 52 weeks.|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST v1.1) assessed by MRI or CT. Kaplan-Meier plots will be used to summarize the progression-free survival., In CAR-T cell infusion, up to 52 weeks.
In this study, the dose(number of cells by body weight) and time of infusion should be recorded in detail according to the dosage of slope climbing and single infusion. The safety of chimeric antigen receptor T(CAR-T) cells treatment was evaluated by observing the adverse events after cell therapy. The effectiveness of CAR-T treatment was initially assessed compared with the results of the patient's own previous standard treatment plan. Blood was collected before and within 12 months after infusion to detect the number and activity of CAR-T cells and evaluate the pharmacokinetic characteristics of CAR-T cells.