The Interest of Cancer Patients and Caregivers in Acupuncture: a Survey
Cancer and cancer treatments are accompanied by several possible side effects, such as nausea, hot flashes, fatigue, drowsiness, etc. Complementary and integrative therapies, such as acupuncture, could be used to manage these symptoms. The aim of this study for our research team is to have an idea of the interest of cancer patients and caregivers in acupuncture. This is a prospective, interventional study. Cancer patients and caregivers will be approached at the day care clinic by a health care worker to participate in this study. They will be asked to complete a questionnaire about their interest in acupuncture and their motivation, what symptoms they would need it for, where they would like this acupuncture to take place, whether they are willing to pay for it, and whether they would be interested in an information session about acupuncture.
Cancer
OTHER: Questionnaire
Response rate, At study inclusion
Interest in acupuncture assessed by questionnaire, At study inclusion|Side effects participants would like to receive acupuncture for assessed by questionnaire, At study inclusion|Place where an acupuncture treatment should take place assessed by questionnaire, At study inclusion|Willingness to pay for an acupuncture treatment assessed by questionnaire, At study inclusion|Interest in an information session about acupuncture assessed by questionnaire, At study inclusion|Patient or caregiver characteristics (sex, age, diagnosis) collected by questionnaire, At study inclusion
Cancer and cancer treatments are accompanied by several possible side effects, such as nausea, hot flashes, fatigue, drowsiness, etc. Complementary and integrative therapies, such as acupuncture, could be used to manage these symptoms. The aim of this study for our research team is to have an idea of the interest of cancer patients and caregivers in acupuncture. This is a prospective, interventional study. Cancer patients and caregivers will be approached at the day care clinic by a health care worker to participate in this study. They will be asked to complete a questionnaire about their interest in acupuncture and their motivation, what symptoms they would need it for, where they would like this acupuncture to take place, whether they are willing to pay for it, and whether they would be interested in an information session about acupuncture.