Survival imProvement in Lung cancEr iNduced by DenOsUmab theRapy
The purpose of this study is to investigate how well the standard treatment (platinum-based doublet chemotherapy) in combination with denosumab works compared with the standard treatment alone in patients with a type of lung cancer called "non small cell lung cancer" (NSCLC) that has spread to other parts of the body.
Lung Cancer Non-small Cell Stage IV
DRUG: Denosumab|OTHER: None, standard chemotherapy only
Overall Survival, OS will be defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death, whatever the cause. The follow-up of participants still alive will be censored at the moment of last follow-up. OS will be reported for all participants in both treatment arms., Overall survival was measured from the date of randomization to the date of death, whatever the cause, up to a maximum of 56 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on RECIST 1.1, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as time from date of randomisation until objective disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Disease progression and its evaluation are defined based on RECIST 1.1: Progressive disease (PD); \> 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, new lesions or non-equivocal progression in non-target disease.

If neither event has been observed, then the patient is censored at the date of the last follow up examination.

Patients with new non-lung cancer malignancy must continue to be followed for progression of the original lung cancer.

Patients who discontinue treatment prior to documented disease progression, including those who initiate non-protocol therapy prior to progression, will be followed for disease progression and death., Time from date of randomisation until objective disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to a maximum of 56 months|Number of Participants With Response (CR+PR) Based on RECIST 1.1, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR.

For more details to RECIST 1.1 criteria, see https://recist.eortc.org/, Response of the tumour is defined according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, assessed up to 56 months|Toxicity Profile of Denosumab, Number of patients with serious adverse events classified according to NCI CTCAE V4., Assessed up to 56 months|Overall Survival by Membranous RANK Expression., Overall survival is defined as time from the date of randomisation until death from any cause. Patients who are still alive at last contact are censored at the date of last follow up., Up to maximum of 56 months|Overall Survival by Cytoplasmic RANK Expression., Overall survival is defined as time from the date of randomisation until death from any cause. Patients who are still alive at last contact are censored at the date of last follow up., up to a maximum of 56 months
The investigational medicinal product denosumab is a protein (monoclonal antibody) that works to slow down bone destruction caused by cancer spreading to the bone (bone metastasis). Denosumab is used in adults with cancer to prevent serious complications caused by bone metastasis (e.g., fracture, pressure on the spinal cord or the need to receive radiation therapy or surgery). Results from one study in lung cancer patients with bone metastasis suggested that adding denosumab to the standard chemotherapy may lead to a possible survival benefit.

All patients will receive standard chemotherapy consisting of a combination of platinum-based doublet agents plus gemcitabine or pemetrexed, depending on the nature of the lung cancer, every 3 weeks for about 3-4 months:

Patients will be assigned to one of two groups, known as 'arms'.

The treatment for each arm will be as follows:

Arm A: 4 - 6 cycles of chemotherapy and best supportive care (including any bone protective agent except denosumab)

Arm B: 4 - 6 cycles of chemotherapy + denosumab 120 mg, administered subcutaneously every 3-4 weeks until unacceptable toxicity, patient refusal or patient's death. After stop of first-line chemotherapy, denosumab must be continued every 3-4 weeks lifelong, regardless of tumour progression and concomitantly with subsequent lines of systemic treatment, as long as tolerable for the patient.

Beyond primary analysis, all subjects randomised to ARM B and still benefitting from the drug will be offered denosumab at a dose of 120 mg s.c. until patient or physician elect to discontinue denosumab for any reason, and for a maximum of 2 years after the required number of events for the final analysis has been reached.

A total of 1000 patients from centers in Europe, Switzerland and Israel are expected to be enrolled in this study over a period of 37 months. The study will take approximately 56 months to be completed.