Study of Magrolimab Combination Therapy in Patients With Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The goals of this clinical study are to learn about the safety, tolerability, dosing and effectiveness of the study drug, magrolimab in combination with other anticancer therapies in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Magrolimab|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Zimberelimab
Safety Run-in Cohorts: Percentage of Participants Experiencing Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) According to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 5.0, First Dose up to 21 days|Phase 2 Cohorts 1: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the earliest date of documented disease progression, as assessed by investigator assessment, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 5 years|Phase 2 Cohorts 2 and 3: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 as determined by investigator assessment., Up to 9 months
Safety Run-In and Phase 2 Cohorts: Serum Concentration of Magrolimab, Up to end of treatment (approximately 24 months)|Safety Run-In and Phase 2 Cohorts: Percentage of Participants who Developed Antidrug Antibodies (ADAs) to Magrolimab, Up to end of treatment (approximately 24 months)|Phase 2 Cohorts: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by investigator assessment., Up to 9 months|Phase 2 Cohorts: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization (Phase 2 Cohorts 1) or date of dose initiation (Phase 2 Cohorts 2 and 3) until the earliest date of documented disease progression as determined by investigator assessment per RECIST, version 1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 5 years|Phase 2 Cohorts: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from first documentation of CR or PR to the earliest date of documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 5 years|Phase 2 Cohorts: Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization (Phase 2 Cohorts 1) or time from the date of dose initiation (Phase 2 Cohorts 2 and 3) to death from any cause., Up to 5 years|Phase 2 Cohorts: Change from Baseline in the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire is a specific questionnaire for cancer, it is composed of 30 questions (items) resulting in 5 functional scales, 1 global health status scale, 3 symptom scales, and 6 single items. Scoring of the QLQ-C30 is performed according to QLQ-C30 Scoring manual. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. Higher score for the functioning scales and global health status denote a better level of functioning (i.e. a better state of the participant), while higher scores on the symptom and single-item scales indicate a higher level of symptoms (i.e. a worse state of the participant)., Baseline; up to 24 months|Phase 2 Cohorts: Change from Baseline in the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life - Head and Neck Module (EORTC QLQ-H&N35), The head \& neck cancer module is a 35-item questionnaire designed for use among a wide range of participants with head \& neck cancer, varying in disease stage and treatment modality. It includes 7 multi-item scales that assess pain (4 items), swallowing (4 items), senses (2 items), speech (3 items), social eating (4 items), social contact (5 items), and sexuality (2 items). There are also 11 single items. Using a 4-point Likert scale, participants indicate the degree to which they have experienced symptoms. For all items and scales, high scores indicate more problems., Baseline; up to 24 months|Phase 2 Cohorts: Change From Baseline in the 5-level EuroQol 5 Dimensions Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), The EQ-5D-5L is a standard measure of health-related quality of life. The tool consists of the EQ-5D-5L descriptive part and the EQ visual analogue scale (VAS). The descriptive part comprises 5 dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression). Each of these 5 dimensions has 5 levels (no problem, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems). Results for each of the 5 dimensions are combined into a 5-digit number to describe the participant's health state.

The EQ-VAS records the participant's health on a 0-100 mm VAS scale, with 0 indicating "the worst health you can imagine" and 100 indicating "the best health you can imagine." Higher scores of EQ VAS indicate better health., Baseline; up to 24 months
The goals of this clinical study are to learn about the safety, tolerability, dosing and effectiveness of the study drug, magrolimab in combination with other anticancer therapies in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).