Molecular Biomarkers Predicting Early Development of Endometrial Carcinoma
Endometrial carcinoma represents the most common gynaecological cancer and the sixth most frequent cancer among women worldwide. The 5-year survival of patients with stage I endometrial carcinoma is 75%-88% versus 50% for stage III or 15% for stage IV disease. Therefore, early detection could improve survival rates. Specifically, in the most prevalent, type 1 endometrial cancer develops from hyperplastic endometrium. The aim of the study was to evaluate the utility of cancer gene mutations from endometrial biopsies towards predicting synchronous or metachronous development of malignant lesions. The aim of the study was to evaluate whether endometrial biopsies could already carry mutations in cancer genes useful for predicting or anticipating subsequent cancer development
Cancer of Endometrium
Mutation analyses on matched samples from female patients with a previous endometrial biopsy negative for cancer, followed by a subsequent biopsy positive for cancer, Mutation analyses performed on DNA isolated from formalin fixed, paraffin embedded samples retrieved for each patient by sequencing a panel of fifty genes (ABL1, AKT1, ALK, APC, ATM, BRAF, CDH1, CDKN2A, CSF1R, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ERBB4, EZH2, FBXW7, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, GNA11, GNAQ, GNAS, HNF1A, HRAS, IDH1, IDH2, JAK2, JAK3, KDR, KIT, KRAS, MET, MLH1, MPL, NOTCH1, NPM1, NRAS, PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PTEN, PTPN11, RB1, RET, SMAD4, SMARCB1, SMO, SRC, STK11, TP53, VHL) both on non-cancerous biopsies and on matched endometrial carcinoma biopsies., 1 year
Integration of molecular results with clinico pathological data, Integration of molecular results with clinico pathological data, 1 year
Endometrial carcinoma represents the most common gynaecological cancer and the sixth most frequent cancer among women worldwide. The 5-year survival of patients with stage I endometrial carcinoma is 75%-88% versus 50% for stage III or 15% for stage IV disease. Therefore, early detection could improve survival rates. Specifically, in the most prevalent, type 1 endometrial cancer develops from hyperplastic endometrium. The aim of the study was to evaluate the utility of cancer gene mutations from endometrial biopsies towards predicting synchronous or metachronous development of malignant lesions. The aim of the study was to evaluate whether endometrial biopsies could already carry mutations in cancer genes useful for predicting or anticipating subsequent cancer development