Immune Response After Pancreatic Cancer Treatment
The aim of this project is to describe the differential immunologic responses of patients who undergo in situ IRE, margin accentuation IRE with surgical resection of the primary tumor, and surgical resection of the primary tumor only. The primary hypothesis is that IRE induces a long and sustained activation of the cell-mediated immune system, which is distinct from the immune response after surgical resection only. The primary endpoint of this study is the comparison of the CD4+/CD8+ ratio as an indicator of antitumor immunity both longitudinally within a group after the intervention and over time between the three groups. CD4+/CD8+ ratio will be measured preoperatively and at postoperative days 1, 7, 42, and 180. As a secondary outcome, additional measurements will be taken to more specifically characterize the immune response based on peripheral blood samples. Flow cytometry will be used to quantify cell subsets, and ELISA will be used to measure cytokine levels , at the same time-points as for the primary outcome. Each group of patients as described above will consist of 10 consecutive pancreatic cancer patients. Patients aged 18 or older with resectable, borderline resectable, or locally advanced pancreatic cancer will be included. Patients with locally advanced disease will undergo 3 months of preoperative chemotherapy with monitoring to exclude metastatic disease. Main exclusion criteria are cardiac conduction abnormalities and signs of distant metastasis.
Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: irreversible electroporation (IRE)
Immunological outcome, flowcytometry, 42 days|Immunological outcome, Flowcytometry, 6 months|Immunological outcome, Flowcytometry, 9 months|Immunological outcome, ELISA, 42 days|Immunological outcome, ELISA, 6 months|Immunological outcome, ELISA, 9 months
Number of local tumor recurrences, measured via CT, 42 days|Number of local tumor recurrences, measured via CT, 3 months|Number of local tumor recurrences, measured via CT, 6 months|Number of local tumor recurrences, measured via CT, 9 months|Number of distant tumor recurrences, measured via CT, 42 days|Number of distant tumor recurrences, measured via CT, 3 months|Number of distant tumor recurrences, measured via CT, 6 months|Number of distant tumor recurrences, measured via CT, 9 months|Overall survival, survival of patient, 42 days|Overall survival, survival of patient, 3 months|Overall survival, survival of patient, 6 months|Overall survival, survival of patient, 9 months|Cancer specific survival, survival of patient, 42 days|Cancer specific survival, survival of patient, 3 months|Cancer specific survival, survival of patient, 6 months|Cancer specific survival, survival of patient, 9 months
The aim of this project is to describe the differential immunologic responses of patients who undergo in situ IRE, margin accentuation IRE with surgical resection of the primary tumor, and surgical resection of the primary tumor only. The primary hypothesis is that IRE induces a long and sustained activation of the cell-mediated immune system, which is distinct from the immune response after surgical resection only. The primary endpoint of this study is the comparison of the CD4+/CD8+ ratio as an indicator of antitumor immunity both longitudinally within a group after the intervention and over time between the three groups. CD4+/CD8+ ratio will be measured preoperatively and at postoperative days 1, 7, 42, and 180. As a secondary outcome, additional measurements will be taken to more specifically characterize the immune response based on peripheral blood samples. Flow cytometry will be used to quantify cell subsets, and ELISA will be used to measure cytokine levels , at the same time-points as for the primary outcome. Each group of patients as described above will consist of 10 consecutive pancreatic cancer patients. Patients aged 18 or older with resectable, borderline resectable, or locally advanced pancreatic cancer will be included. Patients with locally advanced disease will undergo 3 months of preoperative chemotherapy with monitoring to exclude metastatic disease. Main exclusion criteria are cardiac conduction abnormalities and signs of distant metastasis.