Alvocidib in Combination With Decitabine and Venetoclax in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory AML or as Frontline Therapy in Unfit Patients With AML
This phase I/II trial investigates the side effects and best dose of alvocidib when given together with decitabine and venetoclax and to see how well it works in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (relapsed), has not responded to previous treatment (refractory), or as frontline treatment for patients unable to receive other therapies (unfit). Alvocidib, decitabine, and venetoclax may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Alvocidib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Venetoclax
Overall incidence and severity of all adverse events (Phase I), Measured using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 6 years|Overall response rate (ORR) (Phase II), Will estimate the response rate for the combination treatment, along with the 95% credible interval., Up to 6 years
Duration of response, The duration of response is defined as the number of days from the date of initial response (partial response \[PR\] or better) to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 6 years|Event free survival, Event-free survival is defined as the number of days from the date of treatment initiation (e.g., cycle 1 day 1 \[C1D1\]) to the date of documented treatment failure, relapses from complete response (CR), or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, and will be calculated for all patients. Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests., Up to 6 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests., From treatment start till death or last follow-up, assessed up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of alvocidib hydrochloride (alvocidib) in combination with decitabine and venetoclax in relapsed or refractory patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or as frontline therapy in unfit/frail patients with AML. (Phase I) II. To determine the efficacy alvocidib in combination with decitabine and venetoclax in relapsed or refractory patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or as frontline therapy in unfit/frail patients with AML. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the preliminary assessment of efficacy by response to revised International Working Group (IWG) criteria and time to response variables, including overall survival (OS), event-free survival (EFS) and duration of response (DOR) of patients treated with this combination.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the minimal residual disease (MRD) after treatment with this combination and its impact in long-term outcome.

II. To determine the effect of the level of pre-treatment expression of BCL-2 and MCL-1 (by BH3 profiling) with response to this combination.

III. To determine the effect of this treatment combination on responding patients transitioning to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of alvocidib followed by a phase II study.

INDUCTION: Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-10, alvocidib hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, 1-5, 1-7, 1-10, or 1-14, and venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5, alvocidib hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, 1-5, 1-7, 1-10 or 1-14, and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-10. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks.