AFP464 in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Refractory Solid Tumors That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of AFP464 in treating patients with metastatic or refractory solid tumors that cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as AFP464, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: AFP464|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose, overall toxicity incidence, and toxicity profiles of AFP464 in the treatment of solid tumors, Measured by dose level and tumor site via the NCI CTCAE v 3.0. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., 28 days|Overall response of AFP464 in the treatment of solid tumors, Measured by Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as table and progressive disease in the two patient populations (overall and by tumor group)., Up to 3 months|Time to progression, Summarized descriptively., From registration to documentation of progression, assessed up to 3 months|Time to treatment failure, Summarized descriptively., From registration to documentation of progression, unacceptable toxicity, or refusal to continue participation by the patient, assessed up to 3 months|Urinary excretion of AFP464, Examined with descriptive summary statistics and simple graphical tools. Computed and correlated with toxicity and response via Spearman correlation coefficients for continuous variables or Wilcoxon rank sum test if one binary variable is involved., Days 1-2, 8 and 15 of course 1|Plasma area under the curve (AUC) of AFP464, Examined with descriptive summary statistics and simple graphical tools. Computed and correlated with toxicity and response via Spearman correlation coefficients for continuous variables or Wilcoxon rank sum test if one binary variable is involved., Days 1-2, 8 and 15 of course 1
Percent change in CYP1A1, Computed and investigated with descriptive summary statistics and simple graphical tools. The percent change of CYP1A1 induction will also be correlated with response, toxicity, urinary excretion, and plasma pharmacokinetics measurements. circulating tumor cells (CTC) from all patients will be obtained pre- and post- infusion to determine the inducibility of gene expression of CYP1A1., Baseline to 24 hours post AFP-464
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of AFP464 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

II. Evaluate the toxicity profile of AFP464. III. Characterize the plasma pharmacokinetics and urinary excretion of AFP464 and aminoflavone in these patients.

IV. Identify any activity of AFP464 in patients with metastatic cancer. V. Explore whether AFP464 induces cytochrome p450, family 1, member A1 (CYP1A1) expression in tumor (patients enrolled at the MTD) (patients enrolled at the MTD) and/or circulating tumor cells (CTCs) (dose-escalation phase and at the MTD).

VI. To explore the relationship between the pharmacogenetic analysis and toxicity or response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive AFP464 intravenously (IV) over 3 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 3 months.