Cirtuvivint/Olaparib in Breast Cancer Susceptibility Gene/Homologous Recombination Deficiency Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of this study is to learn about the safety and tolerability of Cirtuvivint in combination with Olaparib in platinum resistant ovarian cancer. The study also aims to determine the recommended dose of the combination therapy.

If a participant is a good fit for the study, and they enroll in the study, they will:

* Visit the clinic often at the beginning of the study for physical exams, blood draws, vital signs, and other study and routine care procedures. After the first two months participants will visit the clinic every 28 days.
* Take the study medications, Cirtuvivint and Olaparib. Participants will take Olaparib every day. Participants will either take Cirtuvivint 5 days per week or 2 days per week.
Endometrioid Ovarian Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer
DRUG: Cirtuvivint|DRUG: Olaparib
Determine the Safety of Combination Cirtuvivint with Olaparib, To determine the safety and tolerability of combination Cirtuvivint and Olaparib in BRCA/HRD platinum resistant ovarian cancer as evaluated by CTCAE v5.0 criteria., 6 months|Determine the recommended Phase 2 Dose of Cirtuvivint with Olaparib, To determine the recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) and regimen of the combination therapy, 6 months
Evaluate the Cmax (peak plasma concentration) of Cirtuvivint when given in combination with olaparib, 3 years|Evaluate the AUC (Area under the curve for plasma concentration) of Cirtuvivint when given in combination with olaparib, 3 years|Evaluate the half-life (elimination half-life in plasma) of Cirtuvivint when given in combination with olaparib, 3 years|Evaluate CL (drug clearance) of Cirtuvivint when given in combination with olaparib, 3 years
This trial is a non-comparative phase I combination trial with the goal of determining the safety and RP2D of cirtuvivint when given orally daily (5 days on 2 days off) combined with olaparib given orally BID (continuously) for 28 day cycles, and of cirtuvivint when given orally daily (2 days on 5 days off) combined with olaparib given orally BID (continuously) for 28 day cycles. Patients will enter the two cohorts in alternating fashion by time of enrollment. The patient population will be women with platinum resistant high grade serous or endometrioid epithelial ovarian cancer who are germline or somatic BRCA/HRD positive. Due to potential survival detriment of late line PARP inhibition, patients will be limited to no more than 3 prior lines of therapy. Olaparib will be dosed at the standard recommended dose of 300mg BID and adjusted appropriately for known adverse events.