Cetuximab and Trastuzumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer That Progressed After Previous Treatment With Gemcitabine
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab and trastuzumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving cetuximab together with trastuzumab may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of trastuzumab when given together with cetuximab and to see how well it works in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer that progressed after previous treatment with gemcitabine.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: cetuximab|DRUG: trastuzumab
Recommended dose of trastuzumab when given with cetuximab (Phase I), From baseline to the end of treatment, 15 days|Objective response rate as assessed by RECIST criteria (Phase II), From baseline to the end of treatment, Approximately 8 weeks
Progression-free survival, From baseline to the end of study, Approximately 36 months|Overall survival, From baseline to the end of study, Approximately 36 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the recommended dose of trastuzumab when given with cetuximab in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer that progressed after gemcitabine-based chemotherapy. (Phase I)
* Evaluate the objective response rate as assessed by RECIST criteria. (Phase II)

Secondary

* Evaluate the safety profile as assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0.
* Evaluate progression-free survival.
* Evaluate overall survival.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of trastuzumab followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours and trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.