Cyclophosphamide Plus Bone Marrow Transplantation in Treating Patients With Hematologic Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Bone marrow transplantation may be able to replace immune cells that were destroyed by chemotherapy or radiation therapy used to kill cancer cells.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of cyclophosphamide plus bone marrow transplantation in treating patients who have hematologic cancer.
Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Diseases
BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|DRUG: tacrolimus|PROCEDURE: allogeneic bone marrow transplantation|RADIATION: radiation therapy
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the minimum effective dose of pretransplant cyclophosphamide to induce engraftment of haploidentical allogeneic bone marrow without the use of myeloablative conditioning in patients with hematologic malignancies.
* Determine the incidence and severity of graft versus host disease and nonhematologic toxicities with this treatment regimen in these patients.
* Correlate the pretreatment phenotypic and functional immunologic characteristics in these patients in relation to risk of graft rejection with this treatment regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of cyclophosphamide.

Patients receive fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -2; cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -6, -5, and 3; total body irradiation on day -1; and allogeneic bone marrow transplantation on day 0. Patients also receive tacrolimus IV or orally twice a day on days 4-50; oral mycophenolate mofetil on days 4-35; and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously or IV starting on day 4 and continuing until blood counts recover.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of cyclophosphamide until the minimum effective dose necessary to induce chimerism without unacceptable toxicity in these patients is determined.

Patients are followed at 2 and 6 months, at one year, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 23 patients will be accrued for this study.