Study of Gemcitabine, Nab-paclitaxel, and Ficlatuzumab (AV-299) in Patients With Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
To identify the maximally tolerated dose of ficlatuzumab when combined with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine in patients with previously untreated pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Ficlatuzumab
The Maximum Tolerated Dose of ficlatuzumab when administered in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, Identify maximally tolerated dose of ficlatuzumab when administered in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, 2 years
The response rate in this population of patients., Determine the number of patients who demonstrate a clinical response assessed by RECIST criteria on imaging to the combination of ficlatuzumab with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel., 2 years|The progression free survival in this population of patients., Determine the progression free survival derived from the combination of ficlatuzumab with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel., 2 years
This research study is a Phase I dose-escalation clinical trial. It will test the safety and tolerability of an investigational drug ficlatuzumab when combined with Nab-paclitaxel and Gemcitabine, with the goal of determining the maximally tolerated dose of ficlatuzumab when combined with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.

Ficlatuzumab is a type of drug called a "monoclonal antibody." It is thought to work by targeting hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) which is a HGF-c-Met inhibitor. The activation of the receptor tyroside kinase c-Met via its ligand, HGF, mediates proliferation, motility, and differentiation in a variety of cancers including pancreatic cancer.

Subjects must have a newly diagnosed stage 4 untreated metastatic pancreatic ductal cancer and meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria.

Treatment consists of 4 week treatment cycles. Ficlatuzumab will be administered on day 1 and 15 of each cycle. Nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine will be administered on days 1,8, and 15.

Subjects continue in study until disease progression, adverse event/toxicity, death or either the subject or sponsor discontinues the study.