ZAP-IT: ZN-c3 + Carboplatin + Pembrolizumab in MTNBC
This research is being done to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a drug currently known as Azenosertib (ZN-C3) in combination with the drugs carboplatin and pembrolizumab in metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Azenosertib (a type of WEE1 inhibitor)
* Carboplatin (a type of platinum compound)
* Pembrolizumab (a type of monoclonal antibody)
Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer Female|Triple Negative Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Negative Malignant Tumor Breast Triple|HER2-negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Azenosertib|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Number of Participants Experiencing Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Detailed DLT consideration outline in protocol section 5.4. Toxicities are to be assess according to the CTCAE v5. Management and dose modifications associated with the above adverse events outlined in protocol section 6., Up to 3 weeks|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD is defined as the highest dose level with ≤1 DLT in a cohort of 6 participants. See previous primary outcome measure for the DLT definition. If 0 out of 3 participants experience DLT, next dose level will be proceeded. If \>=1 out of the group suffer DLT, dose escalation will be stopped and 3 additional participants will be entered at the next lowest dose level. If \<=1 out of 6 DLTs, this dose level is considered as MTD., Up to 3 weeks|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Up to 6 months
Clinical Beneficial Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as the number of participants who achieved complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD) lasting more than 24 weeks based on RECIST 1.1 criteria., Up to 48 months|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on Kaplan-Meier methodology is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) requiring removal from the study or death. Participants alive without PD were censored at the earliest of the date of the last disease evaluation or start of new anticancer therapy. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase. For non-target lesions, progression-free means no new lesions or unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions or not evaluated., Up to 48 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS is Overall survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from registration to death. Participants alive are censored at the last date of contact (including lost-to-follow-up) or at the date of withdrawal of consent, if relevant., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR based on Kaplan-Meier methodology is defined as the time from date of first documented confirmed objective response to date of first documented progressive disease (PD). Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase. For non-target lesions, progression-free means no new lesions or unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions or not evaluated., Up to 48 months|Grade 3-5 Treatment-Related Toxicity Rate, The percentage of participants who experienced a maximum grade 3-5 treatment-related adverse event based on the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse events Version 5.0 (CTCAEv5) as reported on case report forms., Up to 48 months
This is a non-randomized, open-label, phase I/II study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of azenosertib in combination with carboplatin and pembrolizumab in participants with metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) Azenosertib is a medication that targets WEE1, an important protein in tumor growth.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved azenosertib as a treatment for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.

The FDA has approved carboplatin as a treatment option for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer and it is considered standard of care for breast cancer.

The FDA has approved pembrolizumab for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer, but it is currently approved only for PD-L1 positive cancer.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment visits, blood tests, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, electrocardiograms (EKGs), and tumor biopsies in Phase 2.

It is expected that about 12-18 people will take part in the phase 1 portion and 60 people for the phase 2 portion of this research study.

Zentalis Pharmaceuticals is funding this research study and providing Azenosertib. Merck is supporting this research study by providing pembrolizumab.