Evaluation of Antibody Response to High-Dose Seasonal Influenza Vaccination in Patients With Myeloid Malignancy Receiving Chemotherapy and Healthy Volunteers
This pilot research trial studies the antibody response to high-dose seasonal influenza vaccination in patients with myeloid malignancy receiving chemotherapy and healthy volunteers. Evaluating antibody response to high-dose seasonal influenza vaccine may serve as a basis for vaccine recommendations in patients with myeloid malignancies and provide insights into the status of the immune system in these patients.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
BIOLOGICAL: Trivalent Influenza Vaccine
Antibody response (by microneutralization assay) to influenza vaccination, The geometric mean (GMT) and standard deviation of antibody titers will be calculated by cohort at the baseline assessment and 1-3 months post vaccination time points. Antibody response is assessed using the outcome measures: seroprotection, seroconversion, and GMT. Seroprotection is defined as an hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) titer \>= 1:40 of each individual influenza antigen. Seroconversion is defined as \>= 4-fold increase in post-vaccination titer of each individual influenza antigen. The seroprotection and seroconversion rates will be reported by age strata, cohort, and time-point (1-3 months and 4-6 months post vaccination) using 95% confidence intervals obtained using Jeffrey's prior method. The GMT at each time-point will be compared using one-sided permutation T-tests about the log-transformed data. The GMT ratio (GMTR) between 1-3 months post vaccination and baseline will also be calculated and reported by cohort using a 95% confidence interval., Up to 4-6 months post-vaccination
T-cell subset population assessed using flow cytometry, T-cell subset populations will be correlated with antibody responses to influenza vaccination. Blood samples will be collected and stored at different time-points for assessment of T-cell response to influenza vaccination using influenza specific tetramer staining by flow cytometry. The seroprotection and seroconversion rates will be reported by cohort and time-point (1-3 months and 4-6 months post vaccination) using 95% confidence intervals obtained using Jeffrey's prior method. The rates will be compared between the lenalidomide and healthy control cohorts using one-sided Barnard's tests. The GMTR between 1-3 months post vaccination and baseline will also be calculated and reported by cohort using a 95% confidence interval., Up to 4-6 months post-vaccination
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the antibody response to influenza vaccination in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) receiving hypomethylating agents (decitabine or azacytidine) compared to normal healthy controls and those patients with similar disorders receiving cytarabine containing intensive chemotherapy or best supportive care.

II. To collect and store blood samples at different time points (prior to and after vaccination) for assessment of influenza specific T-cell subsets using tetramers by flow cytometry.

OUTLINE:

Within 14 days of baseline influenza titer, patients receive trivalent influenza vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on day 0 (patients in cohorts 1 and 5 receive the vaccine at any time, patients in cohorts 2 and 3 receive the vaccine between days 14-25 of hypomethylating agent therapy course, and patients in cohort 4 receive the vaccine between days 21-365 from onset of cytotoxic chemotherapy). Patients then undergo titer assessment at days 25-90 and days 115-185.