Elective Adaptive Radiation With SBRT for Improved DurabilitY of Response
This prospective, single-arm feasibility study will include patients with prostate cancer that have controlled local disease diagnosed with oligorecurrent para-aortic nodal disease and/or common iliac nodal disease detected by PSMA PET or conventional CT/MRI imaging, and these patients will undergo CT-guided online adaptive SBRT to the tumor and elective SBRT to adjacent at-risk nodal regions.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Iliac Nodal Disease|Para-aortic Lymph Node Metastasis|Para-aortic Nodal Disease|Oligorecurrence
RADIATION: Adaptive radiotherapy using SBRT
Quantify adverse events using CTCAE v5.0, Acute toxicities (≤3 months) and long-term toxicities (related to urinary, bowel or sexual function) will be collected and evaluated by the CTCAE v5.0., 2 years
QoL using EPIC questionnaire, Quality of life (QOL) will be collected using expanded prostate cancer index composite (EPIC) questionnaire. The quality-of-life scores will be converted to a scale of 0-100 for each category. A higher score indicates a better quality of life., 2 years|Pain levels using EPIC questionnaire, Pain levels will be collected using expanded prostate cancer index composite (EPIC) questionnaire. The quality-of-life scores will be converted to a scale of 0-100 for each category. A higher score indicates a better quality of life., 2 years|Urinary function using EPIC questionnaire, Urinary function will be collected using expanded prostate cancer index composite (EPIC) questionnaire. The quality-of-life scores will be converted to a scale of 0-100 for each category. A higher score indicates a better quality of life., 2 years|Bowel function using EPIC questionnaire, Bowel function will be collected using expanded prostate cancer index composite (EPIC) questionnaire. The quality-of-life scores will be converted to a scale of 0-100 for each category. A higher score indicates a better quality of life., 2 years|Assessment of adaptive RT approach using dose accumulation, Dosimetric assessment of the CBCT-guided online adaptive RT approach using dose accumulation., 2 years
This prospective, single-arm feasibility study will include patients with prostate cancer that have controlled local disease diagnosed with oligorecurrent para-aortic nodal disease and/or common iliac nodal disease detected by PSMA PET or conventional CT/MRI imaging, and these patients will undergo CT-guided online adaptive SBRT to the tumor and elective SBRT to adjacent at-risk nodal regions.