Lenalidomide, Bortezomib and Dexamethasone Induction Therapy with Either Intravenous or Subcutaneous Isatuximab in Patients with Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
The trial aims to demonstrate the non-inferiority of subcutaneous to intravenous isatuximab administration in transplant-eligible patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Isatuximab|DRUG: Isatuximab|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Demonstration of non-inferiority of subcutaneous (SC) isatuximab compared to intravenous (IV) isatuximab, both in combination with RVd., Rates of VGPR or better (according to standard IMWG response criteria), defined as proportion of patients with at least VGPR after induction therapy (according to standard International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria)., 18 weeks after start of study treatment
Quality of life compared between Arm A and B., Comparison of PRO (patient-reported outcome) regarding route of administration of isatuximab (SC vs. IV) on induction therapy as assessed by modified CTSQ (modified 9-item questionnaire), 18 weeks after start of study treatment|Non-inferiority of rates of MRD negativity in Arm B compared to Arm A, Rates of NGS-MRD negativity (sensitivity 10\^-5, from bone marrow aspirate) after induction therapy, 18 weeks after start of study treatment|Rates of MRD negativity by NGS and NGF (sensitivity 10^-5, from BMA) independent of standard IMWG response after first HDM/ASCT, defined as proportion of negative patients with the corresponding MRD method (NGS or NGF) at the defined timepoint (after induction therapy or first HDM/ASCT), 18 weeks (timepoint "after induction") or 35 weeks (timepoint "after first HDM/ASCT") after start of study treatment|Rates of best overall response to treatment (BOR), proportion of patients with BOR (at least PR or better) to treatment until end of study (based on timepoints post induction cycle 2 and 3, prior to HDM/ASCT and post first HDM/ASCT), Depending on the timepoint of best response out of all response assessments, up to 10 months from randomization|Progression-free survival (PFS), Time from randomization (at study inclusion) to progression or death from any cause whichever occurs first, Until EOS (28 months after start of study)
Prospective, multicentre, randomised, parallel group, open, phase III clinical trial, for patients with confirmed diagnosis of untreated multiple myeloma requiring systemic therapy.

Investigational Medicinal Product: Isatuximab, subcutaneous administration via a wearable injector system.

Randomization: Patients are randomized in one of 2 study arms (A or B) before induction therapy. Patients randomized in arm A will receive 3 cycles of the monoclonal antibody isatuximab intravenously, combined with RVd regimen (Lenalidomide, Bortezomib, Dexamethasone). Each cycle will last for 42 days. Patients in arm B will receive 3 cycles RVd plus isatuximab subcutaneously. After induction therapy, patients will receive standard intensification (usually cyclophosphamide-based mobilization therapy, stem cell collection and high-dose melphalan followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (HDM/ASCT)). End of study will be after the first HDM/ASCT.

There is one primary objective:

Demonstration of non-inferiority of subcutaneous (SC) isatuximab compared to intravenous (IV) isatuximab, both in combination with RVd, with respect to rates of VGPR or better after induction therapy (according to standard International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria).

Key secondary objectives are:

1. Comparison of patient-reported outcomes (PRO) regarding route of administration of isatuximab (SC vs. IV) on induction therapy as assessed by modified CTSQ (modified 9-item questionnaire).
2. Non-inferiority of rates of MRD negativity (assessed by NGS from BMA; sensitivity 10\^-5) independent of standard IMWG response after induction therapy.

The duration of the trial for each patients is expected to be approximately 10 months (induction and intensification treatment).