Apatinib Combined With Camrelizumab in Treating Participants With Advanced Chordoma
This phase II trial studies how well Camrelizumab combined with Apatinib work in treating participants with chordoma that has spread to other places in the body, which may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Chordoma|Chemotherapy Effect
DRUG: camrelizumab and apatinib
Effectiveness: Progression-free survival (PFS), To assess the clinical benefit of the combination of Camrelizumab combined with Apatinib in patients with advanced chordomas by adverse event and Progression-free survival., 6 months|Incidence and severity of AE, To assess the clinical benefit of the combination of Camrelizumab combined with Apatinib in patients with advanced chordomas by adverse event and Progression-free survival., From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression of withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).
Overall survival (OS), , disease, To assess the clinical benefit of the combination of Camrelizumab combined with Apatinib in patients with advanced chordomas by Overall survival (OS)., From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression of withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).|Objective response rate (OPR), To assess the clinical benefit of the combination of Camrelizumab combined with Apatinib in patients with advanced chordomas by objective response rate (OPR), From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression of withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).|Control rate (DCR), To assess the clinical benefit of the combination of Camrelizumab combined with Apatinib in patients with advanced chordomas by disease control rate (DCR)., From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression of withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical benefit of the combination of Camrelizumab combined with Apatinib in patients with advanced chordomas by adverse events (AEs) and progression free survival (PFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Ascertain the safety of nivolumab in combination with relatlimab in subjects with metastatic or locally advanced/unresectable chordoma by the Overall survival (OS), objective response rate (MPR) and disease control rate (DCR)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare response rate (RR) and clinical benefit rate (CBR) in patients whose tumors are PD-L1+ and PD-L1- at baseline.

II. Compare RR and CBR in patients whose tumors are VEGFR+ and VEGFR- at baseline.

III. In the patients who are PD-L1 positive, compare RR and CBR in patients with 1% and 5% tumor membrane staining.

III. Determine the response to treatment based on the baseline mutation load. IV. Determine the ORR and CBR via Choi criteria.

OUTLINE:

To evaluate the safety and tolerability of carrilizol combined with apatinib in patients with recurrent, unresectable, chemotherapy-failed chordoma

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up within 3 months.