Testing the Addition of a New Anti-cancer Drug, M3814 (Peposertib), to the Usual Radiotherapy in Patients With Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the safety, side effects and best dose of M3814 and to see how well it works when given together with radiation therapy in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced). M3814 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Giving M3814 and hypofractionated radiation therapy together may be safe, tolerable and/or more effective than radiation therapy alone in treating patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer.
Locally Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Peposertib|OTHER: Placebo Administration
Maximum tolerated dose (Phase I), Up to 14 days|Recommended phase 2 dose (Phase I), Up to 14 days|Progression-free survival rate (Phase II), The 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Time from randomization to progression or death whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years
Overall survival (OS), Will be analyzed using a log-rank test to test for differences between the treatment groups in survival experience. The proportion of patients who survive through 2 years (i.e. the 2-year OS rate) will be compared between arms using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Time between the date of randomization and the date of patient death, assessed up to 2 years|Two-year OS, Defined as the rate of patient survival at 2 years following completion of study treatment (based on Kaplan-Meier method)., At 2 years|Overall response rate, Defined as the rate of complete or partial response by imaging following study treatment as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1. Will be summarized and compared between arms., Up to 2 years|Disease control rate, Defined as rate of stable disease, complete or partial response by imaging as assessed by RECIST v1.1. Will be summarized and compared between arms., Up to 2 years|Pharmacokinetic markers of M3814, M3814 concentration time data will be analyzed non-compartmentally and reported descriptively., Up to 2 years|Gene signature of tumor, Defined according to whole exome sequencing and ribonucleic acid sequencing, with a focus on deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage repair signatures. Will be reported descriptively., Up to 2 years
Gene signature of cell-free DNA from peripheral blood, Results of cell-free DNA analysis will be compared pre- and post-treatment and reported descriptively., Baseline and after treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of M3814 (peposertib) in combination with hypofractionated radiotherapy in patients receiving treatment for locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma (LAPC). (Phase I) II. To determine the difference in progression free survival (PFS) between patients with LAPC treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy in combination with M3814 (peposertib) as compared to patients treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy alone. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase I) II. To evaluate plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of M3814 (peposertib) in patients receiving hypofractionated radiotherapy. (Phase I) III. To compare the 2-year overall survival (OS) rate of patients treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy plus M3814 (peposertib) to that of those treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy alone. (Phase II) IV. To compare the objective response rate (ORR) by imaging of patients treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy plus M3814 (peposertib) to that of those treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy alone. (Phase II) V. To compare the disease control rate in patients treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy plus M3814 (peposertib) as compared to those patients treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy alone. (Phase II) VI. To explore gene signature patterns in baseline patient tumor tissues that may suggest response to the combination of M3814 (peposertib) and radiotherapy, as identified on whole exome sequencing and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (seq). (Phase II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore changes in gene signature induced by M3814 (peposertib) and hypofractionated radiotherapy treatment as identified in analysis of cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from the peripheral blood. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of M3814 followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy for 5 fractions every other day (QOD) over 2 weeks and receive M3814 orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy for 5 fractions QOD over 2 weeks and receive M3814 PO QD for 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy for 5 fractions QOD over 2 weeks and receive placebo PO QD for 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood sample collection and tissue biopsy on study. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30, 60, and 90 days, and then every 3 months for up to 2 years.