Phase I/II Randomized Study of NBTXR3 Activated by Abscopal or RadScopal Radiation in Combination With Immunotherapy (Anti-PD-1/L-1) for Patients With Advanced Solid Malignancies
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and possible benefits of NBTXR3, radiation therapy, Anti PD-1 / PD-L1 in treating patients with solid tumor that has spread to the lung (lung metastases) and/or liver (liver metastases). NBTXR3 may help make tumor cells more sensitive to the radiation therapy. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Immunotherapy with Anti PD-1 / PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving NBTXR3, radiation therapy, Anti PD-1 / PD-L1 may help to control the disease.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Liver|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Lung|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Hafnium Oxide-containing Nanoparticles NBTXR3|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities, Descriptive summary tables will be produced., Up to 4 weeks post radiation therapy|Objective response rate, Defined as percentage of patients achieving complete or partial response, per immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (irRECIST). The best overall response will be provided per irRECIST criteria and consideration of all imaging assessment is required., Up to 12 weeks post radiation therapy
Primary Objective

Phase I \& II

• To evaluate efficacy and safety of NBTXR3 activated by radiation (Abscopal or RadScopal™) in combination with immunotherapy ( anti-PD-1/L-1)

Secondary Objective:

* To evaluate the safety profile of NBTXR3 activated by radiation (Abscopal or RadScopal™) in combination with immunotherapy ( anti-PD-1/L-1).
* To evaluate time-to-event outcomes of NBTXR3 activated by radiation (Abscopal or RadScopal™) in combination with immunotherapy ( anti-PD-1/L-1).

Exploratory Objectives:

I. To evaluate radiomic measurements with outcomes of study treatments.

II. To evaluate biomarkers of response in subjects after receiving study treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients receive NBTXR3 intratumorally on day 1. Patients also receive ( anti-PD-1/L-1) intravenously (IV) on day 8. Beginning day 15, patients undergo Abscopal radiation therapy over 1-2 weeks. Cycles with ( anti-PD-1/L-1) repeat every 3-6 weeks per standard of care up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients receive NBTXR3 intratumorally on day 1. Patients also receive ( anti-PD-1/L-1) IV on day 8. Beginning day 15, patients undergo RadScopal radiation therapy over 1-2 weeks. Cycles with ( anti-PD-1/L-1)repeat every 3-6 weeks per standard of care up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 2 years post-radiation therapy.