Randomized Trial of the Effectiveness of Topical "ABH Gel" vs. Placebo in Cancer Patients With Nausea
This randomized clinical trial studies ABH (lorazepam, diphenhydramine hydrochloride, and haloperidol) gel in patients with nausea. ABH gel, when absorbed into the skin, may be an effective treatment for nausea and vomiting. The general purpose of this research study is to improve the treatment of nausea and vomiting.
Nausea|Vomiting
DRUG: ABH gel|OTHER: placebo
The Change in Numeric Rating Scale in Self-reported Nausea From Baseline Minus 60 Minutes of Treatment., The outcome measure for change was calculated from value at baseline minus value at 60 minutes. Subjects were asked to rate their nausea on a 0 (no nausea) to 10 (worst possible nausea) scale. Subjects who were eligible were randomly assigned to two sequences: one sequence used ABH gel first and then placebo; and the other sequence used placebo first and then ABH gel. We assumed that there was no carry-over effect from the first treatment to the second. A paired t-test was used to compare if ABH gel is not better than the placebo gel. A repeated measure analysis was used to compare the two treatment sequences. This endpoint was chosen as the drug gel because it is typically used as a "prn" (as needed) gel in actual practice, when relief is needed in short order., 60 minutes after application
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The primary outcome is the change in numeric rating scale in self-reported nausea on a 0-10 scale from baseline to 60 minutes of treatment.

OUTLINE: All individuals who are eligible are randomized to a sequence of treatments: either placebo-ABH or ABH-placebo. The randomization list will be generated by the Study Biostatistician. Neither the patient nor the investigator will have knowledge of the actual content of Drug A or B, so the study will be double-blinded, and placebo controlled.

Drug A: The dose of the drugs in the 1.0 mL dose will be 2 mg of lorazepam, 25 mg of diphenhydramine, and 2 mg of haloperidol in a pluronic lecithin organogel. It will be rubbed on the volar surface of the wrists by the subject, for 2 minutes as done in clinical practice, at time 0. Drug B: equivalent but no ABH.

Subjects will rub 1 mL of the first drug, Drug A gel, between their wrists for 2 minutes.

Subjects will be asked to rate and complete their nausea on the Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale (CMSAS). At time 60 two options can occur. One, if there is no effect after the first drug in one hour, then patients will receive the second drug. If there is no effect in one hour from second drug, patients will stop the study and resume normal treatment for their nausea. Or two, if the first gel reduces nausea by more than 1 point on the 0-10 scale, subjects will wait 4 hours to apply the next gel. At this point, the study procedures will be repeated. After treatment, patients are followed up for up to 8 hours.

Subjects will be asked to rate their nausea on a 0 (no nausea) to 10 (worst possible nausea) scale at baseline, 60, 120, 180, and 240 minutes.

Subjects will complete the Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale (CMSAS), a reliable and valid instrument for assessing relevant symptoms including lack of energy, lack of appetite, pain, dry mouth, weight loss, feeling drowsy, shortness of breath, constipation, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, and nausea.