Prevention of Anthracycline-Induced Cardiac Dysfunction With Dexrazoxane in Patients With Diffuse Large-B Cell Lymphoma
Patients treated for DLBCL are at high risk of developing AICD. This adverse event is characterized by irreversible damage to the heart muscle with a loss of cardiomyocytes and subsequent decline in cardiac pumping capacity. Thereby patients treated for this malignancy are at double the risk of developing symptomatic heart failure / cardiomyopathy when compared to the general population. This corresponds to a cumulative incidence of 5-10% within 5-years after receiving R-CHOP. In the elderly, an incidence of 26% has been reported after 8-years of follow-up. Among patients who die in complete remission, heart failure has been described to be one of the most important causes of death. ANTICIPATE aims to evaluate if dexrazoxane can prevent AICD in DLBCL patients and identify those at highest risk of AICD. Of all patients treated with anthracyclines in a first-line setting, DLBCL patients were chosen for this trial for two primary reasons. Firstly, these patients have a favourable oncological prognosis with a 5-year relative survival in the Netherlands of 64-78% in those aged 18-74 years increasing the importance of preventing long-term toxicity. Secondly, the cumulative anthracycline dose used for the treatment of DLBCL is higher than the dose used in breast cancer. The cumulative anthracycline dose is the most important risk factor for AICD known.
DLBCL - Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Dexrazoxane|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Prednisolone|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Pegfilgrastim
The incidence of AICD., The incidence of AICD (measured with 2D) within 12 months after registration., 12 months after LPI
Complete Metabolic Remission., Complete metabolic remission (CMR) on 18F-FDG PET-CT at end of treatment 6-8 weeks after completion of 6x R-CHOP21., 12 months after LPI|Overall survival (OS)., Overall survival (OS) at 12-months., 12 months after LPI|Progression-free survival., Progression-free survival (PFS) at 12-months., 12 months after LPI|LVEF and global longitudinal strain (GLS)., LVEF (2D and 3D) and global longitudinal strain (GLS) at end of treatment and 12-months after start of treatment., 12 months after LPI|NYHA., NYHA functional class., 12 months after LPI|Cardiac biomarkers., Release of cardiac biomarkers. At entry, after every cyle of R-CHOP, at EOT and FU. CK (if available); CK-MB (if available) \& (hs)Troponin T/I (assay according to local practice)., 12 months after LPI|Quality of Life., To analyse the impact of the addition of dexrazoxane on QoL via validated questionaires such as QLQ-C30, NHL-HG29, PRO-CTCAE., 12 months after LPI
Safety and toxicity., Safety and toxicity as defined by type, frequency and severity of adverse events as defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, 12 months after LPI|Secondary malignancies., Incidence of secondary malignancies., 12 months after LPI|Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events., Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (MACE) at 1-, 2-, 5- and 10-years., 1- 2-, 5- and 10 years
HO170 DLBCL-ANTICIPATE: "Prevention of ANThracycline-Induced Cardiac dysfunction by dexrazoxane In PATients with diffusE large B-cell lymphoma" is a national randomized controlled trial that will be conducted across 25 Dutch hospitals. This study will include adult patients with DLBCL in which first-line treatment with 6 cycles of R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) is planned (cumulative doxorubicin dose 300 mg/m2). In this trial, we have chosen to include patients with a normal cardiac function before chemotherapy because cardiac dysfunction is a contra-indication for administration of anthracyclines. A total of 324 DLBCL patients will prior to treatment be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either (1) intravenous dexrazoxane administration in a 10:1 dexrazoxane:doxorubicin ratio prior to each doxorubicin infusion or (2) no cardioprotective treatment (current standard of care). Due to the low pH of the dexrazoxane solution that would jeopardize the blinding no placebo is used. Cardiac function will be screened with echocardiography prior to the initiation of chemotherapy and followed-up at 4- and 12-months post randomization. The primary end point of the study will be the incidence of AICD, defined as a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decline of ≥10 percentage points from baseline and below 50% (normal reference value for two-dimensional (2D) echocardiography). The secondary endpoint will be the percentage of patients with complete metabolic remission (CMR) after R-CHOP chemotherapy, to reassure that dexrazoxane does not influence the antineoplastic efficacy of doxorubicin. To declare ANTICIPATE successful, the trial must show both the superiority of addition of dexrazoxane on the primary endpoint and non-inferiority on the secondary endpoint. Deep-phenotyping of patient- and treatment-related factors will be performed to evaluate their prognostic value.