TINzaparin Prophylaxis in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who are scheduled to receive systemic cancer therapy have an increased risk for venous thromboembolic (VTE) events compared with the general population.

PROTINCOL is a randomized, open label, non placebo-controlled, low intervention, and phase III clinical trial that will recruit patients with mCRC. The study hypothesizes that prophylaxis with Tinzaparin could prevent the appearance of symptomatic and incidental VTE.

All patients will receive the first-line anticancer treatment deemed more appropriate according to the physician criteria. Enrolled patients are randomized in a 1:1 ratio (stratifying by BRAF/RAS, resection of primary tumor, and anti-angiogenic first-line treatment) to: control arm (no interventions related to VTE risk and no placebo) or experimental arm (prophylactic Tinzaparin at a fixed dose of 4500 IU/day in patients with up to 80kg, 6000 IU/day for those between 80-100 kg, or 8000 IU/day for those \>100kg). Treatment is scheduled for a maximum period of 4 months. Treatment could be stopped earlier in case of unacceptable toxicity, patient consent withdrawal, physician criteria or end of study. Patients will undergo tumor and VTE assessments according to standard clinical practice.

The main objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of tinzaparin for the prevention of symptomatic or incidental VTE events. Secondary objectives include the associations between VTE events and tumor characteristics (i.e. laterality, RAS/BRAF mutations) or management (i.e. surgery or treatment with anti-angiogenic or anti-EGFR agents), cancer-specific survival outcomes, safety, the incidence of bleeding events, and patient-reported quality of life. The trial includes also a translational exploratory analysis to assess the predictive value of risk assessment models and genetic risk scores, their evolution through the study and microsatellite instability or other biomarkers.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic|Thromboembolism
DRUG: Tinzaparin
Incidence of any VTE, The primary efficacy endpoint is the cumulative incidence (percentage of patients) of any VTE event including:

Symptomatic non-fatal pulmonary thromboembolism (PE). Symptomatic lower-limb deep vein thromboembolism (sllDVT). Symptomatic upper extremity deep vein thromboembolism (sueDVT). Incidentally diagnosed PE or proximal DVT. Symptomatic central venous catheter thromboembolism. Incidentally visceral vein thrombosis (iVVT). Symptomatic visceral vein thrombosis (sVVT). VTE-related deaths, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient
Incidence of symptomatic non-fatal PE, Percentage of patients experiencing the event during the observation period (6 months), Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of sllDVT, Percentage of patients experiencing the event during the observation period (6 months), Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of sueDVT, Percentage of patients experiencing the event during the observation period (6 months), Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of incidentally diagnosed PE or proximal DVT, Percentage of patients experiencing the event during the observation period (6 months), Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of symptomatic central venous catheter thromboembolism, Percentage of patients experiencing the event during the observation period (6 months), Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of iVVT, Percentage of patients experiencing the event during the observation period (6 months), Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of sVVT, Percentage of patients experiencing the event during the observation period (6 months), Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of VTE-related deaths, Percentage of patients experiencing the event during the observation period (6 months), Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of confirmed VTE events in BRAF/RAS mutated patients, Percentage of patients experiencing confirmed VTE events in patients with BRAF / RAS tumor genomic mutations vs native BRAF / RAS tumors., Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of confirmed VTE events in resected or not resected patients, Percentage of patients experiencing confirmed VTE events in patients with primary tumor resection vs not resection., Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of confirmed VTE events in patients with antiangiogenic therapy, Percentage of patients experiencing confirmed VTE events in patients on antiangiogenic treatment, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of confirmed VTE events in patients with anti-EGFR therapy, Percentage of patients experiencing confirmed VTE events in patients on anti-EGFR treatment, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of confirmed VTE events in patients according to tumor laterality, Percentage of patients experiencing confirmed VTE events in patients with right-side / transverse primary tumor vs left-side primary tumor., Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of confirmed VTE events in patients according to progression (PD), Percentage of patients experiencing confirmed VTE events in patients with PD according to usual clinical practice determined by the treating physician during treatment with tinzaparin, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of confirmed VTE events in patients according genetic risk scores, Percentage of patients experiencing confirmed VTE events in patients according to their genetic risk score, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of confirmed VTE events in patients according to blood type, Percentage of patients experiencing confirmed VTE events in patients according to their blood type, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of arterial thromboembolic events (ATE), Percentage of patients experiencing ATE, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Thrombosis-free survival (TFS), Defined as the time elapsed from the first dose of study treatment to the diagnosis of thrombotic event, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Event-free survival (EFS), Events are defined as the endpoint of mortality, major bleeding and VTE. EFS is defined as the time elapsed from the first dose of study treatment to the diagnosis of VTE event, major bleeding event, or death by any cause, whichever occurs first, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Progression-free survival (PFS), Defined as the time elapsed from the first dose of study treatment to progression determined by the treating physician according to local standard clinical practice, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time elapsed from the first dose of study treatment until death from any cause, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Mortality rate, Percentage of patients who died through the study, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years|Incidence of relevant adverse events (AE), Percentage of patients who experience grade 3-5 according to CTCAE version 5.0, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years|Incidence of treatment-related AEs (TRAEs), Percentage of patients who experience TRAEs, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years|Incidence of major bleeding (MB) events, Percentage of patients who experience MB according to ISTH criteria throughout the study period and up to month 2 of end of tinzaparin treatment, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of Clinically relevant non-major bleeding (CRNMB), Percentage of patients who experience CRNMB according to ISTH criteria throughout the study period and up to month 2 of end of tinzaparin treatment, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Quality of life score, Patients reported outcomes through the EORTC quality of life questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 questionnaire. QLQ-C30 scale is a 28 items that are scored on a 4-point response scale. All scale scores are linearly converted to range from 0 to 100. For the functioning scales and global QOL higher scores indicate better functioning., Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of bleeding events in BRAF/RAS mutated patients, Percentage of patients who experienced a MB or CRNMB according to ISTH criteria throughout the study period and up to month 2 of end of tinzaparin treatment. Results will be reported according to BRAF/RAS mutational statu, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of bleeding events according to surgery, Percentage of patients who experienced a MB or CRNMB according to ISTH criteria throughout the study period and up to month 2 of end of tinzaparin treatment. Results will be reported according to previous surgery of the primary tumor, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of bleeding events according to antiangiogenic therapy, Percentage of patients who experienced a MB or CRNMB according to ISTH criteria throughout the study period and up to month 2 of end of tinzaparin treatment. Results will be reported according to first-line antiangiogenic agents treatment, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of bleeding events according to anti-EGFR therapy, Percentage of patients who experienced a MB or CRNMB according to ISTH criteria throughout the study period and up to month 2 of end of tinzaparin treatment. Results will be reported according to first-line anti-EGFR treatment, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of bleeding events according to tumor laterality, Percentage of patients who experienced a MB or CRNMB according to ISTH criteria throughout the study period and up to month 2 of end of tinzaparin treatment. Results will be reported in patients with right-sided or transversal vs. left-sided primary tumor, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient|Incidence of bleeding events according to genetic risk, Percentage of patients who experienced a MB or CRNMB according to ISTH criteria throughout the study period and up to month 2 of end of tinzaparin treatment. Results will be reported in patients according to their genetic risk score, Throughout the study period, approximately 6 months per patient
This research study is a prospective, randomized, open label (PROBE), non placebo-controlled, and phase III clinical trial; Investigator Initiated Study (IIS). The study has been considered a low-interventional clinical trial.

The trial will compare the efficacy and safety of tinzaparin with a watch and wait strategy for primary prophylaxis of symptomatic or incidental VTE in adult men and women, 18 years of age and older, with metastatic colorectal cancer who are scheduled to initiate systemic cancer therapy as a component of their standard of care anticancer regimen.

The study consists of 3 periods: a 4-week screening period, a 4 months treatment period and post-treatment follow-up period until the end of treatment (EOT) visit, scheduled 2 months after the last dose of tinzaparin or 6 months from the first dose of tinzaparin (whichever occurs latest). The duration of participation in the study for each subject is approximately 6 months. Further long-term phone follow-up to monitor for progression and survival could be carried out at the end of study. Tumor follow-up assessments will adhere to the standard clinical practice within each site.

All patients will receive the first-line anticancer treatment deemed more appropriate according to the physician criteria and current guideline recommendations. Patients in both groups will receive supportive care as per local practice. No formal recommendations will be issued by the study protocol regarding cancer treatment and supportive care, but the drugs used will be recorded in the clinical report form. Constitutive use of anticoagulant drugs will be prohibited during the treatment period.

Enrolled patients are randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the control arm, or the experimental arm:

Control arm: A watch and wait strategy will be used. There is no placebo. Since no reference treatment is available for long-term VTE prophylaxis in patients with cancer, patients in the control group will not receive VTE prophylaxis outside the hospital and will receive anticancer treatment and supportive care as per local practice. No formal recommendations will be issued by the study protocol regarding cancer treatment and supportive care, but the drugs used will be recorded in the clinical report form (CRF). Patients in the control group will receive antithrombotic prophylaxis as per local practice during hospitalizations. Any use of LMWH will be recorded in the CRF.

Experimental arm: Patients will receive prophylaxis tinzaparin at a fixed dose daily for 4 months.

The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of 4-months prophylaxis with tinzaparin for the prevention of symptomatic or incidental VTE events. Secondary efficacy objectives include the VTE incidence in specific subpopulations (stratification according to the laterality of the primary tumor, first-line treatment with anti-EGFR or antiangiogenics, and mutational status).

Safety of tinzaparin will be evaluated by means of relevant adverse events, incidence of bleedings according to International Society of Thrombosis and Hemostasis (ISTH) criteria, and patient-reported quality of life. Bleeding events will be evaluated locally by the investigator and centrally by a blinded committee.