Immunomodulating Nutrients in Perioperative Patients With Gastric Cancer
The survey is a phase IV, prospective randomized clinical trial to determine whether an immunomodulating nutrient-enriched diet compared to a standard diet can improve nutritional status and reduce postoperative infection and surgery-induced immune suppression in patients with gastric cancer or GIST undergoing major surgery in a single medical center.
Gastric Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: immunomodulating nutrients enriched diet|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: standard diet
immunomodulating effects, Inflammatory markers including interleukin (IL)-6, C-reactive protein (CRP), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) were employed to assess inflammatory processes., at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first
blood glucose, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood urine nitrogen, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood aspartate aminotransferase (AST) in U/L, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in U/L, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood triglycerides (TG) in mg/dL, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood cholesterol in mg/mL, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood low-density lipoprotein (LDL) in mg/mL, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood high-density lipoprotein (HDL) in mg/mL, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood sodium (Na) mEq/L, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood leukocyte count cells/μL, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood albumin in g/dL, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|blood prealbumin in mg/dL, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|body mass index (BMI) in kg/m^2, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|postoperative complications, postoperative complications that related to surgery, at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|time to first bowel action, interval of surgery to first bowel action (hours), at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first|length of hospital stay after surgery, length of hospital stay after surgery (days), at discharge from the hospital or 14 days after surgery, whichever occurred first
Primary Objective:

1. The primary end points:

   To evaluate the effect of immunomodulating diets on the postoperative inflammatory response: including interleukin (IL)-6, C-reactive protein (CRP), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α).
2. Secondary Objectives:

(1). Biochemistry parameters: glucose,blood urine nitrogen, creatinine, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, triglycerides, cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein, sodium, and leukocyte count.

(2). Nutritional status: albumin, prealbumin, BMI (3). Adverse events (4). Clinical outcomes: postoperative complications, time to first bowel action and length of hospital stay after surgery.

Number of Subjects: Eligible patients will be randomized in 2 arms in the ratio of 1:1, to reach 15 patients at least in each.

Plan of the Study:

1. This is a randomized, comparative, double blinded study in 2 arms.
2. Study Schedule Study date: the time getting approval letter issued by both regulatory authority and institutional review board (IRB). Duration of the study: 5 years.
3. Duration of Treatment: Treatment was administered before curative surgery for gastric adenocarcinoma or gastric GIST, and postoperative day 5-14 or to discharge whichever occurred first, or consent withdrawal during any time of the study, when the patient would be withdrawn.