To Evaluate IAH0968 in Combination With CAPEOX in HER2-positive Gastric Cancer
The safety, tolerability, and determination of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination therapy were first evaluated for IAH0968 in combination with or without the CAPEOX regimen in unsystematically treated subjects with HER2-expressing advanced/metastatic colorectal or gastric cancers (including adenocarcinomas of the gastro-esophageal junction) or HER2-hypo-expressing advanced/metastatic solid tumors. The efficacy of IAH0968 in combination with the CAPEOX regimen versus trastuzumab in combination with the CAPEOX regimen in subjects with HER2-positive advanced/metastatic gastric cancer, including gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma, was then assessed by progression-free survival (PFS) according to the Research and Evaluation Criteria for the Evaluation of Efficacy in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.
Stomach Neoplasms|Solid Tumor
DRUG: IAH0968
Number of Participants Who Experienced At Least One Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study treatment and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the study treatment or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of study treatment, was also an AE. The number of participants who experienced at least one AE is presented., Up to approximately 48 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study treatment and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the study treatment or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of study treatment, was also an AE. The number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE is presented., Up to approximately 48 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. The PFS per RECIST 1.1 was calculated using the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data., Up to approximately 48 months
This clinical study is a randomized, multicenter Phase II/III clinical study to investigate the efficacy of IAH0968 in combination or not in combination with the CAPEOX regimen in the treatment of subjects with HER2-expressing advanced/metastatic solid tumors and gastric cancer. The study is divided into two study phases: a Phase II clinical study and a Phase III clinical study.

Adverse events and adverse reactions were assessed in the study through clinical observation, vital signs monitoring, laboratory tests, etc., while PK, ADA and other relevant samples were collected; and using RECIST 1.1 as the standard for tumor assessment, subjects were assessed for tumors every 6 weeks starting from the first infusion of the study drug until the occurrence of disease progression, the initiation of new antitumor therapy, and the judgement of the investigator that it was not suitable for continued participation (e.g., development of intolerable adverse reactions), loss to visit, voluntary withdrawal, death, or study termination/suspension.

Upon withdrawal or termination of treatment (+7 days), subjects should be visited for termination of treatment (except in the case of death and loss to follow-up), as far as possible, prior to the initiation of new antitumor therapy, with relevant laboratory investigations and ADA samples, and thereafter followed up by telephone every 12 weeks (±7 days) for survival (OS) until loss to follow-up or death.

The phase II study was an open-label, nonrandomized clinical study, which was planned to be divided into 3 cohorts.The phase III study used a randomized, parallel-controlled, multicenter study design.