Association Between Different Parameters of Nutritional Assessment and Clinical Outcomes in Cancer Patients
Malnutrition in oncologic patients has a negative impact on post- surgical recovery, survival and quality of life. The etiology of malnutrition in cancer patients is multifactorial, therefore, the nutritional assessment should be carried out by different parameters. The objective of this study is to investigate the association and prognostic value of five distinct methods of nutritional assessment (molecular, body composition, functional, anthropometric and subjective) in relation to postoperative complications and short-term survival in patients with cancer. Regarding the molecular parameter, mtor signaling pathwayon will be assessed in rectus muscle samples, harvested in the moment of the operation. Body composition was assessed by computed tomography (CT) and bioelectrical impedance test was conducted to evaluate the phase angle. Handgrip strength was used to determine functionality. The percentage of weight loss in relation to usual weight was the anthropometric parameter used. Subjective Global Assessment (SGA) was used to provide the nutritional diagnosis. Postoperative complications were classified according to the Dindo and Clavien classification. Overall time survival was the period between the first assessment of the patients until death or end of follow-up. Chi-square test, t test, Kaplan-Meier method and the Log Rank test and regression analysis will be used (p \<0.05).
Cancer|Postoperative Complications|Sarcopenia
Postoperative complications, According to the Dindo-Clavien protocol, August, 2016
Survival, Follow up using medical records and telephone contacts, July, 2016
mtor signaling pathway, mTOR Elisa kits, December, 2016
Malnutrition in oncologic patients has a negative impact on post- surgical recovery, survival and quality of life. The etiology of malnutrition in cancer patients is multifactorial, therefore, the nutritional assessment should be carried out by different parameters. The objective of this study is to investigate the association and prognostic value of five distinct methods of nutritional assessment (molecular, body composition, functional, anthropometric and subjective) in relation to postoperative complications and short-term survival in patients with cancer. Regarding the molecular parameter, mtor signaling pathwayon will be assessed in rectus muscle samples, harvested in the moment of the operation. Body composition was assessed by computed tomography (CT) and bioelectrical impedance test was conducted to evaluate the phase angle. Handgrip strength was used to determine functionality. The percentage of weight loss in relation to usual weight was the anthropometric parameter used. Subjective Global Assessment (SGA) was used to provide the nutritional diagnosis. Postoperative complications were classified according to the Dindo and Clavien classification. Overall time survival was the period between the first assessment of the patients until death or end of follow-up. Chi-square test, t test, Kaplan-Meier method and the Log Rank test and regression analysis will be used (p \<0.05).