Cholecalciferol Supplement in Treating Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer Undergoing Observation
This randomized clinical trial studies how well cholecalciferol supplement works in treating patients with localized prostate cancer undergoing observation. Cholecalciferol may help prostate cancer cells become more like normal cells, and to grow and spread more slowly.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Cholecalciferol|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Patient Observation|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
PSA Response, Difference in the mean change in PSA on vitamin D (9 month period: pre-Vitamin D to 9 months after start of vitamin D) versus on placebo (9 month period: pre-Placebo to 9 months after starting placebo).

Compared using a paired t-test., 9 month period: pre-Vitamin D/pre-placebo to 9 months after start of vitamin D/ placebo, up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
Slope of PSA Concentration Over Time, The PSA levels were modeled as a function of treatment, time, their interaction, sequence, and a random subject effect using a linear mixed model. From this model, the subject specific PSA slope was obtained for each subject under each condition (vitamin D versus placebo). The PSA slopes were then compared between treatment conditions using linear mixed model to account for treatment arm and repeated measures., 9 month period: pre-Vitamin D/pre-placebo to 9 months after start of vitamin D/ placebo, up to 30 days after completion of study treatment -Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Toxicity as Assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0, Summarizing the maximum observed treatment related adverse event. Summarize by arm and grade using frequencies and relative frequencies.., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment (up to 22 months from start of study).
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response with oral high dose vitamin D3 supplementation (cholecalciferol) in patients with localized, histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the prostate who have not received any treatment for prostate cancer ever and have chosen expectant management.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the pattern of response of PSA dynamics as well as the absolute change in PSA following vitamin D3 supplementation.

II. Assess the toxicity of vitamin D3 supplementation in men with prostate cancer.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Track occurrence of infections, deep venous thrombosis, vascular events and falls in the study population.

II. To evaluate relationship between cytochrome P450 family 24 (CYP24), 27B1, single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) and serum 25(hydroxy \[OH\]) vitamin D response to oral D3 supplementation.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive cholecalciferol orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 9 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After a wash-out period of 3 months, patients cross-over to Arm II.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD for 9 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After a wash-out period of 3 months, patients cross-over to Arm I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.