Zoledronic Acid in Preventing Osteoporosis in Patients Undergoing Donor Stem Cell Transplant
RATIONALE: Zoledronic acid, vitamin D, and calcium may prevent bone loss in patients who are undergoing donor stem cell transplant.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying how well zoledronic acid works in preventing osteoporosis in patients undergoing donor stem cell transplant.
Leukemia|Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Osteoporosis|Ovarian Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: calcium|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: cholecalciferol|DRUG: zoledronic acid
Mean Change in Bone Mineral Density, Change in bone mineral density of the femoral neck measured from baseline to 12 months after transplant utilizing Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan. Comparison of difference between the standard of care group (receiving calcium and vitamin D)and the Zometa group. The measurement consists of baseline bone mineral density measurements with followup measurements at 12 months.

This will be analyzed as a continuous variable. Percent change in bone mineral density (BMD) will be calculated as (BMD change) x 100/BMD baseline., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant
Mean Change in Serum Osteocalcin, Change in bone resorption markers of bone metabolism measured at baseline and 12 months post transplant for all enrolled patients. As osteocalcin is produced by osteoblasts, it is often used as a marker for the bone formation process., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant|Mean Change in Serum Bone Specific Alkaline Phosphate, Change in bone resorption markers of bone metabolism measured at baseline and 12 months post transplant for all enrolled patients. The decrease in serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase predicts bone mineral density response to hormone replacement therapy in early postmenopausal women., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant|Mean Change in Urinary N-terminal Telopeptide, Change in bone resorption markers of bone metabolism measured at baseline and 12 months post transplant for all enrolled patients. In bone physiology, the N-terminal telopeptide is a biomarker used to measure the rate of bone turnover., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant|Mean Change in Luteinizing Hormone, Change in bone resorption markers of bone metabolism measured at baseline and 12 months post transplant for all enrolled patients. Luteinizing hormone is a hormone produced by the anterior pituitary gland., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant|Mean Change in Follicle-Stimulating Hormone, Change in bone resorption markers of bone metabolism measured at baseline and 12 months post transplant for all enrolled patients. Follicle-stimulating hormone is a hormone produced by the anterior pituitary gland., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant|Mean Change in Thyroid Function Test 4, Change in bone resorption markers of bone metabolism measured at baseline and 12 months post transplant for all enrolled patients. Individuals who have hyperthyroidism will have an elevated thyroxine (FT4). Low serum thyroxine can also indicate a pituitary problem., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant|Mean Change in Ultrasensitive Estradiol, Change in bone resorption markers of bone metabolism measured at baseline and 12 months post transplant for all enrolled patients. In women estradiol is responsible for growth of the breast and reproductive epithelia, maturation of long bones and development of the secondary sexual characteristics., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant|Mean Change in Total Testosterone, Change in bone resorption markers of bone metabolism measured at baseline and 12 months post transplant for all enrolled patients. Testosterone affects the brain, bone and muscle mass, fat distribution, the vascular system, energy levels, genital tissues, and sexual functioning., From Time of Transplant to 12 Months Post-Transplant
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Evaluate whether prophylactic administration of zoledronic acid can reduce the severity of bone mineral loss in patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Secondary

* Determine the safety of zoledronic acid in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, prospective, randomized, controlled study. Patients are stratified according to participating center and type of transplant (myeloablative vs nonmyeloablative). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I (control): Patients receive oral cholecalciferol (vitamin D) and oral calcium once a day for 12 months.
* Arm II (treatment): Patients receive vitamin D and calcium as in arm I. Patients also receive zoledronic acid intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes at 28 days prior to stem cell transplantation and at 3 and 6 months after transplantation.

In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 12 months.