Safety, Tolerability, and Immunogenicity of LK101 Alone in Participants With Incurable Solid Tumors
This is an open-labeled, single-center phase I study in patients with incurable advanced solid tumors, who failed with all previous standard therapy. The aim is to observe and evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of LK101 injection.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: LK101 injection|DRUG: LK101 injection
DLT, incidence of Dose limited toxicity(DLT),incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), and immune-related adverse events (irAEs); Clinically significant abnormal changes in laboratory tests and other tests., Continuously throughout the study until 90 days after Termination of the treatment|AE, incidence and severity of adverse events, Continuously throughout the study until 90 days after Termination of the treatment|irAE, incidence and severity of immune-related adverse events, Continuously throughout the study until 90 days after Termination of the treatment|SAE, incidence and severity of serious adverse events, Continuously throughout the study until 90 days after Termination of the treatment|RP2D, Recommended phase 2 immune procedure, 21 days after the last prime dose
immunogenicity, neoantigen specific T cell response by ELISpot measurement, 24 months|ORR, Objective Response Rate (ORR)according to mRECIST 1.1 standard, 24 months|DoR, Duration of remission, 24 months|DCR, Disease Control Rate, 24 months|TTR, Time to remission, 24 months|TTP, Time to progression, 24 months|PFS, Progression Free Survival, 24 months|OS, Overall Survival, 24 months
Tumor immune microenvironment before and after treatment, CD8+T cell, PD-1, PD-L1, etc., 24 months
This study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of the dose escalation of LK101. We used the traditional "3+3" dose escalation design, Subjects who have been pathologically diagnosed with advanced solid tumors and defined as failing all previous standard therapy. LK101 will be administered in a prime-boost schedule of 4 priming vaccination followed by 3 booster vaccinations. The dose escalation will be conducted in a sequential manner, enrolled patients were initially placed in cohort 1, in which the priming phase is administered at 2-week intervals. And then followed the next cohort 2, where the priming phase is administered at 1-week intervals. Decisions with regard to dose escalation to the next dose level will be made jointly by the investigators and the sponsor. AE data was collected until the 21 days following the last prime dose. safety and immunogenicity will also be used to inform the final dose and schedule. A minimum of 6 patients will be treated at the MTD/RP2D.