Safety and Efficacy Study of a Triplet Combination of MLN9708, Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in the Initial Management of Multiple Myeloma (IFM2013-06)
This is a phase II, multicenter, open-label study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MLN9708 in combination with Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. The patient population will consist of adult men and women younger than 66 years, who have a confirmed diagnosis of MM who meet eligibility criteria.

Following the screening period, patients will be enrolled and treated then, they will receive induction therapy (3 cycles), a systematic Peripheral Blood Stem Cell harvest. After Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation, patient will enter in the consolidation phase (early and late one) 2 months after transplantation. Finally, patients follow a Maintenance therapy (start 1 month after the last cycle of consolidation) during 12 months.
Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: MLN9708|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
To evaluate the stringent Complete Response (sCR) rate of the combination of MLN9708, Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM) patients after extended consolidation therapy, sixteen months
To evaluate the overall response rate after induction therapy, after 63 days|To evaluate the safety Evaluate the safety, Descriptive statistics of treatment duration cumulative dose, dose intensity and relative dose intensity will be presented.

Treatment emergent adverse events will be summarized by period (induction, consolidation and maintenance) and overall.

Overall adverse events will be summarized by system organ class and preferred term and by severity (worst toxicity grade owing to the NCI CTCAE v4.0)., after 63 days|To evaluate the quality of stem cell harvest, according to institutional practice, participants must collect a minimum CD34 count of \> 5x106 cells/kg. In case of insufficient collection, collection of a minimum CD34 count of \> 2x106 cells/kg will be allowed.

Thus the number of cells collected will be evaluated, after 84 days|To evaluate the overall response rate after high-dose therapy (prior to consolidation), after 84 days|To evaluate the overall response rate after consolidation therapy, after 270 days|To evaluate the feasibility of maintenance with MLN9708, number of dose, after 270 days|To evaluate duration of response, progression-free and overall survival, five years and a half
This is a phase II, multicenter, open-label study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MLN9708 in combination with Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. The patient population will consist of adult men and women younger than 66 years, who have a confirmed diagnosis of MM who meet eligibility criteria.

Following the screening period, patients will be enrolled and treated then, they will receive induction therapy (3 cycles), a systematic Peripheral Blood Stem Cell harvest. After Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation, patient will enter in the consolidation phase (early and late one) 2 months after transplantation. Finally, patients follow a Maintenance therapy (start 1 month after the last cycle of consolidation) during 12 months.