Omega-3 Supplementation for Smell Dysfunction
Omega-3 supplementation has been shown to have neuroprotective and potentially anti-inflammatory properties in both central and peripheral nerve injuries. The investigators are studying to see if omega-3 supplementation will affect olfactory (smell) function in patients with olfactory dysfunction following endoscopic removal of pituitary tumors.
Sellar/Parasellar Tumor|Smell Dysfunction
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Omega-3
Difference in Olfactory Function at baseline, based upon tumor type (i.e. functional vs. non-functional tumor), The University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT) will be used to determine baseline olfactory function prior to sellar/parasellar tumor resection for all subjects.The test consists of a total of 40 "scratch and sniff" strips which the individual must select the correct odor from four choices. The test is scored out of 40 items. The number of correct answers regarding the smells being experienced is the subject's score. The higher the score the better the sense of smell., Baseline (pre-tumor resection)|Change in Olfactory Function over 6-month post-op period, The University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT) will be used to determine baseline olfactory function prior to sellar/parasellar tumor resection for all subjects.The test consists of a total of 40 "scratch and sniff" strips which the individual must select the correct odor from four choices. The test is scored out of 40 items. The number of correct answers regarding the smells being experienced is the subject's score. The higher the score the better the sense of smell. A change in UPSIT scores of 10% or greater indicates a clinically significant improvement., Baseline (pre-tumor resection), at 6 months (post-tumor resection)
Omega-3 supplementation has been shown to have neuroprotective and potentially anti-inflammatory properties in both central and peripheral nerve injuries. The investigators are studying to see if omega-3 supplementation will affect olfactory (smell) function in patients with olfactory dysfunction following endoscopic removal of pituitary tumors.