Erlotinib Hydrochloride and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Stage IV Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well erlotinib hydrochloride and bevacizumab work in treating patients with stage IV breast cancer. Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving erlotinib hydrochloride and bevacizumab may be an effective treatment for breast cancer.
Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Level of EGFR Expression, Estimated at the end of the trial Immunoreactivity will be evaluated qualitatively with regard to intensity as follows: Measured on a scale, ranging from 0-3+ 0=negative (no immunoreactivity)

1+ - 3+ = positive:

* faint immunoreactivity (weak staining)
* intense immunoreactivity (strong staining) Immunohistochemical studies will be performed on the tumor specimen to correlate the anti-tumor efficacy of OSI-774 and bevacizumab with pre-treatment molecular characteristics., Up to 12 years|Response Rate, Defined as Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR), Using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Estimated at the end of the trial. Complete Response (CR):Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD 55 Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, Up to 12 years
Duration of Response, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started).Evaluation of Target Lesions Complete Response (CR):Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD, From the time measurement criteria are met for CR and PR until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 12 years|Time to Progression, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, From the start of treatment until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 12 years|Number of Patients Evaluated for Toxicity, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0, up to 12 years|Participants With Duration of Stable Disease Greater Than or Equal to 6 Months, Duration of stable disease greater than or equal to 6 months, From the start of treatment until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 12 years
HER2 Status, Associations between response and HER2 will be assessed by Fisher's exact test., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for EGFR, Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 3 (HER3), Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for Marker of Proliferation Ki-67 (Ki-67), Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for p27, Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for Phosphorylated-mitogen-activated Protein Kinase (MAP) Kinase, Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for Phosphorylated-v-akt Murine Thymoma Viral Oncogene Homolog 1 (Akt), Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for Tumor Protein p53 (p53), Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for VEGF, Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for VEGF Receptor (VEGFR)-1, Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years|Percentage of Cells Staining Positive for VEGFR-2, Associations between markers and tumor response will be assessed by logistic regression analysis. For those markers that are statistically significant, a cut-point analysis will be performed by the maximum chi-square with p-value adjustment method to determine positive values., Up to 12 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of bevacizumab in combination with OSI-774 (erlotinib hydrochloride) in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer, as measured by objective response rate.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity of bevacizumab in combination with OSI-774 in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab in combination with OSI-774 in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer, as measured by time to disease progression, duration of response and the proportion of patients with stabilization of disease \>= 6 months.

III. To determine the molecular profile of the patient's primary breast tumor, and to explore the relationship between these molecular characteristics and the response to treatment.

IV. To explore changes in biological markers in pre- and post-treatment tumor tissue in a subset of patients with accessible sites of disease.

V. To explore a pre- and post-treatment analysis of circulating endothelial cells and the relationship of this analysis to serum markers of angiogenesis as well as response to treatment.

VI. To obtain serial measurements of circulating epithelial cells and explore the relationship of these cells with circulating endothelial cells, markers of angiogenesis, and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.