Melanoma Surveillance Photography (MSP) to Improve Early Detection of Melanoma in Ultra-high and High Risk Patients
This randomised controlled trial will investigate the role of melanoma surveillance photography (MSP) in the surveillance of patients at high or ultra-high risk of melanoma. MSP is a comprehensive method of melanoma monitoring which includes total body photography and digital dermoscopy which is performed at prescribed intervals. The study will test whether participants under surveillance with MSP have less unnecessary biopsies (false positives) compared to those without MSP. Participants will be Australian residents with a new diagnosis of primary melanoma, who have multiple naevi and are at high or ultra-high risk of developing melanoma. Participants will be randomised 1:1 to either groups.

It is hypothesised that those randomised to surveillance with MSP will have better patient outcomes. Improved diagnostic performance as measured by the number of unnecessary biopsies will be the primary outcome measure.
Melanoma|Skin Cancer|Anxiety and Fear
DEVICE: 2D or 3D Melanoma Surveillance Photography
Diagnostic performance of melanoma surveillance, The primary outcome is the diagnostic performance of surveillance for melanoma, expressed as the number of false positive biopsies per patient over a 24-month period., 24 months
Cost-effectiveness of MSP, Standard health economic cost-effectiveness measures., 24 months|Diagnostic performance for melanoma, Agreement and reliability indices., 24 months|Diagnostic performance for keratinocyte lesions, Agreement and reliability indices., 24 months|Health-Related Quality of life, Assessment of Quality of Life (AQOL-8D) questionnaire for calculation of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Minimum score per each of 8 questions is 1; maximum score is 5, where higher score represents worse outcomes. Scores may be aggregated to provide an overall index of the health state utility per participant, where higher scores indicate worse quality of life outcomes., 24 months|Patient anxiety, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30), Fear of Cancer Recurrence - short form (FCR4) and a purpose-designed patient acceptability scale will be utilised to synthesise a single endpoint measure for patient anxiety. Value range is 0 to 100, where higher values represent greater anxiety (worse outcomes)., 24 months
IMAGE Sub-study 1: PRE-TRIAL EXCISION RATES, To estimate the benefit of MSP in high risk patients prior to a melanoma diagnosis, amongst participants who would have been classified as 'high risk' at the time of their primary melanoma, this sub-study will compare:

i) Breslow thickness of the primary melanoma at entry into this trial, and ii) Biopsy rates prior to diagnosis, 5 year (retrospective)|IMAGE Sub-study 2: TELEDIAGNOSIS VALIDATION, Approximately 100 paired sets of 3D surveillance and digital dermoscopy images (baseline and follow-up) taken from patients in the intervention arm, will be sent to 10 participating study doctors (both GPs and dermatologists; all 100 pairs sent to all 10 doctors) for teledermatology assessment. The study doctors will assess the images with respect to whether they have a melonama present or not. Images will be selected randomly from amongst patients accrued to the main study for this telediagnosis validation study. Approximately 30% of these will include an image of a melanoma confirmed by histopathology (gold standard) during the trial. This substudy will not affect patient care but will assess diagnostic performance (sensitivity and specificity) in the teledermatology setting compared to the en-face clinical setting in order to validate the use of telediagnosis in routine care., Validity analysis undertaken at a single time point based on data accrued over 24 month study period.
The primary aim is to test whether melanoma surveillance with MSP, comprising either 2D or 3D TBP tagged with digital dermoscopy, compared to clinical surveillance without MSP, results in improved diagnostic performance, specifically reduced number of unnecessary biopsies (i.e. false positives due to an excision or biopsy of a lesion being performed to diagnose melanoma and that lesion being identified on pathology as benign), in high (and very high) risk individuals whose risk is contributed to by high naevus counts.

The secondary aims are to:

1. Evaluate whether MSP:

   1. Results in improved sensitivity of doctors' diagnosis of melanoma (i.e. reduction in false negatives)
   2. Improves health-related quality of life, patient satisfaction, and reduces patient anxiety
   3. Reduces costs to patients and health care system
2. Evaluate the safety and acceptability of MSP
3. Evaluate benefit of MSP in high risk patients prior to a primary melanoma diagnosis (Sub-study 1)
4. Evaluate diagnostic performance of tele-dermatology compared to en-face clinical visits (Sub-study 2).

Investigators hypothesise that for ultra-high and high risk patients with multiple naevi, clinical surveillance with melanoma surveillance photography (compared to without MSP) will lead to better patient outcomes, in particular a reduction in the number of unnecessary biopsies (i.e. false positives) as a measure of diagnostic performance. Secondary hypotheses include that for ultra-high, and high risk patients with multiple naevi, clinical surveillance with MSP (compared to without MSP) will lead to:

1. Reduction in the number of misclassified melanoma malignancies (i.e. false negatives);
2. Reduction in the number of misclassified melanocytic and keratinocyte lesions combined;
3. Improved quality of life; and
4. Favourable health economic outcomes.