Using Deep Learning Methods to Analyze Automated Breast Ultrasound and Hand-held Ultrasound Images, to Establish a Diagnosis, Therapy Assessment and Prognosis Prediction Model of Breast Cancer.
The purpose of this study is using a deep learning method to analyze the automated breast ultrasound (ABUS) and hand-held ultrasound(HHUS) images, establish and evaluate a diagnosis, therapy assessment and prognosis prediction model of breast cancer. The model would provide important references for further early prevention, early diagnosis and personalized treatment.
Breast Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: ABUS and HHUS
sensitivity, Proportion of corrected-marked malignant lesions by the model, 4 years|false-positive per volume, the number of uncorrected-marked malignant lesions by the model, 4 years|area under curve, area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve in percentage (%), 4 years|overall survival(OS) time, It measures the time from the date of cancer diagnosis to any cause of death., up to 10 years|Disease-free survival (DFS) time, The time that the patient is free of the signs and symptoms of a disease after treatment., up to 5 years
1. Establishing a database By collecting ABUS, HHUS and comprehensive breast images data, essential information, clinical treatment information, prognosis, and curative effect information, a complete breast image database is constructed.
2. Marking ABUS images Three doctors use a semi-automatic method to frame the lesions on the image.
3. Building the model Using the deep learning method to preprocess, analyze and train the marked images, and finally get a model diagnosis, efficacy evaluation and prognosis prediction model of breast cancer.
4. Evaluating the model 1）Self-validation： Analyze the sensitivity, AUC of the breast cancer diagnosis model and the false-positive number on each ABUS volume.

2) Compared the sensitivity, AUC and the false-positive number with a commercial diagnosis model.

3)To test the screening and diagnostic efficacy of computer-aided diagnosis systems through prospective or retrospective studies.

4)By analyzing the size and characteristics of the lesions after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and predicting the OS and DFS time, the therapy assessment and prognosis prediction model were evaluated.