Combination Chemotherapy Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining chemotherapy and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of radiation therapy when given with combination chemotherapy and to see how well they work in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be surgically removed.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) as assessed by dose-limiting toxicity within 1 month after completion of study treatment (phase I), Up to 1 month|Survival at 2 years (phase II), Up to 2 years
Survival time, Up to 5 years|Toxicity, Up to 5 years|Time to progression, Up to 5 years|Time to local progression, Up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of radiotherapy in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with unresectable non-small cell lung cancer.
* Determine the 2-year survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the progression-free local control rate in patients treated this regimen.
* Determine the tolerability of this regimen in these patients.
* Assess the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of radiotherapy.

Patients undergo radiotherapy\* once daily 5 days a week for 7 weeks and 2 days (a total of 37 fractions). Patients concurrently receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes once weekly for 7 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*No prophylactic nodal radiotherapy is administered

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of radiotherapy until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, 12 additional patients are treated at that dose level in the phase II portion of the study.

Beginning 3 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as above. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, once during the last week of radiotherapy, and then every 3 months for 2 years.

Patients are followed at 3 weeks, every 3 months for 21 months, and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 90 patients will be accrued for this study.