High-Flow Oxygen for Dyspnea in Hospitalized Cancer Patients
The goal of this clinical research study is to compare high-flow oxygen, low-flow oxygen, high-flow air, and low-flow air in helping to decrease shortness of breath in cancer patients. Researchers also want to learn if these therapies can help to improve lung function and quality of life.
Cancer
OTHER: High-flow Oxygen|OTHER: Low-flow Oxygen|OTHER: High-flow Air|OTHER: Low-flow Air
Change in Dyspnea Numeric Score Between 0 and 10 Minutes, We assessed dyspnea intensity 'now' using a numeric rating scale from 0 to 10 where 0=none and 10=worst. The minimal clinically important difference was 1 point., 0 (baseline) minutes and at 10 minutes
Change in Modified Borg Scale Intensity Between 0 and 10 Minutes, We assessed dyspnea intensity 'now' using a Modified Dyspnea Borg scale. This is a 0-10 point ratio scale with a higher score indicating worse dyspnea., 0 (baseline) minutes and at 10 minutes|Change in Modified Borg Scale Unpleasantness Between 0 and 10 Minutes, We assessed dyspnea unpleasantness 'now' using a Modified Dyspnea Borg scale. This is a 0-10 point ratio scale with a higher score indicating worse dyspnea unpleasantness., 0 (baseline) minutes and at 10 minutes
Study Groups and Procedures:

If you agree to take part in this study, you will receive 4 different breathing therapies:

* High-flow oxygen
* Low-flow oxygen
* High-flow air and
* Low-flow air

The order in which they will be given to you will be randomly assigned (as in a roll of dice). You will have an equal chance of being assigned to each group. Neither you nor the study staff will know which therapy order you are assigned to. However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are receiving.

All 4 breathing therapies should take about 80 minutes total to complete (10 minutes for each treatment with a 10 minute break between each treatment). You will receive the air or oxygen through small tubes placed in your nose. The respiratory therapist will be there to adjust the therapy to your comfort level.

At the end of each breathing therapy, you will be asked about your shortness of breath and if you have any improvement. You will also be asked if you could tell whether you received oxygen or air after each therapy.

After finishing the 4 breathing therapies, you will complete 2 questionnaires about which breathing therapy you liked and your thoughts about taking part in the study. These should take about 10 minutes total to complete.

Length of Study:

You will be taken off study if you no longer wish to take part, or if you need drugs to help with shortness of breath during the study. Your participation in the study will be over after you complete the questionnaires.

This is an investigational study. Comparing high-flow air, low-flow air, high-flow oxygen, and low-flow oxygen to treat shortness of breath is considered investigational.

Up to 36 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.