Green Tea Extract in Treating Patients With Low-Risk Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well green tea extract works in treating patients with low-risk prostate cancer. Green tea extract contains ingredients that may prevent or slow the growth of certain cancers.
Stage I Prostate Cancer|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer
OTHER: active surveillance|DRUG: Sunphenon|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Total-PSA (tPSA) Levels, tPSA serum levels, From baseline at 52 weeks|Changes in the f/tPSA Ratio, The difference of serum biomarkers between two treatment arms will be compared using T-test or Kruskal-Wallis test if normality is violated., From baseline at 52 weeks|Changes in IGF-I Levels, The difference of serum biomarkers between two treatment arms will be compared using T-test or Kruskal-Wallis test if normality is violated., Baseline to 52 weeks|Changes in the IGF-I/fPSA Ratio, The difference of serum biomarkers between two treatment arms will be compared using T-test or Kruskal-Wallis test if normality is violated., Baseline up to 52 weeks|Changes in the Level of IGFBP-3, The difference of serum biomarkers between two treatment arms will be compared using T-test or Kruskal-Wallis test if normality is violated., Baseline to 52 weeks|Changes in the Level of VEGF, The difference of serum biomarkers between two treatment arms will be compared using T-test or Kruskal-Wallis test if normality is violated., Baseline up to 52 weeks|Changes in the Levels of Free-PSA (f-PSA), The difference of serum biomarkers between two treatment arms will be compared using T-test or Kruskal-Wallis test if normality is violated., from baseline at 52 weeks
Effects of Oral Ingestion of Green Tea Extract in the Reactivation of GSTP1 (Whole Blood DNA), The temporal pattern of biomarkers within same treatment group between baseline and subsequent time points will be analyzed using repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA)., Up to 52 weeks|Effects of Oral Ingestion of Green Tea Extract on Levels of Ki-67, The temporal pattern of biomarkers within same treatment group between baseline and subsequent time points will be analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA., Up to 52 weeks|Effects of Oral Ingestion of Green Tea Extract on Levels of CD34, The temporal pattern of biomarkers within same treatment group between baseline and subsequent time points will be analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA., Up to 52 weeks|Effects of Oral Ingestion of Green Tea Extract on Levels of M30 Apoptosense in the Prostate Tissue, The temporal pattern of biomarkers within same treatment group between baseline and subsequent time points will be analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA., Up to 52 weeks|Effects of Oral Ingestion of Sunphenon 90 DCF-T on Histologic Findings in Prostate Tissue Such as Nuclear Measurements Viz. Shape, Size and Texture, Effects of oral ingestion of Sunphenon 90 DCF-T on histologic findings in prostate tissue such as nuclear measurements viz. shape, size and texture, Up to 52 weeks|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Mean Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) Scores, Quality of Life (QOL) assessed by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26). Scores for each domain (urinary incontinence, bowel, sexual, hormonal) range from 0-100, with higher scores indicating better clinical assessment., Baseline|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Mean Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) Scores, Quality of Life (QOL) assessed by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26). Scores for each domain (urinary incontinence, bowel, sexual, hormonal) range from 0-100, with higher scores indicating better clinical assessment., At 24 weeks|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Mean Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) Scores, Quality of Life (QOL) assessed by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26). Scores for each domain (urinary incontinence, bowel, sexual, hormonal) range from 0-100, with higher scores indicating better clinical assessment., at 3.5 years from start of study|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Mean Medical Outcomes Study 12-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12), Quality of Life (QOL) assessed by SF-12. The questionnaire consists of 12 items questioned weighted and summed to provide physical and mental health scores (PCS and MCS). The two composite scores are computed using the scores on twelve questions that range from 0 to 100, with higher score indicating better health., Baseline|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Mean Medical Outcomes Study 12-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12), Quality of Life (QOL) assessed by SF-12. The questionnaire consists of 12 items questioned weighted and summed to provide physical and mental health scores (PCS and MCS). The two composite scores are computed using the scores on twelve questions that range from 0 to 100, with higher score indicating better health., At 24 weeks|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Mean Medical Outcomes Study 12-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12), Quality of Life (QOL) assessed by SF-12. The questionnaire consists of 12 items questioned weighted and summed to provide physical and mental health scores (PCS and MCS). The two composite scores are computed using the scores on twelve questions that range from 0 to 100, with higher score indicating better health., At 3.5 years from start of study|Urinary Symptoms as Assessed by Mean American Urological Association Symptom Index (AUA), Urinary symptoms as assessed by American Urological Association Symptom Index (AUA). This is a 7-item symptom index measures frequency, nocturia, weakness of stream, hesitancy, intermittence, incomplete emptying and urgency. Scores range between 0 to 35, with higher scores indicating a worse clinical assessment., Baseline|Urinary Symptoms as Assessed by Mean American Urological Association Symptom Index (AUA), Urinary symptoms as assessed by American Urological Association Symptom Index (AUA). This is a 7-item symptom index measures frequency, nocturia, weakness of stream, hesitancy, intermittence, incomplete emptying and urgency. Scores range between 0 to 35, with higher scores indicating a worse clinical assessment., At 24 weeks|Urinary Symptoms as Assessed by Mean American Urological Association Symptom Index (AUA), Urinary symptoms as assessed by American Urological Association Symptom Index (AUA). This is a 7-item symptom index measures frequency, nocturia, weakness of stream, hesitancy, intermittence, incomplete emptying and urgency. Scores range between 0 to 35, with higher scores indicating a worse clinical assessment., At 3.5 years from start of study|Sexual Health Inventory in Men Score (SHIM Score), SHIM score - The SHIM score measures the severity of the participant's Erectile Dysfunction (ED) in points on a scale as follows:

22 - 25: No significant erectile dysfunction 17 - 21: Mild erectile dysfunction 12 - 16: Mild-to-moderate erectile dysfunction 8 - 11: Moderate erectile dysfunction 5 - 7: Severe erectile dysfunction

Reported values are an average of three collected data points per participant: at baseline, at 24 weeks, and at end of study (3.5 years), Baseline, at 24 weeks, and at 3.5 years from start of study
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess changes in the levels of total- and free- prostate-specific antigen (PSA), free to total PSA (f/tPSA) ratio and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-I) levels and IGF-I/free PSA (fPSA) ratio, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) after Sunphenon 90DCF-T (green tea extract) supplementation during the period between recruitment and biopsy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effects of oral ingestion on Sunphenon 90DCF-T supplementation during the period between recruitment and biopsy in the reactivation of glutathione S-transferase pi 1 (GSTP1) (whole blood deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\]); levels of antigen identified by monoclonal antibody Ki-67 (Ki-67), cluster of differentiation 34 (CD34), and M30 apopotosense in the prostate tissue.

II. To evaluate the effects of oral ingestion of Sunphenon 90DCF-T during the period between recruitment and biopsy on histologic findings in prostate tissue such as nuclear measurements viz. shape, size and texture and quality of life (QOL) assessment.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients undergo active surveillance for 52 weeks.

ARM B: Patients receive green tea extract orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 52 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.