Study Combining Imatinib Mesylate (Gleevec) With Sorafenib in Patients With Androgen-independent Prostate Cancer (AIPC)
Eligible patients will be enrolled in one of 4 cohorts where each cohort will allow 3 patients to be on study. Patients will receive both study drugs on escalated dosing schedule until the maximum of 400 mg PO BID is reached for both drugs or toxicity is established. Once the pre-specified 400 mg by mouth two times a day (PO BID) dosing for both drugs is reached without toxicity, the study will close for accrual. If toxicity is noted prior to reaching the 400 mg PO BID dosing, then the dosing schedule that is deemed safest as per study design will be the one used for any future phase II study.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Gleevec + Sorafenib
Number of Patients Experiencing Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT's), Eligible patients were enrolled in one of 4 cohorts, where each cohort allowed 3 evaluable patients to be on study, patients withdrawn from treatment for reasons other than toxicity were not considered evaluable. If one of the three evaluable patients experienced a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) the cohort was expanded to 6 evaluable patients. Patients will receive both study drugs on escalated dosing schedule until the maximum of 400 mg PO BID is reached for both drugs or toxicity is established. If 2 out of six evaluable patients experience a dose limiting toxicity this would show that the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) was the dose from the prior cohort., up to 20 weeks
Overall Clinical Benefit, Overall Clinical Benefit was measured as the sum of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD)., up to 20 weeks|Time to Disease Progression (TTP), Medium TTP is 2 months (range 1-5). 10 patients were evaluable for disease progression for these patients occurred between 1-5 months after starting the study. The TTP was calculated per protocol. For radiographic assessment Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) was used. Complete response = disappearance of all lesions. Partial response (PR)=30% or greater decrease in sum of longest diameter of measureable lesions SD. Lesions have no sufficient decrease for progressive disease and no sufficient increase to meet Progressive Disease (PD). PD more than 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of measurable lesions or 2 or more new bone mets. prostate-specific antigen (PSA) assessment for patients with measurable disease, PSA progression in the absence of measurable disease progression will not be considered progressive disease., up to 5 cycles, an average of 20 weeks, from the day of first treatment until the date of the last dose of study drug
Gleevec and Sorafenib have modest efficacy in androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC) and the fact that both agents can be given orally with what appears to be tolerable side effects, we hypothesize that combining both agents may provide patients with another effective regimen in a disease where therapeutic options are limited. This study is designed to investigate the safety of combining Gleevec and Sorafenib as well as feasibility in AIPC patients who have failed one or more lines of systemic chemotherapy. Once safety is established, a follow-up phase II study will commence to investigate efficacy.