Safety and Preliminary Effectiveness of BNT317, an Investigational Therapy for Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a first-in-human (FIH), open-label, multiple-site, dose escalation study which will evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and immunogenicity of increasing doses of BNT317 in participants with advanced solid tumors.
Advanced Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: BNT317 DL1|BIOLOGICAL: BNT317 DL2|BIOLOGICAL: BNT317 DL3|BIOLOGICAL: BNT317 DL4|BIOLOGICAL: BNT317 DL5 (intermediate)|BIOLOGICAL: BNT317 DL6 (intermediate)|BIOLOGICAL: BNT317 DL7 (additional)
Occurrence of DLTs, Per dose group. During the DLT observation period., up to 28 days post IMP administration on Day 1 of Cycle 1 or the day before Cycle 3 Day 1, whichever comes earlier (each cycle is 14 days)|Occurrence of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and treatment related adverse events (TRAEs), Per dose group. Assessed according to (US National Cancer Institute) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, including Grade ≥3, serious, fatal TEAE by relationship., from first IMP administration up to 100 days after last dose of IMP or until a new anticancer therapy is initiated|Occurrence of dose interruption or discontinuation of study treatment due to TEAEs, Per dose group., from first IMP administration up to 14 days after the last dose of IMP|MTD or the recommended phase two dose (RP2D) of BNT317, For MTD, up to 28 days post IMP administration on Cycle 1 Day 1 or the day before Cycle 3 Day 1, whichever comes earlier (each cycle is 14 days) or, for RP2D, up to 100 days
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Per dose group. Defined as the proportion of participants in whom a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 \[RECIST v1.1\]) is observed as best overall response., from first IMP administration up to 100 days after last dose of IMP or until a new anticancer therapy is initiated|Duration of Response (DOR), Per dose group. Defined as the time from first objective response (CR or PR per RECIST v1.1) to first occurrence of objective tumor progression (progressive disease per RECIST v1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., from first IMP administration up to 100 days after last dose of IMP or until a new anticancer therapy is initiated|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Per dose group. Defined as the proportion of participants with confirmed CR or PR or stable disease (per RECIST v1.1) is observed as best overall response., from at least 6 weeks after the first IMP dose up to 100 days after last dose of IMP or until a new anticancer therapy is initiated|PK assessment: The maximum (peak) serum concentration (Cmax) of BNT317, Per dose group. If data permits., from pre-dose Cycle 1 to pre-dose Cycle 4 (each cycle is 14 days)|PK assessment: Time to reach maximum (peak) serum concentration (Tmax) of BNT317, Per dose group. If data permits., from pre-dose Cycle 1 to pre-dose Cycle 4 (each cycle is 14 days)|PK assessment: Elimination half-life associated with the terminal slope of a semi-logarithmic concentration-time-curve (t1/2) of BNT317, Per dose group. If data permits., from pre-dose Cycle 1 to pre-dose Cycle 4 (each cycle is 14 days)|PK assessment: The area under the curve (AUC) from time zero to infinity (mass × time × volume-1) (AUCinf) of BNT317, Per dose group. If data permits., from pre-dose Cycle 1 to pre-dose Cycle 4 (each cycle is 14 days)|PK assessment: The AUC from time zero to the end of the dosing period of BNT317, Per dose group. If data permits., from pre-dose Cycle 1 to pre-dose Cycle 4 (each cycle is 14 days)|The proportion of participants who are anti-drug antibody (ADA) positive against BNT317, During the study., from first IMP administration up to 100 days after last dose of IMP or until a new anticancer therapy is initiated
Participants will be assigned to one of four dose levels of BNT317. One treatment cycle contains one treatment.

Participants may receive investigational medicinal product (IMP) for up to 2 years or until they experience disease progression, unacceptable toxicities, withdrawal of consent, study discontinuation or investigator decision. The total duration of the study for a singe participant may be up to 2 years, plus follow-up until the last participant has completed 1 year of survival follow-up (excluding screening).

In the dose escalation phase, an accelerated titration design for Dose Level 1 (DL1) and a Bayesian Optimal Interval (BOIN) design for DL2 to DL4 will be used to evaluate dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD).

Additional dosing schedules and/or intermediate or higher dose levels may be evaluated based on the available safety, antitumor activity, PK, and pharmacodynamic (PD) data.