Gefitinib and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Colorectal Cancer
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining gefitinib with fluorouracil, leucovorin, and irinotecan in treating patients who have advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. Biological therapies such as gefitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining gefitinib with fluorouracil, leucovorin, and irinotecan may kill more tumor cells
Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: gefitinib|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: fluorouracil
Grade 3 or 4 toxicity, graded using the NCI CTC version 2.0, Up to 2 years|Response rate, 95% confidence interval will be determined., Up to 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety of gefitinib, fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and irinotecan in patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.

II. Determine the major side effects of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the response rate, progression-free survival, and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Correlate response and other measures of outcome with epidermal growth factor receptor expression and the expression of genes that impact upon pathways of fluoropyrimidine cytotoxicity in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label, multi-center study.

Patients receive oral gefitinib daily beginning on day 1, irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15, and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV over 3-5 seconds followed by a 22-hour infusion on days 1, 2, 15, and 16. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.