Cisplatin + Radiotherapy vs Durvalumab + Radiotherapy Followed by Durvalumab vs Durvalumab + Radiotherapy Followed by Tremelimumab + Durvalumab in Intermediate-Risk HPV-Positive Oropharyngeal SCC
Sometimes, cancer patients receive an initial treatment, followed by additional treatment to lower the chance of cancer coming back. The standard or usual treatment for this type of disease is initially having radiation therapy at the same time as chemotherapy (with a drug called cisplatin), with no additional therapy afterwards
Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab
3 year event-free survival, Event-free survival (EFS), is defined as the time from randomization to the time when a failure event is observed. Failure is define by Local-regional progression or recurrence, Distant metastasis, Non-protocol RT, chemotherapy, Surgery or death., 3 years
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head and Neck Version (FACT-HN) score., The FACT-H\&N is a multidimensional, self-report QoL instrument specifically designed for use with head and neck cancer patients (1-3). It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for head and neck related symptoms.

Each item is rated on a 0 to 4 Likert type scale, and then combined to produce subscale scores for each domain, as well as an global QoL score. Higher scores represent better QoL., 6 years|Local regional failure, Locoregional control defined as time from randomization to the time of first documented local (primary site) or regional (lymph node) recurrence, 6 years|Distant metastasis-free survival, Distant metastasis-free survival defined as time from randomization to the time of first documented distant metastasis or death from any cause, 6 years|Overall survival, Overall Survival defined as time from randomization to the time of death from any cause, 6 years|Cost-effectiveness of immunotherapy-based treatment arm vs standard of RT and cisplatin in patients with intermediate risk LA-OSC using the EQ-5D-5L, 6 years|Number and severity of adverse events, 6 years|Cost-utility will be used to abstract indirect costs at the end of RT and at 6 and 12 months post RT, 6 & 12 months|Lost productivity questionnaire will be used to abstract indirect costs at the end of RT and at 6 and 12 months post RT, 6 & 12 months|Incidence of second cancer, 6 years|PRO-CTCAE baseline, last week of treatment, 3 months, 6 months and 12, 24 and 36 months from the end of RT, 3, 6, 12, 24 and 36 months|Dysphagia: PSS-HN swallowing subscale at 36 months from the end of RT, 36 months|Dysphagia: using MDADI Global at 36 months from the end of RT, 36 months|Number and severity of radiation-related late toxicity at 3 months, 6 months and 1 year from the end of RT, 3 months, 6 months & 1 year
This study is looking at whether a type of drug called durvalumab can be used with radiation during the initial treatment, (instead of cisplatin) and also afterwards as additional therapy. Durvalumab is an immunotherapy drug . It has been tested in many different types of cancers. Durvalumab works by allowing the immune system to detect the cancer and reactivate the immune response. This may help to slow down the growth of cancer or may cause cancer cells to die. Durvalumab has been shown to shrink tumours in animals. It has been studied in more than 5000 people, approved for use in other cancers and seems promising.

This clinical trial will also test another type of immunotherapy drug called tremelimumab, which would also be given as additional treatment. Tremelimumab works in a different way to durvalumab to enhance the immune system reaction against cancer cells and may improve the effect of durvalumab. Tremelimumab may also help slow the growth of the cancer cells or may cause cancer cells to die. It has been shown to shrink tumours in animals. Tremelimumab has been studied in over 1200 people, approved for use in other cancers and seems promising.

As of February 2019, tremelimumab will no longer be tested with new participants joining the study.