Avapritinib With Decitabine in Patients With SM-AHN
Systemic mastocytosis with an associated hematologic neoplasm (SM-AHN) is a challenging disease to treat. Targeted KIT inhibitors have been approved for this indication based on their ability to control the mastocytosis portion of the disease, but patients frequently experience progression of the concomitant myeloid malignancy (i.e. the AHN). Using a combination approach to treat both aspects of the disease has the potential to provide enhanced disease control; however, overlapping toxicity is a concern. In this study, investigators aim to study the safety and tolerability of combined avapritinib and decitabine for the treatment of SM-AHN.
Systemic Mastocytosis With an Associated Hematologic Neoplasm
DRUG: Avapritinib|DRUG: Decitabine|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Decitabine/Cedazuridine
Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), Recommended phase 2 dose which will be determined by evaluating all safety and efficacy data., up to 6 months
Systemic mastocytosis overall response rate (ORR), Overall response rate by modified International Working Group-Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Research and treatment and European Competence Network on Mastocytosis (m-IWG-MRT-ECNM) consensus criteria., Up to 6 months|Overall Responsive Rate, Overall response rate based on European Competence Network on Mastocytosis-American Initiative in Mast Cell Diseases (ECNM-AIM) criteria., Up to 6 months|Incidence and frequency of AEs and changes in vital signs, ECGs, and laboratory tests, Incidence and frequency of AEs and changes in vital signs, ECGs, and laboratory tests according to CTCAE v5.0., up to 24 months
Systemic mastocytosis with an associated hematologic neoplasm (SM-AHN) is a challenging disease to treat. Targeted KIT inhibitors have been approved for this indication based on their ability to control the mastocytosis portion of the disease, but patients frequently experience progression of the concomitant myeloid malignancy (i.e. the AHN). Using a combination approach to treat both aspects of the disease has the potential to provide enhanced disease control; however, overlapping toxicity is a concern. In this study, investigators aim to study the safety and tolerability of combined avapritinib and decitabine for the treatment of SM-AHN.