The Efficacy and Safety of Pyrotinib, Trastuzumab Combined With Taxanes in the Treatment of Trastuzumab-treated HER2+ Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC).
This is a multi-center real-world study, in which patients who meet the inclusion criteria will receive treatment with Pyrotinib + Trastuzumab + Taxanes. Taxanes will be used for 6-8 cycles or discontinued due to intolerable Adverse Events (AEs), after which Capecitabine will be used for rhythmic chemotherapy combined with Pyrotinib + Trastuzumab. The aim is to explore the efficacy and safety of Pyrotinib, Trastuzumab, and Taxanes in treating Trastuzumab-treated HER2+ Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC).
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Advanced Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pyrotinib|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Taxanes|DRUG: Capecitabine
PFS, the period of time from the start of treatment for cancer patients to the observation of disease progression, or death due to any reason, 24months
CNS-PFS, the period of time from the start of treatment for cancer patients to the observation of intracranial progression , or death due to any reason, 24months|ORR, the proportion of patients who have a partial or complete response to therapy, 24months|DCR, the percentage of patients with advanced or metastatic cancer who have achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease to a therapeutic intervention in clinical trials of anticancer agents, 24months|OS, the period of time from the start of treatment for cancer patients to the observation of death due to any reason, 24months|Overall Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Adverse Event, Including Serious and Non-Serious Adverse Events, Adverse event (AE) severity was assessed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 5.0 (NCI-CTCAE v5.0); if the AE was not specifically listed, the following grades of severity were used: Grade 1 = mild; Grade 2 = moderate; Grade 3 = severe; Grade 4 = life-threatening or disabling; and Grade 5 = death. Severe and serious are not synonymous. Severity refers to the intensity of an AE, whereas a serious AE must meet criteria set out in the protocol; both were independently assessed for each AE. Only the most severe intensity was counted for multiple occurrences of the same AE in one participant., 24months
This is a multi-center real-world study, in which patients who meet the inclusion criteria will receive treatment with Pyrotinib + Trastuzumab + Taxanes. Taxanes will be used for 6-8 cycles or discontinued due to intolerable Adverse Events (AEs), after which Capecitabine will be used for rhythmic chemotherapy combined with Pyrotinib + Trastuzumab. The aim is to explore the efficacy and safety of Pyrotinib, Trastuzumab, and Taxanes in treating Trastuzumab-treated HER2+ Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC).