A Trial of Paclitaxel (Albumin-binding) for Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
One-arm, multi-center clinical trial of paclitaxel (albumin-binding) combined with carboplatin for castration-resistant prostate cancer
Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: carboplatin
Prostate specific antigen (PSA), PSA was effective: PSA decreased by ≥ 50% for more than 4 weeks, and there was no evidence of clinical and imaging progression; PSA progression: PSA increased more than 25% of baseline or baseline during chemotherapy, and the absolute value was ≥ 5 ng/ml., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months
ORR, Objective Response Rate, From date of enrollment (after curative resection) until the date of death from any cause, assessed one month during therapy and 3 months thereafter|TTF, Time to treatment failure, From date of enrollment (after curative resection) until the date of death from any cause, assessed one month during therapy and 3 months thereafter|OS, Overall survival, From date of enrollment (after curative resection) until the date of death from any cause, assessed one month during therapy and 3 months thereafter
Prostate cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors of the male genitourinary system. In 2017, the American Oncology Society will report that 161,360 new prostate cancers were estimated, accounting for 21% of male tumors, ranking first in male new tumors; 26,730 death, cancer death. The rate is second only to bronchial lung cancer and colorectal cancer. In China, although the incidence of prostate cancer is lower than the world epidemiological level, the incidence of prostate cancer in China has shown an increasing trend in recent years. The latest statistics from the National Cancer Center 2017, the incidence of male prostate cancer is 2.4%, which is a male malignant tumor. Seventh place in the disease. The taxane drug docetaxel showed good anti-tumor activity in castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) patients, and paclitaxel combined with carboplatin also had a certain effect on CRPC. However, in clinical practice, patients with prostate cancer are mostly old, often accompanied by other underlying diseases, poor physical status, and poor tolerance in the use of docetaxel and paclitaxel. Albumin-bound paclitaxel has more tumor-targeted enrichment than traditional paclitaxel and is less toxic. Therefore, this study intends to explore the efficacy and safety of albumin-bound paclitaxel combined with carboplatin in the treatment of CRPC, providing a reference for the treatment options of CRPC in clinical practice.