Lymfit to Improve the Fitness and Quality of Life in Lymphoma Survivors
This randomized control trial seeks to determine whether a tailored and supervised exercise program adopting mobile-health technology will be able to improve fitness and quality of life among lymphoma survivors.
Lymphoma|Cancer Survivors
BEHAVIORAL: Lymfit exercise intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Waitlist control
Change of the exercise guideline as determined by comparing the active minutes captured in the Fitbit, The investigators will determine the percentage of lymphoma patients who adhere to the recommended exercise guidelines for cancer patients at baseline and after the intervention, i.e. compare the minutes of Moderate to vigorous physical activity per week captured in the Fitbit among participants in the intervention arm and waitlist control arm at baseline and 3 months., 3 months
Change from baseline multi-dimensional Quality of life (QoL) assessed by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System-29, The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System-29 is a 29-item instrument assessing multi-dimensional eight domains (29 items) (i.e., anxiety, depression, fatigue, pain interference, physical function, sleep disturbance, ability to participate in social roles and activities, and pain intensity). Raw scores generated for each domain are transformed into T scores; higher T scores indicate greater endorsement of the construct being assessed., 12 months|Change from baseline Work Ability assessed by the Work Ability Index (WAI), The Work Ability Index (WAI) questionnaire (7 items) will be used to collect productivity loss data within clinical trials and is suitable for direct translation into a monetary figure. The WAI measured in this way ranges from 7 to 49 points and 4 categories have been suggested to describe WAI levels: poor \[7-27\], moderate \[28-36\], good (37-43) and excellent (44-49)., 12 months|Change from baseline Fear of Cancer Recurrence assessed by the Cancer Worry Scale (CWS), Cancer Worry Scale is a six-item scale designed to measure worry about the risk of developing cancer and the impact of worry on daily functioning. The scale consists of six questions with four response options (1 = not at all or rarely; 2 = sometimes; 3 = often; 4 = almost all the time), such that each individual attains a score ranging from 6 (minimum worry) to 24 (maximum worry)., 12 months
Lymphoma is the most common cancer diagnosed in young adults. While curing 80% of patients, lymphoma treatment has a significant impact on young adults' health and psycho-social wellbeing by increasing fatigue and anxiety, risk of cardiovascular disease and other chronic disorders, all of which compromise one's quality of life. Regular exercise has the potential to reduce the side effects associated with cancer treatments. Thus, the most recent guidelines suggest that cancer patients should engage in adapted exercise programs during and after their treatment.

However, these guidelines are not systematically recommended by doctors and are often not followed by patients. Fatigue and lack of motivation are the main barriers to exercise among cancer survivors. Our study aims to identify young adults lymphoma patients and encourage them to adhere to the exercise guidelines with the help of an exercise physiologist and a fitness tracker. The investigators will evaluate the efficacy of these strategies in motivating exercise among young adults lymphoma survivors. Our proposed study carries significant implications for the prevention of complications of treatment for young adults lymphoma survivors.