De-intensified Radiation Therapy With Chemotherapy (Cisplatin) or Immunotherapy (Nivolumab) in Treating Patients With Early-Stage, HPV-Positive, Non-Smoking Associated Oropharyngeal Cancer
This phase II/III trial studies how well a reduced dose of radiation therapy works with nivolumab compared to cisplatin in treating patients with human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive oropharyngeal cancer that is early in its growth and may not have spread to other parts of the body (early-stage), and is not associated with smoking. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Chemotherapy drugs, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. This trial is being done to see if a reduced dose of radiation therapy and nivolumab works as well as standard dose radiation therapy and cisplatin in treating patients with oropharyngeal cancer.
Basaloid Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Clinical Stage I HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Papillary Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Pathologic Stage I HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage II HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Squamous Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|RADIATION: Image Guided Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression-free Survival (PFS) (Phase II) (Percentage of Participants Alive Without Progression), Progression is defined as local-regional progression or recurrence, distant metastasis, death due to any reason, salvage surgery of primary with tumor present/unknown, salvage neck dissection with tumor present/unknown, \> 20 weeks from end of radiation therapy. Progression-free survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, censoring participants alive at time of analysis.

The primary phase IIR endpoint is tested using a confidence interval (CI) approach with each experimental arm compared to the standard arm (Arm 1)., From randomization to first progression or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at the time of analysis was 4.6 years. The 1- and 2-year estimates are reported.|Progression-free Survival (Phase III) (Percentage of Participants Alive Without Progression), Progression is defined as local-regional progression or recurrence, distant metastasis, death due to any reason, salvage surgery of primary with tumor present/unknown, salvage neck dissection with tumor present/unknown, \> 20 weeks from end of radiation therapy. Progression-free survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, censoring participants alive at time of analysis., From randomization to first progression or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up was 4.6 years.|MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) Global Quality of Life (QOL) Score, The M. D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) assesses how patients view their swallowing ability as a result of treatment and how this affects their QOL. It consists of a global quality of life question and a functional, emotional, and physical subscale. The global QOL question ranges from 1 to 5 and multiplied by 20 to obtain a score with a range of 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate better functioning., Baseline to two years
Locoregional Failure (Percentage of Participants With Locoregional Failure), Locoregional failure is defined as local-regional progression or recurrence, death due to study cancer or unknown causes, salvage neck dissection with tumor present/unknown. Locoregional failure rates are estimated the cumulative incidence method, treating distant metastasis and death due to any reason other than study cancer or unknown as competing risks, and otherwise censoring participants alive at time of analysis. Each experimental arm is compared to the standard arm (Arm I)., From randomization to first failure, competing event, or last known follow-up, whichever occurs first. Maximum follow-up at the time of analysis was 4.6 years. The 1- and 2-year estimates are reported.|Distant Failure (Percentage of Participants With Distant Failure), Distant failure is defined as the occurrence of distant metastasis. Distant failure rates are estimated the cumulative incidence method, treating local-regional progression or recurrence, death due to any reason, salvage neck dissection with tumor present/unknown as competing risks, and otherwise censoring participants alive at time of analysis. Each experimental arm is compared to the standard arm (Arm I)., From randomization to first failure, competing event, or last known follow-up, whichever occurs first. Maximum follow-up at the time of analysis was 4.6 years. The 1- and 2-year estimates are reported.|Overall Survival (Percentage of Participants Alive), Survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, censoring participants alive at time of analysis., From randomization to death from any cause or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at the time of analysis was 4.6 years. The 1- and 2-year estimates are reported.|Number of Participants by Highest Grade Adverse Event Reported, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 grades adverse event severity as follows: 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, 3 = severe, 4 = life-threatening, 5 = death related to adverse event. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure; see Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data., From randomization to last known follow-up. Maximum follow-up at the time of analysis was 4.6 years.|Hearing, Measured as Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults-Screening (HHIA-S)., Baseline up to 24 months from end of radiation therapy (RT)|Quality of Life, Measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)30., Baseline up to 24 months from end of RT|Fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-Positron Emission Tomography (PET)/Computed Tomography (CT) Locoregional Control, Will be associated with PFS., Up to 6 years|Negative Predictive Value of Post-RT FDG-PET/CT for Locoregional Control, The negative predictive value of FDG-PET/CT for locoregional control will be estimated using binomial proportions and confidence intervals based on normal approximation., At 1 and 2 years|Negative Predictive Value of Post-RT FDG-PET/CT for PFS, The negative predictive value of FDG-PET/CT PFS will be estimated using binomial proportions and confidence intervals based on normal approximation., At 1 and 2 years|Incidence of Adverse Events, Measured using Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE. For each symptom, counts and frequencies will be provided for the worst score experienced by the patient by treatment arm. The proportion of patients with scores \>= 1 and \>= 3 will be compared between groups using a Chi-square test, or Fisher's exact test if cell frequencies are \< 5, using a significance level of 0.05. Analysis of changes in patient reported outcomes over time will analyzed by fitting generalized estimating equations (GEE) models using a logit link (dichotomizing the symptom scores as 0 vs. \> 1 and 0-2 vs. 3-4) with time of assessment, treatment arm, and treatment-by-time interaction terms in the model., Up to 6 years
Quality of Life, Measured by EuroQol-5 Dimensional- 5 Level (EQ-5D-5L)., Baseline up to 24 months from end of RT|Swallowing Physiology, Measured by a Modified Barium Swallow (MBS) test. The proportion of aspiration for each arm will be estimated assuming a binomial distribution and between arm comparison will be performed using a Fisher's exact test., Up to 6 years|Locoregional Control for Patients With Post-RT FDG-PET/CT, Locoregional control rates will be compared between negative and positive/undetermined patients. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine whether there are differences between these two groups, while adjusting for treatment arm and other covariates (cause-specific Cox models for locoregional failure)., At 12-14 weeks post-RT|PFS for Patients With Post-RT FDG-PET/CT, PFS rates will be compared between negative and positive/undetermined patients. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine whether there are differences between these two groups, while adjusting for treatment arm and other covariates (cause-specific Cox models for locoregional failure)., At 12-14 weeks post-RT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate non-inferiority in terms of progression-free survival (PFS) of concurrent reduced-dose radiation therapy (RT) with cisplatin or concurrent reduced-dose radiation therapy with nivolumab to the current standard of care (standard-dose RT with cisplatin). (Phase II) (Arm 2 \[concurrent reduced-dose RT with cisplatin\] was dropped after interim futility analysis in phase II.) II. To demonstrate non-inferiority in terms of progression-free survival (PFS) of concurrent reduced-dose radiation therapy (RT) with nivolumab to the current standard of care (standard-dose RT with cisplatin). (Phase II) III. To demonstrate co-primary endpoints of non-inferiority of PFS and superiority of quality of life (QOL) as measured by the MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) of concurrent reduced-dose radiation with cisplatin or concurrent reduced-dose radiation with nivolumab to the current standard of care (standard-dose RT with cisplatin). (Phase III) (Arm 2 \[concurrent reduced-dose RT with cisplatin\] was dropped after interim futility analysis in phase II.) IV. To demonstrate co-primary endpoints of non-inferiority of PFS and superiority of quality of life (QOL) as measured by the MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory \[MDADI\] of concurrent reduced-dose radiation with nivolumab to the current standard of care (standard-dose RT with cisplatin). (Phase III)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare patterns of failure (local and regional relapse versus distant) and overall survival between the experimental arm and the control arm.

II. To assess long term PFS, overall survival, and toxicity between the experimental arm and the control arm.

III. To determine acute and late toxicity profiles as measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

IV. To explore the symptomatic adverse events (AEs) for tolerability of each treatment arm as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE.

V. To compare changes in patient-reported outcomes (Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults-Screening \[HHIA-S\], European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer \[EORTC\]-Quality of Life Questionnaire \[QLQ\]30) between the experimental arm and the control arm.

VI. To assess the association of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) at baseline with locoregional control and PFS.

VII. To estimate the negative predictive value of the 12-14 weeks post-radiation therapy (RT) FDG-PET/CT in terms of locoregional control rates and PFS rates at 1 and 2 years.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future translation research. II. To optimize radiotherapy treatment plan quality assurance methodology for radiotherapy planning and imaging.

III. To compare changes in patient-reported outcomes (European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale \[EQ-5D-5L\]) between the experimental arm and the control arm.

IV. To collect Modified Barium Swallow (MBS) data for future review and analysis.

OUTLINE:

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo standard dose RT as 70 Gy intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or image-guided radiation therapy (IGRT) over 6 fractions per week and receive 100 mg/m\^2/day cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 22. Treatment continues for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG) and undergo positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) or CT during screening and during follow up, and undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during follow up. Patients may also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.

ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 03-FEB-2023): Patients undergo reduced dose RT as 60 Gy IMRT or IGRT once daily (QD) over 5 fractions per week and receive 100 mg/m\^2/day cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 22. Treatment continues for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive FDG and undergo PET/CT or CT during screening and during follow up, and undergo MRI during follow up. Patients may also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.

ARM III: Beginning 1 week prior to radiation, patients receive 240 mg fixed dose nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks (14 days) for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo reduced dose RT as 60 Gy IMRT or IGRT over 6 fractions per week for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive FDG and undergo PET/CT or CT during screening and during follow up, and undergo MRI during follow up. Patients may also undergo tissue biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.

PHASE III: Patients are randomized to Arm I and/or Arm III.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12-14 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.