Testing the Addition of Navitoclax to the Combination of Dabrafenib and Trametinib in People Who Have BRAF Mutant Melanoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax and to see how well they work in treating patients with BRAF mutant melanoma or solid tumors that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Dabrafenib and trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Navitoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for tumor cell survival. Giving navitoclax, dabrafenib, and trametinib may help shrink tumors in patients with melanoma.
Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Melanoma|Unresectable Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Dabrafenib|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Navitoclax|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Trametinib
Recommended phase II dose of the combination of dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax (Phase I), Determined by dose-limiting toxicities graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Up to 28 days|Proportion of patients with a complete response (CR) (Phase II), Assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, in the cohort of patients treated with dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax (DTN). The proportion of patients with a best response of CR will be presented with a 95% confidence interval calculated using the method of Atkinson and Brown., Up to 4 weeks after last study treatment|Maximal degree of tumor regression (Phase II), A comparison between the maximal tumor regression for patients treated with DTN and dabrafenib and trametinib (DT) will be conducted using a Wilcoxon rank-sum test., Up to 4 weeks after last study treatment
Progression free survival (PFS) (Phase II), PFS will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier. Log-rank tests will be used to assess for indications of differences between the two treatment modalities., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed for up to 10 years|Overall survival (OS) (Phase II), OS will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier. Log-rank tests will be used to assess for indications of differences between the two treatment modalities., Up to 10 years|Objective response rate (ORR) (Phase II), ORRs will be presented with 95% exact, binomial confidence intervals., Up to 4 weeks after last study treatment
Change in terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase 2´-deoxyuridine, 5´-triphosphate (dUTP) nick end labeling assay (TUNEL) staining, Fold changes of TUNEL will be calculated (post/pre). A Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used to compare the ratios (or equivalently, the difference in the natural logs) of baseline and follow-up levels of TUNEL between DTN and DT treatment arms., Baseline to up to 1 week|Change in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 2 (BCL-2), Will be primarily descriptive., Baseline to up to 1 week|Change in Ki67, Will be primarily descriptive., Baseline to up to 1 week|Change in phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) status, Will be primarily descriptive., Baseline to up to 1 week|Fold changes in BRAF-mutation assay, Fold-changes in assay response will be calculated (post/pre). Fold changes in the assay will be compared across RECIST responses using the Kruskal-Wallis test. In addition, for assay-based response or progression, the proportions of patients with CR/partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) will be presented with exact 90% confidence intervals. Assay performance data will be compared with response. The proportions will be summarized and compared using exact confidence intervals. Behavior of the blood assay will be summarized graphically., Baseline to up to 4 weeks after last study treatment|Fold changes in tumor burden, Assay fold changes will be compared with fold changes in tumor burden (post/pre). The relationship will be summarized graphically and using the Spearman rank correlation. Differences in the behavior of the assay will be explored using a general linear model of log (fold-change) with study, baseline tumor burden, and log (fold-change tumor burden) as predictors., Baseline to up to 4 weeks after last study treatment|Pharmacokinetic parameters, including maximal plasma or serum concentration (Cmax), area under the curve to the last collection point (AUClast), area under the curve for dose interval (AUC0-t), and time of maximal concentration (Tmax), Descriptive statistics including mean, standard deviation, coefficient of variation, geometric mean, median, minimum and maximum will be computed for each pharmacokinetic variable; descriptive statistics for natural-log transformed pharmacokinetic variables will also be provided., Pre-treatment, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours post-treatment on days 1 and 15 of cycle 1, and day 1 of cycles 2, 4, 8, and 12 (each cycle = 28 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), toxicity, and safety profile of navitoclax when given in combination with dabrafenib and trametinib in patients with BRAF-mutant solid tumors. (Phase I) II. To estimate the complete response (CR) rate in patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax as compared to the historical control dabrafenib and trametinib combination (DT). (Phase II) III. To compare the maximal tumor regression in patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with dabrafenib, trametinib versus dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe pharmacodynamics effects of treatment with dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax on both serial tumor biopsies and serial blood draws in a small subset of patients treated with BRAF-mutant melanoma. (Phase I) II. To describe the pharmacokinetics of treatment with dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax. (Phase I) III. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and overall response rate (ORR) in patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with dabrafenib, trametinib, versus dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax. (Phase II) IV. To compare the degree of apoptosis induced in on-treatment biopsies of patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with dabrafenib, trametinib versus dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax. (Phase II) V. To explore other pharmacodynamic effects in on-treatment biopsies of patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with either dabrafenib, trametinib versus dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax including cell proliferation (Ki-67), proteomics (reverse-phase protein microarrays \[RPPA\]), and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) family gene expression analysis. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax followed by a randomized phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive navitoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -7 to -1 of cycle 1 only. Patients also receive dabrafenib PO twice daily (BID), trametinib PO QD, and navitoclax PO QD days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo electrocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT), also undergo biopsy, and collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo ECHO or MUGA, MRI or CT, biopsy, and collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive navitoclax PO QD days -7 to -1 of cycle 1 only. Patients also receive dabrafenib PO BID, trametinib PO QD, and navitoclax PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo ECHO or MUGA, MRI or CT, biopsy, and collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for clinical evaluation at 28 days and every 3 months thereafter until disease progression or death, whichever comes first. For survival follow up, patients are followed every 12 months for 3 years.