Nursing and Pharmacy Time for Delivering Xeloda® Versus 5-Fluoruracil Regimens
This is a prospective time-and-motion study to document and compare the time used in preparation, dispensing and administration for capecitabine/oxaliplatin (XELOX) versus IV 5-FU/leucovorin/oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) regimens in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients.
Colorectal Cancer
Composite preparation, dispensing and administration time, Composite time is measured via real-time recording. Total length of the said time points are to be recorded using a stop-watch and the sum is tabulated in the end., Up to 6 months after the initiation of chemotherapy
Capital item utilization (hospital bed and infusion pump), Capital item utilization is measured as the amount of time each healthcare resource is used and the associated cost for usage., Up to 6 months after the initiation of chemotherapy
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most common cause of cancer-related death in Hong Kong. The traditional chemotherapy for CRC remains on intravenous (IV) fluorouracil (5-FU) based regimens with the response rates of 10-20% and a median survival of approximately one year. Recent years, oral chemotherapy has a more practical and economic advantages over IV regimen. It is understandable that patients prefer oral regimens as long as the clinical efficacy is maintained. Oral treatment strategy preserves quality of life for CRC patients. In a previous cost-minimization study conducted in Hong Kong, it was demonstrated that capecitabine was more cost-effective than 5-FU plus oxaliplatin assuming they had equal clinical efficacy. Not only is capecitabine more cost-effective, it may also have additional cost saving in the nursing and pharmacy time . It is because a significant amount of time can be saved in both nursing and pharmacy for the preparation and administration of IV chemotherapy. In the UK, it was demonstrated that capecitabine required less pharmacy and administration time per cycle than 5-FU based IV chemotherapy. However, there is a lack of local data to demonstrate the impact of pharmacy and nursing care utilizing capecitabine comparing to traditional IV chemotherapy in CRC patients of Hong Kong.