Prospective Study to Compare the Efficacy of E.G.Scan to Detect Barrett's Esophagus Compared With Standard Endoscopy
The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether a disposable nasal endoscope called "E.G. Scan II" will visualize the esophagus as well as the standard test, sedated endoscopy.
Barrett's Esophagus
DEVICE: EG Scan II (transnasal endoscopy)|PROCEDURE: Standard Endoscopy
Median Tolerability Score on 10-point Visual Analog Scale (VAS), On the 10-point VAS, 0 represented the "worst experience" and 10 the "best experience.", Within 48 hours
Preference for Either of the Two Procedures, EG II Scan Versus Standard Endoscopy, Subjects were asked the following question: "Based on the overall experience (including need for sedation, ability to drive, time off work, procedure comfort, procedure time, etc.). Which procedure would you prefer to have in the future?" Possible answers were: Nasal camera test (EG), oral camera test (Gastroscopy), or either test., Two weeks
All subjects underwent two procedures: the E.G.Scan II followed by standard endoscopy in a tandem design. The E.G. Scan II is a transnasal endoscope system to capture and transmit images of the esophagus. Captured images can be reviewed via the E.G. View for diagnosis of diseases related to the esophagus. Generally, the commercial esophagoscope system has reusable probes, but E.G. Scan™ II has a single use probe because reusable probes have the risk of infection and pollution.

Prior to the E.G.Scan, subjects received a standard prep for the procedure. The two procedures were performed by two different experienced endoscopists who were blinded to the indication of the procedure. At both procedures a note was made of any abnormality of the esophagus. Every subject with an endoscopic diagnosis of Barrett's Esophagus had clinical biopsies taken to confirm diagnosis. Subject tolerability was measured with a 10-point visual analog scale (VAS) where 0 represented the "worst experience" and 10 the "best experience."