Phase 2b Imaging Study of RAD101 in Participants with Suspected Recurrent Brain Metastases
This is an open-label, single dose, single arm, multicenter Phase 2b study to establish the imaging performance of RAD101 PET in participants who are ≥ 18 years of age and with suspected recurrent brain metastases from solid tumors.

The study consists of a 4-week Screening Period, a 3-day Imaging and Safety Follow-Up Period, and a Data Collection Period of up to 6 months. Participant eligibility will be determined during the Screening Period and eligible participants will be enrolled in the study. On Day 1, the enrolled participants will receive a single dose of the investigational medicinal product (IMP), RAD101. Participants will then proceed with a whole brain PET scan. A high-resolution Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) will be performed in joint acquisition with PET or separately on the same day. A phone follow-up will be performed on Day 3 (+ 1 day). Participants will have follow-up (longitudinal) MRI scans (longitudinal imaging) and/ or a biopsy according to their Standard of Care (SoC). The longitudinal MRI results, and details of the biopsy if performed as part of SoC (i.e., location and histopathology results), will be collected during the 6- month Data Collection Period.
Brain Metastases from Solid Tumors
DRUG: RAD101 (18F-FPIA)
Concordance between RAD101 PET/MRI and MRI with macrocyclic gadolinium, Number, size, and proportion of SRS-treated lesions identified by both RAD101 PET/MRI and MRI (with macrocyclic gadolinium), 1 Week|Concordance between RAD101 PET/MRI and MRI with macrocyclic gadolinium, Number, size, and proportion of SRS-treated lesions identified by RAD101 PET/MRI and not identified by MRI (with macrocyclic gadolinium), 1 Week|Concordance between RAD101 PET/MRI and MRI with macrocyclic gadolinium, Number, size, and proportion of SRS-treated lesions not identified by RAD101 PET/MRI and identified by MRI (with macrocyclic gadolinium), 1 Week
Accuracy of RAD101 in identifying tumor recurrence versus radiation necrosis in previously SRS-treated brain metastasis, Standard of care imaging using longitudinal MRI scans or histopathology based on RANO-BM response criteria, 6 months|Safety and tolerability of a single dose of RAD101, The properties, incidence, nature and severity of AEs and SAEs per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, 48 Hours|Optimal dose of RAD101, Activity (MBq) of RAD101 in images obtained by simulated count reduction, 1 week|Performance of RAD101 PET in identifying tumor lesions, Maximum standardized uptake values (Standardized uptake value (SUV)max) in suspected tumor lesions, 1 week|Performance of RAD101 PET in identifying tumor lesions, Mean standardized uptake value (SUVmean) in tumor lesions, 1 week|Performance of RAD101 PET in identifying tumor lesions, Lesion SUVmean to normal brain SUVmean ratio, 1 week|Performance of RAD101 PET in identifying tumor lesions, Lesion SUVmax to normal brain SUVmax ratio, 1 week
This is an open-label, single dose, single arm, multicenter Phase 2b study to establish the imaging performance of RAD101 PET in participants who are ≥ 18 years of age and with suspected recurrent brain metastases from solid tumors. Approximately 30 participants will be enrolled in the study. To avoid overrepresentation of a specific tumor type, a maximum of 15 participants per tumor type will be enrolled: lung, breast, colon, kidney, or melanoma.

The study consists of a 4-week Screening Period, a 3-day Imaging and Safety Follow-Up Period, and a Data Collection Period of up to 6 months. Participant eligibility will be determined during the Screening Period and eligible participants will be enrolled in the study. All participants will have an MRI (otherwise CT) performed as their SoC within 6 weeks before Day 1. For enrolled participants, the screening MRI images will be collected and submitted for central imaging review. On Day 1, the enrolled participants will receive a single dose of the investigational medicinal product (IMP), RAD101, at a target dose of 370 Megabecquerel (MBq) (10 millicurie (mCi)) ± 10% through a slow intravenous (IV) bolus injection over a maximum of 30 seconds, followed by a saline flush. Participants will then proceed with a whole brain PET scan at 60 ± 10 min post-dose. A high-resolution MRI will be performed in joint acquisition with PET or separately on the same day. Safety assessments, such as physical examination, vital signs, Electrocardiogram (ECG), and laboratory tests, will be conducted on Day 1 before RAD101 administration. Vital signs and ECG will be repeated 30 ± 5 min following RAD101 administration on Day 1. A phone follow-up will be performed on Day 3 (+ 1 day).

Participants will have follow-up (longitudinal) MRI scans (longitudinal imaging) and/ or a biopsy according to their SoC. If a biopsy is performed as part of their SoC during follow-up, the location of the biopsied lesion(s) and results of histopathology assessments on the lesion(s) will be collected. The longitudinal MRI results will be collected for central reading until a SoC biopsy is performed and the histopathology results are available, or up to 6 months following RAD101 administration, whichever comes first. The longitudinal MRI results, and details of the biopsy if performed as part of SoC (i.e., location and histopathology results), will be collected during the 6- month Data Collection Period.

To limit the number of participants being exposed to a dose-ranging study, the minimum effective dose (MBq) of RAD101 will be assessed on a subset of 6 to 10 participants using images obtained by simulated count reduction.

The duration of study participation for each participant is approximately 211 days (7 months), including 28 days of the Screening Period, 3 days of the Imaging and Safety Follow-Up Period, and up to 180 days of the Data Collection Period. The duration of the entire study is planned to be approximately 15 months.