Cabozantinib S-malate in Treating Patients with Metastatic Pheochromocytomas or Paragangliomas That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This pilot phase II trial studies how well cabozantinib s-malate works in treating patients with pheochromocytomas or paragangliomas that have spread from the primary site to other places in the body and cannot be removed by surgery. Cabozantinib s-malate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth.
Locally Advanced Paraganglioma|Metastatic Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Metastatic Paraganglioma|Regional Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Unresectable Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Unresectable Paraganglioma
DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Best overall response rate, As measured per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Will be determined by computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Response will include complete response, partial response, and stable disease. Response rates and their 95% confidence intervals will be estimated., Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment
Progression-free survival, Kaplan Meier survival curves will be used to estimate survival outcomes. Cox proportional hazards regression analysis may be used to assess the association between survival and covariates of interest., At 1 year|Blood pressure control and change/discontinuation of antihypertensive medications, Will be correlated with tumor responses., Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment|Symptomatology evaluation, Assessed by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory. Will be correlated with tumor responses., Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment|Plasma metanephrines and chromogranin A, Will be correlated with tumor responses, Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment|Plasma C-reactive protein and interleukin-6, Will be correlated with symptom and tumor responses., Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Seriousness, severity grade and relationship to study treatment will be assessed by the investigator. Severity grade will be defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.0. Listings of AEs will be provided., Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment|c-MET expression, Evaluated by immunohistochemistry and MET amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization in archived samples. Will be correlated with overall prognosis and responsiveness to cabozantinib s-malate., Baseline
Best overall response rate in patients with bone metastases only, As determined by fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/computed tomography. Response rates and their 95% confidence intervals will be estimated., Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment|Fluorodeoxyglucose -positron emission tomography/computed tomography Maximum standardized uptake value, advanced volumetric measures including peak standardized uptake value, metabolic tumor volume, and total lesion glycolysis, Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment|Time to skeletal related events, Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment|Incidence of skeletal related events at 4 months and one year, Up to 1 year|Markers of bone turnover (bone specific alkaline phosphatase and CTx), Up to 37 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate best overall response rate in patients with measurable disease determined by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate progression-free survival at 1-year. II. To correlate blood pressure control and change/discontinuation of antihypertensive medications with tumor responses.

III. To correlate symptomatology evaluation by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) with tumor responses.

IV. To correlate plasma metanephrines and chromogranin A with tumor responses. V. To correlate plasma C-reactive protein and interleukin-6 with symptoms and tumor responses.

VI. Toxicity assessment by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

VII. To correlate both c-MET expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) as well as MET amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in archived samples and correlate these biomarkers with overall prognosis and responsiveness to cabozantinib (cabozantinib s-malate).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Best overall response rate in patients with bone metastases only (8 patients) as determined by fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT).

II. FDG-PET/CT maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax), advanced volumetric measures including peak standard uptake value (SUVpeak), metabolic tumor volume (MTV), and total lesion glycolysis (TLG).

III. Time to skeletal related events. IV. Incidence of skeletal related events at 4 months and one year. V. Markers of bone turnover (bone specific alkaline phosphatase and C-terminal telopeptide \[CTx\]).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib s-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 4 weeks through week 24 and then every 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30-37 days.