Feasibility of a Supportive Education Program for Latina Breast Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial studies a supportive education program for Latina breast cancer survivors. The Bilingual Breast Cancer Education Intervention (BBCEI) may help Latina breast cancer survivors know what to expect after completing breast cancer treatment and prepare them to cope with cancer related survivorship issues
Cancer Survivor|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
OTHER: Educational Intervention
Determine the feasibility of implementation of a Bilingual Breast Cancer Education Intervention (BBCEI), A semi-structured interview guide will be used to describe participant satisfaction with the BBCEI. It allows the patient to describe in their own words whether the BBCEI was effective for their QOL concerns, helpfulness of intervention content, describe the cultural and linguistic appropriateness and identify ways to enhance program content, format and materials., 2 months after completion of the educational session|Determine the cultural and linguistic appropriateness of the BBCEI, A semi-structured interview guide will be used to describe participant satisfaction with the BBCEI. It allows the patient to describe in their own words whether the BBCEI was effective for their QOL concerns, helpfulness of intervention content, describe the cultural and linguistic appropriateness and identify ways to enhance program content, format and materials, 2 months after completion of the educational session|Determine topics requiring further emphasis in the BBCEI, A semi-structured interview guide will be used to describe participant satisfaction with the BBCEI. It allows the patient to describe in their own words whether the BBCEI was effective for their QOL concerns, helpfulness of intervention content, describe the cultural and linguistic appropriateness and identify ways to enhance program content, format and materials, 2 months after completion of the educational session|Determine ways to enhance program content, format and materials, A semi-structured interview guide will be used to describe participant satisfaction with the BBCEI. It allows the patient to describe in their own words whether the BBCEI was effective for their QOL concerns, helpfulness of intervention content, describe the cultural and linguistic appropriateness and identify ways to enhance program content, format and materials, 2 months after completion of the educational session
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. Describe the feasibility of implementing the BBCEI. II. Describe the cultural and linguistic appropriateness of the BBCEI. III. Determine topics requiring further emphasis in the BBCEI. IV. Identify ways to enhance program content, format, and materials. OUTLINE: Participants undergo 2 tailored BBCEI sessions within 1 month. At the beginning of the first session the research nurse will present the participants with a list of common physical and social concerns. The participant will then be asked to identify 3 topics that she wants to discuss. The research nurse will discuss with the participant any relevant supportive care resources and make the appropriate referrals. At the second session the focus of the BBCEI will be on psychological and spiritual well-being.