TPIV100 and Sargramostim for the Treatment of HER2 Positive, Stage II-III Breast Cancer in Patients With Residual Disease After Chemotherapy and Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well TPIV100 and sargramostim work in treating patients with HER2 positive, stage II-III breast cancer that has residual disease after chemotherapy prior to surgery. It also studies why some HER2 positive breast cancer patients respond better to chemotherapy in combination with trastuzumab and pertuzumab. TPIV100 is a type of vaccine made from HER2 peptide that may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells that express HER2. Sargramostim increases the number of white blood cells in the body following chemotherapy for certain types of cancer and is used to alert the immune system. It is not yet known if TPIV100 and sargramostim will work better in treating patients with HER2 positive, stage II-III breast cancer.
Breast Adenocarcinoma|Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Multi-epitope HER2 Peptide Vaccine TPIV100|BIOLOGICAL: Pertuzumab|OTHER: Placebo Administration|BIOLOGICAL: Sargramostim|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Emtansine
Invasive disease-free survival (iDFS) between the 2 arms, iDFS will be defined from the time of randomization to ipsilateral invasive breast tumor recurrence, regional invasive breast cancer recurrence, distant recurrence, death attributable to any cause, including breast cancer, non-breast cancer, or unknown cause, contralateral invasive breast cancer, or second primary non-breast invasive cancer. Will be based on stratified log-rank test at one-sided 0.01 level in an intention-to-treat population, where the stratification is by the randomization stratification factors. The Cox proportional hazards model will be used to adjust for the trial stratification factors (hormone receptor, human leukocyte antigen A classification, status and clinical stage). Subgroup analyses of iDFS will also be performed by stratification factors and other baseline characteristics, with the caveat that statistical power for these subgroup analyses may be limited., From time of randomization to recurrence, invasive breast cancer or death, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival, defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Patients who are lost to follow-up for OS will be censored at the date the subject was last known to be alive, From randomization to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Will be assessed according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 and defined as adverse events that are classified as either unrelated, unlikely to be related, possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study treatment. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed by primary disease site to determine toxicity patterns. Frequency tables will be generated to summarize the occurrence of treatment-related AE's by treatment arms. Comparisons of the rates of individual AE's will be done using tests of proportions such as Fisher's exact test or Chi-squared test. Additional analysis will use the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel chi-squared test with study stratification factors., Up to 24 months|Immunogenicity assessment, To evaluate immunogenicity of multi-epitope HER2 vaccine in combination with T-DM1 maintenance therapy., Up to 5 years|Complete pathological response, Will be assessed using immune-related tissue and blood biomarkers., Baseline|Vaccine induced HER2-specific T cell responses, Will be defined as a 2-fold or greater increase in HER2-specific antibody concentration from pre-treatment levels at any point during treatment or HER2-specific antibodies above the lower limit of detection at any point during treatment if pre-treatment levels were non-detectable. Antibody response frequency at the post-treatment initiation time points will be compared among arms using a chi-squared test. Antibody response magnitude at the post-treatment initiation time point will be compared among arms using an analysis of variance F-test followed by Tukey pairwise comparisons between pairs of arms. Likelihood of antibody response at the post-treatment initiation time point will be compared among arms using logistic regression (the dependent variable is antibody response \[yes/no\] at the post-treatment initiation time point; the independent variables are the antibody response \[yes/no\] at the pre-treatment time point and a categorical variable capturing arm)., Baseline up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate invasive disease free survival (iDFS) of multi-epitope HER2 vaccine versus (vs.) placebo in combination with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (TTT-DM1) in patients with stage II-III HER2 positive (+) breast cancer (BC) with residual disease post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

II. To evaluate the safety of multi-epitope HER2 vaccine given concurrently with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) maintenance therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate immunogenicity of multi-epitope HER2 vaccine in combination with T-DM1 maintenance therapy.

II. To evaluate the immune-related tissue and blood biomarkers for complete pathological response in patients with stage II-III HER2+ BC receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine host immune factors which are critical to prevent disease recurrence in HER2+ BC patients.

Ia. To determine if the development of T cell immunity, as assessed by IFN-gamma enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot), to HER2 correlates with improved iDFS.

Ib. To determine the distribution of the helper T cell response among helper T cell differentiation states.

Ic. To determine if augmenting CD4 helper T cell immunity augments HER2-specific antibody immunity induced by trastuzumab.

Id. To determine if human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotypes are associated with antibody responses before and after neoadjuvant therapy and vaccination.

Ie. To determine gene expression levels in tumors from patients who did not achieve complete pathological response (pCR) that are associated with recurrence.

II. To determine tumor intrinsic genotyping and phenotyping features associated with therapeutic failure to HER2 immune-based approaches.

IIa. To determine whether HER2 monoclonal antibody therapy induces HER2 loss and modulation of HER2-specific adaptive immune responses.

IIb. To determine loss-of-function mutations in breast tumor that associate with lack of pCR and lack of immune response to HER2+ neoadjuvant treatment.

OUTLINE:

pCR AFTER NEOADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY AND SURGERY: Patients receive standard of care maintenance therapy with trastuzumab and pertuzumab for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NO pCR AFTER NEOADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY AND SURGERY: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive standard of care maintenance therapy with trastuzumab emtansine and receive TPIV100 intradermally (ID) and sargramostim ID on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive two additional booster injections of TPIV100 ID and sargramostim ID at 3 and 12 months after completion of trastuzumab emtansine maintenance therapy.

ARM 2: Patients receive standard of care maintenance therapy with trastuzumab emtansine and receive placebo intradermally (ID) and sargramostim ID on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive two additional booster injections of placebo ID and sargramostim ID at 3 and 12 months after completion of trastuzumab emtansine maintenance therapy.