Sexual Quality of Life in Women During the First Year of Adjuvant Hormonal Treatment for Breast Cancer.
Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide. Hormonal therapy is one of the major treatments for hormone receptor positive breast tumors. It is prescribed to 70% of breast cancer patients. Hormonal therapy can be responsible for sexual dysfunction induced by hormonal changes. Extended adjuvant hormonal therapy over 5 years increases these adverse effects.

According to the third "Plan Cancer" (2014-2019), sexual dysfunction prevention and screening must be systematic as an integral part of supportive care. Nevertheless, sexual quality of life remains too rarely considered.

In this study, the investigator propose to evaluate sexual quality of life of women less than 51 years old during the adjuvant endocrine therapy for localized breast cancer. The investigator also intend to collect the supportive measures or interventions used by women to overcome sexual dysfunction. Finally, this study aims to evaluate the need for sexual trouble specific management and acceptability of different methods.

This project is a hot topic as the interest for oncosexuality is growing, and the need for specific management is increasing with still insufficient access to specific care.
Breast Cancer|Cancer|Quality of Life
OTHER: Quality of life
Sexual quality of life: EORTC SHQ-C22 questionnaire, Sexual quality of life assessed by the EORTC SHQ-C22 questionnaire, At the inclusion, at day 1
Breast cancer (BC) is the most common cancer in women worldwide, affecting approximately one in eight women during her lifetime in Western countries. (chiffres Globocan). Approximately two thirds of BC are hormone receptor-positive and the multimodal treatment will therefore include hormone therapy during 5 years or even longer (Burstein et al. 2019).

Many studies have described a wide range of disruptions in day to day living after breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. These physical, psychological and social concerns for the patients, related to the disease and its treatment, are now recognized as important outcomes in clinical trials and are evaluated in standardized Health-related quality of life (HRQL) questionnaires like the general EORTC QLQ-C30 dedicated to all cancer patients (Aaronson et al. 1993) or the EORTC QLQ-BR23 dedicated to breast cancer patients (Sprangers et al. 1996).

Sexual dysfunction is frequent during and after treatment for breast cancer (Ananth et al. 2003; Krychman et al. 2006; Pup et al. 2019) and is not specifically evaluated in these general HRQL questionnaires. Recently, the EORTC SHQ-C22 has been developed as a standardized instrument to evaluate sexual quality of life (QoL) in cancer patients to address and evaluate in more detail the sexual dysfunction related to the disease and the treatment(Oberguggenberger et al. 2018).

A prospective longitudinal assessment is conduted of the sexual functioning of women during the first year of adjuvant hormonal therapy using global HRQL questionnaires as well as the new SHQ-C22 questionnaire specifically dedicated to sexual QoL for cancer patients.