Nalbuphine Versus Morphine for Mucositis Pain in Pediatric Cancer Patients
Evaluation of safety and efficacy of Nalbuphine versus Morphine patient controlled analgesia (PCA) for mucositis pain in pediatric cancer patients
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Stem Cell Leukemia
DRUG: Nalbuphine|DRUG: Morphine
measure the change in Pain intensity, change in pain intensity by visual analogue scale (scale from 0 to 100), change occur every 12 hours and during the performing of mouth care for each patient over the first 7 days|Total opioid consumptions, total dosing in mg/day, the total consumption through the entire 7 days since initiation
Number of active and total pushes of PCA buttons, Number of active and total pushes of PCA buttons, every 24 hours and the sum up of the active and total pushes of PCA buttons for each patient over the 7 days.|Patient satisfaction: linear scale, Patient satisfaction score PSS was assessed using a linear scale where 0=very satisfied; 10=very dissatisfied (14)., at the end of the 7 days.|Assess serious adverse events, by reporting the number of patients with Nausea and vomiting and/or pruritus and/or respiratory depression and/or urinary retention and/or sedation and/or bradycardia and/or hypotension)., during 7 days of treatment only
The investigators will compare between using of PCA Morphine (Group A) and using of PCA Nalbuphine (Group B) in the following items over the first 7 days of initiation:

1. Pain intensity VAS every 12 hours and during the performing of mouth care for each patient over the first 7 days.
2. Total opioid consumptions for each patient every 24 hours and the total consumption of the entire 7 days since initiation.
3. Number of active and total pushes of PCA buttons every 24 hours and the sum up of the active and total pushes of PCA buttons for each patient over the 7 days.
4. Patient satisfaction at the end of the 7 days. Patient satisfaction score PSS was assessed using a linear scale where 0=very satisfied; 10=very dissatisfied (14).
5. Serious adverse events. (Nausea and vomiting, pruritus, respiratory depression, urinary retention, sedation, bradycardia, hypotension).