Comparing the Reliability of Expressed Prostatic Secretion (EPS) and Post Massage Urine (PMU) for the Prediction of Prostate Cancer Biopsy Outcome
This randomized pilot phase I trial studies the best way, either expressed prostatic secretion (EPS) or post massage urine (PMU) biomarkers, of predicting biopsy results in patients undergoing prostate biopsy. Studying samples of urine in the laboratory may help doctors detect prostate cancer. It is not yet known whether EPS or PMU biomarkers are more effective in predicting prostate biopsy results
Conditions Influencing Health Status|Healthy|Prostate Cancer
OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: transrectal prostate biopsy
Determine whether EPS or PMU is a better predictor of prostate cancer biopsy results by measuring and comparing the number of prostatic cells collected, Compare assay results in 300 EPS specimens with those from 300 PMU specimens. The gold standard for assay validity is the biopsy result., 1 month after sample collection|Comparison of the area under the curve (AUC) for sensitivity and specificity of TMPRSS2:ERG single and double fusion assays and biopsy results in patients with prostate cancer, undergoing prostate screening, Perform TMPRSS2:ERG type III and TMPRSS2:ERG type IV assays on each specimen. The gold standard for assay validity is the biopsy result., 1 month after sample collection
Comparison of the AUC for sensitivity and specificity of the methylation status of the androgen receptor (AR) and GSTP1 promoter, APC and RARB and biopsy results in men with prostate cancer, undergoing prostate screening, The gold standard for assay validity is the biopsy result., 1 month after sample collection|Determine by comparison of AUCs which combination of molecular markers offers the greatest improvements in our ability to predict biopsy outcome over current baseline predictors (serum PSA and DRE), The gold standard for assay validity is the biopsy result., 1 month after sample collection|Comparison through the AUCs of the association of EPS or PMU TMPRSS2:ERG fusion assay and methylation of the GSTP1 promoter, APC, RARB assays and PCA3 to the results of TRUSP and biopsy in men with unknown prostate cancer status, The gold standard for assay validity is the biopsy result., 1 month after sample collection
OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine which non-invasive test for prostate cancer, EPS or PMU, is a better predictor of prostate cancer biopsy result. (Part I)

II. To determine whether standardized testing for transmembrane protease, serine 2 (TMPRSS2):ERG Types III and VI is superior to testing for TMPRSS2:ERG Type III in predicting prostate biopsy outcome. (Part I)

III. To expand the sample size utilizing the best TMPRSS2:ERG test and the best specimen type as determined in objective I and II in order to estimate with reasonable accuracy the positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) for each test. (Part II)

IV. To expand the biomarker set, to include Prostate Cancer Antigen 3 (PCA3)-ribonucleic acid (RNA), d-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GADPH)-RNA, prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-RNA, and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation levels at glutathione s-transferase pi (GSTP1), adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), retinoic acid receptor beta (RARB), Mitochondrial DNA (MT-DNA) Deletions and ras association (RalGDS/AF-6) domain family 1 (RASSF1), so as to develop an extensive data set for use in multivariate analysis. (Part II)

V. Use multivariate analysis to determine which combination of molecular markers offers the greatest improvements in our ability to predict biopsy outcome over current baseline predictors (Serum PSA and digital rectal examination \[DRE\]). (Part II)

VI. Estimate PPV and NPVs from this analysis and compare them to the standard assay's performance. (Part II)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. ARM I: Patients receive digital rectal palpation and then void a spontaneous urine sample for PMU analysis. Patients then undergo a prostate biopsy.

ARM II: Patients receive DRE with prostatic massage for 30-60 seconds and are then milked at the urethra to provide a collection of EPS. Patients then undergo a prostate biopsy.