Spleen-Preserving No. 10 Lymph Node Dissection in Gastric Cancer
This study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial of two kinds of radical gastrectomy for patients with proximal gastric cancer. One is laparoscopic D2 radical total gastrectomy combined with spleen-preserving No.10 lymph node dissection , another one is laparoscopic D2 radical total gastrectomy without clearing the No. 10 lymph nodes of the spleen. We explore the effect of the two procedures on the survival of patients, as well as the surgical complications associated with the two procedures, the number of lymph node dissection, the operation time and the amount of intraoperative blood loss. Furthermore, we also want to discuss the application value of laparoscopic lymph node dissection for spleen preservation in radical gastrectomy for proximal gastric cancer.
Overall Survival
PROCEDURE: D2 Lymphadenectomy including No. 10|PROCEDURE: D2 lymphadenectomy excluding No. 10
3-year disease free survival rate, 36 months
Morbidity, The early postoperative complication are defined as the event observed within 30 days after surgery, while the time frame for late complication is the period from postoperative day 31th to the end of month 36th., 30 days; 36 months|3-year overall survival rate, 36 months|3-year recurrence pattern, Recurrence patterns are classified into five categories at the time of first diagnosis: locoregional, hematogenous, peritoneal, distant lymph node, and mixed type, 36 months|The number of lymph node dissection, 1 day|The number of positive lymph nodes, 1 day
This study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial of two kinds of radical gastrectomy for patients with proximal gastric cancer. One is laparoscopic D2 radical total gastrectomy combined with spleen-preserving No.10 lymph node dissection , another one is laparoscopic D2 radical total gastrectomy without clearing the No. 10 lymph nodes of the spleen. We explore the effect of the two procedures on the survival of patients, as well as the surgical complications associated with the two procedures, the number of lymph node dissection, the operation time and the amount of intraoperative blood loss. Furthermore, we also want to discuss the application value of laparoscopic lymph node dissection for spleen preservation in radical gastrectomy for proximal gastric cancer.