A Pivotal Study of HQP1351 in Patients of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in Chronic Phase With T315I Mutation
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of HQP1351 in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase (CML-CP) harboring T315I mutation. The efficacy of HQP1351 was determined by evaluating the subjects' major cytogenetic response (MCyR).
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, Chronic Phase
DRUG: HQP1351
Major cytogenetic response (MCyR), MCyR is the proportion of patients achieving Complete cytogenetic response (CCyR: defined as 0% Philadelphia chromosome-positive \[Ph+\] metaphases by cytogenetic analysis of bone marrow) or Partial Cytogenetic Response (PCyR: defined as \>0% to 35% Ph+ metaphases by cytogenetic analysis of bone marrow). It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study. And MCyR can only be considered as CCyR if the subject meets PCyR at baseline., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)
Complete cytogenetic response (CCyR), CCyR is the proportion of patients achieving CCyR after being treated with HQP1351. It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Complete hematologic response (CHR), CHR requires that all of the following are present: white blood cell\<10×10E9/ liter; blood platelet count\<450×10E9/ liter; no medullary immature granulocytes in the peripheral blood (such as protocell, promyelocyte and myelocyte); basophils in peripheral blood are less than 5%; no disease symptoms, signs and palpable splenomegaly has disappeared; the duration of the above criteria is no less than 4 weeks. We will calculate the proportion of patients achieving CHR after being treated with HQP1351. It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Major molecular response (MMR), MMR is the proportion of patients achieving a ratio of ≤0.1% breakpoint cluster region (BCR) abelson leukemia (ABL) to ABL transcripts on the international scale (≤0.1% BCR-ABL/ABL\[IS\]) after being treated with HQP1351. It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|BCR-ABL1(IS) transcript ≤1%, BCR-ABL1(IS) ≤1% is the proportion of patients achieving BCR-ABL1(IS) ≤1% by quantitative polymerase chain reaction detection. It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Time to response, The time to response is defined as the interval between the first use of HQP1351 and the first date at which the criteria for response are met. The subject who isn't met the response criteria will be censored at the last assessment time., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Duration of response, Duration of response is defined as the interval between the first assessment at which the criteria for response are met until the earliest date at which the criteria for progression are met, and the subject who isn't met the progression criteria will be censored at the last assessment time. The duration of response is calculated only for subjects who achieved response., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the interval between the first dose date of HQP1351 treatment and the first date at which the criteria for progression are met, or death. The subject who isn't progression or death will be censored at the last response assessment., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Overall survive (OS), OS is defined as the interval between the first dose date of HQP1351 treatment and date of death, censored at the last contact date to be alive., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Safety: adverse events (AEs), and serious AEs (SAEs), Patients with HQP1351 treatment related AE, SAE will be assessed according NCI CTCAE Version 5.0., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)
The relationship between mutation and efficacy., During the course of HQP1351 therapy, the relationship between BCR-ABL1 kinase region/other mutations and drug resistance/disease progression will be measured., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Quality of life (QOL), Objects' quality of life will be measured during the course of HQP1351 therapy by European Organization for Research and Treatment quality of life questionnaire core-30 version3., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)
This is an open, single-arm, multi-center phase 2 clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral administrated HQP1351(40mg, QOD) in CML-CP patients with T315I mutation in China. A total of 40 CML-CP patients will be included in this pivotal study. After screening, eligible subjects will receive oral HQP1351 40mg on a continues once every other day dosing regimen , until disease progression, drug intolerance, or meet other treatment conditions to discontinue the study. During the course of treatment, each subject will be assessed regularly for hematological, cytogenetic and molecular responses. At the same time, safety information also will be evaluated.