Durvalumab, Tremelimumab, and Selumetinib in Treating Participants With Recurrent or Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose of selumetinib and how well it works with durvalumab and tremelimumab in treating participants with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer or that has come back. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab and tremelimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving durvalumab, tremelimumab and selumetinib may work better in treating participants with non-small lung cancer.
Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Selumetinib|BIOLOGICAL: Tremelimumab
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) (dose-escalation phase), The standard 3+3 design will be applied to determine the MTD among the three pre-defined dose levels., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival time (PFS) (dose expansion phase), The estimated PFS will be provided with 95% confidence interval. Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and the comparison between or among patient's characteristic groups will be evaluated by log-rank test. The Cox regression model may be applied to assess the effect of covariates of interest on PFS., From start of treatment assessed up to 2 years
Response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1, Up to 2 years|Disease control rate (complete response + partial response + stable disease), Will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and the comparison between or among patient's characteristic groups will be evaluated by log-rank test. The Cox regression model may be applied to assess the effect of covariates of interest on OS., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity data will be summarized by frequency tables., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). (Dose-escalation phase) II. To estimate the progression free survival in patients with previously treated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with durvalumab and tremelimumab in combination with selumetinib in either an intermittent or continuous schedule and compare to historical controls. (Dose expansion phase)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

II. To assess disease control rate (complete response + partial response + stable disease).

III. To assess overall survival. IV. To assess safety and toxicity (in the dose-escalation and dose expansion phases).

V. To assess duration of response.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess markers of response and resistance in pre-treatment and on- treatment biopsies.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of selumetinib followed by a phase II study. Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7 and 15-21 and durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Participants also receive tremelimumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 for courses 1-4. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Participants receive selumetinib PO BID on days 1-28 and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Participants also receive tremelimumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 for courses 1-4. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 and 90 days, then every 6 months for up to 2 years.