Risk of Malignancy Index and Assiut Scoring Model for Adnexal Malignancy
The presence of an adnexal mass is a frequent reason for a woman to be referred to a gynaecologist. The discrimination between benign and malignant adnexal masses is central to decisions regarding clinical management and surgical planning in such patients. Patients with malignant tumours should be referred to a gynaecological oncologist, as the quality of cytoreductive surgery and surgical staging/lymph node dissection are important prognostic factors in ovarian cancer. These specialized surgical procedures require the specific skills and experience provided by gynaecologic oncology surgeons. Furthermore, appropriate and timely referral to a gynaecologic oncologist has been proven to increase survival in patients with ovarian cancer.Conversely, patients believed to have a benign mass requiring surgery are able to have this performed by a general gynaecologist. A standardized method for preoperative identification of probable malignant masses would allow optimization of first-line treatment for women with ovarian cancer. A risk of malignancy index would be valuable for the selective referral of relevant patients to specialized oncology centres. Currently, clinical examination, ultrasound assessment, and assays of tumour markers are part of the standard work-up for an adnexal mass. Although none of these indicators alone is very sensitive or specific for detecting malignancy, an index developed by Jacobs et al. incorporates information about the patient's menopausal status and serum Cancer antigen A-125 levels, and ultrasound characteristics of the mass to predict the risk of malignancy with greater sensitivity and specificity than any one factor alone.Some of the potential advantages of risk malignant index include rapid triage of patients through the referral system and fewer operations for benign masses being performed by gynaecologic oncologists.
Risk Malignant Index
RADIATION: ultrasound|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: cancer antigen 125 level|RADIATION: Doppler
Number of women has a malignant adnexal mass, 7 days
The presence of an adnexal mass is a frequent reason for a woman to be referred to a gynaecologist. The discrimination between benign and malignant adnexal masses is central to decisions regarding clinical management and surgical planning in such patients. Patients with malignant tumours should be referred to a gynaecological oncologist, as the quality of cytoreductive surgery and surgical staging/lymph node dissection are important prognostic factors in ovarian cancer. These specialized surgical procedures require the specific skills and experience provided by gynaecologic oncology surgeons. Furthermore, appropriate and timely referral to a gynaecologic oncologist has been proven to increase survival in patients with ovarian cancer.Conversely, patients believed to have a benign mass requiring surgery are able to have this performed by a general gynaecologist. A standardized method for preoperative identification of probable malignant masses would allow optimization of first-line treatment for women with ovarian cancer. A risk of malignancy index would be valuable for the selective referral of relevant patients to specialized oncology centres. Currently, clinical examination, ultrasound assessment, and assays of tumour markers are part of the standard work-up for an adnexal mass. Although none of these indicators alone is very sensitive or specific for detecting malignancy, an index developed by Jacobs et al. incorporates information about the patient's menopausal status and serum Cancer antigen A-125 levels, and ultrasound characteristics of the mass to predict the risk of malignancy with greater sensitivity and specificity than any one factor alone.Some of the potential advantages of risk malignant index include rapid triage of patients through the referral system and fewer operations for benign masses being performed by gynaecologic oncologists.