Endostar Combined With Chemotherapy for Stage Ⅳ Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled (2: 1), multicenter clinical phase II clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of Endostar combined with chemotherapy for stage IV soft tissue sarcoma.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma, Adult, Stage IIB
DRUG: Endostar|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: AIM regimen / GT regimen
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the length of time from random assignment to disease progression or to death resulting from any cause other than the progress., 2 year
Disease control rate(DCR）, Investigators will assess treatment response according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1（RECIST1.1）, 2 year
Objective tumor response rate(ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects having achieved confirmed Complete Response + Partial Response as best overall response according to radiological assessments., 2 year|Overall survival(OS), OS is defined as the length of time from random assignment to death or to last contact., 3 year|Adverse Events(AEs), AEs are evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0., 2 year
The prognosis of sarcoma patients in stage IV is poor. For STS, the response rate of chemotherapy is only 20-35% and the median survival time is about 12 months. The 5 year survival rate is lower than 10% reported in several large-scale studies. Although chemotherapy plays a major role in the treatment of advanced STS, the classic chemotherapy agents are not curative. Combination chemotherapy or dose-dense regimens have largely failed to improve the response rates. Long-term using of cytotoxic drugs increased the risk of toxicity in patients. Endostatin is the strongest endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor, which inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression and then inhibits tumor angiogenesis . Endostar, is a novel recombinant human endostatin, with advantages of long half-life, stable and low cost. Recently, a study of Endostar combined with chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced soft tissue sarcoma indicated resulted in a higher clinical benefit response (CBR) and longer progression-free survival (PFS), with tolerable side effects. However this study included the patients with stage IIB-IV soft tissue sarcomas and did not include specific pathologic information. Thus this clinical trial is designed to compare the efficacy and safety of endostar combined with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone in stage IV patients with soft tissue sarcomas.