A Study to Learn About the Study Medicine Called PF-08046031 in Advanced Melanoma and Other Solid Tumors
This study will test the safety of a drug called PF-08046031 in participants with melanoma and other solid tumors that have no current approved treatment or have spread through the body. It will also study the side effects of this drug. A side effect is anything a drug does to the body besides treating the disease. The study will have 3 parts. Part A and B of the study will find out how much PF-08046031 should be given to participants. Part C will use the information from Parts A and B to see if PF-08046031 is safe and if it works to treat solid tumor cancers.
Malignant Melanoma|Melanoma|Metastatic Melanoma|Solid Tumors
DRUG: PF-08046031
Number of participants with adverse events (AEs), Any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigational participant administered a medicinal product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment., through 30 days after the last study treatment; approximately 6 months|Number of participants with laboratory abnormalities, through 30days after the last study treatment; approximately 6 months|Number of participants with dose limiting toxicities, up to 28 days
number of participants with antidrug antibodies, To be summarized using descriptive statistics, through 30 days after the last study treatment; approximately 6 months|Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter - Area under the curve (AUC), To be summarized using descriptive statistics, Through 30 days after the last study treatment; approximately 6 months|PK parameter - Maximum Concentration (Cmax), To be summarized using descriptive statistics, Through 30 days after the last study treatment; approximately 6 months|PK parameter - Time to maximum concentration (Tmax), To be summarized using descriptive statistics, Through 30 days after the last study treatment; approximately 6 months|PK parameter - Apparent terminal half-life (t1/2), To be summarized using descriptive statistics, Through 30 days after the last study treatment; approximately 6 months|PK parameter - Trough concentration (Ctrough), To be summarized using descriptive statistics, Through 30 days after the last study treatment; approximately 6 months|Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as assessed by the investigato, Up to approximately 1 year|Duration of response (DOR), The time from start of the first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR) to the first documentation of progressive disease (PD) (based on radiographic assessments per RECIST v1.1) or death due to any cause, Up to approximately 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS), The time from the start of study treatment to the first documentation of PD (per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by the investigator) or death due to any cause, Up to approximately 1 year|Overall survival (OS), The time from the start of study treatment to death due to any cause, Approximately 2 years
This study will test the safety of a drug called PF-08046031 in participants with melanoma and other solid tumors that have no current approved treatment or have spread through the body. It will also study the side effects of this drug. A side effect is anything a drug does to the body besides treating the disease. The study will have 3 parts. Part A and B of the study will find out how much PF-08046031 should be given to participants. Part C will use the information from Parts A and B to see if PF-08046031 is safe and if it works to treat solid tumor cancers.