Nintedanib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Endometrial Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well nintedanib works in treating patients with endometrial cancer that has come back. Nintedanib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth or by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Endometrial Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Endometrial Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Endometrial Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Malignant Uterine Corpus Mixed Epithelial and Mesenchymal Neoplasm|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Carcinoma
DRUG: Nintedanib
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The incidence of adverse events (grade 3 or higher) as assessed by the National Cancer Institute CTCAE version 4.0, Up to 5 years|Objective Tumor Response, Complete and Partial Tumor Response by RECIST 1.1, For disease that can be evaluated by physical exam,response was assessed prior to each cycle CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle up to 5 years.|Progression-free Survival > 6 Months, Whether or not the patient survived progression-free for at least 6 months., for disease that can be evaluated by physical exam, progression was assessed prior to each cycle. CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle up to 5 years.
Overall Survival, The observed length of life from entry into the study to death or the date of last contact., From study entry to death or last contact, up to 5 years|Progression Free Survival, the period of progression free survival for patients with persistent or recurrent endometrial cancer treated with study drug., The duration of time from study entry to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the proportion of patients with persistent or recurrent endometrial cancer, who survive progression-free without going on a subsequent therapy against the disease for at least 6 months and the proportion of patients who have objective tumor response (complete or partial), treated with BIBF 1120 (nintedanib).

II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of BIBF 1120 in this cohort of patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with persistent or recurrent endometrial cancer treated with BIBF 1120.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nintedanib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.