Ask Advise Connect (AAC) Harris Heath CPRIT
The goal of this behavioral research study is to learn about the outcomes of smoking cessation treatment. Researchers want to learn how many smokers stopped smoking after taking part in smoking cessation treatment with the Texas Quitline.
Tobacco Use Cessation
BEHAVIORAL: Quitline-Delivered Proactive Telephone Counseling|BEHAVIORAL: Follow-Up Phone Call|BEHAVIORAL: Smoking Cessation Training|BEHAVIORAL: Qualitative Interviews Concerning the Implementation of AAC
Evaluate the Reach of Ask Advise Connect (AAC) Smoking Cessation Program, Reach defined as the proportion of smokers that enroll in treatment with the Quitline. To evaluate the reach of AAC, we will calculate the proportion of smokers seen at the 13 Harris Health System community health clinics during the two-year treatment dissemination period that enroll in treatment with the Quitline., 2 years
Efficacy of Ask Advise Connect (AAC) Smoking Cessation Program, Efficacy is defined as the proportion of smokers who agree to be connected to the Quitline that enroll in treatment who successfully achieve abstinence assessed 6 months following treatment enrollment., 6 months
Study Test:

If you agree to take part in this study, you will collect a saliva sample to test for cotinine to confirm your smoking status. Cotinine is a chemical released in your body when it breaks down nicotine. You will receive a kit in the mail with supplies for the testing. The study staff will call you to make sure that you received the kit and to discuss the instructions with you. To collect the saliva, you will put a small piece of cotton in your mouth for a few minutes. You will mail the saliva sample back to the study staff, using a postage-paid envelope.

Length of Study:

Your participation in this study will be complete after you collect the saliva sample and mail it back to the study staff. Study data will be destroyed 5 years after the study has been completed and the data has been analyzed. Data collected in this study will not be used for future research.

This is an investigational study.

Up to 1,459 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at Harris Health System clinics.