Naxitamab Added to Induction for Newly Diagnosed High-Risk Neuroblastoma
This is a prospective, multicenter clinical trial in subjects with newly diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma to evaluate the efficacy and safety of administering naxitamab with standard induction therapy. The initial chemotherapy will include 5 cycles of multi-agent chemotherapy. Naxitamab will be added to all 5 Induction cycles. We hypothesize that the addition of anti-GD2 therapy to induction chemotherapy will result in improved end of induction responses and improved survival.
High-risk Neuroblastoma
DRUG: Naxitamab|DRUG: Ceritinib
Number of participants with a Very Good Partial Response (VGPR)(+) rate (VGPR + Complete Response (CR) rate), Measured by the presence of radiologically assessable disease by cross-sectional computed tomography (CT) or Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) imaging and/or by metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) or positron emission tomography (PET) scans and bone marrow (BM) response for subjects with newly-diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma according to the 1993 International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC) and compare to relevant historical controls., Month 12
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The proportion of patients with a complete response or partial response to naxitamab with standard induction therapy for subjects with newly-diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma according to the 1993 and 2017 International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC).Collected by the presence of radiologically assessable disease by cross-sectional CT or MRI imaging and/or by MIBG or PET scans and bone marrow response., Month 12|Objective Response Rate (ORR) after two cycles, The proportion of patients with a complete response or partial response to naxitamab with standard induction therapy for subjects with newly-diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma according to the 1993 and 2017 International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC). Collected by the presence of radiologically assessable disease by cross-sectional CT or MRI imaging and/or by MIBG or PET scans and bone marrow response at the end of 2 cycles., Month 4|Number of days that subjects remain alive, Overall survival (OS) for subjects receiving the combination of standard Induction chemotherapy with naxitamab., Year 7|Number of days that subjects remain in remission, Progression-free survival (PFS) for subjects receiving the combination of standard Induction chemotherapy with naxitamab., Year 7|Objective Response Rate (ORR) after five cycles, Response rate of naxitamab in combination with salvage chemotherapy in subjects who have a poor response (as defined as PR/MR/SD/NR) after 5 cycles of induction. Collected by the presence of radiologically assessable disease by cross-sectional CT or MRI imaging and/or by MIBG or PET scans and bone marrow response., Year 2|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events, Year 2
Morphine equivalent daily dose (MEDD) per subject, Narcotic use will be quantified for each subject over the course of the study in terms of morphine equivalent daily dose (MEDD)., Year 1
This is a prospective, multicenter clinical trial in subjects with newly diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma to evaluate the efficacy and safety of administering naxitamab with standard induction therapy.

All subjects will be followed for disease response, event free survival, overall survival and toxicity. Extent of disease will be measured and assessed for changes throughout the course of the study. All efficacy analyses will be performed on the evaluable population which will consist of all enrolled subjects (subjects who initiate treatment with naxitamab in combination with GM-CSF plus standard induction therapy) and who have measurable disease at baseline.

The initial chemotherapy Induction regimen will utilize sequential administration of 5 cycles of multi-agent chemotherapy. Naxitamab will be added to all 5 Induction cycles.

Stem cell mobilization and collection will occur after the 2nd cycle of induction.

Surgical resection of the primary tumor will ideally occur after the 4th cycle of Induction but may be delayed until after the 5th cycle of Induction if medically necessary.

Disease status evaluations will occur at the following time points: (1) pre-treatment, (2) post Cycle 2 Induction (3) Prior to surgical resection (if performed), (4) End of Induction (which includes surgery and 5 cycles of chemotherapy), and (5) End of Additional/Salvage Therapy as needed.

The current standard of care for high-risk neuroblastoma involves 5-7 cycles of induction chemotherapy with surgical removal of the tumor after 4-5 cycles of chemotherapy, followed by high-dose chemotherapy plus autologous stem cell transplant, then radiation to the primary tumor bed, followed by anti-GD2 immunotherapy and cis retinoic acid. This results in a less than 60% disease free survival for high-risk NB, a survival rate that still greatly needs improvement. Two areas in which improvements can be made include: 1) to improve response rate to induction chemotherapy and 2) to improve EFS by improving maintenance therapy to prevent relapse.

We hypothesize that the addition of anti-GD2 therapy to induction chemotherapy will result in improved end of induction responses and improved survival.