Evaluate the Clinical Feasibility of a Novel Neoantigen-Reactive CD8+ T Cell (NART) Detection Technology for Postoperative MRD Surveillance of Pancreatic Cancer
The goal of this observational study is to learn about the diagnostic performance of a novel Neoantigen-Reactive CD8+ T cell (NART) technology detecting minimal residual disease (MRD) in postoperative surveillance of pancreatic cancer. The main question it aims to answer is: Is NART a sensitive and accurate detection for MRD? Participants are required to undergo periodic blood sampling and imaging examinations as the protocol specifies.
Minimal Residual Disease|Pancreatic Cancer Resectable
The correlation between NART detection and recurrence-free survival, From date of surgery until the date of diagnosis of local or metastatic recurrence, assessed 3 months thereafter up to 60 months
The correlation between conventional ct-DNA test and RFS, From date of surgery until the date of diagnosis of local or metastatic recurrence, assessed 3 months thereafter up to 60 months|The correlation between serum markers and RFS, From date of surgery until the date of diagnosis of local or metastatic recurrence, assessed 3 months thereafter up to 60 months|The correlation between NART detection and overall survival (OS), From date of surgery until the date of death, assessed 3 months thereafter up to 60 months|The correlation between conventional ct-DNA test and OS, From date of surgery until the date of death, assessed 3 months thereafter up to 60 months|The correlation between serum markers and OS, From date of surgery until the date of death, assessed 3 months thereafter up to 60 months|The diagnostic performance of NART detection, Evaluation index of diagnostic performance include: sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and lead time advantages over radiological recurrence manifestations. Sensitivity is defined as the proportion of subjects who tested positive for MRD/elevated serum tumor markers at or before recurrence confirmed by clinical imaging. Specificity was defined as the proportion of subjects who tested negative for MRD/normal serum tumor markers at or before clinical imaging confirmation of relapse. Positive Predictive Value (PPV) and Negative Predictive Value (NPV) are defined as the proportion of subjects testing MRD-positive/negative who are clinically confirmed to relapse/remain relapse-free, respectively. Lead time is defined as the time interval from MRD positivity or serum tumor marker elevation to imaging-confirmed clinical relapse., From the date of first enrollment until the study completion, an average of 30 months.|The diagnostic performance of conventional ct-DNA test., Evaluation index of diagnostic performance include: sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and lead time advantages over radiological recurrence manifestations. Sensitivity is defined as the proportion of subjects who tested positive for MRD/elevated serum tumor markers at or before recurrence confirmed by clinical imaging. Specificity was defined as the proportion of subjects who tested negative for MRD/normal serum tumor markers at or before clinical imaging confirmation of relapse. Positive Predictive Value (PPV) and Negative Predictive Value (NPV) are defined as the proportion of subjects testing MRD-positive/negative who are clinically confirmed to relapse/remain relapse-free, respectively. Lead time is defined as the time interval from MRD positivity or serum tumor marker elevation to imaging-confirmed clinical relapse., From the date of first enrollment until the study completion, an average of 30 months.|The diagnostic performance of serum markers., Evaluation index of diagnostic performance include: sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and lead time advantages over radiological recurrence manifestations. Sensitivity is defined as the proportion of subjects who tested positive for MRD/elevated serum tumor markers at or before recurrence confirmed by clinical imaging. Specificity was defined as the proportion of subjects who tested negative for MRD/normal serum tumor markers at or before clinical imaging confirmation of relapse. Positive Predictive Value (PPV) and Negative Predictive Value (NPV) are defined as the proportion of subjects testing MRD-positive/negative who are clinically confirmed to relapse/remain relapse-free, respectively. Lead time is defined as the time interval from MRD positivity or serum tumor marker elevation to imaging-confirmed clinical relapse., From the date of first enrollment until the study completion, an average of 30 months.
The goal of this observational study is to learn about the diagnostic performance of a novel Neoantigen-Reactive CD8+ T cell (NART) technology detecting minimal residual disease (MRD) in postoperative surveillance of pancreatic cancer. The main question it aims to answer is: Is NART a sensitive and accurate detection for MRD? Participants are required to undergo periodic blood sampling and imaging examinations as the protocol specifies.