Aspirin and Rintatolimod With or Without Interferon-alpha 2b in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer Before Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well enteric-coated (EC) aspirin and rintatolimod with or without interferon-alpha 2b work in treating patients with prostate cancer before surgery. EC Aspirin may help to keep the prostate cancer from coming back. Rintatolimod may stimulate the immune system and interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Interferon-alpha 2b may improve the body's natural response to infections and may slow tumor growth. It is not yet known how well rintatolimod, EC aspirin, and interferon-alpha 2b work in treating patients with prostate cancer undergoing surgery.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: EC Aspirin|PROCEDURE: Radical Prostatectomy|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b|DRUG: Rintatolimod
Count of tumor infiltrating CD8+ lymphocytes, This will be assessed by the increase in the total number of tumor infiltrating CD8+ T cells in the radical prostatectomy specimen (measured as cell density of CD8+ cell by immunohistochemistry), comparing Arm A versus Arm B versus Arm C. Will be natural log transformed prior to analysis. The primary analysis will consist of testing the single degree of freedom planned contrast at alpha = .10 that the 3 treatment means are in the ratio of 3:2:1 (contrast coefficients 3, -2, -1) for groups A, B and C, respectively groups. If this test rejects the null hypothesis of no group differences, will proceed to estimate group means and pairwise differences between groups with 90% confidence intervals. Non-overlapping confidence intervals will serve as evidence of differential treatment effects., Up to 3 years
Pathologic response, Spearman rank correlation coefficients will be used to estimate the correlation between CD8+ tumor infiltrate, pathologic response rate and prostate specific antigen (PSA) response., Up to 3 years|Number of patients with Surgical margin positivity, Up to 3 years|PSA response, Spearman rank correlation coefficients will be used to estimate the correlation between CD8+ tumor infiltrate, pathologic response rate and PSA response., Up to 3 years|Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, Will be evaluated with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the immunomodulatory effectiveness of the combination of rintatolimod and EC aspirin with or without recombinant interferon alfa-2b (interferon \[IFN\]-alpha), in participants with localized prostate cancer undergoing radical prostatectomy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and toxicity of the treatment combinations in participants with localized prostate cancer undergoing radical prostatectomy.

II. Assess the antitumor activity between treatment arms.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the resected tumor tissue specimen and surrounding tissue samples of both study arms (pre versus \[vs\] post-chemokine modulatory \[CKM\] treatment, with vs without CKM, CKM doublet vs CKM triplet) with regards to infiltrating T cell subtypes, effector T cell (Teff)/regulatory T cell (Treg) ratios, CD11b+ myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC); the expression of chemokine receptors and immune checkpoint molecules on immune cells; local expression of Teff-attracting chemokines and Treg/MDSC-favoring chemokines; ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures of groups of immune-regulatory genes that are modulated by the CKM regimen.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive EC aspirin orally (PO) two times a day (BID) from day -7 to 7 days prior to surgery. Patients also receive recombinant interferon alfa-2b intravenously (IV) over 20 minutes and rintatolimod IV over 2 hours on days 1-3, and 8-10 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo radical prostatectomy on or between day 17-24.

ARM II: Patients receive EC aspirin PO BID from day -7 to 7 days prior to surgery and rintatolimod IV over 2 hours on days 1-3 and 8-10 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo radical prostatectomy on or between day 17-24.

ARM III: Patients undergo radical prostatectomy about 4 weeks after enrollment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.