Study of Treatment With Sacituzumab and Zimberelimab for Patients With Lung Cancer Confined to the Chest and Previously Operated on Who Were Not Disease-free.
Open-label, phase III, randomized, stratified (PDL1- vs PDL1+), 3 arms, multicenter clinical trial.

129 resected patients (43 per arm) with stage from IB to IIIA and IIIB (N2) non-small cell lung cancer that do not achieve pathologic complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant treatment.

This clinical trial has 3 arms of treatment. ARM 1: Observation 10 months, ARM 2: treatment with immunotherapy (Zimberelimab) for 13 cycles and ARM 3: treatment with Sacituzumab Govitecan and Zimberelimab for 8 cycles and Zimberelimab monotherapy for 5 cycles.

The primary objective is to evaluate the disease-free survival (DFS): defined as the length of time from randomization to the earliest event defined as disease recurrence, any new lung cancer (even in the opposite lung), or death from any cause at any known point in time.

Patient accrual is expected to be completed within 2 years, treatment is planned to extend during 1 years and the patients will be followed up for 2 years. The study will end once survival follow-up has concluded.
Lung Diseases|Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Resectable Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Zimberelimab|DRUG: Sacituzumab govitecan|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Disease free survival, Defined as the length of time from randomization to the earliest event defined as disease recurrence, any new lung cancer (even in the opposite lung), or death from any cause at any known point in time., The time from random assignment to cancer recurrence or death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months
Overall survival, defined as the length of time from either the date of diagnosis or the start of the treatment that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive., To evaluate at 12, 24 and 36 months after the start of adjuvant treatment|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Occurrence and severity of adverse events, with severity determined by NCI CTCAE v5.0 criteria., From the subject's written consent to participate in the study through 180 days after the final administration of the drug
Change in levels of ctDNA during treatment, Analyze plasma samples and quantifying the amount of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) by NGS., To analyze at pretreatment, after 6 months of treatment, and at disease relapse, assessed up to 36 months
This is an open-label, phase III, randomized, stratified (PDL1- vs PDL1+), 3 arms, multicenter clinical trial.

Patients stage IB to IIIA-IIIB (T3N2) after surgical resection if they did not achieve a pathological com-plete response (pCR) will be randomized 1:1:1 to:

* ARM 1: Observational Arm for 10 months
* ARM 2: Immunotherapy (Zimberelimab) treatment for 13 cycles, Q3W
* ARM 3: Sacituzumab Govitecan + Zimberelimab Q3W for 8 cycles + Zimberelimab Q3W for 5 cycles. Patients will receive 8 cycles of the combination and 5 cycles of Zimberelimab monotherapy.

The primary objective is to evaluate the disease-free survival (DFS): defined as the length of time from randomization to the earliest event defined as disease recurrence, any new lung cancer (even in the opposite lung), or death from any cause at any known point in time.

Disease Free survival (DFS): The time from random assignment to cancer recurrence or death from any cause.

Secondary objectives:

* Overall survival (OS): at 12, 24 and 36 months after the start of adjuvant treatment
* Safety and tolerability of the combination of Sacituzumab Govitecan + Zimberelimab according to CTCAE v5.0.

Exploratory objectives

- To evaluate whether there is a significant association between change in levels of ctDNA between baseline and after adjuvant treatment and OS and DFS.

The total trial duration will be 7 years approximately. Approval-start up: 4-6 months. Patient accrual is expected to be completed within 2 years. One year of treatment and 3 years of follow up, and close-out: 4-6 months. The study will end once survival follow-up has concluded