Irradiated Donor Cells Following Stem Cell Transplant in Controlling Cancer in Patients With Hematologic Malignancies
This pilot clinical trial studies the side effects of irradiated donor cells following stem cell transplant in controlling cancer in patients with hematologic malignancies. Transfusion of irradiated donor cells (immune cells) from relatives may cause the patient's cancer to decrease in size and may help control cancer in patients receiving a stem cell transplant.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Recipient|JAK2 Gene Mutation|Loss of Chromosome 17p|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Minimal Residual Disease|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma|RAS Family Gene Mutation|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Hematologic Malignancy|Recurrent Mature T- and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Therapy-Related Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Therapy-Related Myelodysplastic Syndrome|TP53 Gene Mutation
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: Irradiated Allogeneic Cells
Number of Participants Who Received Irradiated Haploidentical Cells (IHC) With Disease Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 8 weeks after last protocol treatment|the Number of Participants With Toxicities Associated With Administration of Irradiated Haploidentical Cells (IHC) Evaluated According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, The anticipated/projected IHC-associated toxicities of greatest concern include: short-term toxicities- constitutional/systemic adverse events including fevers, hypotension, pulmonary infiltrates; long-term toxicities: autoimmune effects, graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), graft rejection. Toxicity will be measured by occurrence of any experimental treatment-related adverse events (AE) up to 12 weeks of completion of therapy. The CTCAE version 4.0 will be utilized for the description and grading of the AE. All symptoms, signs, or diseases assessed as experimental treatment-related will be captu, Up to 12 weeks of completion of therapy
Induction of Host T Cells Reactive With Tumor Associated Epitopes, It will be determined if treatment with the irradiated cells induces an immune response targeting tumor associated epitopes., Up to 8 weeks after last protocol treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity associated with the administration of irradiated haploidentical cells (IHC) to patients with high-risk hematologic malignancies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if there is evidence of disease response associated with IHC.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if treatment with the irradiated cells induces an immune response targeting tumor associated epitopes.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Within 42 days after hematopoietic engraftment (both neutrophils and platelets) after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), patients receive initial treatment with IHC. Patients that do not have evidence of relapse or progressive disease may be treated every 8-12 weeks for up to 3 doses.

COHORT II: Patients with high-risk disease receive initial treatment with IHC within 70 days after hematopoietic engraftment (both neutrophils and platelets) after allogeneic HSCT. Patients being treated for relapsed disease may receive initial treatment with IHC any time after relapse is documented. Patients that do not have evidence of relapse or progressive disease may be treated every 8-12 weeks for up to 3 doses.

After completion of study treatment, patients will be followed up within 8 weeks.