Dacomitinib (PF-00299804) in Advanced/Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Penis
Penile squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a very rare disease and prognosis depends primarily on regional lymph-node involvement. Despite the fact that cure can be obtained in patients with low metastatic load (pN1) by monotherapy, combination therapy is required for more advanced cases. Medical treatment options only for advanced or metastatic penile SCC are not very effective so far and the few chances for cure are solely dependent on multimodality treatment, either with surgery or radiation. Based on the observation that the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is almost invariably expressed in penile SCC and assuming similarities to the SCC of head and neck district, anti-EGFR targeted monotherapy has been investigated with promising early results at Istituto Tumori Milan and University of Texas MD Andreson Cancer Center. These premises lend support to the use of the pan-HER inhibitor dacomitinib for advanced or metastatic penile SCC.
Penile Neoplasms|Carcinoma, Squamous Cell
DRUG: Dacomitinib
The primary outcome measure will be the assessment of response-rate (RR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1., RR (%) = complete response (CR) + partial response (PR), where CR is the disappearance of all target lesions (any pathological lymph-nodes must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm) and PR indicates at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., 2-months
To assess the safety and tolerability of the study drug. Incidence, nature and severity of treatment-related adverse events will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0., 2-months|Pathologic complete response (pCR) rate for patients undergoing surgery in the treatment time course., 2-months or longer.|Progression-free survival., 2-months.|Overall Survival, 6-months|Variations of the Quality of Life score as assessed with the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS), validated in Italian language., 2-months.
Penile squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a very rare disease and prognosis depends primarily on regional lymph-node involvement. Despite the fact that cure can be obtained in patients with low metastatic load (pN1) by monotherapy, combination therapy is required for more advanced cases. Medical treatment options only for advanced or metastatic penile SCC are not very effective so far and the few chances for cure are solely dependent on multimodality treatment, either with surgery or radiation. Based on the observation that the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is almost invariably expressed in penile SCC and assuming similarities to the SCC of head and neck district, anti-EGFR targeted monotherapy has been investigated with promising early results at Istituto Tumori Milan and University of Texas MD Andreson Cancer Center. These premises lend support to the use of the pan-HER inhibitor dacomitinib for advanced or metastatic penile SCC.