Akt Inhibitor MK2206 in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well Akt inhibitor MK2206 works in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer. Akt inhibitor MK2206 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx
DRUG: Akt inhibitor MK2206
Proportion of Patients Alive and Progression-free, The primary endpoint of this trial is the proportion of patients alive and progression-free at 6 months. Progression status is evaluated using RECIST version 1.1. A Progression is defined as either: At least one new malignant lesion, which also includes any lymph node that was normal at baseline (less than 1.0 cm short axis) and increased to greater than or equal to 1 cm short axis during follow up. Or, at least a 20% increase in sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes., 6 months|Confirmed Response Rate Defined to be a CR or PR Noted as the Objective Status on 2 Consecutive Evaluations at Least 4 Weeks Apart, Evaluated using RECIST version 1.1. A Complete Response (CR) requires disappearance of all target lesions and each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0 cm. A Partial Response (PR) requires at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation. The confirmed response rate is reported as the number of participants with confirmed responses divided by the number of evaluated participants., 6 months
Adverse Events Associated With the Agent Graded Based on CTCAE Version 4.0, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns. Only the severe or worse adverse events will be assessed, regardless of relationship to the study treatment. The number of patients reporting a grade 3 or higher event were counted., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Overall Survival, Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to the time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the first of either death due to any cause or progression, assessed up to 3 years|Best Response (Complete Response vs Partial Response vs Stable Disease vs Progression), Evaluated using RECIST version 1.1. A Complete Response (CR) requires disappearance of all target lesions and each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0 cm. A Partial Response (PR) requires at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation. Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as either a new lesion of a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes. Stable Disease (SD) is defined as not having a PD, CR, or PR., Up to 3 years|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved an objective response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the date progression is documented., The date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the date progression is documented, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients alive and progression-free at 6 months along with the confirmed response rate as a dual primary endpoint..

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate best response and duration of response for patients treated with MK2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206).

II. To evaluate the overall survival and progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with MK2206.

III. To evaluate safety and tolerability of MK2206.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of MK2206 in Asian patients. II. To study the pharmacodynamic effect of MK2206 using biomarkers and correlation with cancer-related outcomes.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during study for pharmacogenomic and pharmacokinetic studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for up to 3 years.