Conservative Management in Patients Diagnosed With Grade 2 or Grade 3 CIN
Consecutive inclusion and collection of information for all women attending the Cervical Disease Unit with an histological diagnosis of grade 2 or grade 3 CIN during the last 5 years, from January 2012 to December 2016, which meet the inclusion criteria, have voluntarily manifested pregnancy intendedness and had a minimum follow-up time of 2 years and a maximum of 7.

The aim is to evaluate whether the HSIL resolution rates (CIN 2 or CIN 3) are sufficient to support conservative management.
High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions|Neoplasm Regression, Spontaneous|Disease Progression|Papillomavirus Infections
H-SIL Resolution, In cases where H-SIL (cytologic, histological and colposcopic) is no longer detected during follow-up.

Include the strict resolution, indulgent resolution and regression, 24 months|H-SIL Regression, H-SIL is not detected, but with a low grade cytological, histologic or colposcopic lesion, 24 months
Factors probably related to the resolution, Demographics (age and origin), viral type, cytology, biopsy and colposcopy will be recorded at the beginning and end of the follow-up, as well as time until resolution, regression or progression and conization result., 24 months|Strict resolution, Negative HPV determination or different from the initial, 24 months|Lenient resolution, Colposcopy lesion disappearance, negative results on cytology and biopsies with persistence of the same viral type of high initial grade., 24 months|Conization surgery, Patients undergoing surgery, 24 months
Follow-up is performed every 4 months with colposcopy, cytology and biopsies. Colposcopy and cytology are performed for all control subjects. The need for biopsy is established according to the colposcopy exam findings to confirm H-SIL or cervical cancer. Follow-up is spaced every 6 months if the cytology and biopsy results indicate L-SIL / ASCUS in agreement with the colposcopic image. HPV tests are performed every 8-12 months. This strategy is maintained until the resolution of the H-SIL.

The conservative management stops if the H-SIL lesion persists after 24 months of follow-up, if the inclusion criteria are no longer met or if the exclusion ones are met.

Inclusion and exclusion criteria are reviewed at each visit and the conservative management ceases in case the patient decides to undergo conization.