The Study Observes Afatinib as First-line Treatment in Patients With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutation-positive Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This study aims to observe the sequential strategy with afatinib as first-line treatment and to find the optimal treatment strategy for long-term chemotherapy-free regimens in Chinese patients with EGFR-mutated advanced NSCLC. Furthermore, this study can also assess the effectiveness and safety of afatinib as first-line treatment.
Non-squamous, Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Afatinib
Time on Treatment of Afatinib as First-line Therapy in Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Patients With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutation, Time on Treatment (TOT) is defined as the median time a patient is under first-line afatinib treatment before being treated with third generation EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) or other subsequent treatment, starting from the first dose of afatinib treatment until the last first-line dose or death by any cause, whichever comes first. Patients that were lost to follow up, withdrew before the end of study or received first-line afatinib at the end of the study were censored at the time of last known contact of first line afatinib.

The median TOT was calculated using the Kaplan Mayer method and the 90% confidence interval was calculated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., From first afatinib administration until last first-line afatinib administration, censoring date or death. Up to approximately 40 months.
Overall Survival (OS) From the Start of Afatinib Until the End of Study, Date of Death, Patient Withdrawal or Loss to Follow-up, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the start of afatinib until death for any reason. Subjects who have not died at the time of the statistical analysis were censored at the time they had the last known afatinib contact.

The median survival time was calculated using the Kaplan Mayer method and the 90% confidence interval was calculated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. The median OS was not estimable due to the limited number of death events., From first afatinib administration until death, or censoring date. Up to approximately 41 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 by Investigator Review With Afatinib in First-line Treatment, The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of subjects treated with first-line afatinib with best overall response of complete response (CR), defined by the disappearance of all target lesions, and partial response (PR), defined by a decrease of at least 30% in the sum of the diameter of target lesions taking the baseline sum diameters as reference. The tumor response was evaluated by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1.

The Clopper-Pearson method was used to provide an estimation of the ORR with 95% confidence interval., From first afatinib administration until earliest RECIST progression (progressive disease (PD) or death) or the last evaluable assessment in the absence of RECIST progression (PD or death). Up to approximately 40 months.|Number of Patients With Any Adverse Event (AE), Number of patients treated with first-line afatinib with any adverse event., From signing the informed consent form until 30 days after last dose of afatinib. Up to approximately 43 months.|Number of Patients With Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events (SAE), Number of patients treated with first-line afatinib with treatment emergent serious adverse events (SAEs). SAEs are untoward medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require inpatient hospitalisation, require prolongation of existing hospitalisation, result in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, result in a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or are deemed serious for any other medically important reason., From first afatinib administration to 30 days after last dose of afatinib. Up to approximately 41 months.|Number of Patients With Any Afatinib-related Adverse Events (AE), Number of patients treated with first-line afatinib with any adverse event associated with the use of afatinib., From first afatinib administration to 30 days after last dose of afatinib. Up to approximately 41 months.
This study aims to observe the sequential strategy with afatinib as first-line treatment and to find the optimal treatment strategy for long-term chemotherapy-free regimens in Chinese patients with EGFR-mutated advanced NSCLC. Furthermore, this study can also assess the effectiveness and safety of afatinib as first-line treatment.