Phase III Study of Trifluridine/Tipiracil With and Without Bevacizumab in Refractory Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Patients
This study is designed as an international, open-label, controlled two-arm, randomized phase III comparison study evaluating the efficacy and safety of trifluridine/tipiracil in combination with bevacizumab versus trifluridine/tipiracil monotherapy in patients with refractory mCRC.
Refractory Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Trifluridine/Tipiracil|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival defined as the observed time elapsed between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. The primary estimand of interest was defined to assess the effect of the randomized treatments on the survival duration in all participants regardless of whether or not intercurrent events had occurred (treatment policy strategy). Analysis was performed using Kaplan- Meier method., From date of randomization to the death due to any cause or cut-off date, whichever comes first (maximum duration: up to 20 months)|Survival Probability at 6 Months, Overall survival defined as the observed time elapsed between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. The primary estimand of interest was defined to assess the effect of the randomized treatments on the survival duration in all participants regardless of whether or not intercurrent events had occurred (treatment policy strategy). Analysis was performed using Kaplan- Meier method. In this outcome measure, data of survival probability at 6 months was reported., From date of randomization until 6 months post treatment|Survival Probability at 12 Months, Overall survival defined as the observed time elapsed between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. The primary estimand of interest was defined to assess the effect of the randomized treatments on the survival duration in all participants regardless of whether or not intercurrent events had occurred (treatment policy strategy). Analysis was performed using Kaplan- Meier method. In this outcome measure, data of survival probability at 12 months was reported., From date of randomization until 12 months post treatment|Survival Probability at 18 Months, Overall survival defined as the observed time elapsed between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. The primary estimand of interest was defined to assess the effect of the randomized treatments on the survival duration in all participants regardless of whether or not intercurrent events had occurred (treatment policy strategy). Analysis was performed using Kaplan- Meier method. In this outcome measure, data of survival probability at 18 months was reported., From date of randomization until 18 months post treatment
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time elapsed between the date of randomisation and the date of radiological tumour progression as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) assessed by investigator, or death (from any cause), whichever comes first. Progressive Disease (PD) as per RECIST 1.1: at least a 20 percent (%) increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Analysis was performed by Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization to the date of radiological tumour progression or death due to any cause or data cut-off date whichever comes first (i.e., up to 20 months)|Probability of Participants With Progression Free Survival at 3, 6, 9 and 12 Months, PFS was defined as the time elapsed between the date of randomisation and the date of radiological tumour progression as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) assessed by investigator, or death (from any cause), whichever comes first. Progressive Disease (PD) as per RECIST 1.1: at least a 20 percent (%) increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Analysis was performed by Kaplan-Meier method. In this outcome measure, data of PFS at 3 months was reported., From randomization until 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post treatment|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Objective response was defined as percentage of participants who achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to the RECIST version 1.1 and using investigator's tumour assessment. As per RECIST 1.1, CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<) 10 millimeters (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters., From the date of randomization to the date of documentation of progression or death due to any cause or data cut-off, whichever occurred first (i.e., up to 20 months)|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control, Disease control is defined as percentage of participants who achieved CR or PR, or stable disease (SD) as per RECIST 1.1 and using investigator's tumour assessment from the date of randomization to until disease progression or death due to any cause. As per RECIST 1.1, CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters. PD: at least 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., From randomization to the date of first documented tumor progression, death due to any cause or data cut-off date whichever comes first (i.e., up to 20 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAE) and Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug and did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. Serious adverse events (SAEs) was any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect, was a medically important event. TEAEs were defined as AEs that developed, worsened or became serious during the TEAE period (time from the first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment). TEAEs included both SAEs and non-SAEs., From baseline (Cycle 1 Day 1) up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (i.e., up to 30.7 months)|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30): Time to Definitive Deterioration of >=10 Points in Sub-scale Scores - Kaplan-Meier Analysis, EORTC QLQ-C30: 30 item questionnaires with 5 multi-item functional subscales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social functioning), 3 multi-item symptom scales (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, and pain), global health/quality of life (QOL) subscale and 6 single items assessing other cancer related symptoms (dyspnea, sleep disturbance, appetite, diarrhea, constipation and financial impact of cancer). It employed twenty-eight 4-point Likert scales with responses from "not at all" to "very much" and GHS/QoL, scored on scale of 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). All scales are transformed from raw scores to linear scales ranging 0 to 100. Higher score for functional \& GHS/QoL = higher level of functioning, \& higher score for symptoms scales = higher symptom burden. Time to definitive \>=10 points deterioration: time from date of randomization to first deterioration in QoL score \>=10 points compared to baseline with no later improvement or death due to any cause. Kaplan-Meier method was used., Date of randomization to first deterioration in QoL score >=10 points or death due to any cause, which ever occurred first (i.e., up to 20 months)|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30): Time to Definitive Deterioration of >=10 Points in the Global Health Status Score - Kaplan-Meier Analysis, EORTC QLQ-C30: 30 item questionnaires composed of 5 multi-item functional subscales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social functioning), 3 multi-item symptom scales (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, and pain), global health/QOL subscale and 6 single items assessing other cancer related symptoms (dyspnea, sleep disturbance, appetite, diarrhea, constipation and financial impact of cancer). It employed twenty-eight 4-point Likert scales with responses from "not at all" to "very much" and GHS/QoL, scored on scale of 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). All scales are transformed from raw scores to linear scales ranging 0 to 100. Higher score for functional \& GHS/QoL = higher level of functioning, \& higher score for symptoms scales = higher symptom burden. Time to definitive \>=10 points deterioration: time from date of randomization to the first deterioration in QoL score \>=10 points compared to baseline with no later improvement or death due to any cause. Kaplan-Meier method was used., Date of randomization to first deterioration in QoL score >=10 points or death due to any cause, which ever occurred first (i.e., up to 20 months)|Change From Baseline in European Quality of Life Group Questionnaire With 5 Dimensions and 5 Levels Per Dimension (EQ-5D-5L): Health State Utility Index Value at Specified Timepoints, The EQ-5D-5L is a standardized measure of health status that provides a general assessment of health utility and consist in 2 sections a descriptive system comprising 5 dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS). Each dimension has a 5-level response: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. Response options are measured with a 5-point Likert scale. The 5D-5L systems are converted into a single index utility score between 0 to 1, where higher score indicates a better health state and lower score indicate worse health state., Baseline, Cycle 1, Cycle 2, Cycle 3, Cycle 4, Cycle 5, Cycle 6, Cycle 7, Cycle 8, Cycle 9, Cycle 10, Cycle 11, Cycle 12, Cycle 13 and Cycle 14|Change From Baseline in European Quality of Life Working Group Health Status Measure 5 Dimensions, 5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L) Score: Visual Analogic Scale (VAS) at Specified Timepoints, The EQ-5D-5L is a standardized measure of health status that provides a general assessment of health utility and consist of 2 sections; descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression) and a VAS. The VAS records the respondent's self-rated health on a 20 centimeter (cm) vertical VAS; the scale went from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state). This information can be used as a quantitative measure of health as judged by the individual respondents., Baseline, Cycle 1, Cycle 2, Cycle 3, Cycle 4, Cycle 5, Cycle 6, Cycle 7, Cycle 8, Cycle 9, Cycle 10, Cycle 11, Cycle 12, Cycle 13 and Cycle 14
This is an international, open-label, controlled two-arm, randomised phase III study evaluating the efficacy and safety of trifluridine/tipiracil in combination with bevacizumab versus trifluridine/tipiracil monotherapy in patients with refractory mCRC. The analysis will be done after 331 events are reported. In order to observe this number of events, 490 patients will be randomised (1:1) to receive trifluridine/tipiracil in combination with bevacizumab (experimental arm) or trifluridine/tipiracil monotherapy (control arm).