Veliparib, Cisplatin, and Gemcitabine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced Biliary, Pancreatic, Urothelial, or Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I clinical trial is studying the side effects and best dose of veliparib and gemcitabine hydrochloride when given with cisplatin in treating patients with advanced biliary, pancreatic, urothelial, or non-small cell lung cancer. Veliparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and gemcitabine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells. Veliparib may help cisplatin and gemcitabine hydrochloride work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drugs.
Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Metastatic Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Regional Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Stage III Bladder Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Bladder Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder|Unresectable Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Unresectable Gallbladder Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: veliparib|OTHER: diagnostic laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study|DRUG: cisplatin
Maximum-tolerated dose of veliparib in combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine, The maximum toxicity for each category of interest that are determined to be possibly, probably or definitely related to study treatment will be recorded for each patient and the summary results will be tabulated (according to CTCAE v4.0)., 21 days
Dose-limiting and other toxicities according to CTCAE v4.0, Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Recommended phase II dose, Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum-tolerated dose of veliparib (ABT-888) (days 1-12 of a 21-day schedule) in combination with cisplatin (day 3) and gemcitabine (days 3, 10) in patients with advanced, previously untreated carcinoma of the bile ducts, gallbladder or pancreas, non-small cell lung cancer, or transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder/urothelial tract.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and other toxicities associated with veliparib in combination with cisplatin plus gemcitabine as assessed by CTCAE v4.0.

II. Determine the recommended phase 2 dose of veliparib (ABT-888) (RP2D) in combination with cisplatin plus gemcitabine.

III. Document anti-tumor activity of veliparib (ABT-888), cisplatin, and gemcitabine as assessed by RECIST 1.1.

IV. Determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of veliparib (ABT-888), cisplatin, and gemcitabine.

V. Determine the abundance of gemcitabine triphosphate in PBMCs following gemcitabine administration.

VI. Measure the abundance of DNA-platinum adducts in tumor tissue following cisplatin administration.

VII. Measure PARP enzymatic activity in PBMC and tumor tissue following study treatment.

VIII. Perform an exploratory correlation between abundance of BRCA and other proteins assessed by tumor immunohistochemistry and clinical response.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of veliparib and gemcitabine hydrochloride. Patients are stratified according to presence of suspected or known BRCA mutations (no vs yes).

Patients receive veliparib orally every 12 hours on days 1-12, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 3 and 10, and cisplatin IV over 60-120 minutes on day 3. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with suspected or known germline BRCA mutations may continue to receive single-agent veliparib continuously in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may undergo blood, tumor tissue, and hair follicle sample collection periodically for pharmacokinetic and correlative studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.