Selumetinib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Endometrial Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well selumetinib works in treating patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer that has come back or is persistent. Selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Endometrial Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Carcinoma
OTHER: Diagnostic Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Selumetinib
Number of Participants With or Without Progression-free Survival for > 6 Months by Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST), Number of participants who survived progression-free for more than 6 months.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or the appearance of one or more new lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions in the opinion of the treating physician, or global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression., > 6 months from study entry|Objective Tumor Response Rate Assessed by RECIST, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria: Complete Response (CR) is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Normalization of CA125, if elevated at study entry, is required; Partial Response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD; Increasing Disease is at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions taking as references the smallest sum LD or the appearance of new lesions within 8 weeks of study entry; Stable Disease is any condition not meeting the above criteria., From study entry, assessed up to 5 years|Participants With Severity of Adverse Effects as Assessed by CTCAE v3.0, Each cycle during treatment and 30 days after the last treatment.
Duration of Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle for the first 6 months; then every 3 months thereafter for up to 5 years|Duration of Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., Every cycle during treatment, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually for the next 5 years.
Number of Participants Off Study Therapy for Each Reason Specified., from study entry until end of study treatment, up to 5 years.|Patient Vital Status, Patients alive or dead after 24 months from time of study entry., Study entry up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the activity of AZD6244 (selumetinib) for patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer with the frequency of patients who survive progression-free for at least 6 months after initiating therapy or have objective tumor response.

II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of AZD6244 as assessed by CTCAE v3.0 in this cohort of patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the associations between select biomarkers and response to AZD6244 (progression-free survival status \>6 months and objective tumor response), measures of clinical outcome (progression-free survival and overall survival) or disease status including histologic cell type.

II. Mutations and single nucleotide polymorphisms in BRAF, KRAS2, FGFR2, PI3KCA, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3 and PTEN in DNA from formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor and/or normal blood cells.

III. Immunohistochemical expression of ERK, pERK, GSK3betta, pGSK3betta, PR-A, PR-B, pPR, ER-alpha, ER-beta, BRAF, KRAS, PTEN, EGFR, pEGFR, EGF, PELP1 and MTA1s in FFPE tumor.

IV. To explore the relationship among the panel of biomarkers evaluated in this cohort including mutations and single nucleotide polymorphisms in BRAF, KRAS2, FGFR2, PI3KCA, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3 and PTEN as well as immunohistochemical expression of ERK, pERK, GSK3betta, pGSK3betta, PR-A, PR-B, pPR, ER-alpha, ER-beta, BRAF, KRAS, PTEN, EGFR, pEGFR, EGF, PELP1 and MTA1s.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Blood and archived tumor tissue samples are collected for biomarker studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.