A Study of HMPL-523 in Relapsed or Refractory Hematologic Malignancies
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of HMPL-523 administered to patients with relapsed or refractory Hematologic Malignancies

To determine the maximum tolerated dosage/recommended phase 2 dosage and characterize the dose limited toxicities associated with HMPL-523 when administered to patients with relapsed or refractory Hematologic Malignancies
Hematologic Malignancies
DRUG: HMPL-523
dose limited toxicities evaluated with NCI CTCAE v4.03, Incidence of dose limited toxicities and associated dose of HMPL-523, within 28days after the first dose
maximum plasma concentration calculated with Blood samples, Blood samples will be taken to measure the levels of study drug, within 29 days after the first dose|time to reach maximum concentration calculated with Blood samples, Blood samples will be taken to measure the levels of study drug, within 29 days after the first dose|Objective response rate, the proportion of subjects who have a Complete Response or Partial Response, within 30 days after the last dose|adverse events evaluated by NCI CTCAE v4.03, Incidence of adverse events and associated dose of HMPL-523, from the first dose to within 30days after the last dose
There are two stages in this study: a dose-escalation stage (stage 1) and a dose-expansion stage (stage 2).

Dose-escalation stage (stage 1). The conventional 3+3 design (3 patients per dose cohort, with the potential to add additional 3 patients to the same cohort to further evaluate toxicity) will be applied for dose escalation and maximum tolerated dosage determination. Approximately 18 to 27 evaluable patients will be enrolled. The actual number of patients depends on the dose limited toxicities situation as well as the maximum tolerated dosage reached at this stage.

Dosing will include QD (quaque die) and bis in die (BID) cohorts. A cycle of study treatment will be defined as 28 days of continuous dosing.

Dose-expansion stage (stage 2). In this stage, approximately 40 patients with B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas or Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia will be enrolled with 600mg once daily as starting dose. The tumor types of the expansion stage are restricted to Chronic lymphocytic leukemia/ small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), Follicular Lymphoma (FL) (Grade 1-3a), Marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia / Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (WM/LPL). Subjects will receive HMPL-523 600mg once daily with every 28-day treatment cycle until disease progression, death, or intolerable toxicity, whichever comes first.