Omitting Clinical Target Volume of Unresectable Stage III Non-small-cell Lung Cancer.
About 20-30% of patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are unresectable and definitive concurrent radiochemotherapy is the standard care. Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) is a new radiotherapy technology, including gross tumor volume (GTV), clinical target volume (CTV), internal target volume (ITV), and planning target volume (PTV) as delineated target volumes. The treatment failure of local advanced NSCLC is mainly caused by local recurrence accounted for 50% and distant metastasis accounted for 50%. Local recurrence occurs both within the radiation field and outside the radiation field. Elective nodal irradiation (ENI) was designed before, however the adverse events (AEs) was not satisfactory. Afterwards, involved field radiotherapy (IFRT) showed that a reduced irradiation field did not increase local recurrence, and lowered the AEs Thus, IFRT has been broadly used in clinical work instead of ENI. IFRT still has disadvantages, including the risk of radiation respiratory events and radiation esophagitis, can the irradiation area be further reduced to reduce adverse reactions without affecting the efficacy? Positron emission tomography -computed tomography (PET-CT) can accurately assess primary tumor and metastatic lymph nodes in NSCLC patients better than CT . A meta-analysis of 39 clinical studies showed that the median sensitivity and specificity of PET-CT for the detection of lymph node involvement were 85% and 90%, respectively, while those of CT alone were only 61% and 79%, respectively. The radiotherapy application of PET-CT in image acquisition can ensure the delineation of both primary tumor and mediastinal lymph node metastasis. Under this condition, can the radiation field be further reduced to lower the dose to normal tissue and radiotherapy-associated AEs? A dosimetry study showed that when a dose of 60 Gy was given to the primary tumor and positive mediastinal lymph nodes, even if the CTV was omitted, a dose of 50 Gy was sufficient to cover the subclinical area.
Stage III Non-small-cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: The enrollment was randomly (1:1) assigned into the study group with CTV-omitted IMRT under PET-CT guidance and the control group with CTV-delineated IMRT using a random number table.
incidence of radiation respiratory events or esophagitis with grade 3 or higher, incidence of radiation respiratory events or esophagitis with grade 3 or higher, after radiation therapy，up to 1 year
objective response rate, objective response rate, through study completion，up to 12 weeks|locate control rate, through study completion，up to 12 weeks|progression-free survival, through study completion，up to 12 weeks|overall survival, through study completion, an average of 2 year
A dosimetry study showed that when a dose of 60 Gy was given to the primary tumor and positive mediastinal lymph nodes, even if the CTV was omitted, a dose of 50 Gy was sufficient to cover the subclinical area.