Patient Navigation for Colorectal Cancer Screening for Patients With Mental Illness and/or Substance Use Disorder
The investigators propose to develop, implement, and evaluate a novel Colorectal (CRC) screening patient navigator program for patients with Mental Health (MH) and /or Substance Use Disorder (SUD) receiving care at Massachusetts General Hospital Charlestown. The study will involve randomly assigning eligible patients to early intervention or usual care/delayed intervention groups. The investigators believe this random assignment is ethical because Patient Navigation (PN) is an extremely limited resource, and all patients identified as eligible could not be contacted by the navigators in a short period of time. Thus the investigators will randomly assign access to PN during the study period, and then allow all patients to be navigated and screened after the study period is over. As a result, all eligible patients will be referred for PN, but the timing of the referral will be randomly assigned.
ColoRectal Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: patient navigation
Percentage of patients in intervention and control groups who completed any colorectal cancer screening during the six-month study period, To obtain the data about colorectal cancer screening we will use billing data from our institution repository. Additionally, and when/if the data is not available (percentage of colonoscopy results) we will perform EMR reviewed of trial participants., 6 months|Percentage of patients in intervention and control groups who completed any colorectal cancer screening during the six-month study period, To obtain the data about colorectal cancer screening we will use billing data from our institution repository. Additionally, and when/if the data is not available (percentage of fecal occult blood test results) we will perform EMR reviewed of trial participants., 6 months
As-treated primary outcomes among intervention patients contacted by patient navigator., Percentage of patients in intervention and control groups who completed colorectal cancer cancer screening stratified by Mental health vs Substance use disorder, language spoken, race and age (\<\> 65 years) during the study period, 1 year|Number of cancers (stage) found in the intervention and control group during the study period, 1 year|Number of polys found in intervention polyps (histology), 1 year
The investigators propose to develop, implement, and evaluate a novel Colorectal (CRC) screening patient navigator program for patients with Mental Health (MH) and /or Substance Use Disorder (SUD) receiving care at Massachusetts General Hospital Charlestown. The study will involve randomly assigning eligible patients to early intervention or usual care/delayed intervention groups. The investigators believe this random assignment is ethical because Patient Navigation (PN) is an extremely limited resource, and all patients identified as eligible could not be contacted by the navigators in a short period of time. Thus the investigators will randomly assign access to PN during the study period, and then allow all patients to be navigated and screened after the study period is over. As a result, all eligible patients will be referred for PN, but the timing of the referral will be randomly assigned.