BLAST MRD AML-2: BLockade of PD-1 Added to Standard Therapy to Target Measurable Residual Disease in Acute Myeloid Leukemia 2- A Randomized Phase 2 Study of Anti-PD-1 Pembrolizumab in Combination With Azacitidine and Venetoclax as Frontline Therapy in Unfit Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well azacitidine and venetoclax with or without pembrolizumab work in treating older patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Chemotherapy drugs, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving azacitidine and venetoclax with pembrolizumab may increase the rate of deeper/better responses and reduce the chance of the leukemia coming back in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia compared to conventional therapy of azacitidine and venetoclax alone.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Post Cytotoxic Therapy|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Venetoclax
Percentage of Patients With Minimal Residual Disease Negative Complete Remission (MRD-CR) or MRD-complete Remission With Incomplete Count Recovery (Cri) With Azacitidine (AZA) + Venetoclax (VEN) With MK-3475 (Pembrolizumab), Up to 6 cycles (each cycle is 28 days)
Proportion of Patients Who Develop Severe Toxicity, Up to cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)
Biomarkers or Serial Measurements of Biomarkers Associated With Response Outcomes, A univariate logistic regression will be selected to assess baseline biomarkers associated with response outcomes. The dynamic changes of PD-L1/ PD-1 expressions, concentration of cytokine, and ribonucleic acid sequencing (seq)/T-cell receptor seq etc. will be monitored. The measurements of biomarkers in changes over time from baseline to several time-points will be performed by using generalized linear mixed effects modeling with a Benjamini-Hochberg correction to control for false discovery rates., Baseline up to 3 years|Biomarkers or Serial Measurements of Biomarkers Associated With Survival Outcomes, The Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank test will be used to estimate the distribution of survival between/among different marker strata. Univariate or Multivariate cox proportional hazard models will be employed to explore the significance of biomarkers on survival outcomes, while adjusting for the potential prognostic factors. The interaction effects between treatment and biomarkers also will be evaluated. Serial measurements of biomarkers will be estimated at baseline, end of induction, post-cycle 1, 2, 4, and 6, every 3 months during maintenance, one year, and end of treatment when applicable. Landmark analysis or joint modeling will be used to assess serial measurements of biomarkers dynamical impacts on survival outcomes, where appropriate., Baseline up to 3 years|Biomarkers Effects Between Treatment Arms, The associations between treatment arms and baseline biomarkers will be evaluated using Chi-squared test/ Fisher's exact test, analysis of variance and the Mann-Whitney U tests as appropriate. Trajectory trends of the changes in markers' values or status across the measurement time will be explored using generalized linear mixed models. The bar plots and trajectory time plots will visually show the differences over time between treatment arms. The associations between markers and the demographic/prognostic factors will also be assessed using the similar statistical methods., Up to 3 years|Correlations Between Biomarkers, The correlations between biomarkers will be evaluated using Pearson/Spearman rank-order correlation coefficients, Chi-squared/Fisher's exact tests, and Wilcoxon rank sun / Kruskal-Wallis tests as appropriate. A scatter plot, boxplot, and mosaic plot will also be generated for visualization. The multiplicity of the endpoints will be adjusted using the correction of Benjamini and Hochberg., Up to 3 years|MRD Assessment, Library preparation, sequencing, and analysis will be performed with TwinStrand's optimized workflow, and TwinStrand's bioinformatics core will perform all analyses related to assay output., Up to 3 years|Cytokine Panel Analysis, IFN-gamma+/CD3+/ CD4+ or IFN-gamma+/CD3+/CD8+ events will be gated and percentages of the total CD4+ and CD8+ T cells will be determined. Will compare levels of leukemia specific T-cell., At day 30 (after administration of pembrolizumab and count recovery) and after cycles 2, 4, and 6 (each cycle is 28 days)|Expression of PD-1, PD-L1 in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) Bone Marrow (BM), An association of clinical response with the expression of PD-L1 AML BM cells will be assessed by a Pearson chi-square test on a 2x2 table of frequencies., At day 14 and at time of count recovery|Dynamic Change of Immune Subsets, Statistical analyses of the frequency of CD8+, CD4+, Foxp3 regulatory T cells, CD8+/Foxp3+ Tregs, central memory T cell/effector memory T cell re-expressed CD45RA (TEMRA), effector memory T cell/TEMRA, the percentage of Ki67 and GzmB in PD-1+, Eomes+ CD8 T cells to compare changes over time from baseline to several time-points will be performed by using mixed effects modeling with a Benjamini-Hochberg correction to control for false discovery rates., Baseline up to cycle 6 (each cycle is 28 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the percentage of patients with minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete remission (CR) (MRD-CR) or complete remission with incomplete count recovery (MRD-CRi) with azacitidine (AZA) + venetoclax (VEN) with pembrolizumab during the first 6 cycles and compare to control arm.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the investigator-assessed rates of CR/CRi/partial remission (PR)/morphological leukemia free state (MLFS) as defined per the modified International Working Group (IWG) 2003 response criteria with AZA + VEN with pembrolizumab, as well as rates of MRD negative MLFS.

II. Rates of complete remission with partial count recovery (CRh) and hematologic improvement (HI) to red blood cells and platelets.

III. Assess time to MRD negativity and duration of MRD negative state, event free survival (EFS), relapse free survival (RFS), calculated as the time from initial treatment to either disease relapse or death, duration of response (DOR, defined as the time from first CR/CRi to the date of the first documented relapse or death, whichever occurs first) and overall survival (OS).

IV. Assess the proportion of patients who develop severe toxicity.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. MRD assessment by duplex sequencing (DS) and comparing DS and multiparameter flow cytometry for MRD detection as an exploratory biomarker.

II. Assessment of immune-checkpoint expression and dynamic change of immune cell subsets in response to the combination of checkpoint-inhibition and backbone combination in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

III. High-throughput sequencing of the T-cell receptor (TCR) Vb CDR3 regions on ﬂow cytometrically sorted t-cell subsets to assess the effect of immunotherapy on the diversity of the t-cell repertoire and assess for correlation to clinical outcomes.

IV. Investigation of protein signatures and ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures associated with response and efficacy using O-link cytokine panel and RNA-sequencing (seq), respectively.

V. Determination of mutational load by whole exome sequencing to assess for correlation with clinical outcomes, immune infiltrating profile, and T cell repertoire diversity and clonality.

VI. Profiling of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation patterns before and after treatment to assess for correlation to response to treatment.

VII. Correlate gut microbiome at baseline and changes in the microbiome with clinical response, both in standard chemotherapy and immunotherapy/chemotherapy therapy settings.

VIII. MRD assessment using duplex sequencing strategy for circulating cell-free tumor DNA and correlation with long-term outcomes.

IX. Exploring different thresholds of MRD negativity using flow cytometry aside from the 0.1% level that will be used for the primary endpoint purposes (e.g. 0.01%).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (AZA + VEN):

INDUCTION THERAPY PHASE: Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) over 10-40 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7 or days 1-5 in week 1 and 1-2 in week 2. Patients also receive venetoclax orally (PO) on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-21 or 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY PHASE: Patients receive azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes or SC on days 1-7 or days 1-5 in week 1 and 1-2 in week 2. Patients also receive venetoclax PO on days 1-21 or 1-28 (depending on count recovery) for all cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 3 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 24 cycles, patients who respond to treatment or have stable disease (SD) may continue treatment per physician discretion.

ARM II (AZA + VEN + PEMBROLIZUMAB):

INDUCTION THERAPY PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 8 of cycle 1 and every 3 weeks in cycle 2-6, azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes or SC on days 1-7 or days 1-5 in week 1 and 1-2 in week 2, and venetoclax PO on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-21 or 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 3 weeks, azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes or SC on days 1-7 or days 1-5 in week 1 and 1-2 in week 2, and venetoclax PO on days 1-21 or 1-28 (depending on count recovery) for all cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 24 cycles, patients who respond to treatment or have SD may continue treatment with azacitidine and venetoclax per physician discretion.

Patients in both arms also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan during screening and bone marrow biopsy and/or aspiration and collection of blood samples throughout the trial, as well as a skin biopsy at baseline.

Patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3 years.