Loc3CAR: Locoregional Delivery of B7-H3-CAR T Cells for Pediatric Patients With Primary CNS Tumors
Loc3CAR is a Phase I clinical trial evaluating the use of autologous B7-H3-CAR T cells for participants ≤ 21 years old with primary CNS neoplasms. B7-H3-CAR T cells will be locoregionally administered via a CNS reservoir catheter. Study participants will be divided into two cohorts: cohort A with B7-H3-positive relapsed/refractory non-brainstem primary CNS tumors, and cohort B with diffuse midline gliomas (DMG). Participants will receive four (4) B7-H3-CAR T cell infusions over a 4 week period. The purpose of this study is to find the maximum (highest) dose of B7-H3-CAR T cells that are safe to give patients with primary brain tumors.

Primary objectives

* To determine the safety, maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for the locoregional delivery of autologous B7-H3-CAR T cells in patients ≤ 21 years of age with recurrent/refractory B7-H3+ primary CNS tumors (Cohort A) or DMG (Cohort B).

Secondary objectives

* To assess the efficacy, defined as sustained objective response, a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) observed anytime on active treatment with B7-H3-CAR T cells in patients with relapsed/refractory B7-H3+ primary CNS tumors (Cohort A) or DMG (Cohort B).
* To characterize and monitor neurologic toxicities in patients while on study (Cohort A and B).
Central Nervous System Neoplasms|Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor|Diffuse Midline Glioma, H3 K27M-Mutant|Ependymoma|High Grade Glioma|Glioblastoma|Medulloblastoma
DRUG: B7-H3-CAR T cells
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), To determine the maximum tolerated dose for the locoregional delivery of autologous B7-H3-CAR T cells in patients with recurrent/refractory B7-H3- positive primary CNS tumors (Cohort A) or diffuse midline glioma (DMG) (Cohort B)., Four (4) weeks after the first B7-H3-CAR T-cell infusion or 7 days after the fourth B7-H3-CAR T cell infusion, whichever is longer
Radiographic response, To assess the efficacy, defined as sustained objective response, partial response (PR) or complete response (CR), observed anytime on active treatment with B7-H3-CAR T cells in patients with relapsed/refractory B7-H3+ primary CNS tumors (Cohort A) or DMG (Cohort B)., Four (4) weeks post B7-H3-CAR T-cell infusion
Treatment on this study includes four (4) B7-H3-CAR T cell infusions over a 4 week period. B7-H3-CAR T cells will be locoregionally administered via a CNS reservoir catheter without lymphodepleting chemotherapy. The study will evaluate the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of B7-H3-CAR T cells using a 3+3 study design and a 4 week evaluation period. Follow up will occur on this protocol for 1 year after the final B7-H3-CAR T cell infusion and then continue on an institutional long-term follow up protocol to complete 15 years post-infusion.