Analgesic Treatment for Cancer Pain in South East Asia
This study is planned to investigate the pain control status in cancer patients in 6 South East Asian countries through evaluation of prescription pattern of analgesics, satisfaction of pain control, quality of life and assessment of the adequacy of pain control and relationship among these factors in cancer patients with pain. Cancer pain is undermanaged and it is hoped that this study will be used as a reference for effective cancer pain management in these countries.
Pain
OTHER: Patients receiving cancer pain treatment
Prescription Pattern of Analgesics (Opioid or Non-opioid), At Visit 1 (Day 1) which was the only visit in the study, data was collected on whether each patient was receiving only opioid, only non-opioid or both opioid and non-opioid analgesic treatments for pain control., Day 1|Satisfaction With Patient's Pain Control as Measured by 5-point Scale Answered by Patients and Investigators, The scale used to measure a patient's satisfaction with pain control ranges from 1 to 5:

1. Very satisfied
2. Satisfied
3. Acceptable
4. Dissatisfied
5. Very dissatisfied

Patients and Investigators will each indicate their opinion on separate scales., Day 1|Quality of Life as Measured Using EQ-5D-3L Questionnaire Answered by Patient, EQ-5D-3L summary indices were calculated using the algorithm developed based on the valuation of EQ-5D-3L health states from an adult Thai population (Tongsiri \& Cairns, 2011). Applying the Thai algorithm, EQ-5D-3L summary indices range from -0.45 to 0.80, with an EQ-5D-3L summary index of 0.80 indicating the best overall health-related quality of life., Day 1|Intensity of Pain Currently and Over Past 24 Hours as Measured by NRS Scores Indicated by Patient, Patients indicated their pain intensity using a numerical rating scale (NRS) ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain).

Their current pain intensity and pain in the last 24 hours were indicated on separate scales. A higher score indicates higher pain intensity., Past 1 day up to Day 1
Sleep Disturbance Within Last 7 Days Assessed Using Questionnaire Answered by Patient, Patients answered "yes" or "no" to the following question:

"Have you had trouble sleeping due to your cancer pain within the last 7 days?", Past 7 days up to Day 1|Patient's Performance Status as Measured by Investigator's Rating on ECOG PS Scale, The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) scale ranges from 0 to 4:

0- Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction

1. Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work
2. Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours
3. Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours
4. Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair

A higher score indicates greater functional impairment., Day 1
This study is planned to investigate the pain control status in cancer patients in 6 South East Asian countries through evaluation of prescription pattern of analgesics, satisfaction of pain control, quality of life and assessment of the adequacy of pain control and relationship among these factors in cancer patients with pain. Cancer pain is undermanaged and it is hoped that this study will be used as a reference for effective cancer pain management in these countries.