Sintilimab After Stereotactic Ablation Brachytherapy for Refractory Oligometastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The study aim to investigator the efficacy and safety of sintilimab after Stereotactic Ablation Brachytherapy(SABT) for refractory oligometastatic non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC), who had failed second-line systemic therapy.
Oligometastasis|Lung Neoplasms
DRUG: Sintilimab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR(RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator )is defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as their best response., up to 24 months after enrollment or study close.
Progression-free survival (PFS), Time to progression or death from initiation of Stereotactic Ablation Brachytherapy., up to 24 months after enrollment or study close.|Overall Survival(OS), Defined as the time until death due to any cause., up to 24 months after enrollment or study close.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator) is defined as the proportion (%) of patients with at least one visit response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD)., up to 24 months after enrollment or study close .|Treatment-related Adverse Events (AEs), Evaluation of adverse event rate according to CTCAE(Common terminology criteria for adverse events) v4.03., From the date of randomization to 90 days after last dose of study treatment .
This study is a single-arm phase II study of sintilimab after SABT for refractory oligometastatic NSCLC, who had failed second-line systemic therapy.In this study, 44 patients with oligometastatic NSCLC were treated with sintilimab after SABT every 3 weeks until disease progression and intolerance. Toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, death or other cessation of treatment as prescribed by the program, whichever occurs first. The primary end point was the ORR based on RECIS 1.1, which was evaluated by the Independent Imaging Review Board (IRRC). An interim analysis will be conducted during the course of the study. The results and reports will be provided to the Independent Data Audit Committee (IDMC), which determines whether the trial is valid based on the valid cut-off value of the trial and whether the study data can be submitted in advance. Make recommendations to the sponsor. Prior to the interim analysis, the IDMC charter will be finalized and approved by IDMC and the sponsor. The responsibilities and related procedures of IDMC members will be defined in the IDMC charter.