Erlotinib and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Stage IV Melanoma
RATIONALE: Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving erlotinib together with bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving erlotinib together with bevacizumab works in treating patients with stage IV melanoma.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|GENETIC: fluorescence in situ hybridization|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|OTHER: immunologic technique|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: biopsy
Number of Patients With Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST): Progressive disease (PD): \>=20% increase in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesion(s), taking as reference smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started. Complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR): \>=30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesion(s), taking as reference baseline sum LD. Stable disease (SD): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify as PR nor sufficient increase to qualify as PD., At 6 months
Time to Disease Progression., Time from on study date to date of progression in months, if the progression happened in the patient. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions with reference to the smallest sum LD since treatment began or the appearance of one or more new lesions., up to one year after off-study date|Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, Patients with Progression-free survival at 6 months, 6 months|Number of Patients With Each Worst-grade Toxicity Response, Number of patients with worst-grade toxicity at each of five grades following National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria with grade 1 = mild, grade 2 = moderate, grade 3 = severe, grade 4 = life-threatening/disabling, 5 = death., Day 1 of each 28-day cycle for 6 cycles (168 days)
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the overall response rate, response duration, and frequency of progression-free survival at 6 months in patients with stage IV melanoma treated with erlotinib hydrochloride and bevacizumab.
* Determine objective responses in patients treated with this regimen.

Secondary

* Determine the overall safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.
* Evaluate tissue blocks for EGFR by monoclonal antibody H11 (DAKO) or fluorescence in situ hybridization(FISH)7p12-specific probe-overexpression or amplification in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo tissue collection to analyze EGFR by monoclonal antibody H11 (DAKO) or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) 7p12-specific probe-overexpression or amplification. Biological markers AKT, MAPK, p27, p21, CD13, CD34, and factor VIII are also measured.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.