HDR vs LDR Brachytherapy as Monotherapy in the Treatment of Localized Prostate Cancer.
Investigators compare in a randomized clinical trial the results and side effects of high-dose- and low-dose-rate brachytherapy as monotherapy in the treatment of early, organ confined prostate cancer patients.
Adenocarcinoma of Prostate
RADIATION: LDR Brachytherapy|RADIATION: HDR Brachytherapy
Acute side effects, Acute gastrointestinal, urogenital and other side effects occuring within six months after the procedure, according to the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE 4.0v) scale, 6 months|Chronic side effects, Chronic gastrointestinal, urogenital and other side effects occuring within six months after the procedure, according to the CTCAE 4.0v scale, from 6 months to five year
quality of life, Assessing patients' quality of life according to the a 25 question prostate module (PR-25) of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QlQ-30)., 5 years|quality of life, Assessing patients' quality of life according to the International Index for Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire, 5 years|Biochemical relapse free survival (bRFS), Censoring an event when biochemical relapse occurs using the American Society of Therapeutic Radiation and Oncology (ASTRO) Phoenix definition for PSA relapse (nadir + 2 ng/ml increase), 5 years|Locoregional tumor free survival, Censoring an event when either local or regional relapse occurs, 5 years|Disease specific survival (DSS), Censoring an event when patient dies due to prostate cancer, 5 years
Permanent implant prostate brachytherapy (LDRPBT) is a well established and proved method in the treatment of patients with low or selected intermediate risk, organ confined prostate cancer.

There are number of studies with high-dose rate brachytherapy (HDRPBT) as monotherapy with several fractionation schedule treating the same group of patients. One phase II trial showed its effectiveness given in one fraction of 19 Gy.

In the trial investigators randomly select patients to treat with either LDR prostate brachytherapy (145Gy) or HDR prostate brachytherapy (1x19Gy) as monotherapy.

Patients are stratified into two pretreatment group: 1. low risk, 2. selected intermediate risk group.

Brachytherapy is given in spinal anaesthesia, using transrectal ultrasound based real time treatment planning. Dose constraints are defined for both methods.