Tipifarnib, Temozolomide, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme or Gliosarcoma
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of tipifarnib when given together with temozolomide and radiation therapy in treating patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma. Tipifarnib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining tipifarnib, temozolomide, and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma
DRUG: tipifarnib|DRUG: temozolomide|RADIATION: radiation therapy
MTD of tipifarnib, Safety variables will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Adverse events that occur will be reported for each dose level and described in terms of incidence and severity. Laboratory data will be presented by dose level at each observation time. Values outside of normal limits will be identified and their frequency calculated. Parameters will be described based on the CTCAE severity grading. Distribution by CTCAE severity grade (when applicable) and clinical relevance will be given., Week 10|Incidence of adverse events, Safety variables will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Adverse events that occur will be reported for each dose level and described in terms of incidence and severity. Laboratory data will be presented by dose level at each observation time. Values outside of normal limits will be identified and their frequency calculated. Parameters will be described based on the CTCAE severity grading. Distribution by CTCAE severity grade (when applicable) and clinical relevance will be given., Up to 5 years|Antitumor activity, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish MTD for R115777 in combination with Temozolomide with radiation in patients not on EIAEDs.

II. To define the safety of R115777 in combination with Temozolomide with radiation in this patient population.

III. To assess for evidence of antitumor activity in this patient population.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of tipifarnib. Patients are stratified according to concurrent use of enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (yes \[closed to accrual as of 3/15/05\] vs no).

COMBINATION THERAPY: Patients receive oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 5-9 days after beginning tipifarnib, patients receive oral temozolomide once daily for 6 weeks and concurrently undergo partial brain radiotherapy daily 5 days a week for 6 weeks. After completion of radiotherapy, patients proceed to adjuvant therapy.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tipifarnib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 10 patients are treated at the MTD.

ADJUVANT THERAPY: Patients continue to receive tipifarnib as above. With the initiation of the next planned course of tipifarnib, patients receive oral temozolomide on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses OR 1 year (whichever is longer) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients with progressive disease are followed at 10 weeks and then every 4 months. Patients who complete therapy are followed every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter until disease progression.