Insomnia Prevention in Children With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
The goal of this research study is to understand the acceptability and feasibility of the Sleep ALL Night intervention among children with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) in hopes of improving the discussion of sleep disorders with clinical providers.

The name of the intervention used in this research study is: Sleep ALL Night, which is a sleep intervention program comprised of an action plan tool and psychoeducational website.
Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
BEHAVIORAL: Sleep ALL Night
Enrollment Rate of Participants, The primary study outcome of acceptability is defined as the proportion of eligible participants who are approached by research staff who agree to participate in the study, with the cutoff set at ≥30% of eligible participants who are approached agreeing to participate., At screening, when eligible participants are approached by research staff. Recruitment occurred over a 5-month period.|Acceptability of Intervention Measure Scale Score, The primary study outcome of acceptability is defined as participants reporting an average score of ≥4 ("Agree") on the Acceptability of Intervention Measure scale, a four-item questionnaire assessing the acceptability of an intervention. The scale uses a 5-point scale with options ranging from Completely Agree (5) to Completely Disagree (1). The average score of all four items was used as the primary outcome. A higher score indicates greater belief that the intervention was acceptable for the participant., At Week 4|Intervention Assessment Completion Rate, The primary study outcome of feasibility is defined as ≥80% of enrolled participants complete the Post-Intervention Assessment., Up to 1 month after the conclusion of the study period, up to 8 weeks.
This research study is to conduct a single-arm pilot study to determine the acceptability and feasibility of Sleep ALL Night for children with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL).

Participation in this research study is expected to last 1 month.

It is expected about 30 children will take part in this research study.

The National Cancer Institute (NCI) is providing funding for this research study through a grant.