Combination Immunotherapy in Rare Cancers Under InvesTigation
The four tumour streams that will be studied in this protocol are based on immunotherapy sensitive rare cancers from CA209-538 which will be further investigated under this protocol and divided into four groups:

1. Neuroendocrine cancers: Atypical bronchial carcinoid, neuroendocrine carcinoma and Grade 3 NETs independent of primary site (SCLC excluded)
2. Biliary tract cancers: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and gallbladder carcinoma
3. Gynaecological malignancies: Ovarian clear cell carcinoma, uterine clear cell carcinoma, uterine/ovarian carcinosarcoma, uterine leiomyosarcoma and vaginal/vulva squamous cell carcinoma
4. Mismatch repair protein deficient (MSI-H) cancers (excluding colorectal carcinoma).

The role of immunotherapy is being defined in more common cancer types, however because of their rarity, the efficacy of immunotherapy for these cancers is poorly defined.

This protocol provides an important opportunity to establish whether the combination of nivolumab \& ipilimumab has efficacy in these cancers.
Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer|Neuroendocrine Tumors|Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|MSI-H Solid Malignant Tumor
DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab
Confirm the clinical efficacy of ipi/nivo in rare cancer histotypes which have demonstrated to be responsive to the regimen in the CA209-538 study., Clinical benefit rate for whole population (CR (complete response)+PR (partial response) assessed by radiographic evidence in accordance with RECIST 1.1 criteria, At 12 weeks following registration then as assessed by standard care until progression.|Determine the proportion of participants with progression free survival at 6 months, Progression-free survival based on clinical or radiographic evidence of progressive disease according to RECIST 1.1 criteria at 6 months., Enrolment on study until 6 months.
To confirm the overall survival of participants receiving ipi/nivo in rare cancer histotypes which have demonstrated to be responsive to the regimen, Quantification of OS., From date of enrolment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years.|To confirm the progression free survival of participants receiving ipi/nivo in rare cancer histotypes which have demonstrated to be responsive to the regimen, Quantification of PFS, From date of enrolment until the date of first documented progression up to 5 years.|Quantification of treatment related toxicities to ipi/nivo according to CTCAE V5.0, Quantification of treatment related toxicities according to CTCAE V5.0., From 1st dose until 30 days following last dose [up to max 2 years + 30 days].
This is a phase 2 clinical trial of nivolumab combined with ipilimumab in immunotherapy sensitive rare cancers. This study will allow an evaluation of the clinical benefit, as measured by progression free survival (PFS) \>6 months and overall survival (OS), provided by nivolumab combined with ipilimumab.

Study Rationale Clinically advanced rare cancers pose a significant clinical challenge because evidence based treatments are seldom available for patients suffering from these malignancies. Despite little evidence that shows clinical benefit, these patients are often treated with chemotherapeutic agents that are used in patients with more common malignancies that arise from the same anatomical site. Furthermore, because of small numbers, patients are often excluded from clinical trials with newer agents. CA209-538 examined this treatment combination in three 'baskets' of rare cancers: rare upper gastrointestinal, gynaecological and neuroendocrine cancers. The cancers on study all individually had an incidence of \<2/100000/year. The cancer specific survival of patients diagnosed with a rare malignancy is significantly lower than with common cancers highlighting the need to improve management and treatment of rare cancer patients. Given the success of cancer immunotherapy with checkpoint regulators such as ipilimumab and nivolumab in a range of different cancer types, it was postulated that these agents could be beneficial in rare cancers and improve the overall outlook of patients with these conditions. CA209-538 enrolled 120 rare cancer patients on study, clinical benefit rate was \>30% across all baskets, long term survival follow-up is underway.

This study will enrol 240 participants, across 4 cohorts with histotypes which demonstrated clinical benefit on CA209-538. All participants will receive ipilimumab and nivolumab as combination immunotherapy.