Stereotactic Radiosurgery With Nivolumab and Valproate in Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and feasibility of the immunotherapeutic agent nivolumab given in combination with gamma knife therapy and valproate in patients with recurrent glioblastoma, a common and lethal type of brain cancer.
Glioblastoma
RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Valproate
Feasibility based on number of subjects who complete 4 doses of nivolumab, Feasibility of the radiosurgery and drug combination will be determined based on the number of subjects who complete at least 4 doses of nivolumab., At 3 months following radiosurgery|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be assessed by imaging of necrosis, incidence and severity of adverse events, changes in laboratory findings, physical examinations, vital signs, and the number of discontinuations due to adverse events., From the beginning of treatment until no sooner than 30 days following the last study treatment
Clinical Response Rate, Response to therapy will be evaluated by means of RANO criteria., From the beginning of treatment until documented disease progression or date of death, assessed up to 48 months.
Incidence of Pseudoprogressions, Pseudoprogression, the transient increase in apparent tumor size, will be documented., From the beginning of treatment until documented disease progression or date of death, assessed up to 48 months.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors have the potential to treat a wide range of diverse cancers. Of particular interest to researchers is the PD-1 receptor-ligand interaction, a major pathway that many cancers hijack in order to suppress immune control. Anti-PD-1 antibodies such as nivolumab show a strong potential to treat many types of cancers including glioblastoma, the most common and most lethal brain cancer.

This study will examine a means of further focusing immune response on glioblastoma by combining stereotactic "gamma knife" radiosurgery with nivolumab. The rationale behind this intervention is that the radiation therapy will enhance immune response rate by providing additional tumor antigens from dying cells. Additionally, a study from investigators at Johns Hopkins indicates that histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors may boost the anti-cancer efficacy of PD-1 antibodies like nivolumab. Valproate, a class I HDAC inhibitor, will be used concurrently with nivolumab with the goal of enhancing the effects of both the nivolumab and the radiotherapy.