Study of Ixazomib With Pegylated IFN-alpha 2b (pIFN) in Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (mRCC)
This is a Phase I/II trial of the combination pegylated IFN-alpha 2b with ixazomib in metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). Researchers believe that by disabling the protein complex NF-kB, which controls the transfer of genetic information; using the study drug Ixazomib, they can promote necrotic cell death of RCC using interferon alpha - 2b. They hypothesize that the combination of ixazomib with IFN will lead to increased necrotic cell death in RCC tumors and consequent clinical benefit to patients.

Patients will receive ixazomib capsules and pegylated IFN alfa 2b injection in this research study. Treatments will be given weekly and 4 weeks of treatment make up one cycle.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|RCC
DRUG: Ixazomib|DRUG: Pegylated IFN-alpha 2b
Non-hematologic Toxicity ≥ Grade 3 Per CTCAE v4 Except:, * Grade 3 nausea or Grade 3 vomiting ≤ 72 hours that recovers to grade 0-2 with maximal antiemetic therapy.
* Grade 3 diarrhea that resolves to grade 0-2 with loperamide or diphenoxylate/atropine within 48 hours.
* Grade 3 hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperglycemia or hypophosphatemia that resolves to grade 0-2 with medical management.
* Transient electrolyte abnormalities lasting ≤ 1 week., Up to week 8|Thrombocytopenia ≥ Grade 3 Per CTCAE v4, Up to week 8|Grade 4 Neutropenia Per CTCAE v4; Associated With Fever or Hospitalization for Infection, Up to week 8|Grade 4 Neutropenia Per CTCAE v4; Lasting Longer Than 5 Days, Up to week 8|Any Toxicity Felt at the Investigator's Discretion to be Possibly or Probably Related to Ixazomib That Causes the Patient to Miss More Than 1 Dose of Either Ixazomib or pIFN in the First 28 Days., 28 Days|Any Unacceptable Toxicity (UT) Defined as Any CTCAE v4 Grade 5 Toxicity, Grade 4 Neuropsychiatric Toxicity or Grade 4 Clinically Significant Non-hematologic Toxicity Thought to be Definitely, Probably or Possibly Related to Study Drug., 28 Days|Progression Free Survival Per RECIST 1.1, At week 8|Progression Free Survuval Per RECIST 1.1, At week 16
Overall Response Rate, Week 8|Overall Response Rate, Week 16
This is a Phase I/II trial of the combination pegylated IFN-alpha 2b with ixazomib in metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). Researchers believe that by disabling the protein complex NF-kB, which controls the transfer of genetic information; using the study drug Ixazomib, they can promote necrotic cell death of RCC using interferon alpha - 2b. They hypothesize that the combination of ixazomib with IFN will lead to increased necrotic cell death in RCC tumors and consequent clinical benefit to patients.

Patients will receive ixazomib capsules and pegylated IFN alfa 2b injection in this research study. Treatments will be given weekly and 4 weeks of treatment make up one cycle.