Rebeccamycin Analog as Second-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Limited-Stage or Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer That Relapsed After Previous First-Line Chemotherapy
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as rebeccamycin analog, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. This phase II trial is studying how well rebeccamycin analog works as second-line therapy in treating patients with limited-stage or extensive-stage small cell lung cancer that has relapsed after previous first-line chemotherapy.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer|Limited Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: becatecarin
Objective Response Rate Estimated as the Proportion of Responders, Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; Progressive Disease (PD):At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; Stable Disease (SD):Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started.

An exact binomial 95% confidence interval will be calculated for this proportion., Up to 4 years|Progression Free Survival, Median time of patients without Progressive Disease (PD):At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Duration of remission will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves., Up to 4 years|Overall Survival, Median time of patient survival. Duration of survival will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves., Up to 4 years
Progression Free Survival, Percentage of patients that are progression free at 6 months., 6 months|Overall Survival, Percentage of patients alive at 1 year, 1 year
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with limited or extensive stage small cell lung cancer that relapsed after prior first-line chemotherapy when treated with rebeccamycin analogue as second-line therapy.

II. Determine the duration of remission and survival of patients treated with this drug.

III. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive rebeccamycin analogue IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed annually.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-39 patients will be accrued for this study within 15 months.