Peroperative Assessment of Malignancies of the Head and Neck Using High-resolution 18F-FDG-PET/CT
In this study, patients diagnosed with a pathology-proven malignancy of the head and neck will receive a routine clinical activity of 18F-FDG ((18)F-luorodeoxyglucose) before undergoing standard of care surgical resection of the malignancy. Following the resection, the 18F-FDG-infused malignancy will be investigated utilizing a novel high-resolution Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and Computed Tomography (CT) scan. Slicing of the malignancy will be followed by additional PET/CT-scanning and autoradiography of the sliced specimen. The results found during image analysis will be compared to the results of the gold standard of histopathology. As this is no approved way of assessing the tumour's margin, the conclusion of the scan will not be used as a method for changing the patients' treatment.
Head and Neck Neoplasms|Thyroid Neoplasm|Skin Neoplasm
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: high-resolution PET-CT specimen imaging.
Determine margin status in malignancies of the head and neck, To investigate the ability of high-resolution 18F-FDG-PET/CT-scan to determine the margin status in malignancies of the head and neck. This will be compared to the gold standard of histopathological examination., 1 week after administration
Characterize the ideal activity of 18F-FDG, The characterization of the ideal dose of 18F-FDG necessary for specimen imaging with a sufficient signal-to-noise ratio. This dose will be identified using post-processing image reconstruction on the specimen resulting from patients given a standard diagnostic activity of 18F-FDG., During data-analysis|Identify positive lymph nodes using 18F-FDG PET/CT, To investigate the ability of high-resolution 18F-FDG-PET/CT to identify positive lymph nodes excised by neck dissection. This will be quantified as sensitivity and specificity compared to the gold standard of histopathological examination., 1 week after administration|Correlate distribution of 18F-FDG with histopathology, To correlate the distribution of 18F-FDG in and around tumoral tissue with the histopathology of the specimen. This will be performed by correlating the results obtained from the PET/CT-scan of (sliced) tumoral specimens and autoradiography of a frozen section of the tumour., 1 day after administration
In this study, patients diagnosed with a pathology-proven malignancy of the head and neck will receive a routine clinical activity of 18F-FDG ((18)F-luorodeoxyglucose) before undergoing standard of care surgical resection of the malignancy. Following the resection, the 18F-FDG-infused malignancy will be investigated utilizing a novel high-resolution Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and Computed Tomography (CT) scan. Slicing of the malignancy will be followed by additional PET/CT-scanning and autoradiography of the sliced specimen. The results found during image analysis will be compared to the results of the gold standard of histopathology. As this is no approved way of assessing the tumour's margin, the conclusion of the scan will not be used as a method for changing the patients' treatment.