Comparison Study of PET/CT or PET/MRI Imaging to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Alone in Men With Prostate Cancer
This is a study primarily comparing Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) alone to Positron Emission Tomography (PET)/MRI using an experimental tracer, 68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC, among men with prostate cancer or prostatic cancer recurrence/metastasis. It is hypothesized that this comparison will demonstrate that PET using the tracer, 68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC, is more sensitive than MRI alone. Potential subjects who cannot undergo MRI may undergo PET/CT instead.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: PET/MRI with Gallium-68 labeled PSMA-HBED-CC|DRUG: Multiple PET/MRI with Gallium-68 labeled PSMA-HBED-CC|DRUG: PET/CT with Gallium-68 labeled PSMA-HBED-CC
Number of Subjects With Pathologic Lesions Detected by PSMA PET and PET/CT Compared to MP MRI, A scan was considered positive if the clinical interpretation was suspicious based on the clinical judgement of the reader., At each visit, immediately after administration of the study drug, approximately 2-3 hours; with up to two visits within 2 years or less|Number of Pathological Lesions Detected by PSMA PET/MRI and PET/CT Compared to MP MRI in Prostate Cancer Patients With Biochemical Recurrence by Anatomical Region Stratified by PSA Level, Patients were divided into subgroups based on their PSA levels and primary treatment modality. The primary treatment modality subgroups were post radical prostatectomy, post radiation therapy, and post radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy. 109 subjects out of 273 enrolled have data reported. Multiple patients sought care elsewhere and a small number of subjects had 2-year follow-up. This lead to a smaller analysis., At each visit, immediately after administration of the study drug, approximately 2-3 hours; with up to two visits within 2 years or less
Number of Pathological Lesions Detected by PSMA PET/MRI and PET/CT Compared to MP MRI in Prostate Cancer Patients With Biochemical Recurrence by Anatomical Region, True positive rates for detecting lesions between PSMA PET/MRI and MP MRI in various anatomical locations were compared, including prostate/prostatic bed, N1 lymph nodes, N2 lymph nodes, and osseous lesions. Other anatomical sites are other than bone, node, and prostate., At each visit, immediately after administration of the study drug, approximately 2-3 hours; with up to two visits within 2 years or less
This is a multi-reader methodological study comparing the diagnostic value of 68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC PET/CT or 68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC PET/MRI over MRI alone, using histologic confirmation or serial follow-up for up to 2 years as the gold standard for determination of primary prostate cancer or prostatic cancer recurrence/metastasis. It is hypothesized that this will demonstrate the superiority of 68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC PET to MRI for sensitivity, and the non-inferiority of 68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC PET to MRI for specificity.This is a paired, case-control design that is appropriate to statistically evaluate the difference in sensitivity and specificity between the two imaging modalities. Therefore, the estimation of population prevalence is not a study objective, and estimation of clinical utility through calculation of positive and negative predictive values is not appropriate. Imaging studies and follow up subject scans will be organized so that a panel of independent readers will evaluate the MRI and PET studies to assess the level of suspicion for prostate cancer.