Dose Attenuated Chemotherapy in Compromised Patients With Lung Cancer
This is an open-label, non-randomized, single-center, phase II study to evaluate the efficacy, toxicity and, tolerability of pre-specified dose attenuated chemotherapy regimens in lung cancer patients with comorbidities.
Lung Cancer|Small-cell Lung Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Lurbinectedin
Objective response rate (ORR), To estimate the ORR including confirmed complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) rates in each treatment group 1-3, 6 years
Frequency of adverse events, To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities attributed to chemotherapy administered on trial. To evaluate the tolerability of prospectively dose attenuated chemotherapy

Evaluate toxicity by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 criteria (CTCAE 5.0) by Treatment Group in all patients who received at least one dose of treatment on trial.

Tolerability will be defined as receiving two or more chemotherapy cycles with no more than a one week delay (due to treatment related toxicity) during the initial treatment period (first four cycles), delivered with pre-specified dose modifications to the cytotoxic component(s) of standard regimens for NSCLC and SCLC. Proportions of adverse events will be tabulated and organized by grade (all grade and grade 3 or higher)., 6 years|Progression free survival (PFS), To evaluate PFS in each treatment group. PFS is defined as the time from treatment initiation until documented disease progression, clinical progression, death, or the end of follow-up, whichever occurs first. Patients who are still alive and progression free at last follow-up will be considered censored at the time of last tumor assessment, 6 years|Overall survival (OS), To evaluate overall survival (OS) in each treatment group. OS is defined as the time from treatment initiation until death. Patients who are still alive at end of follow-up will be considered censored., 6 years
This is an open-label, non-randomized, single-center, phase II study to evaluate the efficacy, toxicity and, tolerability of pre-specified dose attenuated chemotherapy regimens in lung cancer patients with comorbidities. The investigator will indicate the rationale(s) for dose modification based on the subgroups of patients listed in the protocol. Patients may fit into multiple subgroups and this is accounted for in the prospectively defined dose reduction level as listed in the protocol. Prespecified doses by chemotherapeutic agent and dose level adjustment based on patient characteristics and comorbidities are listed in the protocol. Analyses will be stratified by treatment group 1-3 based on the treating physician's selected therapy.