Phase 2 Study of S-1 in Combination With Cisplatin as 1st Line Therapy in Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether S-1 in combination with Cisplatin is effective as 1st line therapy in slowing tumor activity in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. The study is also looking at the safety of S-1.
Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: S-1
Overall tumor response rate (ORR - the proportion of patients with objective evidence of PR or CR), Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) for a max of 6 cycles. Tumor assessments will be obtained at baseline and at the end of every even cycle.
To evaluate the safety profile of S-1, AEs will be reported through follow-up (30 days after the last dose of study medication); blood/urine will be collected at baseline ; Days 8 and 15; w/in 24 hrs prior to study drug on Day 1 of each cycle after Cycle 1; at the end of study treatment.|To evaluate the duration of response (DR), and progression-free survival (PFS), Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) for a max of 6 cycles. Following discont'n of treatment , pts will be followed for survival status every 2 mos following PD for up to 6 mos.|To investigate the relationship of S-1 plasma levels (components and metabolites) with safety and efficacy parameters, Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) for a max of 6 cycles. Blood samples to be obtained 1.5 ± 0.5 h, 5 ± 1 h, 7 ± 1 h postdose on Day 1 of Cycle 1 only.
Advanced non-small cell lung cancer is relatively unresponsive to chemotherapy. This is true for the nucleoside analogue gemcitabine, with a response rate of approximately 10%, as well as for 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Even when gemcitabine is combined with other chemotherapeutic drugs or biological agents, the overall tumor response rate remains basically unchanged. S-1 is a new generation oral fluoropyrimidine that combines Tegafur (5-fluoro-1-(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-2,4(1H,3H)-pyrimidinedione \[FT\]), an oral prodrug of 5-FU, with two modulators, Gimeracil (5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine \[CDHP\]), which inhibits 5-FU degradation by dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) inhibition, and Oteracil potassium (Oxo), which inhibits 5-FU phosphorylation in the digestive tract. This combination of 3 compounds is designed to achieve enhanced antitumor activity while decreasing gastrointestinal toxicity.

This is an open-label, multicenter, single-arm, 3-stage, Phase 2 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of S-1 in combination with cisplatin as 1st line therapy for patients with advanced NSCLC. The 3 stages of this study correspond to a run-in tolerability stage (stage 1), futility stage (stage 2), and decision stage (stage 3). The run-in tolerability stage will be conducted to assess any additional toxicity associated with a more frequent schedule of administration of cisplatin (75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks) compared with the dosing regimen established in a prior Phase I study in patients with advanced gastric cancer (75 mg/m2 every 4 weeks). The futility stage (stage 2) will be conducted to ensure that this treatment combination is sufficiently efficacious to expose a sufficient number of patients to be able to make a decision (stage 3) on whether this combination treatment warrants further evaluation in future studies.