Giessen Pulmonary Hypertension in Lung Cancer Registry
The aim of this study is to investigate the frequency and implications of pulmonary hypertension in lung cancer patients. To do so, data will be collected from all lung cancer patients at the university hospital Giessen. All data will be analyzed for possible hints of pulmonary hypertension as a comorbidity in lung cancer patients. All information will be generated from the regular guidelines based course of treatment and there will be no interventions. This study will serve as a prospective register for all lung cancer patients treated at the university hospital Giessen.
Pulmonary Hypertension Due to Lung Diseases and Hypoxia
OTHER: All lung cancer patients.
Pulmonary function test measured via Spirometry., vital capacity, total lung capacity, forced expiratory volume in one second, functional vital capacity, diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide, arterial partial pressure of oxygen; all measured as % of predicted normal values., 2 years|sPAP values measured via Echocardiography., systolic pulmonary artery pressure (sPAP) measured in millimetre of mercury (mmHg)., 2 years|Body mass index., weight and height will be combined to report BMI in kg/m\^2., 2 years|Overall Survival and Progression Free Survival measured in days., Overall Survival and Progression free survival in days will be determined by Kaplan-Meier Analysis .Measuared in (st) (time from diagnosis to death), 2 years|Measurements of the pulmonary artery diameter (PA) and ascending aorta (AA) diameter measured via computed tomography scan. PA and AA will be measured in millimeters., PA and AA will be combined to report the PA/AA quotient as indicator for pulmonary hypertension in all lung cancer patients. With a cut off value of ≥ 1 defining pulmonary hypertension., 2 years|6 Minute Walk Test in meters., The 6 minute walk test is a sub-maximal exercise test used to assess aerobic capacity and endurance. The distance in meters covered over a time of 6 minutes is used as the outcome., 2 years|Modified Medical Research Council Scale (mMRC)., Scores on the mMRC reach from 0-4, with higher scores indicating greater dyspnea., 2 years|chronic obstructive pulmonary disease assessment test (CAT)., Scores on the CAT reach from 0-40, with higher scores indicating greater dyspnea., 2 years
The aim of this study is to investigate the frequency and implications of pulmonary hypertension in lung cancer patients. To do so, data will be collected from all lung cancer patients at the university hospital Giessen. All data will be analyzed for possible hints of pulmonary hypertension as a comorbidity in lung cancer patients. All information will be generated from the regular guidelines based course of treatment and there will be no interventions. This study will serve as a prospective register for all lung cancer patients treated at the university hospital Giessen.