Study on Aspirin Versus Placebo in Resected Colon Cancer With PI3K Mutation Stage III or II High Risk
Four retrospective studies were recently published on efficacy of aspirin in patients with surgically resected colon cancer. Two of these studies strongly suggested that aspirin used in low doses (100 mg/d) after surgical resection of colorectal cancer with PI3K mutation could act as a targeted therapy with a major protective effect on the risk of recurrence. The other two studies did not confirm the benefit of aspirin in this situation. These four retrospective studies provide an insufficient level of evidence to demonstrate the benefit of low-dose aspirin as adjuvant to surgery for colorectal cancer. Therefore, it is necessary as recommended in the conclusion of these studies and meta-analyses to perform a randomised prospective study to validate these data.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: aspirin intake|DRUG: placebo intake|PROCEDURE: Surgical resection of colonic adenocarcinoma stage III or II high risk|BIOLOGICAL: Molecular analysis of exon 9 and 20 of PI3K|BIOLOGICAL: blood intake
Number of patient with local or distant recurrence or second colorectal cancer or death from any cause, whichever occurred first, 3 years
Number of patient with local or distant recurrence or second colorectal cancer or death from any cause, whichever occurred first, 5 years|Number of alive patient, 5 years|Number of pills taken by the patient for compliance evaluation, Number of pills taken by the patient will be assess in order to evaluate patient's compliance, every 6 months during 3 years|Number of severe bleeding grade 3-4 events, 3 years|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 3 years
Four retrospective studies were recently published on efficacy of aspirin in patients with surgically resected colon cancer. Two of these studies strongly suggested that aspirin used in low doses (100 mg/d) after surgical resection of colorectal cancer with PI3K mutation could act as a targeted therapy with a major protective effect on the risk of recurrence. The other two studies did not confirm the benefit of aspirin in this situation. These four retrospective studies provide an insufficient level of evidence to demonstrate the benefit of low-dose aspirin as adjuvant to surgery for colorectal cancer. Therefore, it is necessary as recommended in the conclusion of these studies and meta-analyses to perform a randomised prospective study to validate these data.