IMC001 for Clinical Research on Advanced Digestive System Malignancies
A Phase I Clinical Study of Autologous T cells modified with chimeric antigen receptor targeting EpCAM ( EPCAM CAR-T) in Patients with malignant tumors of the digestive system (including advanced gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, liver cancer and pancreatic cancer) .
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Colorectal Cancer|Advanced Gastric Cancer|Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: EPCAM CAR-T
Dose limited toxicity （DLT）, Safety, 28 days|Maximum Tolerated Dose（MTD）, Tolerability evaluation, 28 days|Adverse Event(AE), Incidence rate, 28 days
Number of Cells, Pharmacokinetics is the "Implantation endpoint" which is defined as the number of copies of the IMC001 DeoxyriboNucleic Acid（DNA）in peripheral blood detected at each visit after infusion until any two consecutive test results are negative or below the detection limit. Duration of IMC001 Cell persistence is the period from the day of infusion to the first negative test result or result lower than the detection limit, 52 weeks|Treatment Emergent Adverse Events(TEAE), Incidence rate, Through study completion, an average of 3 years|Antitumor efficacy-objective response rate (ORR), The period from the first evaluation of CR or PR to the first evaluation of PD or death of any cause.

The period from the first evaluation of CR or PR to the first evaluation of PD or death of any cause., Through study completion, an average of 3 years|Antitumor efficacy-Progression-free survival (PFS), The period from the day when the subject receives the first study treatment to the first recorded tumor progression(whether treated or not) or death of any cause, which occurs first, Through study completion, an average of 3 years|Antitumor efficacy-Duration of response (DOR), The period from the first evaluation of CR or PR to the first evaluation of PD or death of any cause., Through study completion, an average of 3 years|Antitumor efficacy-Overall survival (OS), The period from the first study treatment to any cause of death, Through study completion, an average of 3 years|Antitumor efficacy-Disease control rate (DCR), The number of cases in which response (PR + CR) and stable disease (SD) are achieved from the start of cell infusion/the total number of evaluable cases (%)., Through study completion, an average of 3 years|Number of circulating tumor cells (CTC) in peripheral blood, The number of CTC before and after treatment was evaluated, Through study completion, an average of 3 years
This is a phase I open-label, single and multiple infusion, dose escalation/cohort expansion study to evaluate the safety, cell pharmacokinetics, and preliminary efficacy of EPCAM CAR-T, infused intravenously in subjects who have been diagnosed with advanced malignant tumors of the digestive system (including advanced gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, liver cancer and pancreatic cancer) and refractory or intolerant to current standard systemic treatment.

Primary objectives:

•To evaluate the safety and tolerability of EPCAM CAR-T infused intravenously at escalating doses in patients with advanced malignant tumors of the digestive system.

Secondary objectives:

1. The treatment of EpCAM CAR-T for patients with advanced digestive system malignancies, according to the dose-limiting toxicity and clinical response, including Possible side effects, determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), extended recommended dose (RDE) and/or recommended phase II dose (RP2D).
2. Assess the correlation between the pharmacodynamic (PD) biomarkers of IMC001 and clinical efficacy; EpCAM CAR-T expands and persists in vivo Correlation between sexual and pharmacodynamic (PD) biomarkers and adverse events.
3. To evaluate the preliminary anti-tumor efficacy of EpCAM CAR-T in patients with advanced digestive system malignancies. According to the evaluation criteria for the efficacy of solid tumors (RECIST) Version V.1.1, Evaluation Criteria for Efficacy of Immunotherapy for Solid Tumors (iRECIST), using objective response rate(ORR), duration of remission (DOR), disease control rate (DCR) and progression-free survival (PFS) description preliminary Anti-tumor activity.
4. The incidence of treatment-related adverse events.

Exploratory purpose:

1. Assess changes in immune status of EPCAM CAR-T treatment.
2. Assess the change of CTC in the peripheral blood of patients and the clearance effect of CAR-T cell treatment on CTC.