Bacterial Decolonization Plus Intraoperative Angiography for Soft Tissue Sarcomas Receiving Preoperative Radiotherapy (CONCERTO)
This trial will investigate the combination of two low-cost, non-toxic strategies to assess whether they can reduce the risk of acute major wound complications in soft tissue sarcoma of the lower extremity. Intranasal mupirocin ointment twice daily and chlorhexidine body cleanser once daily for 5 days prior to radiation therapy and repeated for 5 days every 2 weeks during radiation therapy may significantly reduce the risk of acute radiation dermatitis. That, along with use of indocyanine green (ICG) angiography at the time of wound closure.
Sarcoma,Soft Tissue
DRUG: 2% intranasal mupirocin ointment|DRUG: 4% chlorhexidine gluconate body cleanser
Incidence and type of acute major wound complications, Incidence and type of acute major wound complications: One or more of the following events occurring within 4 months of index sarcoma surgery including: 1). A secondary operation under general or regional anesthesia for wound repair (debridement, operative drainage, and secondary wound closure including rotationplasty, free flaps, or skin grafts), 2). Wound management without secondary operation, such, An invasive procedure without general or regional anesthesia (such as aspiration of seroma), Readmission for wound care such as intravenous antibiotics, or Persistent deep packing for 120 days or longer., Up to 24 months
1-year Local control, Local control is defined as the proportion of patients without clinical evidence of local recurrence. This will be reported as will a cumulative incidence curve of local failures, considering using death as a competing risk, using the cumulative incidence function method., At 1 year|2-year Local control, Local control is defined as the proportion of patients without clinical evidence of local recurrence. This will be reported as will a cumulative incidence curve of local failures, considering using death as a competing risk, using the cumulative incidence function method., At 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Median number of months from start of treatment until the date of disease progression or death from any cause., Up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Median number of months from start of treatment until death from any cause., Up to 24 months|Musculoskeletal Tumour Society Score [MSTS], The MSTS is a patient questionnaire for assessing physical function after medical treatment, surgery, and physiotherapy in patients with malignant bone tumors in specific extremities. The MSTS questionnaire consists of six domains, each scored on a scale from 0 to 5, with a higher score indicating better function. The total score, ranging from 0 (maximum disability) to 30 (no impairment), can be transformed to a point scale of 0 to 100., Up to 24 months|Toronto Extremity Salvage Score [TESS], TESS represents the gold standard for assessing function after surgery for muscle and bone tumors, as it has been tested for validity and reliability, and extremity-specifically defines disability, handicap, change in physical function depending on the therapeutic intervention and the patient's need for an aid. The TESS questionnaire has both upper and lower extremity versions. Twenty-nine items are rated on a scale from one to five, with five representing normal activity. The result ranges from 0 to 100, with 100 being the best score., Up to 24 months|Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events related to intervention(s), Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events per CTCAE v5.0 that attributed to study intervention(s)., Up to 24 months|Frequency of late toxicities, Acute toxicities are defined as toxicity occurring during preoperative RT, after RT and prior to surgery, and within 90 days of index resection, assessed using CTCAE v5.0., Up to 24 months|Change in type of actual surgical closures, Tabulation of the initial surgical closure intended, and the actual surgical closure used at the time of index resection. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize these assessments., At surgery
Strategies to reduce the risk of acute wound complications have historically been mostly unsuccessful. In soft tissue sarcomas, a prior study showed that the use of indocyanine green (ICG) angiography at the time of wound closure was associated with a reduction in wound dehiscence and infection when compared to historical controls. Cutaneous colonization of S. aureus has been implicated in severe cases of radiation dermatitis. Some known risk factors for acute major wound complications for patients with sarcomas are anatomic location in the lower extremity, preoperative radiation therapy, larger tumors, comorbidities (e.g., diabetes mellitus, tobacco usage, vascular disease, and obesity), tumors \<3mm from skin surface, and the development of grade ≥ 2 acute radiation dermatitis. Both large tumors and lower extremity location can increase the likelihood of seroma formation, which can act as a nidus for infection and subsequent wound complication. Rationale for this trial includes prior studies of treating patients with a bacterial decolonization (BD) protocol of intranasal mupirocin ointment twice daily and chlorhexidine body cleanser once daily for 5 days prior to RT and repeated for 5 days every 2 weeks during radiation therapy that show significantly reduced risk of acute radiation dermatitis.