Fluoroethyltyrosine for the Evaluation of Intracranial Neoplasm
This is a single center study investigating the use of Fluoroethyltyrosine (FET) in the detection of brain tumors. FET accumulates in malignant cells within intracranial neoplasms and can be used to detect recurrent disease and characterize grade of glial neoplasms.
Intracranial Neoplasm
DRUG: Fluorethyltyrosine (18-F)|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography (PET)
Maximum Intracranial lesion tumor-to-background ratio (TBRmax), The maximum TBR (TBRmax) will be calculated by dividing the SUVmean of the 1.6 centimeter (cm) diameter circular region of interest (ROI) by the mean standardized uptake value (SUVmean) of background normal tissue., Up to 3 years|Percentage of accurate prediction of presence of tumor (Population 1), The percentage of radiological read responses that accurately predict the presence of recurrent tumor in patients previously treated with surgery and/or radiation for population 1, broken down by metastatic disease, high-grade gliomas and low-grade gliomas will be reported, Up to 3 years|Percentage of radiological read responses, The percentage of radiological reads with a binary characterization of scan study as positive for recurrence disease in population 1, and positive for high-grade glial neoplasm in population 2 will be reported., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To determine if FET Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan can differentiate between benign treatment-related changes and recurrence in comparison to pathology in population 1 with recurrent metastatic disease and high-grade gliomas.
2. To determine if FET PET scan can differentiate between low-grade and high-grade gliomas in population 2.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To determine if FET PET scan can differentiate between benign treatment- related changes and recurrence in comparison to pathology or imaging follow-up in population 1.
2. To determine if FET PET scan can differentiate between benign treatment- related changes and recurrence in comparison to pathology in population 1 with recurrent low-grade gliomas.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

1. To assess relationships between serial FET PET scan and clinical outcome in population 1 with recurrent metastatic disease and gliomas.

OUTLINE:

Participants will receive a single PET scan lasting for about 40 minutes in an outpatient setting after an injection with FET. Adult participants may undergo up to two repeat FET PET scans. Adverse events will be recorded.