Comparison of NOSES and Conventional Laparoscopic Surgery in Colorectal Cancer
Radical surgery for rectal cancer has evolved from the initial concept of total mesorctal excision (TME) to the wide application of laparoscopic surgery in the radical treatment of rectal cancer. After 30 years' rapid development, nowdays laparoscopic TME surgery for rectal cancer has become the first choice for those patients with rectal cancer. However, the auxiliary incision of the abdominal wall which is used to remove tumor specimens is contrary to the current concept of minimally invasive surgery. Avoiding abdominal wall incisions has become a common appeal of gastrointestinal surgeons and patients with rectal cancer. Natural orififice specimen extraction surgery (NOSES) can solve the problem of abdominal wall auxiliary incision, which complete rectal cancer radical resection and gastrointestinal reconstruction under the full laparoscopic. The specimens are taken out through the natural orifice (rectum or vagina) without an auxiliary incision, which is more in line with minimally invasive practice and easier to operate. Researching on the progress of laparoscopic radical resection of rectal cancer in NOSES aims to provide a certain reference for this operation.
Colorectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Surgery
Postoperative complications, pulmonary infection，Urinary tract infection，anal function，intestinal obstruction，Anastomotic bleeding，etc., One month after operation
survival, 3-year and 5-year Overall survival rate, 3-year and 5-year after operation
Radical surgery for rectal cancer has evolved from the initial concept of total mesorctal excision (TME) to the wide application of laparoscopic surgery in the radical treatment of rectal cancer. After 30 years' rapid development, nowdays laparoscopic TME surgery for rectal cancer has become the first choice for those patients with rectal cancer. However, the auxiliary incision of the abdominal wall which is used to remove tumor specimens is contrary to the current concept of minimally invasive surgery. Avoiding abdominal wall incisions has become a common appeal of gastrointestinal surgeons and patients with rectal cancer. Natural orififice specimen extraction surgery (NOSES) can solve the problem of abdominal wall auxiliary incision, which complete rectal cancer radical resection and gastrointestinal reconstruction under the full laparoscopic. The specimens are taken out through the natural orifice (rectum or vagina) without an auxiliary incision, which is more in line with minimally invasive practice and easier to operate. Researching on the progress of laparoscopic radical resection of rectal cancer in NOSES aims to provide a certain reference for this operation.