FOLFIRI or FOLFOX With or Without Cetuximab in Patients With Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of the Colon or Rectum
This is a randomized phase II study trial that has served as a screening trial to test the increased efficacy of chemotherapy + cetuximab versus chemotherapy alone among patients with untreated, advanced or metastatic colon cancer regardless of tumor status with respect to EGFR.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: cetuximab|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: irinotecan|DRUG: leucovorin|DRUG: oxaliplatin
Overall survival, Up to 3 years of follow up
Progression-free survival, Up to 18 months of follow up|Complete response, Up to 18 months of follow up|Partial response, Up to 18 months of follow up|Proportion of patients experiencing ≥ Grade 3 diarrhea, Up to 30 days post-treatment|Proportion of patients experiencing ≥ Grade 3 ANC, Up to 30 days post-treatment|Percent of total dose administered, Up to 30 days post-treatment|Proportion of patients experiencing ≥ Grade 4 toxicity on each cetuximab treatment arm, Up to 30 days post-treatment
CALGB 80203 was activated on December 15, 2003. In February 2004, based on the results of the randomized trial of IFL +/- cetuximab showing a significant improvement in overall survival with cetuximab, cetuximab was approved by the FDA for use as front-line therapy for patients with metastatic colon cancer. In response to this action, the Data Safety and Monitoring Board recommended closure of CALGB 80203. CALGB 80203 was subsequently closed to accrual in January 2005 with 238 of the originally targeted 2200 patients enrolled. A final decision was to "replace" CALGB 80203 with a three-treatment arm randomized trial of chemotherapy (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI) with and without cetuximab and/or bevacizumab. The protocol was amended to allow analysis of the data from CALGB 80203 as a randomized phase II trial and reporting of the results.

Patients were stratified according to prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no) and prior pelvic radiation (yes vs no). Patients must have completed any major surgery or radiotherapy (eg, chest or bone palliative RT or pelvic RT) ≥ 4 weeks from registration and completed any minor surgery ≥ 2 weeks from registration. Patients must have fully recovered from the procedure and/or radiotherapy. Patients must have initiated treatment within 7 days of registration. Patients were randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms, please see a description of the treatment regimens in the "Arms" section. In addition, patients received concomitant and supportive therapy as appropriate per the protocol.

OBJECTIVES:

Primary

1. To determine if the addition of C225 to FOLFIRI or FOLFOX chemotherapy prolongs survival of patients with untreated, advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer.

Secondary

1. To determine if the FOLFIRI and FOLFOX regimens are equivalent in terms of survival as front-line therapy for advanced colorectal patients.
2. To determine the level of EGFR expression in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

Patients were followed up to 3 years post-treatment.