Virtual Reality Glasses on Applied During Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy
The Effect of Virtual Reality Glasses on Applied During Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy on Anxiety Level, Pain Intensity and Patient Satisfaction
Thyroid Nodule
OTHER: Virtual reality glasses
Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line. In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. VAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm, Baseline, pre-intervention (Before Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy)|Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line. In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. VAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm, Immediately after the intervention (Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy)|State-trait anxiety inventory (STAI FORM TX-1), State anxiety refers to transient emotional reactions manifested by the individual to on constant situations with varying intensity depending on the situation. In situations where the individual perceives the stressful situation as a threat, the level of "state anxiety" is high and in situations where this danger is not perceived as threatening, the level of state anxiety is low. The state anxiety inventory requires the individual to describe how they feel at a given moment and under certain circumstances, taking into account their feelings about the situation in which they are in. It measures the state of the individual, that is, the level of anxiety in which they are currently in. The intensity of the instantaneous stress, anxiety, and excitement responses caused by conditions increases or decreases over time. Individuals respond to the items on the inventory based on the degree of severity of their emotions at the moment., Baseline, pre-intervention (Before Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy)|State-trait anxiety inventory (STAI FORM TX-1), State anxiety refers to transient emotional reactions manifested by the individual to on constant situations with varying intensity depending on the situation. In situations where the individual perceives the stressful situation as a threat, the level of "state anxiety" is high and in situations where this danger is not perceived as threatening, the level of state anxiety is low. The state anxiety inventory requires the individual to describe how they feel at a given moment and under certain circumstances, taking into account their feelings about the situation in which they are in. It measures the state of the individual, that is, the level of anxiety in which they are currently in. The intensity of the instantaneous stress, anxiety, and excitement responses caused by conditions increases or decreases over time. Individuals respond to the items on the inventory based on the degree of severity of their emotions at the moment., Immediately after the intervention (Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy)
Physiological Symptoms of Anxiety Follow-up Form, This form was created by the researcher to record blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) value., Baseline, pre-intervention (Before Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy)|Physiological Symptoms of Anxiety Follow-up Form, This form was created by the researcher to record blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) value., Immediately after the intervention (Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy)|Virtual Reality Glasses Application Satisfaction Form, In this form, there are questions prepared in line with the relevant literature in order to determine the satisfaction with the video watched with virtual reality glasses., Immediately after the intervention (Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy)
Beginning 1-2 minute before the start of the procedure, the patients will be watched (5-10 minutes) with an android mobile phone inserted into the Cardboard Super Flex Binoculars Glasses.