Radiation Therapy, Temozolomide, and Erlotinib in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving radiation therapy together with temozolomide and erlotinib after surgery may kill any remaining tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving radiation therapy together with temozolomide and erlotinib works in treating patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme.
CNS Tumor, Adult
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|DRUG: temozolomide|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Progression-free survival, at 6 months
Progression Free Survival, at 1 yr|Number of patients that experience toxicity (CTCAE V2), at 6 months|Overall Survival, date of final follow up visit
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme treated with adjuvant radiotherapy, temozolomide, and erlotinib hydrochloride.
* Evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized study.

Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-42 and undergo concurrent radiotherapy once daily on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26, 29-33, and 36-40. Four weeks after completion of radiotherapy and temozolomide, patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5. Treatment with temozolomide repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily beginning on day 1 of radiotherapy and continuing in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.