Hydroxychloroquine, Cyclophosphamide, Dexamethasone, and Sirolimus in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of hydroxychloroquine when given together with cyclophosphamide, dexamethasone, and sirolimus in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Biological therapies, such as hydroxychloroquine, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Sirolimus may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving hydroxychloroquine together with sirolimus, cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone may be a better treatment for multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Hydroxychloroquine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Sirolimus
MTD of hydroxychloroquine defined as the highest dose at which 0/6 or 1/6 subjects experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0, Incidence of DLTs will be tabulated for each dose level. Summarized using descriptive statistics or frequency distributions, as appropriate., 56 days
Duration of overall response, Will be summarized by 25th, 50th (median), and 75th percentile along with 95% confidence intervals using Kaplan-Meier method., Time that measurement criteria are met for response (whichever status is recorded first) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 12 months|Myeloma response (stringent complete response, complete response, very good partial response, partial response, stable disease, and progressive disease), as assessed by the International Myeloma Working Group, Presented with two-sided 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 12 months|Progression-free survival, Will be summarized by 25th, 50th (median), and 75th percentile along with 95% confidence intervals using Kaplan-Meier method., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 12 months|Time to response, Will be summarized by 25th, 50th (median), and 75th percentile along with 95% confidence intervals using Kaplan-Meier method., Time from the first day of therapy until the time that measurement criteria are met for response, assessed up to 12 months
Mean percentage of p70S6 myeloma cells, The mean percentage of p70S6 myeloma cells and the number of autophagic vesicles per bone marrow plasma cells will be compared between responders and non-responders using two-sample test if the data follows normal distribution or if the data does not follow normal distribution, transformation or non-parametric method will be considered., Up to day 5 of course 2|Number of autophagic vesicles per bone marrow plasma cells, The mean percentage of p70S6 myeloma cells and the number of autophagic vesicles per bone marrow plasma cells will be compared between responders and non-responders using two-sample test if the data follows normal distribution or if the data does not follow normal distribution, transformation or non-parametric method will be considered., Up to day 5 of course 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) in combination with rapamycin (sirolimus) and infusional cyclophosphamide and pulse dexamethasone (cy/dex) for patients with relapsed/ refractory multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate biological activity and efficacy of the combination of cyclophosphamide, dexamethasone, rapamycin and hydroxychloroquine in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.

II. To determine whether this treatment regimen results in mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and autophagy inhibition in primary myeloma cells during therapy and if this corresponds with treatment responses.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of hydroxychloroquine.

Patients receive hydroxychloroquine orally (PO) daily on days 1-28 (days 5-28 of course 1), sirolimus PO on days -2 to 4, and cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) continuously and dexamethasone PO on days 1-4. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 months.