A Technology-based Intervention for Promoting Physical Activity Among Post-treatment Cancer Survivors
Cancer survivors generally have low physical activity (PA) levels. While literature shows some evidence of improvement in PA following technology-based PA promotion interventions among cancer survivors, high-quality randomised control trials (RCTs), with objective measures of PA and longer-term follow-up, are lacking. Using a theoretical framework that addresses action control in addition to intention formation may enhance intervention effect. The Multi-process action control (M-PAC) framework is an extension of the traditional intention-formation theories, incorporating constructs that address the translation of intention into behaviour and continual action control. After comprehensively searching, no previous or ongoing RCTs have investigated the efficacy of a technology-based PA promotion intervention in cancer survivors that is designed based on the M-PAC framework. Investigators therefore propose a RCT to evaluate a technology-based intervention (WExercise) to support the promotion of PA in cancer survivors.
Cancer|Survivorship
BEHAVIORAL: WExercise|BEHAVIORAL: Control
Change in aerobic exercise behaviour (objective measure), Measured as time spent in moderate-to-vigorous aerobic exercise using accelerometer, Measure at Baseline (Week 0), Post-intervention (Week 11), 3 months post-intervention (Week 23). Each time point will measure 7 full consecutive days and average time (minutes) per day spent in moderate-to-vigorous aerobic exercise will be reported.|Change in aerobic exercise behaviour (subjective measure), Measured by the Godin Leisure Time Exercise Questionnaire (Min and Max NA; higher scores represent higher aerobic exercise level), Measure at Baseline (Week 0), Post-intervention (Week 11), 3 months post-intervention (Week 23). Self-reported minutes of moderate-to-vigorous aerobic exercise will be recorded.
Change in exercise capacity, Measured by the 6-minute walk test to estimate the peak oxygen uptake, Measure at Baseline (Week 0), Post-intervention (Week 11), 3 months post-intervention (Week 23).|Change in cancer-specific Quality of life, Measured by the 30-item European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) to estimate the general well-being of cancer patients. The score ranges from 0-100, a high score for a functional scale represents a healthy level of functioning; a high score for the global health status / QoL represents a high QoL; but a high score for a symptom scale / item represents more severe symptoms., Measure at Baseline (Week 0), Post-intervention (Week 11), 3 months post-intervention (Week 23).|Change in key components of M-PAC framework, Measured by the Multi-Process Action Control (M-PAC) questionnaire. The following components will be measured in 5-point Likert scale: affective attitude (score:3-15), instrumental attitude(score:3-15), perceived capability (score:3-15), perceived opportunity (score:3-15), behavioural regulation (score:6-30), habit formation (score:4-20), identity formation (score:4-20); and two items for decisional intentions (score:1-12). Higher score means higher levels of reflective, regulatory, and reflexive processes that may have facilitated exercise behavior change., Measure at Baseline (Week 0), Mid-intervention (Week 5), Post-intervention (Week 11), 3 months post-intervention (Week 23).|Application usage, Reported as the number of interventional classes completed using inbuilt tracking tools., Measure at post-intervention (Week 11)
Objective: To develop a technology-based physical activity promotion intervention (WExercise) for cancer survivors based on the Multi-process Action Control (M-PAC) Framework and examine its usability and efficacy.

Main hypothesis: The WExercise group will have a significantly greater increase in aerobic exercise than the self-directed exercise group at post-intervention.

Design: Phase 1- Application development; Phase 2- Usability testing (n=10); Phase 3- Assessor-blind two-arm randomized controlled trial (n=98; WExercise or self-directed exercise group).

Subjects: Physically inactive cancer survivors who have completed curative treatment.

Study instruments: Accelerometry, Godin Leisure Time Exercise Questionnaire, 6-minute walk test, EORTC QLQ-C30, M-PAC questionniare; administered at baseline, post-intervention, and 3 months post-intervention.

Interventions: Both groups will receive written physical activity guidelines with a goal to engage in at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic exercise per week. The WExercise group will additionally receive 10 weekly automated online classes delivered on a mobile application which aim at developing participants' reflective, regulatory, and reflexive processes based on the M-PAC to achieve recommended physical activity levels (1st-3rd week: intention formation; 4th-8th weeks: behavioral regulations; 9th-10th weeks: action control maintenance).

Main outcomes: Time spent in moderate-to-vigorous aerobic exercise (primary), exercise capacity, and quality of life.

Data analysis: Intention-to-treat analysis will be performed. Application usage in the WExercise group will be presented in descriptive statistics. Generalized linear mixed-effect models will be used to assess between-group and within-group differences in the outcomes.

Expected results: The findings will inform the design of future eHealth interventions to encourage and sustain health behavior change in cancer survivors.