Progression-free Survival After MWA Plus Durvalumab and Tremelimumab for Unresectable Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This phase-2 monocenter non-randomized prospective clinical trial evaluates the effectiveness of minimally invasive microwave ablation plus immunotherapy for unresectable non-metastatic locally advanced pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer Non-resectable
DRUG: Durvalumab 50 MG/ML|DRUG: Tremelimumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|PROCEDURE: Minimally Invasive Surgical Microwave Ablation (MIS-MWA)
Progression-free survival (PFS), The study is exploratory and cannot be statistically powered for comparisons. Median progression-free survival (PFS) time is chosen as the clinically meaningful outcome. Survival estimates will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. For information, the reference PFS time in patients with non-metastatic LAPC treated with gemcitabine monotherapy is about 6 months. Results will be presented descriptively., 12 months
Research Hypothesis Does MIS-MWA combined with durvalumab (MEDI4736) plus tremelimumab and gemcitabine prolong progression-free survival in patients with unresectable non-metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas?

Investigational Product(s) and Reference Therapy:

Combination of Durvalumab (fixed dose of 1500 mg) and Tremelimumab (fixed dose of 75 mg) will be given 2 weeks before surgery.

Minimally invasive surgical microwave ablation (MIS-MWA) of the pancreatic tumor will be performed two weeks after the first dose of Durvalumab and Tremelimumab After 4 doses of Durvalumab and Tremelimumab, only Durvalumab 1500mg is provided q4w until disease progression.

Systemic gemcitabine will be started 6 weeks after MIS-MWA. Gemcitabine will be given at a dose of 1000 mg /m² body surface, once a week for 3 weeks, followed with a week of rest.

Objectives:

Primary Objectives:

Progression-free survival (PFS)

Secondary Objectives:

* Safety: clinical and hematological toxicity (NCI CTCAE v. 5.0) of chemotherapy and immunotherapy
* Safety: number and type of postoperative complications of the MIS-MWA procedure
* Length of hospital stay

Tertiary Objectives Overall survival (OS)