68Ga-FAPI-46 PET for Imaging of FAP Expressing Cancer
This study is to explore the safety and tolerability as well as diagnostic accuracy of 68Ga-FAPI-46 for different FAP-expressing tumor entities by PET.

This study does not offer any treatment for patients with FAP-expressing carcinomas; therefore, patients will be offered state of the art therapeutic options. Routine surgery will be performed within 8 weeks after 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET.
Tumor, Solid
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET Scan
Positive predictive value (PPV) on a per-region- and per-patient-basis (table 3) of 68Ga-FAPI46 PET for detection of histopathology-FAP-positive tumor lesions, confirmed by histopathology/biopsy (reached for ≥ 75%)., within 8 weeks of FAPI-PET scan, when a tumor sample becomes available for immonostaining for FAP
Correlation between 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET uptake intensity and histopathologic FAP expression, within 8 weeks of FAPI-PET scan, when a tumor sample becomes available for immonostaining for FAP|Sensitivity and specificity of FAPI-PET on a per-patient and per-region-basis for detection of histopathology-FAP-positive tumor lesions confirmed by histopathology/biopsy, within 8 weeks of FAPI-PET scan, when a tumor sample becomes available for immonostaining for FAP|Detection rate of FAPI-PET versus previous standard imaging on a per-patient and per-region-basis for detection of tumor location, also stratified by tumor maker serum level, up to time point when patient reaches end-of-study criterion (30day, if surgery is performed within 30 days after FAPI-PET or up to 8 weeks, at time of surgery/biopsy)|Sensitivity and specificity of FAPI-PET vs. previous standard imaging on a per-patient and per-region-basis for detection of tumor lesions confirmed by combined histo/biopsy/FU imaging/clinical FU reference standard, up to time point when patient reaches end-of-study criterion (30 day, if surgery is performed within 30 days after FAPI-PET or up to 8 weeks, at time of surgery/biopsy)|Inter-reader reproducibility: determination of FAPI-PET scan interpretation reliability by three independent evaluators, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Safety (AEs, SAEs, SUSARs), From signing the ICF until day 30 after FAPI-PET scan|Change in staging/prognostic groups per survey of referring physician who was provided with FAPI-PET scan information., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Primary Endpoint:

Positive predictive value (PPV) on a per-region- and per-patient-basis of 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET for detection of histopathology-FAPpositive tumor lesions, confirmed by histopathology/biopsy (reached for ≥ 75%).

Secondary Endpoints:

1. Association between 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET uptake intensity and histopathologic FAP expression
2. Sensitivity and specificity of 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET on a per-patient and per-region-basis for detection of histopathology-FAPpositive tumor lesions confirmed by histopathology/biopsy (separate for regional, extra-regional and distant locations)
3. Detection rate of 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET versus previous standard imaging on a per-patient and per-region-basis for detection of tumor location, also stratified by tumor maker serum level
4. Sensitivity and specificity of 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET versus previous standard imaging on a per-patient and per-region-basis for detection of tumor lesions confirmed by combined histopathology/biopsy/follow-up imaging/clinical follow-up reference standard (separate for regional, extra-regional and distant locations)
5. Impact on management
6. Inter-reader reproducibility
7. Safety
8. Change in staging/prognostic groups