Abexinostat in Combination With Pembrolizumab in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumor Malignancies
This phase I trial studies the best dose and side effects of abexinostat and how well it works with given together with pembrolizumab in treating participants with microsatellite instability (MSI) solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body. Abexinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving abexinostat and pembrolizumab may work better in treating participants with solid tumors.
Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma|Locally Advanced Melanoma|Locally Advanced Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Melanoma|Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma|Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IB Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Abexinostat|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD), Starting at dose level 1, if 2/3 patients have a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the dose will be de-escalated to dose -1. If 0/3 patients experience a DLT, 3 patients will be treated at the next dose level. If DLT attributable to the treatment is experienced in 1/3 patients, three more patients (for a total of six patients) will be treated at that dose level. If no additional DLTs are observed at the expanded dose level (i.e. 1/6 with DLT), the dose will be escalated. Escalation will terminate as soon as two or more patients experience any DLT attributable to study drugs, at a given dose level. If de-escalation is necessary, 3 patients will be enrolled on the next lower dose cohort. If 1 or less DLTs is observed in this cohort, this will be the MTD., Up to 21 days|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) by RECIST 1.1 criteria in patients treated with abexinostat in combination with (CPI) immune checkpoint inhibition in patients with prior primary or acquired resistance to prior CPI treatment., Up to 2 years
Immune-modified Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) by iRECIST. The criteria are identical to those of RECIST 1.1 but have been adapted to account for instances where an increase in tumor burden, or the appearance of new lesions, does not reflect true tumor progression. Immuno response evaluation criteria in solid tumours (iRECIST) ORR requires the confirmation of progression and uses the terms unconfirmed progression (iUPD) and confirmed progression (iCPD)., Up to 2 years|Median Duration of Response (DoR), The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), whichever is first recorded, until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented., Up to 2 years|Median DoR per iRECIST, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR (complete response) or PR (partial response), whichever is first recorded, until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented. The criteria are identical to those of RECIST 1.1 but have been adapted to account for instances where an increase in tumor burden, or the appearance of new lesions, does not reflect true tumor progression. iRECIST requires the confirmation of progression and uses the terms iUPD (unconfirmed progression) and iCPD (confirmed progression)., Up to 2 years|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of initiation of study treatment to the date measurement criteria are first met for radiographic progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years|Percentage of participants reporting treatment-related Adverse Events (AE), Percentages of participants experiencing adverse events by preferred term will be summarized by NCI-CTCAE version 5, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximally tolerated and recommended phase 2 dose of abexinostat in combination with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor (CPI). (Dose escalation)

II. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria in patients treated with abexinostat in combination with CPI in patients with prior primary (cohort A) or acquired (cohort B) resistance to prior CPI treatment. (Dose expansion)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate and median duration of response (DoR) by immune modified (i)RECIST criteria.

II. To determine the median progression-free survival (PFS).

III. To further characterize the safety profile of the treatment combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of abexinostat.

Participants receive abexinostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) on over 30 minutes day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for 90 days.