Elotuzumab for the Treatment of JAK2-Mutated Myelofibrosis
This phase II trial investigates how well elotuzumab works in treating patients with JAK2-mutated myelofibrosis. Elotuzumab may help to control myelofibrosis and/or help to improve blood cell count and bone marrow function.
Myelofibrosis Transformation in Essential Thrombocythemia|Polycythemia Vera, Post-Polycythemic Myelofibrosis Phase|Primary Myelofibrosis
BIOLOGICAL: Elotuzumab|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Overall response (OR), OR is defined as CR (complete response) +PR (partial response) + CI (clinical improvement), where CI includes clinical improvements in anemia, splenomegaly and/or symptoms. Will estimate the OR rate, along with the exact 95% confidence interval., Up to completion of cycle 36 (1 cycle is 28 days)
Incidence of adverse events, The method of Thall, Simon and Estey will be used to monitor for safety. The severity of the toxicities will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 whenever possible. Will follow standard reporting guidelines for adverse events. Safety data will be summarized by category, severity and frequency., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Duration of response, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the duration of response where median and 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 5 years|Time to next treatment, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the time to next treatment where median and 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 5 years|Rates of complete response, Up to 5 years|Rates of partial response, Up to 5 years|Rates of clinical improvement, Up to 5 years|Platelet response rate, Up to 5 years|Changes in bone marrow fibrosis grade, Will be assessed according to European classification., Baseline up to 5 years
Biomarker analysis, Fisher's exact test will be used to assess the associations between biomarker expression (high versus low) and outcomes. Wilcoxon singed rank test will be applied to assess the change of biomarkers from baseline., Up to 5 years|Percentage of circulating SLAMF7high/CD16neg monocytes, Baseline and over time up to 5 years|Serum IL-1Ralpha levels, Baseline and over time up to 5 years|JAK2V617F allele burden in the bone marrow or blood, Baseline and over time up to 5 years|Myeloid mutation panel (81-gene next generation sequencing panel) on serial bone marrow aspirates, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To obtain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of elotuzumab in patients with myelofibrosis (MF) by estimating the rate of overall response by International Working Group-Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) 2013 criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the safety and tolerability of elotuzumab in patients with MF.

II. To assess for improvements in cytopenias and bone marrow fibrosis grade, splenomegaly and disease-related symptoms.

III. To determine the duration of objective responses, if any, to elotuzumab. IV. To determine the time to next treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the proportion of circulating monocytes expressing the target of elotuzumab, SLAMF7, and any correlation of the same to the mutant JAK2 allele burden.

II. To assess baseline levels of IL-1Ralpha and other cytokines and the effects of elotuzumab, if any, on these over time.

III. To examine the effects of elotuzumab on fibrocyte count and differentiation, both in vitro and in vivo.

IV. To assess clonal evolution, if any, in MF patients on elotuzumab treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive elotuzumab intravenously (IV) over 1-4 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1-2. Beginning in cycle 3, patients receive elotuzumab IV over 1-4 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 36 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then periodically thereafter.