Gefitinib, Docetaxel, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Gefitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving gefitinib together with docetaxel and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of docetaxel when given together with gefitinib and radiation therapy in treating patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: gefitinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|RADIATION: radiation therapy
To determine the feasability of daily ZD1839 delivered with concurrent 3-dimensional planned thoracic radiation, baseline to 2 months
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of docetaxel that can be safely delivered in combination with gefitinib and a definitive course of 3-D planned thoracic radiotherapy in patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of docetaxel.

* Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive concurrent chemoradiotherapy comprising docetaxel IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and thoracic radiotherapy once daily on days 1-5 in weeks 1-7 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Consolidation chemotherapy: Beginning 2 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive consolidation chemotherapy comprising docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 22.
* Gefitinib therapy: Patients also receive oral gefitinib once daily beginning at the start of chemoradiotherapy and continuing for up to 1 year\* in the absence of disease progression.

NOTE: \*Patients continue to receive gefitinib during the 2-week rest period between chemoradiotherapy and consolidation chemotherapy.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of docetaxel until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Tumor tissue is tested to determine correlation between epidermal growth factor receptor presence and response to treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 45 patients will be accrued in this study.