The Effects of Prophylactic Limited Palmar Fasciectomy on Surgical Outcomes and Scarring
Research is instrumental for improving medical care and the patient experience. Finding new surgical techniques can create better outcomes and minimize recovery time and complications for patients. Some patients undergoing trigger finger surgery with a pre-existing Dupuytren's cord may develop a thickened surgical scar after surgery, which can cause discomfort, difficulty with moving or using, and other complications in the affected finger(s) or hand. The investigator is investigating a surgical technique to minimize these potential complications and scarring after surgery.

Subjects are being asked to take part in this research study because they have been diagnosed with trigger finger and pretendinous Dupuytren's cord and have decided to undergo surgery rather than try medical treatment.
Dupuytren Contracture
PROCEDURE: Pretendinous cord excision|PROCEDURE: Division/manipulation of the cord
Change in Scar Progression as measured by the Vancouver Scar Scale, The Vancouver Scar Scale assesses 4 variables: vascularity, height/thickness, pliability, and pigmentation. Patient perception of his or her respective scars is not factored in to the overall score. The scores can range from 0 (normal) to 13 (severe scarring)., baseline, up to 1 year|Change in Scar Progression as measured by the Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale, The Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale consists of two parts: a Patient Scale and an Observer Scale. Both scales contain seven items that are scored numerically on a 10-step scale. Together they make up the 'Total Score' of the Patient and Observer Scale. The total score can range from 14 (normal) to 140 (worst scar imaginable)., baseline, up to 1 year
Patients who have surgery for trigger finger with a thickened overlying Dupuytren's cord are at risk for complications including but not limited to scarring, adhesions, stiffness, injury to underlying structures such as blood vessels, tendons and nerves, loss of motion, pain, bowstringing, and recurrent triggering or contracture. They have been shown to have higher risk for these complications including a thickened scar response. The cause for this is not fully understood, but it could be because the pretendinous cord was cut and not removed. By cutting and not removing this pretendinous cord, this may cause extra scarring that may lead to a thicker palmar scar that may become symptomatic. This study will investigate a different surgical method for relieving the tension caused by a pretendinous cord and whether it reduces complications and scarring.