Study of Denosumab as Adjuvant Treatment for Women With High Risk Early Breast Cancer Receiving Neoadjuvant or Adjuvant Therapy (D-CARE)
This randomized phase 3 trial is studying the effect of denosumab to see if it can prevent disease recurrence in the bone or in any other part of the body, when it is given as adjuvant therapy for women with early-stage breast cancer, who are at high risk of disease recurrence.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Denosumab
Bone Metastasis-free Survival (BMFS), BMFS time was defined as the time interval from the randomization date to the first occurrence of bone metastasis or death from any cause, whichever came first. Participants last known to be alive with no bone metastasis were censored at their last assessment date, or at the primary analysis data cut-off date, whichever was first. Participants who had first occurrence of bone metastasis before randomization were censored at their randomization date.

Bone metastasis must have been confirmed by central imaging analysis or by biopsy, Evidence of disseminated tumor cells in bone marrow was not sufficient for determination of disease recurrence. Development of new primary malignancy in bone was not considered as bone metastasis.

Since the median BMSF time could not be estimated due to low number of events, the percentage of participants with an event (i.e., bone metastasis or death) is reported., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 31 August 2017; median (minimum, maximum) time on study was 67.2 (0.0, 85.9) and 67.0 (0.0, 86.6) months in each treatment group respectively.
Disease-free Survival (DFS), DFS time was defined as the time interval from the randomization date to the date of first observation of disease recurrence or death from any cause, whichever was first. Participants last known to be alive with no disease recurrence were censored at their last assessment date, or at the primary analysis data cut-off date, whichever was first. Participants who had first disease recurrence before randomization were censored at their randomization date.

Disease recurrence includes bone metastasis and extraosseous disease (EOD) confirmed by central imaging analysis or by biopsy/cytology. Development of non-breast cancer new primary malignancy was not considered as disease recurrence.

Since the median DFS time could not be estimated due to low number of events, the percentage of participants with an event (i.e., disease recurrence or death) is reported., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 31 August 2017; median (minimum, maximum) time on study was 67.2 (0.0, 85.9) and 67.0 (0.0, 86.6) months in each treatment group respectively.|Disease-free Survival (DFS) in the Postmenopausal Subset, DFS time was defined as the time interval from the randomization date to the date of first observation of disease recurrence or death from any cause, whichever was first. Participants last known to be alive with no disease recurrence were censored at their last assessment date, or at the primary analysis data cut-off date, whichever was first. Participants who had first disease recurrence before randomization were censored at their randomization date.

Disease recurrence includes bone metastasis and extraosseous disease (EOD) confirmed by central imaging analysis or by biopsy/cytology. Development of non-breast cancer new primary malignancy was not considered as disease recurrence.

Since the median DFS time in the postmenopausal subset could not be estimated due to low number of events, the percentage of participants with an event (i.e., disease recurrence or death) is reported., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 31 August 2017; median (minimum, maximum) time on study was 67.2 (0.0, 85.9) and 67.0 (0.0, 86.6) months in each treatment group respectively.|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) time was defined as the time interval from the randomization date to the date of death from any cause. Participants last known to be alive were censored at their last contact date.

Since the median time to overall survival could not be estimated at the time of the final analysis due to low numbers of events, the percentage of participants with an event (i.e., death) is reported., From randomization until the end of study; median (minimum, maximum) time on study was 72.7 (0, 92) and 72.3 (0, 92) months in each treatment group respectively.|Distant Recurrence-free Survival, Distant recurrence-free survival (DRFS) was defined as the time interval from the randomization date to the date of first observation of distant disease recurrence or death from any cause, whichever came first. Participants last known to be alive, who had not experienced distant disease recurrence, were censored at their last assessment date, or at the primary analysis data cut-off date, whichever was first. Participants who had first distant recurrence before randomization were censored at their randomization date.

Distant disease recurrence includes confirmed bone metastasis and extraosseous disease other than local-regional disease recurrence. Development of non-breast cancer new primary malignancy was not considered as distant disease recurrence.

Since the median time to DRFS could not be estimated due to the low number of events, the percentage of participants with an event (i.e., distant recurrence or death) is reported., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 31 August 2017; median (minimum, maximum) time on study was 67.2 (0.0, 85.9) and 67.0 (0.0, 86.6) months in each treatment group respectively.
Eligible participants were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive denosumab 120 mg or placebo subcutaneously (SC) for up to 5 years. Randomization was stratified based on:

1. Breast cancer therapy/lymph node (LN) status: neoadjuvant therapy/any LN status versus adjuvant therapy/LN negative (based on axillary LN dissection, or based on sentinel node status) versus adjuvant therapy/LN positive
2. Hormone receptor (estrogen receptor \[ER\]/progesterone receptor \[PR\]) status: ER and/or PR positive versus ER and PR negative
3. Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2) status: HER-2 positive versus HER-2 negative
4. Age: \< 50 years versus ≥ 50 years
5. Geographic Region: Japan versus Other regions.

The primary analysis was conducted after all enrolled participants had the opportunity to complete 5 years of treatment from study day 1.