Epacadostat and Pembrolizumab in Patients With GIST
Primary objective is to assess the efficacy of combined Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) and PD-1 inhibition in a single arm phase II trial of epacadostat and pembrolizumab in patients with advanced imatinib-refractory GIST, using a primary endpoint of overall response rate.

Secondary objectives are to evaluate the progression free survival (PFS), the overall survival (OS), the response rate and to evaluate the safety and tolerability of combined epacadostat and pembrolizumab treatment.

The investigator hypothesizes that treatment with epacadostat and pembrolizumab will increase the response rate compared to what has been historically achieved with salvage tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Epacadostat
Overall Response Rate, The primary endpoint is the overall response rate as defined as the best response using RECIST v1.1 criteria. A standard way to measure how well a cancer patient responds to treatment. It is based on whether tumors shrink, stay the same, or get bigger. To use RECIST, there must be at least one tumor that can be measured on x-rays, CT scans, or MRI scans. The types of response a patient can have are a complete response (CR), a partial response (PR), progressive disease (PD), and stable disease (SD). Also called Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors., within the first 24 weeks of the start of study therapy
Overall Survival, The length of time from the start of treatment that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive., time from registration up to 2 years
While targeted therapy with imatinib has significantly improved survival for patients with inoperable and metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), the majority will eventually progress after a median of 20-26 months. Standard second-line treatment with sunitinib has a response rate of 7%, and third-line treatment with regorafenib has a response rate of only 5%. More effective treatments for imatinib-refractory GIST are needed.

This study aims to assess the efficacy of combined IDO and PD-1 inhibition with epacadostat (IDO inhibitor) and pembrolizumab (anti-PD-1 antibody) in patients with imatinib-refractory GIST.