Pilot, Neoadjuvant Gemcitabine and Abraxane Chemotherapy Followed by Surgery, Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas
This study is for adult patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the drugs Gemcitabine and Abraxane in the treatment of adenocarcinoma of the pancreas before surgery. Subjects will have screening tests to determine if he or she is eligible to participate in this study.
Adenocarcinoma Pancreas
PROCEDURE: Surgery|GENETIC: Genetic Expression|DRUG: Chemotherapy
Tumor Response, Estimate the rate of good histopathologic tumor response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy assessed in resection specimen. A good response is defined as a grade III or IV histopathologic appearance, equivalent to \<10% viable tumor., at time of surgery
Number of Participants With R0 Resection Status., R0 resection status is a macroscopic complete removal of tumor by non-contaminated operation, with neither macroscopic nor microscopic residual tumor., at time of surgery|Estimate Median Time to Recurrence., Time to recurrence is defined as the time from surgical resection to disease recurrence or death from any cause. Patients who have not recurred at the end of follow up will have their recurrence time censored at the last date of contact., 2 years|Estimate Median Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from enrollment to death from any cause. Patients still alive at the end of follow up will have their survival time censored at the last date of contact., 2 years|Number of Adverse Events Reported in Subjects Enrolled., Assess the safety profile of this neoadjuvant regimen in patients with localized pancreatic adenocarcinoma. All toxicities will be reported by type and grade and tabulated. All adverse events will be reported via case report forms. The intensity of any adverse event should be reported according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0., First study drug administration until end of study
Circulating Tumor Cells (CTC), To evaluate and describe CTC number, CTC phenotype characteristics and effectiveness/rate of CTC culturing techniquen from patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. To determine and evaluate the correlation between expression of biomarkers in CTCs and expression of biomarkers in resected tissue specimen with the same cancer patient., From enrollment to surgery
If subjects are eligible and wish to enroll in the study, they will begin chemotherapy treatment with Gemcitabine and Abraxane. After subjects have received treatment with these drugs, they will have surgery. Subjects will also have post treatment and follow up evaluations. Subjects may have 2 cycles of treatment and each cycle is 28 days. All subjects will be followed every 3 months for 3 years after their initial registration.