Vvax001 Cancer Vaccine in Premalignant Cervical Lesions - Phase II
This is an open label phase II study in patients with newly diagnosed human papilloma virus type 16 (HPV16) induced cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 (CIN3). Patients will be treated with three doses of Vvax001 immunization with an interval of 3 weeks between each immunization to induce histopathological regression and HPV clearance. Regression of CIN3 lesions will be monitored using colposcopy in week 9, week 17 and week 25. When complete regression of the CIN3 lesion is observed by colposcopy, a biopsy will be taken in week 25 to confirm regression histologically. A positive histologic regression is defined as a reduction from CIN3 to CIN1 or no dysplasia. Patients with a complete regression will not undergo the standard-of-care loop excision of the transformation zone (LETZ) and will be followed-up after the study by cytology at 3, 6 and 12 months. If complete regression has not occurred by 25 weeks, a standard-of-care LETZ will be performed.
CIN3|Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia|Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia Grade 3|HPV 16 Infection
BIOLOGICAL: Vvax001 therapeutic cancer vaccine
Clinical efficacy of Vvax001, Clinical efficacy is determined by a pathological regression of the premalignant CIN3 lesion in pre- versus post-treatment tissue samples. A positive histologic regression is defined as a reduction from CIN3 to CIN1, or a reduction from CIN3 to no dysplasia., At week 25 (19 weeks after the last immunization)
Immunogenicity of Vvax001, HPV-16 E6,7-specific T-cell immune responses in the peripheral blood will be measured by IFN-y ELISPOT, At weeks 7, 9, 17 and 25, respectively 1 week, 3 weeks, 11 weeks and 19 weeks after the last vaccination|HPV 16 clearance, Standard HPV testing by molecular analysis will be performed on tissue collected during the last study visit., Week 25 (19 weeks after the last immunization)|Side effects/ adverse events, To monitor the side effects/ adverse events related to intramuscular administration of Vvax001. Toxicity will be graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0., up to 19 weeks after the last immunization
Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the most important cause of premalignant cervical disease. Current treatment for premalignant HPV-induced genital lesions primarily relies on surgery, which can be discomforting and carries a risk of complications like bleeding, cervical stenosis and/or incompetence which may lead to infertility and partus prematuris/immaturis. Above all, it does not necessarily eradicate the underlying HPV infection completely.

Therapeutic immunization is a very attractive alternative to the current treatment options for precancerous lesions and (invasive) cancer. The immune cells induced by cancer immunotherapy can target the tumor cells and kill them. When long-lasting immunity is induced the immunotherapy may prevent recurrence of the disease. Therefore, the approach taken in this study is to immunize with a replication-incompetent Semliki Forest Virus (SFV) vector encoding HPV-derived tumor antigens. Intramuscular immunization with these replication-incompetent SFV particles (Vvax001) is aimed at eliciting a therapeutic anti-tumor response.

A phase I study has been conducted in which vaccination with Vvax001 induced HPV16-E6,7-specific immune responses in women previously treated for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) or cervical cancer (CC). Intramuscular immunization with Vvax001 was well tolerated, showing only mild to moderate local adverse reactions. Altogether, the data of this study justify testing of Vvax001 in CIN3 patients in the current phase II study.

In this open label phase II study patients with newly diagnosed HPV16 induced cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 (CIN3) will receive three bilateral intramuscular immunizations of Vvax001 (5x107 infectious particles \[IP\]) with an interval of 3 weeks between vaccinations at week 0, week 3 and week 6.

Patients will be monitored for regression of CIN3 lesions by colposcopy and digital imaging at week 9, week 17 and week 25. When complete regression of the CIN3 lesion is observed by colposcopy, a biopsy will be taken in week 25 to confirm regression and no LETZ will be performed. If complete regression has not occurred by 25 weeks, the standard-of-care LETZ will be performed. If progression of the CIN3 lesion is observed during the 25 week interval, a biopsy will be taken to confirm pathological progression. If pathological progression has occurred, patients will immediately undergo a LETZ. If no pathological progression has occurred, patients will continue to be monitored by colposcopy.

Patients with a complete regression will be followed-up by cytology at 3, 6 and 12 months after exit from the study. Hereafter, patients will be monitored through regular screening programs.