JeffQuit Group Therapy Program for Smoking Cessation in Patients With a History of Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies how well the "JeffQuit" group therapy program works in enabling patients with a history of cancer to quit smoking. The JeffQuit program uses group therapy to provide psychological support and address the mental need for smoking, the habit or routine it creates, and the physical need for nicotine. It is not yet known how well the JeffQuit program will work in helping patients with a history of cancer to stop smoking.
Current Smoker|Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Tobacco Cessation Counseling|OTHER: Support Group Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Proportion of patients who are adherent to smoking abstinence, Calculated along with a 1-sided 95% exact confidence interval. An exact binomial test (with a one-sided alpha of 0.05) will also be used to test whether adherence is greater than 60%., Up to 6 months after completion of intervention
Change in Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) quality of life scores, The scores for the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) questionnaire will be evaluated for differences between the pre and post program states using analysis of variance using mixed models to allow for inclusion of all subjects with at least one measurement, with assessment of post-treatment to pre-treatment changes as the primary consideration. Longitudinal repeated measures using linear mixed models will be applied to assess the change from baseline as the outcome, and an exploratory analysis of potential clinical and demographic modifiers will be completed., Baseline to up to 6 months after completion of intervention|Change in Smoking Cessation Quality of Life (SCQoL) questionnaire scores, The scores for the Smoking Cessation Quality of Life (SCQoL) questionnaire will be evaluated for differences between the pre and post program states using analysis of variance using mixed models to allow for inclusion of all subjects with at least one measurement, with assessment of post-treatment to pre-treatment changes as the primary consideration. Longitudinal repeated measures using linear mixed models will be applied to assess the change from baseline as the outcome, and an exploratory analysis of potential clinical and demographic modifiers will be completed., Baseline to up to 6 months after completion of intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the initial effectiveness of the JeffQuit program on smoking cessation in cancer patients.

II. To assess the quality of life improvements related to the JeffQuit smoking cessation program in cancer patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo three, 1-hour group therapy sessions held by a JeffQuit practitioner over a 1-month period. Patients receive strategies for managing the psychological, habitual, and physiological components of smoking and help with developing a planned quit date. Patients are also provided with advice on how to switch to cigarette brands with less nicotine and then how to substitute the nicotine patch and gum for cigarettes. The JeffQuit counselor is available for additional individual support as needed.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 6 months.