Safety and Efficacy of Repeat Administration of Ad/PNP and Fludarabine Phosphate in Patients With Local Head/Neck Cancer
Primary Objective: The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety of repeat administration of a dose level of Ad/PNP plus fludarabine phosphate (F-araAMP) which demonstrated anti-tumor activity in patients with advanced head and neck cancer in a completed phase I study.

Secondary Objective: The secondary objective is to evaluate the antitumor activity of repeat administration of Ad/PNP plus F-araAMP.

FDA Office of Orphan Drugs Division is a source of funding for the overall project.
Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Ad/PNP|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate
Safety Measures (Adverse Events and Laboratory Parameters) With Repeat Cycles of Treatment., Safety measures evaluated by medical history, physical examination, vital signs, inspection of tumor site, performance status, EKG, chest X-ray (CXR), blood chemistry, hematology, CD4/CD8 T-cell counts, urinalysis, PT/PTT, blood sample for adenovirus, urine for adenovirus, F-Ade plasma level, blood sample for antibody against adenovirus, and monitoring adverse events., up to 7 months
Best Overall Response for Injected Tumors During 5 Cycles of Treatment as Determined by RECIST 1.1., Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression).

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., up to 7 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) - Time From First Intratumoral Injection to Date of Progression or Death, Calculated in Months, Time to Event (Progression or Death) was defined as time from first intratumoral injection to date of progression or death for any cause, whichever occurred first, and was calculated, in months, as: (Date of first PD (Progressive Disease) or death or censoring - date of first intratumoral injection + 1) / 30.4375. PD was defined, based on the protocol-defined criteria for response in For-Injection tumors, as at least a 20% increase in the longest diameter (LD) of the injected lesions, taking as reference the smallest LD recorded on study (this includes the baseline LD if that is the smallest on study; note: appearance of one or more new lesions was considered progression in assessing overall tumor response.). PFS derivation did not include tumor assessments collected after the end of study treatment as these were not planned for collection beyond the final cycle., up to 7 months|Probability of No Progressive Disease or Death and 95% CI Up to 6 Months (%), Time to PD or death was defined as time from the first intratumoral injection to date of progression or death for any cause, whichever occurs first, and was calculated, in months, as: (Date of first PD or death or censoring - date of first intratumoral injection + 1) / 30.4375., 6 months|Overall Survival (OS) - Time From First Intratumoral Injection to Date of Death up to 60 Days Post Last Injection, Time to death was defined as time from the first intratumoral injection to date of death for any cause, and was calculated, in months, as: (Date of death or censoring - date of the first intratumoral injection + 1) / 30.4375. Subjects still alive as of the data cut-off date were censored on the last known alive date from mortality status follow up. For subjects that were lost to follow up, the last visit in the database or last contact date where the subject was documented to be alive was used to estimate last known date alive., up to 7 months|Probability of No Death and 95% CI up to 1 Month and up to 6 Months, Time to death was defined as time from the first intratumoral injection to date of death for any cause, and was calculated, in months, as: Date of death or censoring - date of the first intratumoral injection + 1 / 30.4375., 6 months
1. Mechanism of action. The study drug, Ad/PNP-F-araAMP (Fludarabine phosphate) consists of a nonreplicating adenoviral vector expressing the E. coli purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) injected intratumorally followed by intravenous administration of F-araAMP. This combination generates 2-fluoroadenine (F-Ade) within the tumor resulting in focal chemotherapeutic activity.

   F-araAMP is an agent that is rapidly cleaved by plasma phosphatases to fludarabine, which is the primary circulating form of the drug and has activity against certain hematological malignancies, but not against solid tumors such as head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Fludarabine (F-araA) is an adenosine analog and substrate for E. coli PNP, which cleaves the glycosidic bond of F-araA to generate F-Ade. The F-Ade metabolite has shown pronounced activity against human tumor xenografts in mice.

   Many refractory tumors are refractory precisely because they have a very low growth fraction, i.e., a relatively small percentage of tumor cells dividing at any particular point in time. In nonclinical studies, significant in vivo antitumor activity has been demonstrated by F-Ade generation from F-araAMP in tumors in which 2.5 to 10% of cells express the E. coli PNP gene. In addition, anti-tumor effect was seen in patients with advanced solid tumors (melanoma and head and neck cancer) in the higher dose cohorts during a Phase 1 study (see next section).
2. Tumor response with Ad/PNP-F-araAMP in Phase 1 Study. The safety and efficacy of Ad/PNP-F-araAMP has been evaluated in a Phase 1 study, PNP-001 (NCT01310179). Four escalating dose levels were evaluated in 10 subjects with head and neck cancer and 2 subjects with melanoma; clinical activity was observed at the highest dose levels following 3 intratumoral injections of Ad/PNP over 2 days and IV F-araAMP phosphate over 3 days. The overall response rate (CR+PR) was approximately 67% in the 2 highest dose cohorts, Cohorts 3 and 4. Results suggest a dose response effect. The duration of response in the injected tumor was limited, with 4 of 5 responding tumors having disease progression of the injected lesion prior to last follow-up on Day 56, suggesting that repeat administration should be evaluated. Ad/PNP + F-araAMP was well tolerated. No subject experienced a dose-limiting toxicity and none of the subjects discontinued study treatment. Overall, the activity and safety profile of Ad/PNP seen in the Phase 1 study supports further clinical evaluation of repeat administration of Ad/PNP (IT) and F-araAMP phosphate infusion for patients with HNSCC.
3. Purpose of the Study. Based upon the tumor response seen with a single administration of the two highest dose levels of Ad/PNP-F-araAMP in the Phase 1 study (NCT01310179), PNP plans to investigate the safety and assess anti-tumor activity of repeat cycles of injection of Ad/PNP + F-araAMP in patients with advanced head and neck cancer. Subjects in the study will have RECIST 1.1 measurable HNSCC which is amenable to local injection for which there is no effective curative or palliative treatment option. This study population was selected since results from this Phase 1/2 trial are intended to support the safety of repeat dosing in further clinical investigation.
4. Study Design. The trial is designed as a single-arm study to evaluate the safety of repeat cycles of Ad/PNP and F-araAMP in patients with recurrent HNSCC with tumor(s) accessible for injection. Ad/PNP will be injected intratumorally twice on Day 1 and once on Day 2 followed by infusion of F-araAMP daily on Days 3, 4, and 5. Subjects will receive repeat administration of Ad/PNP-F-araAMP every 4 weeks (i.e., each cycle) for 5 cycles or until injected tumor progresses, unacceptable toxicity occurs, no tumor is present for injection, or patient death. Tumor response in the injected tumor(s) will be assessed by physical examination as well as by radiographic imaging. All subjects will be monitored for adverse events during study participation.