2321GCCC: CRD3874-SI in Patients with Relapsed/refractory AML
This clinical research study is being done to answer questions about how to treat cancer.

To clear cancer cells from the body, the immune system needs the action of proteins called Type 1 interferons. The protein STING (for STimulator of INterferon Genes) stimulates the body to make Type 1 interferons. Type 1 interferons activate key molecules in cancer immunity to kill cancer cells.

CRD3874 is a synthetic drug that activates STING, and STING stimulates the immune system to kill cancer cells. In experiments on blood from humans, CRD3874 makes blood cells produce molecules responsible for anti-cancer activity. CRD3874 was tested in mice with cancers including leukemia, head and neck cancer, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer and sarcoma. In these mice, CRD3874 made tumors shrink or disappear, and some mice developed long-lasting immunity against cancer. Also, when CRD3874 was given with other anti-cancer treatments, it increased their anti-cancer effects.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: CRD3874
Safety and Tolerability by multiplex cytokine profiling, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CRD3874-SI (a STING agonist) in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia and to determine the biologically effective dose and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D).

Exploratory studies will include measurement of additional cytokines including IFNα, IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-10, IFN-γ, TNFα, MCP-1 and GM-CSF by multiplex cytokine profiling, 2 years|Safety and Tolerability by qPCR, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CRD3874-SI (a STING agonist) in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia and to determine the biologically effective dose and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D).

STING and immediate downstream targets (IRF3, IRF7, TBK1, STAT6) and NFKB pathway (GADD45a, TNFx, JUNB, NFKB2, IL7R, IKK) and IFN pathway (IFNB, ISG15, ISG20, IFI27, IFI44) targets by qPCR,, 2 years|Safety and Tolerability by Western blot analysis, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CRD3874-SI (a STING agonist) in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia and to determine the biologically effective dose and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D).

STING and downstream targets including TBK1, IRF3 and IRF7, STAT6 and TNFx and phosphorylated/activated counterparts by Western blot analysis, 2 years|Safety and Tolerability by colony formation assays, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CRD3874-SI (a STING agonist) in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia and to determine the biologically effective dose and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D).

Bcl-2 family proteins by Western blot analysis, apoptosis by flow cytometry and clonogenic potential by colony formation assays., 2 years
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), PK parameters will include area under the curve (AUC) in ng·hr/mL, 2 years|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), PK parameters will include maximum concentration (Cmax) in ng/mL, 2 years|Trough Concentration (Ctrough), PK parameters will include trough concentration (Ctrough) in ng/mL. Blood samples will be collected. Plasma will be used for PK studies., 2 years|Pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of CRD3874-SI, PD endpoint will be measurement of STING pathway-relevant cytokines CXCL10, IL6 and IFNβ levels in plasma., 2 years
This clinical research study is being done to answer questions about how to treat cancer.

To clear cancer cells from the body, the immune system needs the action of proteins called Type 1 interferons. The protein STING (for STimulator of INterferon Genes) stimulates the body to make Type 1 interferons. Type 1 interferons activate key molecules in cancer immunity to kill cancer cells.

CRD3874 is a synthetic drug that activates STING, and STING stimulates the immune system to kill cancer cells. In experiments on blood from humans, CRD3874 makes blood cells produce molecules responsible for anti-cancer activity. CRD3874 was tested in mice with cancers including leukemia, head and neck cancer, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer and sarcoma. In these mice, CRD3874 made tumors shrink or disappear, and some mice developed long-lasting immunity against cancer. Also, when CRD3874 was given with other anti-cancer treatments, it increased their anti-cancer effects.