Radiochemotherapy +/- Durvalumab for Locally-advanced Anal Carcinoma. a Multicenter, Randomized, Phase II Trial of the German Anal Cancer Study Group
The RADIANCE multicenter, randomized phase II trial will assess the efficacy of durvalumab, a PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, in combination with primary mitomycin C (MMC)/5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based radiochemotherapy (RCT) in patients with locally-advanced anal squamous cell carcinoma (ASCC).
Anal Cancer|Anal Carcinoma|Anal Cancer Stage III|Anal Cancer Stage II
DRUG: Chemotherapy|RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Durvalumab
Disease-free survival (DFS), DFS is defined as the time between randomization and the first of the following events: (a) non-complete clinical response at restaging MRI and proctoscopy, including biopsies of suspicious findings, 26 weeks after initiation of radiochemotherapy, (b) locoregional recurrence after initial complete clinical response (cCR), (c) distant metastases, (d) second primary cancer, or (e) death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Patients without any of these events are censored at the time point of last observation., 3 years
Major adverse events, Adverse events will be graded using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0, 3 Years|cCR, Complete clinical response rate assessed 26 weeks after initiation of radiochemotherapy, 26 weeks|Overall survival, Overall survival defined as the time between randomization and death from any cause, 3 Years|Colostomy-free survival, Colostomy-free survival defined as time between randomization and a definitive colostomy for progression, relapse, or complication, 3 Years|Cumulative incidence of locoregional recurrence, Cumulative incidence of locoregional recurrence defined as the incidence of locoregional recurrence form the time of randomization, 3 Years|Cumulative incidence of distant recurrence, Cumulative incidence of distant recurrence defined as the incidence of distant recurrence form the time of randomization, 3 Years|Quality of life questionnaires, Quality of life questionnaire QLQ-C30, 3 Years|Quality of life questionnaires, Quality of life questionnaire QLQ-ANL27, 3 Years
Anal squamous cell carcinomas (ASCC) are increasing in frequency across the developed world. There is a strong rationale for combining the PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor durvalumab with radiochemotherapy (RCT) in patients with ASCC. First, although primary RCT with concurrent mitomycin C and 5-fluorouracil (MMC/5-FU) is the standard treatment for ASCC, the 3-year DFS in patients with locally-advanced disease is only in the range of 60%. Second, approximately 80-90% of patients with ASCC are human papilloma virus (HPV)-positive, which is associated with higher tumor "immunogenicity" in this malignancy that is known to correlate with better response to RCT as well as PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors. Also, PD-L1 expression was observed in 33%-62% of patients with locally advanced non-metastatic ASCC that correlated with tumor stage. Third, inhibition of the PD-1/PD-L1 axis showed encouraging responses in recurrent/metastatic ASCC in two phase Ib/II trials. Fourth, several data indicate complementary roles between R(C)T and immunotherapy. Fifth, R(C)T can induce PD-L1 upregulation with resulting dysfunction in CD8+ T-cells, and addition of anti-PD-L1 to R(C)T can overcome T-cell suppression to reinvigorate immune surveillance. First clinical studies have demonstrated promising findings for the combination of RCT and immunotherapies. Thus, based on the above data, RCT combined with durvalumab is expected to be more effective than primary RCT alone. Altogether, the hereby proposed RADIANCE multicenter, randomized phase II trial aims to improve the current standard treatment by incorporating durvalumab to the primary MMC/5-FU-based RCT in patients with locally-advanced ASCC (T2=\>4cm Nany, stage IIB-IIIC).