Enzalutamide/Leuprolide +/- Abiraterone/Pred in Prostate
This study is comparing the effectiveness of enzalutamide with or without abiraterone acetate for men with high-risk, localized prostate cancer.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Cancer|High Risk Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Leuprolide Acetate
Percentage of Participants With Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) or Minimal Residual Disease (MRD), pCR is defined as the absence of morphologically identifiable carcinoma in the radical prostatectomy (RP) specimen. MRD is defined as the largest cross-sectional dimension of residual tumor measuring \</= 0.5 cm. If the tumor is multifocal, the size of the largest focus will be used to determine the size of the residual tumor., after RP approximately 24 weeks from study entry
Participants With Pathologic Complete Response (pCR), pCR is defined as the absence of morphologically identifiable carcinoma in the radical prostatectomy (RP) specimen., after RP approximately 24 weeks from study entry|Residual Cancer Burden (RCB), RCB was analyzed using radical prostatectomy (RP) tissue. The largest area of tumor was measured by ruler and the longest tumor dimension in this area was used as the dimension for calculation., after RP approximately 24 weeks from study entry|Positive Surgical Margin Status, Participants were classified by presence or absence of positive surgical margins defined as margins, which are the edges of the removed tumor, that show some cancer cells., after RP approximately 24 weeks from study entry|Median Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Nadir, PSA nadir is the lowest PSA level recorded during neoadjuvant therapy., PSA was assessed at baseline and every cycle during neoadjuvant therapy (up to 24 weeks).
In this research study, the investigators are comparing the effectiveness of enzalutamide with or without abiraterone acetate for men with high-risk, localized prostate cancer.

Abiraterone acetate with prednisone and enzalutamide are currently FDA-approved for use in the treatment of patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, however they are investigational for the treatment of localized prostate cancer. Abiraterone acetate works by decreasing the production of male sex hormones, which cause prostate cancer growth. Enzalutamide works by blocking the effects of male sex hormones, which cause prostate cancer growth.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the combination of enzalutamide and abiraterone acetate as neoadjuvant therapy for high risk prostate cancer undergoing prostatectomy but each drug has been approved for the treatment of more advanced prostate cancer.

Participants will be randomized to one of two study arms. Randomization means that the participant is put into a group by chance. It is like flipping a coin. Neither participant nor the research doctor will choose what group participants are randomized to.

The names of the study medications involved in this study are:

* Enzalutamide
* Abiraterone Acetate
* Prednisone
* Leuprolide Acetate