Chemoradiotherapy With Surgery Followed by Consolidation Durvalumab
Lung cancer presents a significant treatment challenge, particularly in the heterogeneous stage III NSCLC patient population. While chemotherapy combined with high-dose radiotherapy (60 Gy in 30 fractions of 2 Gy once daily) is currently the recommended approach for unresectable stage III cases, it is associated with significant rates of locoregional and distant failures. Notably, the introduction of durvalumab consolidation therapy after chemoradiotherapy (CRT), as demonstrated in the PACIFIC study, has shown improved overall survival, primarily attributed to enhanced distant control. This improvement prompts further interest in investigating whether further improvements in locoregional control can lead to improved survival for patients. The present study aims to evaluate the feasibility of post-CRT surgery in patients with initially considered unresectable stage III (non-N3) NSCLC.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage III
DRUG: Consolidation durvalumab
The rates of severe surgical morbidity and mortality, Grades 3-5 according to the Clavien-Dindo classifications for surgical complications, Within 90-days of surgery|Percentage of patients with high-grade treatment-related adverse events, Grades 3-5 according to NCI CTCAE version 5.0, Within 90-days of surgery|Proportion of patients proceeding to durvalumab consolidation after surgery, Number of patients starting durvalumab, Within 2 months
R0 rate, Rate of complete surgical resection (R0), At surgery|DFS at 2 years, Disease-free survival at two years after surgery, Two years after surgery
Lung cancer presents a significant treatment challenge, particularly in the heterogeneous stage III NSCLC patient population. While chemotherapy combined with high-dose radiotherapy (60 Gy in 30 fractions of 2 Gy once daily) is currently the recommended approach for unresectable stage III cases, it is associated with significant rates of locoregional and distant failures. Notably, the introduction of durvalumab consolidation therapy after chemoradiotherapy (CRT), as demonstrated in the PACIFIC study, has shown improved overall survival, primarily attributed to enhanced distant control. This improvement prompts further interest in investigating whether further improvements in locoregional control can lead to improved survival for patients. The present study aims to evaluate the feasibility of post-CRT surgery in patients with initially considered unresectable stage III (non-N3) NSCLC.