Fluorescence-guided Resection of Malignant Gliomas With 5-Aminolevulinic Acid
The aim of the study "Fluorescence-guided resection of malignant gliomas with 5-Aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) vs. conventional resection" is to determine how accurately contrast agent-accumulating tumour can be removed by primary surgery and to assess the clinical usefulness of this method.
Brain Cancer|Brain Tumors|Cancer of Brain|Primary Brain Tumors|Brain Tumor, Primary
DRUG: 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA)
1. Percentage of patients with a histologically confirmed malignant glioma (grade III or IV -WHO) without definite residual contrast agent-accumulating tumour in the early post-operative control MRI (within 72 hours of the operation)., Within 72 hours after surgery|2. Progression-free survival 6 months after primary surgical treatment of a malignant gli-oma in patients with histologically confirmed malignant glioma (grade III or IV -WHO)., Within 6 month after surgery
1. Overall survival., Until 18 months after surgery|2. Progression-free survival (PFS) 9, 12, 15 and 18 months after primary surgical treatment, Until 18 months after surgery|3. Volume of residual tumour, After surgery|4. Toxicity after oral administration of 5-Aminolevulinic acid., Until 18 month after surgery|5. Neurological condition 7 days, 6 and 12 weeks, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months after primary surgical treatment, Until 18 month after surgery
Malignant gliomas are locally invasive tumors that carry a dismal prognosis despite a combination of surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Cytoreductive surgery is generally considered beneficial but complete resection of contrast enhancing tumor is achieved in less than 20 % of patients, one reason being the difficulty in discerning marginal, enhancing tumor intraoperatively.

Five-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) leads to the accumulation of fluorescent porphyrins in malignant gliomas, a phenomenon under exploration for intraoperative identification and resection of these tumors. This study investigated the benefit derived from fluorescent-guided resections using 5-ALA on surgical radicality, progression-free survival and morbidity.