ZOOMit-fMRI Identifies Motor Functional Cortex
This study was designed to collect a series of patients with gliomas which were involved in motor cortex to analyze difference accuracy of motor cortex localization between BOLD-fMRI and ZOOMit-fMRI.
Gliomas
The accurate rate for hand motor cortex localization with BOLD-fMRI and ZOOMit-fMRI., To illustrate the accurate rate of hand motor cortex localization, the overlap indexes in BOLD-fMRI or ZOOMit-fMRI will be calculated. The results in BOLD-fMRI and ZOOMit-fMRI will be defined with 300 maximum value voxels via Statistical Parametric Mapping 8 (SPM8) software. According to the photographs and records of direct cortical stimulation (DCS) during awaken craniotomy, the DCS results will be confirmed as a global region with 5 mm diameter. Subsequently, we will overlap the BOLD-fMRI/ZOOMit-fMRI and DCS results then calculate the number of voxels overlapping. In this way, the overlap indexes can be calculated as a ratio between the number of voxels overlapping and the number of total voxels in BOLD-fMRI and ZOOMit-fMRI. We defined if the overlap index is larger than 0, the localization result is accurate. In contrast, if the overlap index is equal to zero, the localization result is inaccurate. Finally, the accurate rate of hand motor cortex localization can be calculated., From scanning with BOLD-fMRI and ZOOMit-fMRI to getting the overlap indexes,assessed up to 2 weeks in each patient.
Gliomas will lead motor dysfunction when they are involved in motor cortex. However, tumor resection also have risk to lead postoperatively motor function deficits if destroy patients' motor cortex when tumor removed. Hence, it is important for neurosurgeon to realize the situation of patients' motor cortex locations in order to determine personal operative protocol.

The blood oxygen level dependent fMRI (BOLD-fMRI) is a prevalent preoperative method to localization motor cortex. It shows motor relevant cortex by the change of blood oxygen level when patients cooperate to finish motor tasks. The advantage of BOLD-fMRI includes higher time and spatial resolution, higher sensitivity, non-invasive. However, its accuracy of localization has not been satisfactory because neurovascular uncoupling. The ZOOMit-fMRI is a novel technic which is evolved from conventional BOLD-fMRI to localize motor functional cortex.The advantage of ZOOMit-fMRI is smaller field of view (FOV) and higher spatial resolution comparing with BOLD-fMRI. That helps to reduce other region of brain interference and elevate accuracy of localizations.

In this study, the investigators plan to enroll 60 patients, whose gliomas are involved in motor cortex, to acquire their BOLD-fMRI and ZOOMit-fMRI data in order to analyze their difference in the accuracy of motor cortex localization.