Prehabilitation and Posttransplant Training Program in Liver Transplantation
PreLiveR-T consists of a prospective randomized clinical trial conducted in an adult population that is a candidate for liver transplantation (LT) at the Hospital La Fe Valencia (Spain). The study is structured in three phases: I) Prehabilitation (2 months before LT); II) Training, divided in two successive periods: Supervised training (months 3-6 after LT) and Unsupervised training (6-12 months after LT); III) Long-term follow-up (2 years after LT).

Primary outcomes are related to post-surgery evolution (morbidity and mortality, hospitalization length, etc.). As a secondary outcomes are collected those related to: functional capacity, muscle strength and quality of life.
Liver Transplant; Complications|Cirrhosis, Liver|Hepatic Carcinoma
OTHER: Prehabilitation|OTHER: Prehabilitation and posttransplant training program
Morbidity, Registry of post-surgical complications according to the Clavien-Dindo classification. Reference: Ann Surg 2004; 240(2):205-13., The groups will be assessed from the hospitalization up to 24-months.|Mortality, Registry of mortality, The groups will be assessed from the hospitalization until the date of death, assessed up to 24-months.|Number of hospitalization days, Registry of number of days of hospitalization in intensive care unit and ward., The groups will be assessed during hospitalization, approximately 7 days.|Number of days with supplementary oxygen therapy and/or mechanical ventilation, Registry of number of days, The groups will be assessed during hospitalization, approximately 7 days.|Progression in the activities of daily life (ADL), Days of acquisition, sitting, walking and stairs, The groups will be assessed during hospitalization, approximately 7 days.
Change in functional capacity: measurement of oxygen uptake, Cardiopulmonary exercise test following an incremental protocol on ramp with a bicycle ergometer., The groups will be assessed at four times: at baseline; at week 8; 3-months after LT; and 6-months after LT.|Change in functional capacity: 6-minutes walking test (6MWT), 6MWT is a submaximal exercise test that entails measurement of distance walked over a span of 6 minutes. The 6 MWT provides information regarding functional capacity, response to therapy and prognosis. American Thoracic Society (ATS) Statement Guidelines for the Six-Minute Walk Test. Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2002;166(1):111-117, The groups will be assessed at four times: at baseline; at week 8; 3-months after LT; and 6-months after LT.|Change in peripheral muscle strength: handgrip strength, quadriceps femoris strength and biceps brachii strength, Isometric peripheral muscle strength will be measured using a digital hand dynamometer and the unit of measure is kilograms. References:

Roberts HC, Denison HJ, Martin HJ, Patel HP, Syddall CC, Sayer AA. A review of the measurement of grip strength in clinical and epidemiological studies: towards a standardised approach. Age and Ageing 2011;40(4):423-9.

Andrews AW, Thomas MW, Bohannon RW. Normative values for isometric muscle force measurements obtained with hand-held dynamometers. Phys Ther. 1996; 76(3):248-59, The groups will be assessed at six times: at baseline; at week 8; 1-month, 3-months, 6-months and 24-months after LT.|Change in respiratory strength: maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximum expiratory pressure (MEP), Maximum respiratory pressures will be measured using a Respiratory Pressure Meter MicroRPM® and the unit of measure is cmH2O. MIP and MEP are probably the most frequently reported non-invasive estimates of respiratory muscle strength. Ever since Black and Hyatt (1969) reported this technique it has been widely used in patients, healthy control subjects across all ages, and athletes. Pressure is recorded at the mouth during a quasi-static short (few seconds) maximal breathing. Reference: Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2002;166:531-535, The groups will be assessed at baseline and at week 8.|Change in performance on the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), The SPPB is a simple test to measure lower extremity function using tasks that mimic daily activities. The SPPB examines three areas of lower extremity function; static balance, gait speed, and getting in and out of a chair. Static balance is measured in units of time (seconds) and patients are timed holding 3 different stances. Gait speed is measured in time (seconds) to walk 4 meters. Chair sits are measured as the time (seconds) it takes to get up and out of a chair 5 times without using one's arms to assist the exercise. Collectively, the three tests are used to generate a total score (0-12) that reflects a patient's frailty (score of 0) or lack of frailty (score of 12). Guralnik JM, Simonsick EM, Ferrucci L, Glynn RJ, Berkman LF, Blazer DG, Scherr PA, Wallace RB. A short physical performance battery assessing lower extremity function: association with self-reported disability and prediction of mortality and nursing home admission. J Gerontol. 1994;49:M85-M94., The groups will be assessed at six times: at baseline; at week 8; 1-month, 3-months, 6-months and 24-months after LT.|Change in muscle mass, Bioelectrical impedance analysis will be completed using the Bodystat 1500 MDD, which is a multi-frequency body composition analyzer. Body fat percentage (%) will be compared to lean body mass percentage and total body water percentage to assess sarcopenia and nutritional status., The groups will be assessed at six times: at baseline; at week 8; 1-month, 3-months, 6-months and 24-months after LT.|Change in Quality of life, Short-Form Liver Disease Quality of Life (SF-LDQOL) is formed by 9 dimensions: symptoms of the disease, effects of the disease on the activities of daily life, memory/concentration, anxiety, sleep, loneliness, hopelessness, stigma for the disease and sexual functioning. The minimum and maximum values of the scale are 0-100, so that the higher the score, the better health related quality of life (HRQL)., The groups will be assessed at six times: at baseline; at week 8; 1-month, 3-months, 6-months and 24-months after LT.
The main objective is to study the post-surgical impact (post-S) of a Prehabilitation program on candidates for liver transplantation (LT), as well as to study the effects of posttransplant training on the clinical and functional evolution of the recipients. Also this project pretends to assess the influence of functional capacity (FC) improvement on the short and long term post-S evolution of the LT candidates. This is a prospective randomized clinical trial in which three phases follow: Prehabilitation, training and follow-up. The sample will be constituted by 60 candidates for LT, randomized in a control group (CG, n=20), a Prehabilitation group (PG, n=20) and a Prehabilitation-posttransplant training group (PTG, n=20). To conventional care, a Prehabilitation program will be added to the PG and PTG. After the LT, just PTG will follow a posttransplant training program. The long-term follow-up will be extended to 2 years post-LT. The variables under study will be: complications and post-S evolution; FC; quality of life; etc. The individualization of Prehabilitation and posttransplant training program, and also medical control, will ensure safety and offer the potential benefits that these types of programs can provide.