FFNP-PET/MR Imaging of Progesterone Receptor Expression in Invasive Breast Cancer
The goal of this research is to test the accuracy of PET/MRI imaging with 18F-fluorofuranylnorprogesterone (FFNP) for measuring progesterone receptor (PR) expression in patients with invasive breast cancer. The hypothesis is that FFNP SUVmax from PET/MRI will correlate well against the semi-quantitative PR immunohistochemistry score.
Invasive Breast Cancer
DRUG: [18F]Fluorofuranylnorprogesterone (FFNP) PET/MR Imaging
FFNP Uptake, To compare FFNP uptake of biopsy-proven primary PR+ breast malignancies measured using PET/MRI with the reference standard of PR immunohistochemistry (IHC) using a semi-quantitative score obtained by using the Allred score (0-8; the higher the score, the more receptors were found). The correlation of the two measures will be evaluated with Pearson's correlation coefficient. The null hypothesis is H0: p0=0.50 and the alternative hypothesis is H1: p1 =0.75., Up to 1 day
Test-Retest Reproducibility, Tumor uptake of FFNP and the ability to reproduce this measure, will be quantified in the 5 subjects who elect to undergo a second imaging session, using summary statistics of tumor FFNP uptake for each reading for PET/MRI. The analysis will be done separately for each reader., Up to 4 weeks|Intra and Inter-Observer Assessment, The variability of observer assessment of tumor FFNP uptake will be measured. The intra- and inter-reader agreement of SUV values for tumor FFNP uptake will be analyzed with Bland-Altman plots and 95% limits of agreement. Analyses will be conducted on a per-lesion basis, and repeat tumors within the same patient will be assumed to be independent., Up to 4 weeks|Association of tumor FFNP uptake with Oncotype DX score, Estimate the association of tumor FFNP uptake (continuous SUVmax) with research-based Oncotype DX scores (0-100). The risk score (0-100) is generated from expression levels of sixteen cancer related genes and five reference genes. Scores are further categorized as low-risk (0-17), intermediate-risk (18-30), and high-risk (31-100). Pearson's or Spearman's rank correlation will be used to evaluate the association between FFNP uptake and research-based Oncotype DX score. The correlation coefficient (rho) and 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 4 weeks|Distinguishing between PR Negative and PR Positive Breast Cancer, To evaluate the optimal cut-point of FFNP uptake for distinguishing between PR-negative and PR-positive invasive breast cancer. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis will be performed to determine the optimal cut-point for FFNP uptake to distinguish PR-positive from PR-negative invasive breast cancer, as defined by the clinical pathology report. The area under the curve for the ROCs and their respective two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using logistic regression. The optimal cut-off point will be determined by considering the FFNP uptake value with the maximum sensitivity and specificity. The analysis will be done separately for each reader, up to 4 weeks
Integrated whole-body magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-positron emission tomography (PET) scanners have recently been introduced for clinical use. This technology combines the anatomic and perfusion data obtained with dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) MRI with functional imaging data obtained from PET. For breast imaging, the combination of MRI and PET has important potential to improve diagnostic accuracy and provide molecular characterization of breast cancer. The overall purpose of this research is to test the accuracy of PET/MRI imaging with 18F-fluorofuranylnorprogesterone (FFNP) for measuring progesterone receptor (PR) expression in patients with invasive breast cancer.

This is a prospective, one-arm, study which will enroll patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer scheduled for diagnostic breast MRI for preoperative staging/extent of disease evaluation as part of standard of care. Participation in this research study includes a directed breast PET/MRI with the investigational radiopharmaceutical, FFNP. FFNP uptake of the known, biopsy-proven malignancy will be measured on the PET/MRI examinations using standardized uptake values (SUV) and tumor-to-normal tissue ratios.