Ablative Carbon Ion Radiotherapy With Pencil Beam Scanning for Locally Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
The aim of this study is to investigate the clinical efficacy and safety of ablative carbon ion radiotherapy for locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer with pencil beam scanning and simultaneous integrated boost (SIB) technology.
Pancreatic Cancer Non-resectable
RADIATION: Carbon ion radiotherapy
2-year cumulative local regional progression rate (LRP), LRP was defined as the percentage of patients with local disease progression (within irradiated area) in the intentional population., From the date of the initiation of radiotherapy until the date of first documented occurrence of local regional progression, assessed up to 24 months.
2-year Overall survival (OS), OS was defined as the percentage of patients dead in the intentional population., From the date of diagnosis until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months.|Acute toxicity, Toxicity was assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Safety and toxicity will be assessed by clinical examination, laboratory examination, and imaging (including CT, MRI, and/or PET/CT)., From the date of the initiation of radiotherapy until the date of 3 months after radiotherapy.|Late toxicity, Toxicity was assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Safety and toxicity will be assessed by clinical examination, laboratory examination, and imaging (including CT, MRI, and/or PET/CT)., 3 months after radiotherapy.
The aim of this study is to investigate the clinical efficacy and safety of ablative carbon ion radiotherapy for locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer using pencil beam scanning and simultaneous integrated boost technology with respect to toxicity and tumor control. All enrolled patients will receive carbon ion radiotherapy for the primary pancreatic lesions, positive lymph nodes, and retroperitoneal high-risk recurrence areas. The prescription dose for primary pancreatic lesion, positive lymph node, and retroperitoneal high-risk recurrence area is 67.5 Gy (RBE weighted dose) in 15 fractions for 3 weeks; Pancreatic primary lesion and positive lymph node SIB to 75 Gy (RBE weighted dose) in 15 fractions for 3 weeks. The primary endpoint is 2-year cumulative local regional progression rate (LRP), and the secondary endpoint is to assess the overall survival (OS) and toxicities. Toxicity was assessed using the Common Adverse Event Evaluation Criteria (CTCAE) Version 5.0, and safety and toxicity will be assessed by clinical examination, laboratory examination, and imaging (including CT, MRI, and/or PET/CT).