Multi-centers, Open-Label, Phase 2 Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Donor-Derived CD7 CAR T Cells in Subjects With Relapsed or Refractory T-cell Leukemia/Lymphoma
This is a multi-centers, single-arm, open label, Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CD7 CAR T cells in subjects with relapsed or refractory T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. Seventy subjects will be enrolled. CD7 CAR T cells will be given once intravenously at one dose (1×106, with an allowance of ± 20%) in patients received previous HSCT donor-derived CAR T cells. Patients who received fresh donor derived CD7 CAR T cells were given initial dose of 1×106, with an allowance of ± 20%. The dose levels may be adjusted during the study based on the specific number of cells on the day of fresh CAR T cells infusion, due to at this time all the patients have completed lymphodepleting, so we adopt the allowance of ±20% for each group of absolute infusion cells. And patients who were lower than the designed dose group were also given infusion, but they will be either assigned to the lower dose group or exclude from safety analysis of designed dose group.
T-cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Refractory T Lymphoblastic Leukemia/Lymphoma|Relapse/Recurrence
BIOLOGICAL: chimeric antigen receptor T cell treatment
Efficacy: Best overall response (BOR) rate, Best overall response (BOR) rate to the CAR T treatment, at 3 months
This is a multi-centers, single-arm, open label, Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CD7 CAR T cells in subjects with relapsed or refractory T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. Seventy subjects will be enrolled. CD7 CAR T cells will be given once intravenously at one dose (1×106, with an allowance of ± 20%) in patients received previous HSCT donor-derived CAR T cells. Patients who received fresh donor derived CD7 CAR T cells were given initial dose of 1×106, with an allowance of ± 20%. The dose levels may be adjusted during the study based on the specific number of cells on the day of fresh CAR T cells infusion, due to at this time all the patients have completed lymphodepleting, so we adopt the allowance of ±20% for each group of absolute infusion cells. And patients who were lower than the designed dose group were also given infusion, but they will be either assigned to the lower dose group or exclude from safety analysis of designed dose group.