Tracked Ultrasound for Patient Registration in Surgical Navigation During Abdominal Cancer Surgery
The goal of this observational pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility and accuracy of tracked ultrasound registration on patients undergoing abdominal cancer navigation surgery. The main research question is: Could tracked ultrasound be applied as an alternative to standard CBCT scanning in surgical navigation? Participants will undergo tracked ultrasound measurements of the pelvic bone on the operating room after patient anesthesia and before surgical incision.
Abdominal Cancer
DEVICE: Tracked ultrasound measurement
Accuracy of tracked ultrasound registration., To evaluate the accuracy of tracked ultrasound registration on patients undergoing abdominal cancer navigation surgery. This will be assessed using the target registration error in mm, where a lower error means a better outcome., One day
Influence of patient position alteration on registration accuracy., What is the influence of patient position alteration on the surgical navigation accuracy for standard Cone Beam CT and tracked ultrasound registration methods? This will be assessed using the target registration discrepancy in mm., One day|Measurement time of tracked ultrasound registration., The time duration of ultrasound measurements will be recorded and compared with the conventional Cone Beam CT method. A faster ultrasound measurement time means a better outcome., One day
Image-guided navigation surgery allows for full utilization of pre-operative imaging during surgery and has the potential of reducing both irradical resections and morbidity. Currently, registration is done by Cone-Beam CT (CBCT) scanning on the operating room (OR) prior to navigation surgery. However, standard CBCT scanning has several limitations, mainly limited availability on the hybrid OR and radiation exposure. Furthermore, standard CBCT scanning can only be performed in horizontal patient position, while the patient position mostly differs during surgery, such as the Trendelenburg position. The use of tracked ultrasound instead of standard CBCT could overcome these limitations, which might lead to an increased navigation accuracy and improved surgical outcomes. Therefore, the goal of this research is to evaluate the feasibility and accuracy of tracked ultrasound registration on patients undergoing abdominal cancer navigation surgery. The main research question is: Could tracked ultrasound be applied as an alternative to standard CBCT scanning in surgical navigation?