A Randomized Trial of Chemotherapy in Surgical Patients With Infiltrating Ductal Carcinoma of Breast
The overarching purpose of this study is to determine if the mainstay chemotherapeutic regimens represented by several genotoxic agents including but not limited to Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Epirubicin, Fluorouracil and Methotrexate (CDEFM), in the format of either a single agent or combinations are safe, tolerable, and effective in the treatment of patients with infiltrating ductal carcinoma of breast.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Single agent of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, epirubicin, fluorouracil and methotrexate|DRUG: cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, epirubicin, fluorouracil and methotrexate (CDEFM)|DRUG: Placebo
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, The case of emergent events caused by treatment is measured by counting the blood cell number and detecting liver and kidney functions. Total blood cell number, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) \> 20% above upper limit of normal, is considered as not safe.

Tolerability is measured by monitoring the first occurrence of grade 4 hematologic or grade 3-4 non hematologic toxicity as defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) (NCI-CTC version 4; or CTCAE v4.0) and/or disruption of chemotherapy because of inacceptable toxicity.

Chemotherapeutic efficacy is measured by the remaining tumor size after computed tomography (CT) scanning and comparing it with the original primary tumor size 2-3 weeks after last cycle of chemotherapy. The ratio of post-treatment tumor size to pre-treatment tumor size \< 50% is considered as effective. Otherwise not., 6 months
Circulating concentrations of tumor microenvironment-specific soluble factors, Influence of the cytotoxicity of chemotherapeutic regimens on the primary tumor microenvironment is systemically measured for each patient. The circulating amounts per volume of a group of literature-reported soluble factors including interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), Wnt family member 16B (WNT16B) and serine peptidase inhibitor Kazal type 1 (SPINK1) are measured in the peripheral blood 2-3 weeks post treatments to assess the influence of chemotherapies. Concentration of either IL-6 \> 50 ng/ml, IL-8 \> 80 ng/ml, GM-CSF \> 20 ng/ml, WNT16B \> 100 ng/ml or SPINK1 \> 60 ng/ml, is considered that the primary tumor has an activated microenvironment. The measurement continues for two more times, including one performed at 2 months and the other performed as 6 months after completion of chemotherapeutic regimens., 6 months
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma (IDC) of breast, or sometimes called invasive ductal carcinoma of breast, is the most common type of breast malignancy. About 80% of all breast cancers are IDCs.

Once found, IDC usually has already broken through the wall of the milk duct and begun to invade the tissues of the breast. Over time, IDC can spread to the lymph nodes and possibly to other areas of the body with high frequency.

According to the statistics of American Cancer Society, more than 180,000 women in the United States are diagnosed with IDC each year. Although IDC can affect women at any age, it is more common as they grow older. Further, approximately two-thirds of women are 55 or older when they are diagnosed with such this symptom.

The treatments for invasive ductal carcinoma fall into two broad categories. First, local treatments for IDC, including surgery and radiation, which treat the primary tumor and surrounding areas such as the chest and lymph nodes. Second, systemic treatments for IDC, including chemotherapy, hormone therapy and targeted therapy, which are supposed to deliver cytotoxicity throughout the body to eliminate any cancer cells that have left the primary site and to help minimize the risk of recurrent disease.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase I trial is to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of single or concurrent administration of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, epirubicin, fluorouracil and methotrexate (CDEFM) to women undergoing surgery for infiltrating ductal carcinoma in situ breast cancer.

RATIONALE: This is a randomized, controlled, open-labeled and multicenter, pilot study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (arms A or B). Patients accrued as control participants are assigned to arm C. to implement the study, the investigators will collect surgical samples of the primary tumor and periphery blood from breast cancer patients to assess the effects of chemotherapeutic regimens and correlation with post-therapy survival in the patient cohorts. Besides the five-year disease-free survival, overall survival and five-year metastasis-free survival post treatment, the investigators also analyze and evaluate the anticancer agent-induced tumor stroma damage extent, which may provide further evidence to confirm the treatment efficacy and appraise the potential influence of a damaged tumor microenvironment on disease progression or regression in clinical settings.