A Performance and Bioavailability Study of Entrectinib in Healthy Volunteers.
This study will evaluate the bioavailability, palatability, safety and tolerability of entrectinib in healthy volunteers. Part 1 of the study will explore the performance of entrectinib multi-particle formulation. Part 2 will evaluate the effect of drug substance particle size on entrectinib bioavailability.
Solid Tumor
DRUG: Entrectinib 600 mg (T1)|DRUG: Entrectinib 600 mg (T2)|DRUG: Entrectinib 200 mg (R)|DRUG: Entrectinib 200 mg (T)
Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to Infinity (AUC0-inf) of Entrectinib, At pre-defined intervals from study Day 1 to Day 5 of each periods (each period=7 days)|AUC0-inf of Entrectinib Active Metabolite M5, At pre-defined intervals from study Day 1 to Day 5 of each periods (each period=7 days)|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Entrectinib, At pre-defined intervals from study Day 1 to Day 5 of each periods (each period=7 days)|Cmax of Entrectinib Active Metabolite M5, At pre-defined intervals from study Day 1 to Day 5 of each periods (each period=7 days)
Percentage of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) are AEs that were not present before the first dose of study drug or that were present before the first dose of study drug but worsened in intensity during exposure to study drug., From Day -1 to Day 5 of each periods (each period=7 days)
This study will evaluate the bioavailability, palatability, safety and tolerability of entrectinib in healthy volunteers. Part 1 of the study will explore the performance of entrectinib multi-particle formulation. Part 2 will evaluate the effect of drug substance particle size on entrectinib bioavailability.