A Patient Navigation Program for Addressing Disparities in Breast Cancer Care
This clinical trial evaluates a patient navigation program for addressing disparities in breast cancer care. The navigation program is designed to help improve patient knowledge about clinical and supportive care services, navigate to existing services, help manage barriers to care, and enhance patient skills related to management of cancer treatment. Offering a patient navigation program may increase health equity and improve social needs and quality of life over time for newly diagnosed breast cancer patients.
Breast Carcinoma|Breast Ductal Carcinoma in Situ
BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigation|OTHER: Questionnaire
Enrollment rate, Enrollment rate Will be defined as the number of patients enrolled divided by the number of patients approached. The enrollment rate will be estimated with a 90% credible region obtained by Jeffrey's prior method., Up to 2 years|Reasons for refusal, Reported reasons of refusal will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies, Up to 2 years|Retention Rate, The number of patients that complete patient navigation divided by the number of patients enrolled, Up to 2 years|Reasons for discontinuation, Will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies, Up to 2 years
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Scale (EORTC QLQ-C30), the quality of life in breast cancer patients. Score averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale, higher score indicates better quality of life, Up to 2 years|Social Determinates of health, An 11 question survey . A score of 11 or more when the numerical values for answers to questions 7-10 are added shows that the person might not be safe., Up to 2 years|Barriers to care, Patient navigators will meet with participants to discuss barriers to care. Results will be summarized, Up to 2 years|Use of supportive services, Will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies, Up to 2 years|Patient Satisfaction survey, Will be summarized (by time as appropriate) using frequencies and relative frequencies, up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Implement a patient navigation program in the Roswell Park Breast Clinic focused on underserved women with a first cancer diagnosis of breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) (n=126).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Systematically address barriers to care by connecting women with multiple barriers of care with a first diagnosis of breast cancer or DCIS to supportive services and culturally appropriate resources.