Microwave Ablation Versus Laparoscopic Hepatectomy for 3-5cm Hepatocellular Carcinoma
As the most common subtype of liver cancer (85% \~ 90%), HCC is highly malignant; thus, one of the crucial issues in HCC management is an effective therapy for tumors at an early stage, which is vital for improving the prognosis of patients. For ≤3cm HCC, ablation has been recommended by international guidelines as a first-line or alternative treatment because of similar survival outcomes and milder liver function injury with liver resection (LR). However, the appropriate treatment options for 3-5cm HCC remain controversial. Thus, none of the international guidelines recommend ablation as a first-line treatment for 3-5cm HCC. In the past few decades, treatment for HCC has tended to be less invasive, have fewer complications, and have higher cost-effectiveness. Compared with LR, laparoscopic Hepatectomy (LH) demonstrates the advancement of minimal invasion. As another minimally invasive technique for HCC, Microwave Ablation (MWA) has the potential to eradicate larger HCCs with larger coagulation areas and is less affected by the heat sink effect caused by vessels around the tumor. Many studies have identified the potential advantages of MWA over other ablation techniques. However, to date, no clinical studies have compared the efficacy of LH and MWA therapies for 3-5cm HCC with periodic progression.
Overall Survival|Progression-free Survival|Cost
PROCEDURE: Microwave Ablation
Overall survival, OS was defined as death related to any cause and was indexed from the date of ablation or surgery until last contact or death, More than 3 years|Progession-free survival, DFS was defined as the time interval between first treatment and recurrence or death, whichever occurred earlier., More than 3 years
As the most common subtype of liver cancer (85% \~ 90%), HCC is highly malignant; thus, one of the crucial issues in HCC management is an effective therapy for tumors at an early stage, which is vital for improving the prognosis of patients. For ≤3cm HCC, ablation has been recommended by international guidelines as a first-line or alternative treatment because of similar survival outcomes and milder liver function injury with liver resection (LR). However, the appropriate treatment options for 3-5cm HCC remain controversial. Thus, none of the international guidelines recommend ablation as a first-line treatment for 3-5cm HCC. In the past few decades, treatment for HCC has tended to be less invasive, have fewer complications, and have higher cost-effectiveness. Compared with LR, laparoscopic Hepatectomy (LH) demonstrates the advancement of minimal invasion. As another minimally invasive technique for HCC, Microwave Ablation (MWA) has the potential to eradicate larger HCCs with larger coagulation areas and is less affected by the heat sink effect caused by vessels around the tumor. Many studies have identified the potential advantages of MWA over other ablation techniques. However, to date, no clinical studies have compared the efficacy of LH and MWA therapies for 3-5cm HCC with periodic progression.