Study of CB-839 in Combination w/ Paclitaxel in Participants of African Ancestry and Non-African Ancestry With Advanced Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC)
CX-839-007 is an open-label Phase 2 study of the combination of CB-839 with paclitaxel in participants of African ancestry and non-African ancestry with advanced triple negative breast cancer. Multiple single-arm cohorts will be enrolled in which 800 mg twice daily (BID) CB-839 will be administered in combination with the full approved dose of paclitaxel.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer|TNBC - Triple-Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: CB-839
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1criteria:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. To be assigned a status of CR or PR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessment performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response were first met., Maximum duration of follow-up for ORR was 14.8 months.
Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Investigator, PFS was defined as time from the first dose date to the earlier of either progression of disease per RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause. The duration of progression-free survival was censored at the date of last radiographic disease if the patient was alive and progression free at the time of analysis data cutoff, disease progression or death occurred after missing data for 2 consecutive radiographic disease assessments, or patient received non-protocol TNBC treatment prior to documentation of disease progression. Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates. Brookmeyer-Crowley methodology for a non-parametric 95% confidence interval (CI) is used.

Progressive Disease (PD) per RECIST 1.1: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Maximum duration of follow-up for PFS was 17.0 months.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the first dose date to death due to any cause. For patients alive at time of analysis, overall survival will be censored at the time when the patient is last known to be alive.Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates. Brookmeyer-Crowley methodology for a non-parametric 95% CI is used. Median is defined to be the smallest observed survival time for which the value of the estimated survival function is less than or equal to 0.5., Maximum duration of follow-up for OS was 24.1 months.|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response is defined as the time between the first documentation of a confirmed PR or a CR to the first documentation of PD or death, whichever occurs first. The duration of response will be censored at the date of last radiographic disease if the patient is alive and progression free at the time of database lock, disease progression or death occurs after missing data for two consecutive radiographic disease assessments, or patient receives non-protocol TNBC treatment prior to documentation of disease progression.

RECIST v1.1 criteria:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Maximum duration of follow-up for DOR was 14.8 months.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical Benefit Rate is defined as the percentage of patients with best response of CR, PR, or SD per RECIST v1.1 criteria lasting ≥ 16 weeks for 3rd line + patients and ≥ 24 weeks for 1st line patients. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Maximum duration of follow-up for CBR was 14.8 months.
Participants will be enrolled into 4 cohorts, as follows:

* Cohort 1: patients of African ancestry with 2 or more lines of prior therapy for metastatic disease
* Cohort 2: patients of African ancestry with no prior lines of therapy for metastatic disease
* Cohort 3: same as cohort 1 but in patients of non-African ancestry
* Cohort 4: same as cohort 2 but in patients of non-African ancestry