Study of BMN-673 With Carboplatin and Paclitaxel in Patients With Advanced BRCA-mutated Solid Tumor or Triple Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
Open label, non-randomized, dose escalation and expansion Phase Ia/b trial to evaluate the safety of the combination of BMN 673 and carboplatin, and subsequently BMN 673 in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin to determine the recommended Phase II dose of the combination.
Triple Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer|BRCA-mutated Solid Tumor
DRUG: BMN-673|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Response rate of combination (BMN 673 + carboplatin) in patients with BRCA germline mutations or triple negative cancer without known BRCA mutations, in solid tumor malignancies with paclitaxel with a 15 patient cohort expansion at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Response and progression in this study will be evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee., From date of randomization until the date of Initial response to the first documented tumor progression or date of death from any cause, up to 18 months.
Intolerable Toxicity, Analyses of adverse events will be performed for all patients having received at least one dose of study drug. The study will use the CTCAE v4.0 for reporting of non-hematologic adverse events., From first dose to 30 day follow up.
Poly adenosine diphosphate-ribose polymerase (PARP) 1/2 inhibitors are a novel class of anticancer agents that have shown activity in tumors with defects in DNA repair and may induce synthetic lethality in combination with agents that induce DNA damage by preventing DNA repair.

The rationale of this study is to determine whether a DNA damaging agent can potentiate the cell death induced by PARP inhibitors in individuals with tumor that are more susceptible to chemotherapy.

The study will evaluate the potential benefits of BMN 673 in combination with weekly carboplatin in patients with metastatic tumors associated with BRCA germ line mutations or patients with triple negative breast cancer with no known BRCA mutation, subsequently if tolerated, an additional cohort will examine the feasibility of adding paclitaxel to this combination for any solid tumor malignancies with potential benefit to this combination.

This is the first study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of BMN 673 in combination with carboplatin in patients with either BRCA mutations or TNBC. If tolerable paclitaxel will be added to the combination in any solid tumor malignancies with potential benefit to this combination.