Optimal Neo-adjuvant Combination Scheme of Ipilimumab and Nivolumab
This is an open-label three-arm phase 2 trial (including a Simon stage 2 design) consisting of 90 stage III melanoma patients randomized 1:1:1 to receive either 2 courses 3 mg/kg ipilimumab + 1 mg/kg nivolumab every 3 weeks (Arm A), 2 courses 1 mg/kg ipilimumab + 3 mg/kg nivolumab every 3 weeks (Arm B), or 2 courses ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, directly followed by 2 courses nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks (Arm C). All three treatment arms are applied prior to surgery at week 6, 30 patients per arm. Patients will be stratified according to treatment center. An interim analysis will be performed after 13 patients have been included in each arm, thus in total 39 patients have been included.

PRADO extension cohort The trial will enroll in total about 100-110 melanoma patients with macroscopic stage III disease (RECIST measurable disease); inclusion will stop when 50 patients have achieved a pCR or pnCR. All patients will be treated (after marker placement into the largest lymph node metastasis) with the winner combination identified in the first part of the OpACIN-neo study which is 2 courses ipilimumab 1mg/kg + nivolumab 3mg/kg, q3wks. After 6 weeks of treatment, the patients will undergo only surgical resection of the marked index lymph node. Thereafter subsequent surgery and adjuvant therapy will be performed according to the achieved pathologic response.
Malignant Melanoma Stage III
DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Surgery|PROCEDURE: Blood for PBMCs|PROCEDURE: Biopsies
Safety as measured by the frequency of grade 3/4 immune-related adverse events, using CTCAE 4.03, During the first 12 weeks.|Response rate according to RECIST 1.1, At 6 weeks|Pathological response according to central pathological revision, according to pathological response criteria, At 6 weeks|Pathologic response rate according to central revision of the marked index lymph node, At 6 weeks, prior surgery|RFS at 24 months in patients achieving pCR or pnCR in their marked index lymph node and did not undergo CLND. RFS will be calculated from date of resection of the marked lymph node., 24 months|RFS at 24 months in patients with pNR and being subsequently treated with adjuvant nivolumab+optional radiotherapy (or dabrafenib/trametinib if BRAFV600E pos. and treatment is approved). RFS will be calculated from day of resection of marked lymph node., 24 months
Recurrence Free Survival, 3 years after treatment initiation|Description of late adverse events using CTCAE 4.03, Up to 3 years after treatment initiation until new treatment|Description of associations of mutational load, RNA tumor signatures, and tumor educated platelet signatures with tumor immune infiltrates and response, At 6 weeks|Response rate according to RECIST 1.1 at week 6, At 6 weeks|RFS at 2, 3 and 5 years, Up to 5 years after treatment
EFS at 2, 3 and 5 years, Up to 5 years after treatment|DMFS at 2, 3 and 5 years, Up to 5 years after treatment|OS at 2, 3 and 5 years, Up to 5 years after treatment|Grade 3/4 immune-related adverse event rate according to CTCAE v4.03 within the first 12 weeks, At 12 weeks|• Surgical complication rates according to Clavien-Dindo surgical classification of only marked index lymph node resection vs. CLND, At 12 weeks|• Description of late adverse event (up to 3 years after treatment initiation) according to CTCAE v4.03, Up to 3 years after treatment
This is an open-label three-arm phase 2 trial (including a Simon stage 2 design) consisting of 90 stage III melanoma patients randomized 1:1:1 to receive either 2 courses 3 mg/kg ipilimumab + 1 mg/kg nivolumab every 3 weeks (Arm A), 2 courses 1 mg/kg ipilimumab + 3 mg/kg nivolumab every 3 weeks (Arm B), or 2 courses ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, directly followed by 2 courses nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks (Arm C). All three treatment arms are applied prior to surgery at week 6, 30 patients per arm. Patients will be stratified according to treatment center. An interim analysis will be performed after 13 patients have been included in each arm, thus in total 39 patients have been included.

PRADO extension cohort The trial will enroll in total about 100-110 melanoma patients with macroscopic stage III disease (RECIST measurable disease); inclusion will stop when 50 patients have achieved a pCR or pnCR. All patients will be treated (after marker placement into the largest lymph node metastasis) with the winner combination identified in the first part of the OpACIN-neo study which is 2 courses ipilimumab 1mg/kg + nivolumab 3mg/kg, q3wks. After 6 weeks of treatment, the patients will undergo only surgical resection of the marked index lymph node. Thereafter subsequent surgery and adjuvant therapy will be performed according to the achieved pathologic response.