MabThera (Rituximab) in Combination With CHOP (or CHOP-like) Chemotherapy in Patients With Aggressive B-Cell Lymphoma
Evaluation of efficacy, safety profile and tolerability of rituximab (MabThera) in combination with chemotherapy in the treatment of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL). Participants, who were not treated previously for DLBCL, will receive MabThera in combination with Cyclophosphamide, Hydroxydaunorubicin, Oncovin, Prednisone (CHOP) or CHOP-like chemotherapy according to registered indication. Patients will be followed up for safety and efficacy evaluation in accordance with routine practice. The study will be non-interventional and by its design purely observational. All treatments prescribed during the observation period will be at the treating physician's discretion and will be prescribed according to package labeling, within approved indication and local approval status of respective drugs.
Lymphoma, Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse, Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Lymphoma, Non Hodgkin, Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Hydroxydaunorubicin|DRUG: Oncovin|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Rituximab
Probability of Event Free Survival (EFS), EFS was calculated as the time from randomization to the date of first reported event. Events were defined as disease progression or relapse, institution of a new anticancer treatment, or death from any cause without progression., Up to 41 months
Percentage of Participants Who Were Alive, Percentage of participants with survival was calculated 41 months after the first dose of study treatment., Up to 41 months
Evaluation of efficacy, safety profile and tolerability of rituximab (MabThera) in combination with chemotherapy in the treatment of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL). Participants, who were not treated previously for DLBCL, will receive MabThera in combination with Cyclophosphamide, Hydroxydaunorubicin, Oncovin, Prednisone (CHOP) or CHOP-like chemotherapy according to registered indication. Patients will be followed up for safety and efficacy evaluation in accordance with routine practice. The study will be non-interventional and by its design purely observational. All treatments prescribed during the observation period will be at the treating physician's discretion and will be prescribed according to package labeling, within approved indication and local approval status of respective drugs.