DuRvalumab With chEmotherapy as First Line treAtment in Advanced Pleural Mesothelioma
Patients with pleural mesothelioma (PM) that cannot be surgically removed will receive standard chemotherapy (cisplatin or carboplatin and pemetrexed) given with durvalumab, a type of immunotherapy, or a treatment chosen by the study doctor, which is either standard chemotherapy or immunotherapy combination (ipilimumab and nivolumab).

Durvalumab is an antibody (a type of human protein) that works by blocking a body substance called Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1). Blocking PD-L1 helps the body's immune system attack cancer cells. Research has shown that durvalumab can slow tumor growth and shrink tumors in some people with cancer. Previous studies of combining durvalumab and chemotherapy showed that this combination is active in advanced mesothelioma.

The purpose of this study is to see whether adding durvalumab to standard chemotherapy will improve overall survival (OS) in patients with PM.
Mesothelioma|Pleural Mesothelioma|Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Standard Chemotherapy|DRUG: Ipilimumab and Nivolumab
Effects on Overall Survival, Defined as the time from randomisation to the date of death due to any cause., Minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation.
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the interval from date of randomisation to the date of first evidence of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first., Performed at baseline, then at weeks 6, 12, 18, 26, 34, 42, 50 and then every 12 weeks until disease progression (minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation).|Objective Tumour Response Rate (OTRR), Percentage of participants with either Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) assessed according to modified Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for response in malignant pleural mesothelioma., Performed at baseline, then at weeks 6, 12, 18, 26, 34, 42, 50 and then every 12 weeks until disease progression (minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation).|Classify and grade participants adverse events as assessed by CTCAE V5.0, Classify and grade participants abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events., 90 days after last dose of immunotherapy or 30 days after last dose of chemotherapy, whichever is longer.|Health-Related Quality of Life (QOL): QLQ-C30, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30), Importance of QOL issues assessed using a four-point scale (1 = not at all, 4 = very much)., Performed at baseline, then at weeks 6, 12, 18, 26, 34, 42, 50, then every 12 weeks until disease progression and at first progression visit (minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation).|Health-Related QOL: LC29, EORTC Quality of Life Lung Cancer Module (QLQ-LC29), Importance of QOL issues assessed using a four-point scale (1 = not at all, 4 = very much)., Performed at baseline, then at weeks 6, 12, 18, 26, 34, 42, 50, then every 12 weeks until disease progression and at first progression visit (minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation).|Health-Related QOL: EQ-5D-5L, Euro-Quality of Life (EuroQoL) 5 dimension 5 level (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire, comprising of 5 questions with a score from 1 (no problem) to 5 (extreme problem) and a visual analog scale from 0 (worst) to 100 (best)., Performed at baseline, then at weeks 6, 12, 18, 26, 34, 42, 50, then every 12 weeks and at first progression visit until disease progression (minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation).|Health Care Usage Costs: Hospitalization, Australian Sites Only: Hospitalization costs calculated by applying Australian unit costs to Australian Refined Diagnostic Related Groups (AR DRG) costs for hospitalizations., Minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation.|Health Care Usage Costs: Scheduled Visits to Health Professionals, Australian Sites Only: Scheduled costs for visits to health professionals collected via Medical Benefits Schedule (MBS)., Minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation.|Health Care Usage Costs: Medications, Australian Sites Only: Scheduled costs for medications collected via the Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule (PBS)., Minimum follow-up is 24 months after randomisation.
Mesothelioma is a malignant tumor of the mesothelial surfaces primarily arising in the thoracic pleura. In the United Kingdom and USA the expected number of cases in the next few decades are 65,000 and 85,000, respectively. Once diagnosed, this disease is rarely cured with a median survival of less than a year.

This is an International, Open-Label, Multi-center, Phase III study. Patients will be randomized 1:1 to receive (a) chemotherapy given with durvalumab versus (b) physician's choice of either chemotherapy alone, or ipilimumab and nivolumab.

Experimental Arm:

- Durvalumab every 3 weeks + standard chemotherapy (cisplatin or carboplatin every 3 weeks + pemetrexed every 3 weeks) for 4 to 6 cycles, followed by durvalumab every 4 weeks until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient withdrawal.

Control Arm: Physician Choice

* Standard chemotherapy (cisplatin or carboplatin every 3 weeks + pemetrexed every 3 weeks) for 4 to 6 cycles followed by observation
* Ipilimumab every 6 weeks and nivolumab every 2 or 3 weeks \[physician discretion\] for up to 2 years until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient withdrawal .

Tumor assessments and Quality of Life (QOL) forms will be performed at baseline, then at weeks 6, 12, 18, 26, 34, 42, 50 and then every 12 weeks until disease progression. The QOL forms will also be repeated during the first visit after progression.

Mandatory pre-treatment tumor tissue sample (i.e., obtained during a previous procedure or biopsy) for research will also be required. Blood samples for research at 3 time points will be done.

The study is being led jointly by PrECOG as the US sponsor and University of Sydney as the international sponsor.