Endocrine Therapy-Induced Alopecia in Postmenopausal and Premenopausal Female Breast Cancer Patients
This study evaluates endocrine therapy-induced alopecia among postmenopausal and premenopausal female patients with breast cancer. Alopecia is one of the most feared side effects of cancer-directed therapy, causing distress in women starting treatment for breast cancer. While alopecia is a well-known side effect of many chemotherapy drugs, it has also been reported by women undergoing endocrine therapy. Despite the frequent reports of alopecia related to endocrine therapy, hair loss is rarely reported as a side effect of endocrine therapy and the exact characterization of alopecia is not well understood. By having postmenopausal and premenopausal breast cancer patients describe their hair loss symptoms experienced while undergoing endocrine therapy, researchers may be able to better characterize the incidence, timing, duration, and severity of alopecia and whether the different types of endocrine therapy cause more or less trouble in this regard.
Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration
Estimation and characterization of patient-reported treatment-emergent alopecia within and across the cohorts, Exact 95% confidence intervals will be created within each cohort and compared graphically using forest plots. Plots of alopecia incidence rates and severity will be plotted over time by cohort., Up to study completion; up to two years|Overall impact on patient's quality of life, Descriptive summaries of all the questions on the baseline and follow-up questionnaires will be tabulated to facilitate our understanding of patient-experienced alopecia and to provide a comprehensive picture of how alopecia is treated, as well as to quantify the overall impact on patient's quality of life. Standardized differences will be computed in order to give a common metric for all variables. The largest standardized difference between the pairwise cohorts will be reported., Up to study completion; up to two years|Incidence rate of treatment-emergent alopecia, A cumulative incidence function will be estimated in order to calculate the cumulative incidence rate (i.e. time to initial onset) of treatment-emergent alopecia, treating death and disease progression as competing risks for each cohort. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to compare differences between treatment-emergent alopecia risk between the control cohort (n=20) and the combined treatment cohorts (n = 80). The covariates included in the regression model will include age (years) and alopecia scores at baseline., Up to study completion; up to two years|Risk of treatment-emergent alopecia, A longitudinal analysis will be used for the binary response of whether the patient experiences treatment-emergent alopecia; this mixed model will contain an interaction between control versus treatment cohort and time, both as categorical variables, and a random intercept and slope by patient. The above covariates will also be adjusted for and piecewise splices will be used to account for any nonlinearity. The goal of the longitudinal analysis is to explore whether the risk of treatment-emergent alopecia increases with endocrine therapy exposure over time and whether this risk differs between cohorts., Up to study completion; up to two years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe the incidence, characteristics, and severity of alopecia related to endocrine therapy in four cohorts of postmenopausal women who have had a diagnosis of breast cancer: patients undergoing endocrine therapy with tamoxifen, patients undergoing endocrine therapy with an aromatase inhibitor, patients undergoing therapy with an aromatase inhibitor in addition to a CDK4/6 inhibitor, and patients not receiving endocrine therapy. A fifth cohort of patients will also be included, consisting of premenopausal women receiving any type of endocrine therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate the difference in incidence, characteristics, and severity of alopecia between the aforementioned five cohorts of patients.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Patients complete alopecia questionnaires and surveys and have medical records reviewed on study.