Anti-BCMA Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This is an open-label study to determine the safety of anti-B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR T) therapy in participants with Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma (RRMM).
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Manufactured Anti-BCMA CAR-T cells|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Proportion of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events (AE) (Dose Escalation), Proportion of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events of CAR-T as graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0, revised cytokine release syndromeCRS grading criteria (for CRS), and American Society of Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) Immune Effector Cell Associated Neurotoxicity (ICANS) Consensus Grading for Adults (for neurotoxicity)., From initiation of study treatment (day 1) to 29 days following CAR-T infusion|Proportion of participants who experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) (Dose Escalation), The DLT evaluable analysis set includes all participants in the dose-finding part of the study who have received the anti-BCMA CAR-T cell product, and who have either experienced a DLT or were followed for the full DLT evaluation period (within 28 days following infusion of CAR-T cells targeting BCMA). The MTD is defined as the dose level immediately below that in which \>=2/6 participants experience a DLT and will be used to determine the recommended Phase 2 dose for future studies., From initiation of study treatment (day 1) to 29 days following CAR-T infusion|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate includes participants with a demonstrated Stringent Complete Response (sCR), Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria reported as proportion with 90% binomial confidence interval for the expansion cohort including the patients on MTD in the dose escalation cohort, Up to 12 months following CAR- T infusion
Duration of response, This is measured, only in responders, from the documented beginning of response (sCR, CR, PR or VGPR) to the time of progression per IMWG criteria for the expansion cohort including the patients on MTD in the dose escalation cohort, Up to 12 months following CAR- T infusion|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the rate of survival from the the time from entry onto study until MM progression by IMWG criteria, or death from any cause for the expansion cohort including the patients on MTD in the dose escalation cohort., Up to 12 months following CAR- T infusion|Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as the time from entry onto study until multiple myeloma progression or death from any cause. and will be be analyzed by Kaplan-Meier method for the expansion cohort including the patients on MTD in the dose escalation cohort., Up to 15 years|Proportion of participants for whom BCMA CAR T-cell therapy is manufactured successfully, Participants who have anti-BCMA CAR T-cells successfully manufactured locally and are able to produce adequate quantities of vector positive T-cells which meet pre-specified release criteria., From initiation of CAR T-cell manufacturing to end of infusion, up to 21 days|Proportion of participants who complete study treatment, Participants who have anti-BCMA CAR T-cells successfully manufactured locally and are able to produce adequate quantities of vector positive T-cells which meet pre-specified release criteria which are then infused with the drug product., From initiation of CAR T-cell manufacturing to end of infusion, up to 21 days|Proportion of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events (AE) (Dose Expansion), Proportion of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events of CAR-T as graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0, revised cytokine release syndrome CRS grading criteria (for CRS), and American Society of Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) Immune Effector Cell Associated Neurotoxicity (ICANS) Consensus Grading for Adults (for neurotoxicity)., From initiation of CAR T-cell manufacturing to end of first follow-up, approximately 13 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

1. To evaluate the safety of administering chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells targeting BCMA to participants with RRMM (Dose Escalation).
2. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for anti-BCMA CAR-T cells (Dose Escalation).
3. Determine whether administering chimeric antigen receptor T cells targeting BCMA to participants with RRMM increases the overall response rate (ORR) in RRMM compared with historical data for non-CAR agents per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria (Dose Expansion).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

Dose Expansion Only:

1. To describe the efficacy of CAR-T cells targeting BCMA in participants with RRMM.
2. To evaluate the feasibility of manufacturing anti-BCMA CAR-T cells locally and ability to produce adequate quantities of vector positive T-cells.
3. To evaluate the safety and toxicity of CAR-T cells targeting BCMA to participants with RRMM

OUTLINE:

Participants will be enrolled sequentially to each dose level dependent on analysis of dose-limiting toxicities at the previous dose level. A dose expansion will occur at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Participants will undergo apheresis with collection of autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells that will be used to generate CAR-T cells. After successful generation of the anti-BCMA CAR-T cells drug product (DP), participants will undergo lymphodepleting chemotherapy with fludarabine (and cyclophosphamide. Participants will undergo an additional evaluation of eligibility on Day -1 or 1 prior to infusion of anti-BCMA CAR-T cell product. A single infusion of anti-BCMA CAR-T cells at the starting dose will be given on Day 1. Following treatment with DP, participants will be followed up at 12 months and annually for up to 15 years.