Study Assessing Fosaprepitant in Advanced NSCLC Patients Treated With Carboplatin Based Chemotherapy
This study evaluates the addition of fosaprepitant to currently available antiemtic treatments of carboplatin chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients. Half of the patients will receive fosaprepitant in their first chemotherapy cycle, and a placebo on their second chemotherapy cycle. The other half of the patients will begin their first chemotherapy cycle.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Vomiting|Nausea|Emesis
DRUG: FOSAPREPITANT (Emend)|DRUG: Placebo
Assess the impact of addition of fosaprepitant upon the complete response (C.R.) rate (no emetic episodes or use of rescue medications) in patients with advanced NSCLC receiving carboplatin-based combination chemotherapy., The primary end point of the study is to determine the proportion of patients in each of the two groups (placebo and fosaprepitant) who achieve a CR, defined as no vomiting, no retching and no rescue therapy during days 1-5 following the first two cycles of carboplatin based combination chemotherapy using an intent to-treat (ITT) analysis., Days 1-5 following the first two cycles of carboplatin based combination chemotherapy
No emesis (defined as no emetic episodes regardless of use of rescue therapy), No emesis (defined as no emetic episodes regardless of use of rescue therapy), Collection of data at the completion of 2 cycles, day 42.|Asses nausea based on visual analog scale (VAS), Assessment of nausea based on visual analog scale (VAS) and symptoms measured by M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory to capture the following end points:

1. No nausea (maximum VAS \<5 mm on a 0 to 100 mm scale)
2. No significant nausea (maximum VAS \<25 mm on a 0 to 100 mm scale)
3. Complete protection (defined as no emetic episodes, no use of rescue therapy, and a maximum nausea visual analogue scale \[VAS\] score \<25 mm on a 0 to 100 mm scale), Collection of data at the completion of 2 cycles, day 42.|Patient's preferred cycle, After the 2 cycles, determine patient's stated preferred cycle., Collection of data at the completion of 2 cycles, day 42.
The addition of aprepitant to 5HT-3 antagonist and steroid is approved for the prevention of acute and delayed nausea for highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC). The use of oral aprepitant 3 day regimen has been evaluated in moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. However, its use has not been explored in carboplatin containing combination regimens in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). An equivalency study compared fosaprepitant, a 1-day intravenous formulation of aprepitant, with oral aprepitant. Findings demonstrate equivalence between the agents for complete response and both emesis and nausea control. Fosaprepitant was endorsed by the ASCO Update Committee as an acceptable NK1 receptor antagonist. However, there has been no evaluation of this iv formulation with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy and specifically carboplatin containing regimens in NSCLC. Therefore, the investigators propose a double-blind, randomized placebo controlled cross-over phase II study assessing the role of fosaprepitant in the prevention of nausea and emesis in patients receiving carboplatin based chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC.

Patients will be treated with Emend/ placebo administered intravenously on day 1 of cycles 1 of carboplatin based chemotherapy with crossover to the alternate agent (placebo/ Emend) on day 1 of cycle 2 with each cycle being 21 days. Fosaprepitant will be administered intravenously on day 1 of either cycle 1 or cycle 2 prior to carboplatin based chemotherapy. Placebo will be administered as the alternative agent. Study team and the subject will be blinded to fosaprepitant versus placebo.