Brentuximab Vedotin and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With CD30-Positive Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well brentuximab vedotin and combination chemotherapy work in treating patients with CD30-positive peripheral T-cell lymphoma. Brentuximab vedotin is a monoclonal antibody, brentuximab, linked to a toxic agent called vedotin. Brentuximab attaches to CD30 positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, and prednisone work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving brentuximab vedotin and combination chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with CD30-positive peripheral T-cell lymphoma.
Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma, ALK-Negative|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma, ALK-Positive|Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Noncutaneous Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Noncutaneous Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Noncutaneous Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Enteropathy-Associated T-Cell Lymphoma|Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma|Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified
DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Etoposide Phosphate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Prednisone
Complete Response (CR) Rate After Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Etoposide, Prednisone, and Brentuximab Vedotin (CHEP-BV) Induction Therapy, CR rate was estimated by the proportion of evaluable patients achieving CR after CHEP-BV induction therapy, along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to the end of the CHEP-BV treatment
Overall Survival at 1 Year, Overall survival (OS) was measured from enrollment to death from any cause. OS was estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error., The time from enrollment to death from any cause assessed up to 1 year.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride (doxorubicin), etoposide phosphate (etoposide), prednisone, and brentuximab vedotin (CHEP-BV), as induction therapy in patients with CD30-positive peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL). (Safety lead-in) II. Assess the anti-lymphoma activity of CHEP-BV as induction treatment in patients with CD30-positive PTCL. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe outcomes of CD30-positive PTCL patients who go on to receive BV consolidation therapy post CHEP-BV induction with/without autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation/radiation.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity (as assessed by next-generation sequencing) and MRD kinetics after CHEP-BV and BV consolidation therapy in CD30-positive PTCL.

II. Explore the possible association between outcome after study treatment and CD30 expression, gene expression profiles (GEP), and genetic mutations as measured in PTCL tumor samples.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) and doxorubicin IV on day 1, etoposide IV on days 1-3, and prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-5. Patients also receive brentuximab vedotin IV over approximately 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles (or for up to 5 cycles for patients who received 1 cycle of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone \[CHOP\]-like or brentuximab vedotin, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone \[CHP-BV\] therapy prior to induction, per investigator's discretion) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Between 30-60 days post-consolidative autologous stem cell therapy, post-consolidative radiation therapy, or after completing induction cycle 6 (cycle 5 for patients who qualify for receiving 5 cycles of CHEP-BV instead of 6), patients with objective response (complete response or partial response) receive brentuximab vedotin IV over approximately 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 10 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 6 months, and 12 months.