A Study of Bevacizumab With Carboplatin and Paclitaxel Chemotherapy for the First-Line Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
This Phase II, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was designed to estimate the efficacy and characterize the safety of bevacizumab when combined with carboplatin + paclitaxel chemotherapy compared with carboplatin + paclitaxel chemotherapy alone in patients with previously untreated metastatic melanoma.
Melanoma
DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: placebo
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from randomization to documented disease progression (at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions) or death on study (death from any cause occurring no later than 30 days after last dose of any study treatment), whichever occurred first, as determined by the investigator using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization up to102 weeks. As of the clinical cut-off date (April 2009), the maximum time on treatment was 88 weeks, median time was 12.4 weeks for the Placebo arm and 16.1 weeks for the bevacizumab arm.
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Median OS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. For patients without documentation of death, overall survival will be censored at the time of the last known contact., Up to 102 weeks|Number of Participants With Objective Response, Objective response was assessed by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria and was inclusive of complete and partial response determined on two consecutive investigator assessments conducted ≥ 4 weeks apart., Up to 102 weeks|Percentage of Participants With an Objective Response, Objective response was defined as a complete or partial response according to RECIST criteria as assessed by the investigator on two consecutive assessments conducted at least 4 weeks apart.

The 95% Confidence Interval (CI) was calculated using the normal approximation to the binomial distribution., Up to 102 weeks|Duration of Objective Response, Duration of objective response was defined as the time from the initial objective response to documented disease progression or death, whichever occurred first, assessed by the investigator using RECIST. Progressive disease was defined as at least 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since treatment started, or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Duration of response was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 102 weeks|Six-month Landmark Survival Rate, Six-month Landmark Survival Rate was defined as the percentage of participants surviving at 6 months following randomization. Overall Survival was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., 6 months|Twenty-Four Week Landmark Stable Disease, As assessed by the investigator using RECIST and defined as the absence of disease progression for 24 weeks from the time of randomization.

The percentage of patients who did not experience disease progression or death at 24 weeks following randomization was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. If no tumor assessments were performed after the baseline visit, the patient will be censored at the date of randomization plus 1 day., 24 weeks|Number of Participants With Select Adverse Events, Adverse events were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE), v3.0. Select adverse events included arterial thromboembolic events (any grade), bleeding other than pulmonary or central nervous system (CNS) bleeding (Grade \>= 3), CNS bleeding (any grade), febrile neutropenia (any grade), hypertension (Grade \>= 3), neutropenia (Grade \>= 3), pulmonary bleeding (any grade) and wound dehiscence (Grade \>= 3).

\*All serious adverse events are listed in the Adverse Event Reporting section., Participants were monitored for AEs from initiation of treatment to 30 days after treatment termination.
This Phase II, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was designed to estimate the efficacy and characterize the safety of bevacizumab when combined with carboplatin + paclitaxel chemotherapy compared with carboplatin + paclitaxel chemotherapy alone in patients with previously untreated metastatic melanoma.