Right Side of Heart Function After Lung Surgery
The purpose of this study is explore the impact of lung cancer surgery on the function of the right side of the heart.
Lung Cancer|Ventricular Failure, Right
PROCEDURE: Lung resection
Right ventricular ejection fraction, The primary objective of this study is determine whether RVEF falls post-operatively in patients undergoing lung resection. The primary outcome is RVEF at 3 days post-lung resection compared to pre-operative values determined by CMR., 3 days
Association between RVEF and contractility / loading indices, Changes in RVEF must be interpreted in the context of changes in RV contractility and loading parameters. Changes in pre-load, contractility, afterload, ventriculo-arterial coupling, diastolic function and the position of the mediastinum could all potentially influence RVEF.The following indices will be subject to assessment as secondary endpoints:

Preload - Right ventricular end-diastolic volume (RVEDV) Contractility - Peak systolic strain and strain rate Afterload - Pulmonary artery (PA) distensibility, PA peak velocitly, PA antegrade flow, Estimated PA systolic pressure,Pulmonary artery acceleration time Ventriculo-arterial coupling: Ea/Emax(CMR) Diastolic function: E/A velocity ratio., 3 days|RVEF vs LVEF, Changes in right-sided cardiac function must be interpreted in the context of left-sided function. ΔRVEF will be compared to changes in Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) over the same period., 3 days|Association between biomarkers of myocardial and endothelial dysfunction, systemic inflammation, oxidative and nitrosative stress and ΔRVEF, Association between biomarkers of myocardial and endothelial dysfunction, systemic inflammation, oxidative and nitrosative stress and ΔRVEF.

Myocardial dysfunction: Brain natriuretic peptide and high sensitivity Troponin-T. Systemic inflammation: C-reactive protein and Pentraxin 3. Oxidative / Nitrosative stress: Malondialdehyde, nitrate and nitrite (determined in plasma and endobronchial aspirate and the end of surgery). Endothelial dysfunction:

Angiopoietin (Ang) 1 \& 2, Von Willebrand factor (VWf), E-selectin (ESEL) and soluble intracellular adhesion molecule (sICAM))., 3 days|Association between RVEF and functional status, Association between RVEFpreop, RVEFpostop, and RVEF3months and functional status by self report and 6-minute walk test (6MWT). Functional status will be assessed subjectively by written questionnaire. Scoring will be based on the New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification, WHO performance status classification and health related quality of life scoring by EQ-5D questionnaire., 3 months and 1 year
Lung cancer is the second most common cancer in the UK. In suitable cases the best chance of cure is surgical resection. Studies suggest that lung resection is associated with right ventricular (RV) dysfunction, predisposing to complications and post-operative dyspnoea. Studies of RV function following lung resection have been hampered by the limitations of the techniques used. In addition the mechanism of RV dysfunction has remained elusive.

In this prospective observational study the RV response to lung resection will be characterised by sequential assessment of right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF) measured using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR). CMR is non-invasive, involves no ionising radiation and due to its high spatial resolution is the gold standard for assessing RV volumes. Comprehensive CMR and echocardiographic assessment of the pulmonary vascular - RV axis will allow us to interpret peri-operative changes in RVEF in the context of RV contractility and loading indices. In addition, contemporaneous blood samples will be taken for measurement of biomarkers of myocardial and endothelial dysfunction and systemic inflammation.

With increased understanding of the mechanisms involved, it may be possible to prevent RV dysfunction; reducing complication rates, hospital stay and costs and ameliorating long term dyspnoea.