A Study of Selpercatinib After Surgery or Radiation in Participants With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The reason for this study is to see if the study drug, selpercatinib, compared to placebo is effective and safe in delaying cancer return in participants with early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), who have already had surgery or radiation. Participants who are assigned to placebo and stop the study drug because their disease comes back or gets worse have the option to potentially crossover to selpercatinib. Participation could last up to three years.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Selpercatinib|DRUG: Placebo
Event-Free Survival (EFS), EFS by Investigator Assessment in the Primary Analysis Population, Randomization to disease recurrence/progression or death from any cause (estimated as up to 7 years)
EFS, EFS by investigator assessment in the overall population, Randomization to disease recurrence/progression or death from any cause (estimated as up to 7 years)|Overall Survival (OS), OS, Randomization to death from any cause (estimated as up to 9 years)]|EFS, EFS by blinded independent central review (BICR), Randomization to disease recurrence/progression or death from any cause (estimated as up to 7 years)]|Time to Distant Disease Recurrence in the Central Nervous System (CNS), Time to distant disease recurrence in the CNS by investigator assessment and BICR, Randomization to disease recurrence/progression or death from any cause (estimated as up to 7 years)|Progression Free Survival on the Next Line of Treatment (PFS2), PFS2 by investigator assessment, Randomization to disease progression on the next line of treatment or death from any cause (estimated as up to 9 years)|Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of Rearranged during Transfection (RET) Tests from Investigator-Identified Laboratories with Respect to the Lilly-Designated RET Test, PPV of RET Tests from Investigator-Identified Laboratories with Respect to the Lilly-Designated RET Test, Baseline|Mean Change from Baseline over Time in NSCLC Symptoms, NSCLC symptoms will be measured using the 7-item NSCLC Symptom Assessment Questionnaire (NSCLC-SAQ). The NSCLC-SAQ measures the severity/frequency of the following core symptoms: Cough, pain, dyspnea, fatigue, and appetite. Raw scores range from 0 to 4 and the total score ranges from 0-20. Higher scores represent worse symptoms., Baseline to treatment discontinuation (estimated as up to 3 years)|Mean Change from Baseline over Time in Physical Function, Physical function will be measured by the 5 physical function items in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30) (also known as the EORTC IL 19 questionnaire). Raw scores range from 0-20. Higher scores indicate worst function., Baseline to treatment discontinuation (estimated as up to 3 years)
The reason for this study is to see if the study drug, selpercatinib, compared to placebo is effective and safe in delaying cancer return in participants with early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), who have already had surgery or radiation. Participants who are assigned to placebo and stop the study drug because their disease comes back or gets worse have the option to potentially crossover to selpercatinib. Participation could last up to three years.