Pyrotinib Plus Thalidomide in Advanced NSCLC Patients Harboring HER2 Exon 20 Insertions
Various driver gene mutations have been identified in lung cancer. Among them, human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2) was identified in approximately 2% of non-small-cell lung cancers. Pyrotinib is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting both HER-1 and HER-2 receptors. This is a prospective, single-arm, open-label phase II study, designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pyrotinib combined with thalidomide in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer patients with HER2 exon 20 insertions.
Non-small-cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: pyrotinib combined with thalidomide
Objective Response Rate, The proportion of patients with complete response or partial response., 24 months
Progression-free Survival, Time from the initiation of treatment to disease progression or death, whichever came first., 24 months|Overall Survival, Time from the initiation of treatment to death., 24 months|Disease Control Rate, The proportion of patients with complete response, partial response or stable disease., 24 months|Incidence of Adverse Events, Adverse events was graded according to NCI CTCAE 5.0., 24 months|Changes in Scores of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30), QLQ-C30 scores were standardized to a scale ranging from 0-100 by linear transformation. For global health status/quality of life and functional subscales, higher scores indicate a higher (better) level of function, whereas for the symptom subscales, higher scores indicate a higher (worse) severity of symptoms., 24 months|Changes in Scores of EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Lung Cancer Module 13 (QLQ-LC13), QLQ-LC13 scores were standardized to a scale ranging from 0-100 by linear transformation. For global health status/quality of life and functional subscales, higher scores indicate a higher (better) level of function, whereas for the symptom subscales, higher scores indicate a higher (worse) severity of symptoms., 24 months
Various driver gene mutations have been identified in lung cancer. Among them, human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2) was identified in approximately 2% of non-small-cell lung cancers. Pyrotinib is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting both HER-1 and HER-2 receptors. This is a prospective, single-arm, open-label phase II study, designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pyrotinib combined with thalidomide in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer patients with HER2 exon 20 insertions.