Low Dose Tamoxifen for Mammographic Density Reduction
KARISMA2 is a randomized, double-blinded, six-armed placebo controlled study to identify a low dose of tamoxifen, with less side-effects and a density reduction non-inferior to the standard dose of 20 mg.
Risk Reduction|Mammographic Density Reduction
DRUG: Tamoxifen Oral Tablet|DRUG: Placebo Oral Tablet
Mammograpic Density Change, Change in mammography density. In particular, we will test for noninferiority in the proportion of women in the intervention arms (placebo, 1 mg, 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg) who have a density reduction as great as or greater (after 6 months) than the median density reduction in the 20 mg arm., 6 months treatment
Level of Side Effects, Assess the level of side effects in the intervention arms compared to the 20 mg arm.

Symptoms are reported on a 5-graded Likert score scale in a 48-item symptom questionnaire at Baseline and at End of treatment ( End of treatment= full-filled the 6 month treatment or at time of discontinuation prior to 6 months). The outcome measure is based on the sum in Likert score of five symptoms ('hot flashes', 'cold sweats', 'night sweats', 'vaginal discharge' and 'muscle cramps') which were found to have a significant change from start to the end of treatment in both pre- and postmenopausal women when contrasting the effect of 20 mg tamoxifen compared to women on placebo. The maximum/minimum range of change per symtom is 4 steps increase or decrease. Accordingly, in the Top-5 symtoms the maximum/minimum range is +/- 20. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., From baseline (7-1days before first tablet) up to 6 months or day of discontionuation (prior to 6 months)|Drop Out Level, Assess the level of drop out in the intervention arms compared to the 20 mg arm, From initiation of treatment (first tablet) up to 6 months of planned treatment (last tablet)
This is a dose determination study aiming to identify the optimal tamoxifen dose for reducing the risk of breast cancer. The change in mammographic density is a very good marker of therapy response. Investigators will test if 1 mg, 2.5 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg reduce the mammographic density to the same extent as 20 mg.

1440 healthy women 40-74 yrs were included when adhering the national Swedish mammography screening program between 2016- 2019. Women were randomized and treated daily for 6 months. Mammograms were taken at baseline and at end of treatment and side effects were measured throughout the study trough schedueled questionnaires and spontaneous AE-reporting.