Trental & Vitamin E for Radiation-Induced Fibrosis
This study seeks to determine if a combination of Trental and Vitamin E prevents the development of radiation fibrosis in women treated with radiation for the definitive management of their breast cancer.
Fibrosis
DRUG: Pentoxifylline|DRUG: Vitamin E
Subjective, Objective, Management, and Analytic (SOMA) Score, A primary outcome of interest is the composite Subjective, Objective, Management, and Analytic (SOMA) score at 18-month follow-up visit. Maximum score is 45, with a score of 0 being ideal and representing no treatment-related side effects at the study visit., 18 month post-treatment
Tissue Compliance, Tissue compliance meter measurements of the treated breast compared to the non-treated breast were obtained at 18 months post-radiation therapy. Tissue compliance simply means how soft and pliable the breast tissue is when force is applied to it.

One physician would hold the tissue compliance meter (TCM) against the participant's skin. A standard amount of force would be applied. A second physician would read the displacement scale for a specific set of areas on the breast. The range of the scale was 0 to 60 milimeters (mm). The physician's were blineded to the participant's intervention at the time of measurement.

The final value is the difference between the untreated and the treated breast \[untreated - treated\]. The range of these differences was -3.3 to 7.0 mm., 18 months post-treatment
Radiation fibrosis occurs in approximately 25% of those women treated with radiation for breast cancer. Of these, approximately 3 to 5% will develop into an acute, painful form of fibrosis. Mild fibrosis can present as a thicker or more dense breast where the acute form can cause pain in the breast, significant hardening, and inflammation.

Treatments for fibrosis are lacking, with the primary treatment being hyperbaric oxygen therapy. The combination of Trental \& Vitamin E has been used with success in Europe and at the University of Iowa.

The focus of this study is to prevent fibrosis through intervention with Trental \& Vitamin E. The study has two arms, a control arm and an intervention arm. The study is not blinded. Measurements are taken at standard follow-up visits to measure breast density and lymphedema.