S-1 Versus Capecitabine in the First Line Treatment of MCC Patients.
The study is a two-arm randomised phase III trial. Patients will be randomised to receive capecitabine (arm A) or S-1 (arm B). Bevacizumab may be added according to the choice of the investigator. Patients will be followed 3-weekly at the outpatient clinic, toxicity will be assessed according to study protocol guidelines. Patients will be evaluated every 3 cycles for response. Upon disease progression patients will be treated according to the local investigators
Colorectal Cancer|Metastases
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Teysuno|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Incidence of HFS in first line treatment, To determine the incidence of HFS in first line treatment with S-1 compared to capecitabine in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer., HFS will be assessed every 3 weeks up to 6 months average.
Grade 3 HFS, Incidence of grade 3 hand-foot syndrome, according to CTC 4.0., HFS will be assessed every 3 weeks, up to 6 months average|Progression-free survival, Time from randomisation until progression or death whichever comes first, Every 9 weeks, for 6 months (average)|Overall toxicity, Adverse events graded accoording to the NCI CTCAE version 4, Every 3 weeks, for 6 months (average)|Overall survival, From date of randomisation to death or last known to be alive, 2 years|Response rate, Response acccording to RECIST 1.1, Response will be assessed every 9 weeks, up to 6 months average.
Capecitabine, an oral fluoropyrimidine, has shown a comparable efficacy but a better tolerability compared to bolus 5-FU/LV. However, capecitabine has a higher incidence of hand-foot syndrome (HFS). HFS is characterized by erythema, dysesthesia and/or paresthesia of the palms of the hands or soles of feet. In advanced stage, desquamation, ulceration and blistering can occur. Although HFS is not life threatening, it can cause significant discomfort and impairment of function, especially in elderly patients. This adverse event is becoming particularly relevant since many patients may require the administration of capecitabine over prolonged periods of time.

S-1 (Teysuno®) is an oral fluoropyrimidine that has shown comparable efficacy to 5FU and capecitabine in gastrointestinal cancers but is associated with a much lower incidence of HFS. Studies on S-1 have mainly been performed in Asian patients,which population has known differences in tumour biology and toxicity compared to Western population. S-1 has shown comparable efficacy to other fluoropyrimidines as monotherapy or in combination chemotherapy schedules in several gastrointestinal tumors. However, given the lack of data from prospective studies on S-1 as monochemotherapy in metastatic colorectal cancer in Western patients, this study is designed to compare S-1 and capecitabine monotherapy in terms of safety, with particular interest in HFS, in metastatic colorectal cancer patients.