Testing the Safety and Efficacy of the Combination of the Antibody Pembrolizumab and Entinostat in Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndrome Who Are Not Responding to Hypomethylating Agents
This phase Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of entinostat when given together with pembrolizumab in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndrome after deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methyltransferase inhibitor (DNMTi) therapy failure. Entinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving entinostat together with pembrolizumab may work better in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndrome after DNMTi therapy failure.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Entinostat|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Entinostat Given in Combination With Pembrolizumab, Toxicities will be tabulated and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5. Dose-limiting toxicities will be assessed after the first 2 cycles of combined therapy. Presented are the counts of participants that experienced DLT in the period up to 42 days., Up to 42 days
Overall Response Rate (Complete Response [CR], Partial Response [PR], Hematologic Improvement [HI]), Will be defined by the modified International Working Group 2006. Rates of CR, PR and HI will be summarized separately by cohort and reported with an exact 95% confidence interval. Upon results entry- best response to combination therapy (number of patients \[%\]; response assessment after 3 cycles) is presented as counts of the best response., Up to 6 months after the last dose of entinostat in combination with pembrolizumab ((treatment period: Up to 3, 21-day cycles)|Median Progression-free Survival, Median progression-free survival (PFS) is being reported as the median time with the full range. The outcome was updated at the time of results entry to include the correct presentation of the data and the updated time frame for longest PFS follow up time., Assessed for up to 10 months after the last dose of entinostat in combination with pembrolizumab (treatment period: Up to 3, 21-day cycles)
Median Response Duration for Responders, Median response duration for responders will be determined., Up to 6 months after the last dose of entinostat in combination with pembrolizumab|Median Time of Progression to Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Median time of progression to acute myeloid leukemia will be determined., Up to 6 months after the last dose of entinostat in combination with pembrolizumab|Median Overall Survival, Will be reported with a 95% confidence interval., From start of study to death, assessed for up to 6 months after the last dose of entinostat in combination with pembrolizumab|1-year Overall Survival, Will be reported with a 95% confidence interval., From start of study to death, assessed for up to 1 year|2-year Overall Survival, Will be reported with a 95% confidence interval., From start of study to death, assessed for up to 2 years|Dynamic Quantitative Change in Proportion of Myeloid-derived Suppressor Cells (MDSCs) in Bone Marrow With Combined Therapy, Assessed by Flow Cytometry, Will correlate with any observed clinical responses. Will be estimated using mixed effects models to take into account the within-patient correlation. Likelihood ratio tests will be performed to confirm if random intercepts and slopes are necessary in the model. The fixed effect for change in MDSCs over time will be evaluated for significance. The variability in the rate of change in MDSCs across patients will also be examined. The association between the clinical outcome and a meaningful reduction in MDSCs, which will be defined after a review of the data, will be assessed with the chi-square test. The quantity of MDSCs at baseline and during treatment as continuous variables can also be compared between responding and non-responding patients using a t-test or Mann-Whitney U-Test, if more appropriate., Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess safety, tolerability, and identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of entinostat given in combination with MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To obtain a preliminary estimate of efficacy of entinostat in combination with MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the dynamic quantitative change in measurable immunological biomarkers (proportions of myeloid-derived suppressor cells \[MDSCs\], and programmed death protein-1 \[PD-1\] expression in bone marrow) with the combined epigenetic-immunotherapy and correlation with any observed clinical responses.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of entinostat.

Patients receive lower dose entinostat orally (PO) on days 1 and 8 or higher dose entinostat PO on days 1, 8, and 15, and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycle 2 and cycles thereafter. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve an objective response or maintain a stable disease (SD) status after the first 4 cycles may continue to receive entinostat and pembrolizumab for up to 1 year.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 6 months.