Evaluation of the Oncoral® Test in Epidermoid Carcinomas of the Upper Aerodigestive Tract
This is a multicentric feasibility study aimed to evaluate the Oncoral® test. The study includes 2 steps. The first one aims to validate the algorithm defined at the time when the test was developed in patients with different tumour stages. Patients will be enrolled before any treatment. They will immediately undergo the test. No follow-up will be realized. In total, 100 patients will be included in this first step. The estimated period of inclusion is 6 months.

If the algorithm is validated, the second step of the study will start. The purpose is to determine the characteristics of the test. Enrollment will concern smokers and alcohol drinkers at high risk of developing an epidermoid carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract. Patient follow-up will vary with both the result of the test and the biopsy, up to a maximum of one year. In total, 385 patients will be enrolled in this step during an estimated period of 18 months.
Carcinoma
DEVICE: Oncoral® test
First step: Confirm that the parameters used for the development of the test to qualify it as positive or negative lead to the same level of sensitivity (98%), The algorithm was first defined when the test was developed in patients on different tumour stages ., 1 year after the beginning of enrollment|Second step: Determine the characteristics of the Oncoral® test, Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value., 2 years after the beginning of the second step enrolment
First step: Estimation of test sensitivity, Sensitivity will be assessed by the calculation : true positives / (true positives + false negatives), 1 year after the beginning of enrolment|Second step : Estimation of test feasibility, Feasibility will be assessed by :

* the rate of patients who were not able to realise the test (difficulty to rinse the oral cavity)
* the rate of tests that cannot be analysed (inadequate tests, problems of stability, difficulties with the extraction of volatile molecules, DNA or mRNA...) If the rate of unusable tests is greater than 10%, corrective actions will be necessary in order to use this test in the future. These actions will be considered according to the type of problems (adjustments of the test, transport...), 2 years after the beginning of the second step enrolment|Second step: Estimation of the prevalence of epidermoid carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract in the target population, 3 years after the beginning of the second step enrolment
This is a multicentric feasibility study aimed to evaluate the Oncoral® test. The study includes 2 steps. The first one aims to validate the algorithm defined at the time when the test was developed in patients with different tumour stages. Patients will be enrolled before any treatment. They will immediately undergo the test. No follow-up will be realized. In total, 100 patients will be included in this first step. The estimated period of inclusion is 6 months.

If the algorithm is validated, the second step of the study will start. The purpose is to determine the characteristics of the test. Enrollment will concern smokers and alcohol drinkers at high risk of developing an epidermoid carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract. Patient follow-up will vary with both the result of the test and the biopsy, up to a maximum of one year. In total, 385 patients will be enrolled in this step during an estimated period of 18 months.