T-Cell Infusion, Aldesleukin, and Utomilumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent Ovarian Cancer
This phase I/Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of utomilumab and how well it works with CD8-positive T-lymphocyte (T-cell infusion) and aldesleukin in treating patients with ovarian cancer that has come back. Aldesleukin may stimulate white blood cells to kill ovarian cancer cells. Giving white blood cells (T-cells) that have been activated by a vaccine with aldesleukin may kill more tumor cells. Immunotherapy with utomilumab, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving T-cell infusion with aldesleukin and utomilumab may work better in treating patients with ovarian cancer.
COL6A3 Positive|HLA-A*0201 Positive Cells Present|PRAME Positive|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Aldesleukin|DRUG: CD8-Positive T-Lymphocyte|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|PROCEDURE: Leukapheresis|BIOLOGICAL: Utomilumab
Assess Safety and Toxicity of Adoptively Transferred Central Memory-type CTL Targeting Ovarian Cancer Antigens Administered Alone, and in Combination With, Utomilumab, an Agonistic Anti-CD137 Antibody, in Patients With Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer, Due to lack of funding, the study was not able to accrue a sample size large enough to address the primary and secondary objectives, will continue to be monitored on study with visits every 8 weeks or as often as clinically indicated unless the disease gets worse, participants starts another therapy, or the participants are taken off study
Evaluate the Anti Tumor Effect of Adoptively Transferred Central Memory-type CTL Targeting Ovarian Cancer Antigens as Measured by Best Overall Response Rate (BORR) and Progression Free Survival (PFS)., Due to lack of funding, the study was not able to accrue a sample size large enough to address the primary and secondary objectives, will continue to be monitored on study with visits every 8 weeks or as often as clinically indicated unless the disease gets worse, participants starts another therapy, or the participants are taken off study
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and toxicity of adoptively transferred central memory-type CTL targeting ovarian cancer antigens administered alone, and in combination with, utomilumab, an agonistic anti-CD137 antibody, in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.

II. Evaluate the functional and numeric in vivo persistence of adoptively transferred central memory-type CTL with and without utomilumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the anti tumor effect of adoptively transferred central memory-type CTL targeting ovarian cancer antigens as measured by best overall response rate (BORR) and progression free survival (PFS).

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of utomilumab.

Patients undergo leukapheresis. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on day -2, CD8-positive T-lymphocyte via infusion on day 0, and aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) every 12 hours for 14 days. Beginning 24 hours after CD8-positive T-lymphocyte, patients also receive utomilumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 29, 57, 85, 113, and 141 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 3, 7, 14, 22, 28, 35, 43, 49, 56, 64, 70, 77, 84, 112, and 140.