Nab-Paclitaxel and Gemcitabine for Recurrent/Refractory Sarcoma
The purpose of this study is to see if nab-paclitaxel combined with gemcitabine prevents the formation or growth of tumors in participants with relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma and other soft tissue sarcoma and to measure the length of time during and after treatment that their disease does not get worse. Researchers also want to find out if nab-paclitaxel combined with gemcitabine is safe and tolerable.
Osteosarcoma|Ewing Sarcoma|Rhabdomyosarcoma|Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: nab-Paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Response Rate, Treatment response will be assessed with the most relevant imaging studies (e.g., CT or MRI) after every two cycles. Standard Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 will be used to assess responses. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm (\<1 cm). Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., 13 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm (0.5 cm)., 13 months
Occurrence of Study Treatment Related Adverse Events, Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V4.0, deemed to be caused by study treatment., 13 months
The purpose of this study is to see if nab-paclitaxel combined with gemcitabine prevents the formation or growth of tumors in participants with relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma and other soft tissue sarcoma and to measure the length of time during and after treatment that their disease does not get worse. Researchers also want to find out if nab-paclitaxel combined with gemcitabine is safe and tolerable.