Premedication Dyclonine Improves Visibility During Bowel Cleansing for Colonoscopy
In this randomized controlled study, consecutive outpatients scheduled for elective colonoscopy were randomized into two groups. Group A patients (n = 300) used only 3L PEG before colonoscopy. Patients in group B (n = 300) were additionally advised to Dyclonine Hydrochloride Mucilage plus 3L PEG, The overall quality of colonoscopy cleaning was evaluated using the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale by a single endoscopist who was blinded to the intervention. Visibility was blindly assessed for the amount of air bubbles and adenoma detection rate (ADR). Difficulty of procedure, and adverse events were also evaluated.
Bowel Preparation Scale|the Amount of Air Bubble|Adenoma Detection Rate
DRUG: 3L PEG|DRUG: 3L PEG+Dyclonine Hydrochloride Mucilage
the amount of air bubbles, The amount of intraluminal air bubbles was classified into four grades as shown below: Grade 0 = No or minimal scattered bubbles; Grade 1 = Bubbles covering at least half the luminal diameter; Grade 2 = Bubbles covering the circumference of the lumen; Grade 3 = Bubbles filling the entire lumen. Bubbles filling the entire lumen., 2 days
adenoma detection rate, The secondary end point of the study included adenoma detection rate, 2 days|mean total adenomas detected beyond first, It was a new metric called ADR-Plus, the mean number of incremental adenomas after the fist., 2 days
In this randomized controlled study, consecutive outpatients scheduled for elective colonoscopy were randomized into two groups. Group A patients (n = 300) used only 3L PEG before colonoscopy. Patients in group B (n = 300) were additionally advised to Dyclonine Hydrochloride Mucilage plus 3L PEG, The overall quality of colonoscopy cleaning was evaluated using the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale by a single endoscopist who was blinded to the intervention. Visibility was blindly assessed for the amount of air bubbles and adenoma detection rate (ADR). Difficulty of procedure, and adverse events were also evaluated.