Nurse-led Care Program for Cancer Patients in Chemotherapy Day Center
A nurse-led care program for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy in an outpatient setting was formulated. The aim of the study was to assess the effect of this nurse-led care program on cancer patients who received neo-adjuvant/adjuvant chemotherapy in a chemotherapy day center in terms of quality of life, symptom experiences, self-efficacy, health care utilization, and satisfaction with care. Specifically, the objectives are:

* To compare the differences of health care utilization between the two arms.
* To compare the differences of cancer patients' satisfaction with care between the two arms.
* To explore the experiences of cancer patients in the intervention arm.
* To understand the experiences of the intervention nurses of the program and their opinions on further development.
Breast Neoplasms|Colorectal Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Nurse-led care|BEHAVIORAL: Routine care
Change in quality of life, Questionnaire: Quality of life will be assessed by the Chinese version of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General Scale (FACT-G), T0: before chemotherapy (week 0); T1: in the middle of chemotherapy (i.e. week 4 to 10); T2: three weeks after last cycle of chemotherapy (i.e. week 13 to 20).
Health care utilization, Five types of health care service will be collected: patient-initiated telephone calls, clinical visits to oncology outpatient department, clinical admission (from oncology outpatient department), emergency room visits, and hospital admission (from emergency room)., During chemotherapy (i.e. from week 0 to week 20)
Change in Symptom prevalence and distress levels, Questionnaire: The prevalence rates and distress levels caused by chemotherapy-related symptoms will be assessed by the Chemotherapy Symptom Assessment Scale (CSAS)., T0: before chemotherapy (i.e. week 0); T1: in the middle of chemotherapy (week 4 to 10); T2: three weeks after last cycle of chemotherapy (i.e. week 13 to 20).|Satisfaction with care, Satisfaction with care is evaluated by self-designed questionnaires., At the end of chemotherapy (i.e. week 13 to 20)|Change in Self-efficacy, Questionnaire: Self-efficacy will be assessed by the Strategies Used by People to Promote Health (SUPPH)., T0: before chemotherapy (week 0); T1: in the middle of chemotherapy (week 4 to 10); T2: three weeks after last cycle of chemotherapy (weel 13 to 20).|Subjects' experience, Individual interviews will be adopted to understand the subjects' experiences, level of satisfaction, comments on further improvement of the care., Three weeks after the last cycle of chemotherapy (i.e. week 13 to 20)|Intervention nurses' experience, Intervention nurses will be interviewed individually to understand their experiences of involving in the study and their comments on further improvement of the care., At the end of data collection (week 20)
Chemotherapy affects cancer patients in many ways. It is common that patients suffer multiple side-effects simultaneously. Psychological distress is also a common problem during chemotherapy. Distressful experiences in chemotherapy may lead to deterioration in a patient's of quality of life (QOL). In addition, cancer patients have particularly high unmet needs during treatment, including informational needs, psychosocial needs, needs in the activities of daily living, supportive care needs, sexual needs, and communication needs. Among them, information is the most frequently reported need in the treatment phase. These unmet needs cause uncertainty, anxiety, and distress to cancer patients.

Outpatient-based chemotherapy is now widely established. Despite its benefits to health care institutions and cancer patients, there are attendant challenges. Cancer patients need to take care of themselves at home during each interval of chemotherapy. Without adequate support from health care providers, cancer patients may not be able to properly manage chemotherapy and its effects by themselves. The poor management of side-effects may lead to increased health care utilization. Cancer patients need to develop new self-care skills to cope with chemotherapy.

Facing increasing numbers of cancer patients and burgeoning health care needs, health care professionals must address the issue of how to improve the quality of care during chemotherapy. Nurse-led care is a highly recommended and innovative way of improving quality of care. It shows distinct advantages in terms of providing holistic care because it is based on the philosophy of the uniqueness of individuals and the multidimensionality of human beings. The feasibility and effects of nurse-led care are being explored in an increasing number of studies. However, studies of nurse-led care for cancer patients receiving outpatient-based chemotherapy are far away adequacy. There is a need to examine the feasibility and effects of nurse-led care for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy in outpatient settings.