Minocycline Hydrochloride in Reducing Chemotherapy Induced Depression and Anxiety in Patients With Stage I-III Breast Cancer
This randomized clinical trial studies how well minocycline hydrochloride works in reducing chemotherapy induced depression and anxiety in patients with stage I-III breast cancer. Minocycline hydrochloride may prevent changes in memory and thinking and improve the quality of life of breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.
Anxiety Disorder|Depression|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
DRUG: minocycline hydrochloride|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: Questionnaire administration
Changes in Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) Scores, CES-D scale a short self-reported scaled designed to measure depressive symptomology in the general population. At baseline, depressive symptom severity will be assessed using the CES-D instrument. Evaluation of the patients assessment if suicidal ideation is reported at baseline. A value of 0, 1, 2, or 3 is assigned to a response depending upon positively or negatively. The subject will be withdrawn from the administrated serially every cycle starts on protocol during clinic visits (Patients will self-administer forms given out by research coordinator).The internal consistency for the STAI is .95; higher scores indicate greater anxiety.41 The internal consistency for the CES-D is approximately .85 among BC patients,42 and an important benefit of using this scale in medical studies is that it is relatively unaffected by physical symptoms. Total scores range from 0-60 with higher scores reflecting greater depressive symptoms. The 95% confidence intervals of the depression change from b, Baseline to 9 weeks|Changes in the State Trait Anxiety Index (STAI) Scores, The mean changes over time in State Trait Anxiety Index (STAI) scores from baseline to the end of study for the two study groups. The influences of covariate, such as disease stage and depression drug usage, will be considered in the mixed models as exploratory analyses. The range of possible scores for form Y of the STAI varies from a minimum score of 20 to a maximum score of 80. STAI scores are commonly classified as "no or low anxiety" (20-37), "moderate anxiety" (38-44), and "high anxiety" (45-80).The 95% confidence intervals of the change in the primary outcome measures from baseline to the end of study and the differences between the treatment and placebo groups will be estimated based on the models., Baseline to 9 weeks
Changes in Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale Scores, The 95% confidence intervals of the anxiety change from baseline to the end of study and the difference between the treatment and placebo groups. The influences of covariate, such as disease stage and depression drug usage, will be considered in the mixed models as exploratory analyses. In addition, change overtime of all outcomes for each individual will be plotted to visually explore any patterns and to generate hypothesis to be tested in future studies., Baseline to 9 weeks|Changes in Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression Scores, The 95% confidence intervals of the depression change from baseline to the end of study and the difference between the treatment and placebo groups. The influences of covariate, such as disease stage and depression drug usage, will be considered in the mixed models as exploratory analyses. In addition, change overtime of all outcomes for each individual will be plotted to visually explore any patterns and to generate hypothesis to be tested in future studies., Baseline to 9 weeks|Changes in Inflammatory Blood Markers, Scatter plots will be used to explore the pair-wise correlation among the changes of CES-D and STAI scores, blood biomarkers changes, and PET/MRI measures. A statistical model will be used to explore whether the blood based biomarkers and PET/MRI measures can be used to predict the changes in CES-D and STAI scores, which then could be used as potential surrogate markers in future studies., Baseline to 6 months|Changes in the PET/MRI Measures, Scatter plots will be used to explore the pair-wise correlation among the changes of CES-D and STAI scores, blood biomarkers changes, and PET/MRI measures. A statistical model will be used to explore whether the blood based biomarkers and PET/MRI measures can be used to predict the changes in CES-D and STAI scores, which then could be used as potential surrogate markers in future studies., Baseline to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate anxiety and depression in women with stages I-III breast cancer during the first 8 weeks of doxorubicin-based adjuvant therapy randomized to receive either minocycline (minocycline hydrochloride) or placebo.

II. To evaluate markers of neuro-inflammation as assessed by blood based inflammatory cytokines and C11-choline positron emission tomography (PET) in women with stages I-III breast cancer during the first 8 weeks of doxorubicin-based adjuvant therapy randomized to receive either minocycline or placebo.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Beginning 1 week prior to chemotherapy, patients receive minocycline hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 9 weeks.

ARM II: Beginning 1 week prior to chemotherapy, patients receive placebo PO BID for 9 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 months.