A Study of Pemetrexed and Gefitinib Versus Gefitinib in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The purpose of this study is to compare the combination of pemetrexed and gefitinib versus gefitinib alone, in terms of progression-free survival. This study is in participants who have stage IV non squamous NSCLC with activating epidermal growth factor mutations and who have not had any previous chemotherapy for stage IV disease.
Carcinoma, Non Small Cell Lung
DRUG: Gefitinib|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease or death from any cause,whichever is earlier.The censoring is taken in the following order: If a participant didn't have a complete baseline disease assessment,then the PFS time was censored at the enrollment date, regardless of whether or not objectively determined disease progression or death has been observed for the participant;otherwise,if a participant is not known to have died or have objective progression as of the data inclusion cutoff date for the analysis,the PFS time will be censored at the last complete objective progression-free disease assessment date.Progressive disease (PD) was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions,taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Also,the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeter (mm).The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Randomization to Progressive Disease or Death Due to Any Cause (Up to 58.78 Months)
Time To Progressive Disease (TTPD), TTPD is defined as time from the date of randomization to the first date of disease progression. For each participant who is not known to have had a progression of disease as of the data-inclusion cut-off date for a particular analysis, or who has died without progression of disease, TTPD will be censored for that analysis at the date of the participant's last tumor assessment prior to that cut-off date. TTPD was analyzed twice: (1) excluding clinical progressions of disease (that is,those not defined according to the RECIST version 1.1 criteria ), and (2) including clinical progressions. Progressive disease (PD) was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Also, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeter (mm). The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Randomization to Progressive Disease (Up To 58.78 Months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to the date of death from any cause. Survival time is censored at the date of last contact for participants who are still alive or lost to follow up., Randomization to Date of Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 67.12 Months)|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (Overall Response Rate [ORR]), ORR is the best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as classified by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1). Complete Response (CR) is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Tumor marker results must have normalized. Partial Response (PR) is defined at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Randomization to Progressive Disease (Up to 57.36 Months)|Percentage of Participants With CR, PR, and Stable Disease (SD) (Disease Control Rate [DCR]), Disease control rate is the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, PR or SD as classified by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST version 1.1) criteria. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Tumor marker results must have normalized. PR is defined at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Randomization to Progressive Disease (Up To 57.36 Months)|Duration of Response (DoR), DoR was defined as the time from the date of the first CR or PR to the first date of Progressive Disease (PD) ( RECIST 1.1 Criteria) or death from any cause.CR is the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.Tumor marker results must have normalized. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Also,the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression. Participants not known to have died or to have had progression of disease as of the data-inclusion cut-off date for a particular analysis,duration of tumor response was censored at the date of the participants last tumor assessment prior to that cut-off date., First Observation of CR or PR to Progressive Disease or Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 57.36 Months)|Time to Worsening of Symptom (TWS) as Per Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS), TWS was the elapsed time from the date of randomization to the first date of worsening in any one of the 6 LCSS symptoms. The LCSS (patient and observer) were administered at baseline and at the end of each 21-day cycle, until disease progression, and at short-term follow-up. Content for the patient version -collected using a visual analog scale (VAS) anchored at 0 and 100, respectively representing the best and worst outcome- included 6 disease-specific measures: (appetite, fatigue, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis and pain) and 3 summary consequences of lung cancer (overall symptom burden, diminished normal activities, and lowered quality-of-life).The observer version included only the 6 disease-specific measures and the responses were collected using a 5-point ordinal scale that was reverse coded with 0 and 100 respectively representing the worst and best outcome.TWS was censored at the date of the last LCSS assessment for participants who were not known to have LCSS worsening., Baseline to Progressive Disease (Up To 50 Months )
The purpose of this study is to compare the combination of pemetrexed and gefitinib versus gefitinib alone, in terms of progression-free survival. This study is in participants who have stage IV non squamous NSCLC with activating epidermal growth factor mutations and who have not had any previous chemotherapy for stage IV disease.