Immunotherapy Plus Chemotherapy vs. Chemoradiotherapy for Thoracic Squamous Esophageal Carcinoma
The investigators conducted a phase II, prospective, two-arm clinical study to explore the efficacy of Camrelizumab combined with chemotherapy versus chemoradiotherapy for conversion therapy of potentially resectable advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. This study will provide more evidence for conversion treatment of initially unresectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and contribute to the development of treatment guidelines for esophageal cancer.
Chemotherapy|Radiation Therapy
DRUG: Camrelizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
R0 removal rate, R0 removal rate in patients undergoing surgery after treatment, up to 3 months|MPR rate, major pathological response rate, up to 4 months
OS, overall survival, 12 months|PFS, progression-free survival, 12 months
Esophageal cancer (EC) has a higher morbidity and mortality rate than most human malignancies. The standard treatment for unresectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is concurrent chemoradiotherapy, but survival remains limited. Carrilizumab combined with chemotherapy has been shown to have an excellent pathological remission rate in the treatment of advanced esophageal cancer and locally advanced esophageal cancer. Here, the investigators conducted a phase II, prospective, two-arm clinical study to explore the efficacy of Camrelizumab combined with chemotherapy versus chemoradiotherapy for conversion therapy in potentially resectable advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. All participants meeting the inclusion criteria will be registered after signing the informed consent form. Patients with thoracic esophageal cancer with clinical staging of T4a and T4b or at least one group of lymph nodes likely to invade surrounding organs or with concomitant enlarged lymph nodes unresectable will be included in the study. According to the study plan, patients who completed two cycles of chemotherapy combined with Camrelizumab induction or concurrent chemoradiotherapy were randomly assigned to receive radical surgery after being assessed as operable. The primary endpoint was R0 removal rate in patients undergoing surgery after treatment. Secondary endpoints were major pathological response (MPR) rate, overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), and adverse events. This study will provide more evidence for the conversion treatment of initially unresectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and contribute to the development of treatment guidelines for esophageal cancer.