Computer-based Neurocognitive Assessment in Children With Central Nervous System Tumors Receiving Proton Beam Radiation Therapy
This study will explore neurocognitive performance in pediatric brain tumor patients receiving proton beam radiation therapy (PBRT). The investigators goal is to gather baseline neurocognitive testing prior to the completion of the first week of radiation therapy along with follow-up testing 6-12 months after the completion of radiation and serial annual testing thereafter. With these data the investigators plan to evaluate the effects of PBRT on neurocognitive performance as it relates to patients' age at diagnosis, tumor location, and radiation dose. Modeling studies have demonstrated that PBRT could improve neurocognitive outcomes, but there is a paucity of prospectively-collected patient data. The investigators are uniquely positioned to address this important question given the busy pediatric central nervous system (CNS) tumor service, the delivery of proton therapy at the S. Lee Kling Proton Therapy Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital, and the multi-disciplinary research team with extensive experience into the late effects of therapy as it relates to neurocognition.
Central Nervous System
OTHER: NIH Toolbox Cognitive Battery
Feasibility of obtaining serial computer-based neurocognitive testing as measured by an acceptance rate of 60% of eligible patients., The acceptance rate will be a proportion of those who consent to participation over the total number of eligible and approached participants. The 60% acceptance rate is chosen because previous behavioral science intervention study participation in pediatric hematology and oncology ranges from 42% to 90%., At the completion of enrollment of all patients (estimated to be 9 years)|Feasibility of obtaining serial computer-based neurocognitive testing as measured by an implementation rate of 80% among survivors, An implementation rate will be calculated by tracking the proportion of consented participants who complete at least two assessments in the first year of follow up. The primary length of time for implementation is in the first 12 months, but the rate of implementation will be tracked for up to five years for each participant. This is consistent with a two-staged assessment from Butler's remediation trial., 12 months|Feasibility of obtaining serial computer-based neurocognitive testing as measured by an implementation rate of 80% among survivors, An implementation rate will be calculated by tracking the proportion of consented participants who complete at least two assessments in the first year of follow up. The primary length of time for implementation is in the first 12 months, but the rate of implementation will be tracked for up to five years for each participant. This is consistent with a two-staged assessment from Butler's remediation trial., 5 years
This study will explore neurocognitive performance in pediatric brain tumor patients receiving proton beam radiation therapy (PBRT). The investigators goal is to gather baseline neurocognitive testing prior to the completion of the first week of radiation therapy along with follow-up testing 6-12 months after the completion of radiation and serial annual testing thereafter. With these data the investigators plan to evaluate the effects of PBRT on neurocognitive performance as it relates to patients' age at diagnosis, tumor location, and radiation dose. Modeling studies have demonstrated that PBRT could improve neurocognitive outcomes, but there is a paucity of prospectively-collected patient data. The investigators are uniquely positioned to address this important question given the busy pediatric central nervous system (CNS) tumor service, the delivery of proton therapy at the S. Lee Kling Proton Therapy Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital, and the multi-disciplinary research team with extensive experience into the late effects of therapy as it relates to neurocognition.