Neurocognitive Decline in Patients With Brain Metastases
The phase I component of the study is to identify maximal tolerated dose (MTD). The phase II is to evaluate neurocognitive decline.
Brain Metastases
RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Phase I: To determine the toxicity within 60 days from the date of SRS, in patients with a greater intracranial disease burden, defined as 6 or more metastases., Any subject who receives treatment on this protocol will be evaluated for toxicity. Each patient will be assessed for the development of toxicity according to the study calendar. Toxicity will be assessed according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0.

The following acute (\<30 days) and subacute (\>30 days - \<60 days) toxicities probably or definitely attributable to the protocol treatment, as defined in CTCAE v5.0, will be dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of the study.

Grade 3 or higher neurologic toxicity in the below categories:

* Ataxia
* Symptomatic Central Nervous System Necrosis which is interfering with ADLs (Activities of Daily Living), or requiring treatment with hyperbaric oxygen, Avastin, or resection. Asymptomatic necrosis present on imaging alone does not constitute DLT.
* Cerebral Edema (Grade 4)
* Intracranial Hemorrhage
* Seizure

Any Grade 4 or 5 toxicities definitely attributable to the protocol treatment., 60 days|Phase II: Determine the cognitive deterioration (HVLT delayed recall) in patients treated with SRS for multiple metastases (from baseline to 4 months), The Hopkins Verbal Learning Test (HVLT) is a memory test that gives information about memory.

Each patient will serve as her or his own control, and the relative decline in HVLT-DR (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test- Delayed Recall) score from baseline to 4 month follow-up is deﬁned as

Δ HVLT-DR = (HVLT-R DR at baseline - HVLT-DR at 4 month follow up) / HVLT-DR at baseline.

A positive change indicates a decline in function., 4 months
Local control, To determine the optimal dose which will provide local control in patients with a greater intracranial disease burden, defined as 6 or more metastases. Local control is defined as the time between the date of SRS and the first date of documented progressive disease of the treated lesions., 90 days|Overall survival (OS), To determine overall survival (OS). Overall survival is defined as the time between date of SRS (Stereotactic radiosurgery) and date of death., 2 years
To determine neurocognitive outcomes, via HVLT (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test) and quality of life via FACT-Br (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy) amongst patients treated with \> 6 metastases via SRS. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|To determine the time to distant brain recurrence, distant brain recurrence is defined as time between date of SRS and development of new metastases. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|To determine the incidence of salvage WBRT or radiosurgery, WBRT is defined as whole brain radiation therapy. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 4 months|Prospectively collect and analyze histology and mutational/hormone status. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., Patients' disease status over time, 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze hippocampal dose and relation to neurocognitive decline, Hippocampal dose measured in cGy (centigray); neurocognitive decline assessed by HVLT (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test). This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze whole brain integral dose, V8, V10, and V12 and relation to toxicity, assessed by CTCAE v5.0. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze the total treatment time, Treatment time measured in hours, minutes, and seconds. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze total brain metastases volume and relation to local control, neurocognitive outcome, quality of life, and toxicity, Total brain metastases volume (cc). This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze the size of treated brain metastases, Measured in millimeters/centimeters. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze the number of brain metastases and relation to local control, neurocognitive outcome, quality of life, and toxicity, How the number of brain metastases affects patients' health over time. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze neurologic symptoms at the time of SRS, Symptoms at time of stereotactic radiosurgery. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze the effect of controlled or uncontrolled systemic disease on local control, neurocognitive outcome, quality of life and toxicity, How patients are affected by systemic disease over time. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze the effect of the type of prior systemic therapy on local control, neurocognitive outcome, quality of life and toxicity, Prior systemic therapy includes cytotoxic, targeted, or immune therapy. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Prospectively collect and analyze standard patient demographics, Patient demographics include age in years, performance status using ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group)/Zubrod performance scale, and gender. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|To prospectively collect treatment time of patients treated for multiple metastases, reported in a routine manner at scheduled times during the trial. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 2 years|To determine the incidence of development of leptomeningeal disease, Leptomeningeal disease is an exclusion criteria for the study. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 2 years
On review of our experience with treatment for brain metastases since 2009, we have treated over 100 patients with 6 or more metastases in a single radiosurgery session. In the past year and a half (2015-16) there have been approximately 50 patients treated with six or more metastases, indicating that there has been a shift in management of intracranial metastatic disease with increasing preference for radiosurgery despite the presences of greater metastatic burden. The phase I component will accrue 7-15 patients at each dose cohort until the MTD is determined. Once the MTD is reached, the phase II component will commence with a total of 50 patients total enrolled at the MTD, with a study time of 3 years. The primary endpoint of the phase I component is toxicity. The primary endpoint of the phase II component is the change in neurocognitive function, defined by a decline in the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test- Revised delayed recall. Data from the WBRT-alone arm of the PCI-P-120-9801 phase III trial evaluating WBRT plus motexafin gadolinium demonstrated a 30% mean relative decline in the HVLT-R delayed recall score from baseline to 4 months, with a standard deviation of 41% 9,10. More recently, in patients treated with SRS alone for 1-3 metastases versus SRS plus whole brain radiotherapy, the 4-month rates of HVLT-R delayed recall deterioration were 6% and 22% for the SRS alone arm and SRS + whole brain radiotherapy arm, respectively. Given the greater intracranial burden of disease, we estimate the mean relative decline in HVLT-R delayed recall to be intermediate between SRS alone for 1-3 metastases and whole brain radiotherapy. We predict that after SRS for multiple metastases the mean relative decline in delayed recall as 15%, an improvement over the historical control of whole brain radiotherapy alone which had a mean relative decline in HVLT-R delayed recall of 30%.