Adjuvant I.V. Iron Therapy During Erythropoetin Treatment of Anemic Patients With Lymphoproliferative Disorders.
This is a multi-center open label, randomized phase-3 study with stratification according to diagnosis and baseline serum-EPO level. The correction of mild or moderate anemia and the effect on iron kinetics by the rHuEPO treatment with or without intravenous iron supplementation in anemic patients with LPD not receiving antineoplastic therapy will be studied. The study will be performed according to the ICH-GCP guidelines. In order to be eligible, the patient must consent in writing that he/she agrees to participate in the study. The patient recruitment period is estimated to be no longer than 18 months.
Anemia|Multiple Myeloma|Non Hodgkin Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Neo-Recormon and Venofer
To compare the mean change in hemoglobin (Hb) concentrations from baseline to EOT (End of treatment ) between the two treatment groups.
The percentage of subjects with Hb response defined by an increase in the Hb concentration by at least 20 g/L in the absence of any RBC transfusion.|The time needed to obtain a Hb response.|The fraction of subjects receiving RBC transfusions during the study period.|The dose of rHuEPO used.|The effect on iron-status.|The weekly Hb concentration profile over time.|The frequency and grade of adverse reactions.
In this multi-center, randomized, open label phase-3 study, the correction of mild or moderate anemia and the effect on iron kinetics by rHuEPO treatment, with or without intravenous iron treatment, in patients with LPD not receiving antineoplastic therapy will be studied.

LENGTH OF STUDY 16 weeks

NUMBER OF CENTERS 15

NUMBER OF SUBJECTS 66

STRATIFICATION 1. According to diagnosis; CLL and indolent NHL vs. MM. 2. According to level of S-epo \> 100 IU/L vs £ 100 IU/L at baseline.

TREATMENT The patients will be randomized to receive 30 000 IU Neorecormon â (epoetin beta) s.c. once / week for 16 consecutive weeks +/- 100mg/week of Venofer â (iron sucrose) from week 0 to 6, followed by one 100mg dose every 2 week from weeks 8 until 14.

If the increase in Hb concentration is less than 10g/L from baseline (week 0) until week 4 weeks, the dose of epoetin beta will be increased to 60 000 IU weekly from week 5.

If the Hb concentration exceeds 140 g/L, the epoetin beta therapy will be suspended. The treatment will be resumed once the Hb concentration falls below 130 g/L. This resumed dose will be 75% of the previous dose (e.g. if the previous dose was 30 000 IU before suspension, the continued dose should be 22 500 IU. If the dose was 60 000 IU before suspension, the dose should be 45 000 IU).

If the level of S-ferritin reaches \>1000 ug/L iron sucrose should be suspended until the S-ferritin level falls below 500 ug/L.