VS-6766+Abema+Fulv in Met HR+/HER- BC
This research is being done to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a drug currently known as VS-6766 in combination with the drugs abemaciclib and fulvestrant in HR+/HER2-negative breast cancer.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* VS-6766
* Abemaciclib
* Fulvestrant
Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor-positive Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Positive HER-2 Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: VS-6766|DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Phase 1 Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of VS-6766 in combination with abemaciclib and fulvestrant using Bayesian Optimal Interval Design, 4 Weeks up to 2 years|Phase 1 Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D), Determine Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of VS-6766 in combination with abemaciclib and fulvestrant using Bayesian Optimal Interval Design, 4 Weeks up to 2 years|Phase 2 Clinical benefit rate (CBR), The primary endpoint in phase II is assessment of the clinical benefit rate (CBR; complete response + partial response + stable disease for \>/=24 weeks), 6 months up to 3 years
Overall response rate (ORR), Assess overall response rate (ORR) defined as confirmed complete response or partial response per RECIST 1.1., 6 months up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Assess progression-free survival (PFS) defined as as the time from study registration to radiographic or clinical evidence of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Patients alive without disease progression are censored at the date of last disease evaluation., 6 months up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Assess Overall survival (OS) defined as time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive., 6 months up to 10 years|Treatment Related Adverse Events, Assess safety through number of Treatment Related Adverse Events per CTCAE v5.0, 1 week up to 3 years|Phase I Cmax of VS-6766, In Phase 1 define the maximum concentration of drug VS-6766, 16 days|Phase I Cmax of abemaciclib, In Phase 1 define the maximum concentration of drug abemaciclib, 16 days|Phase I AUC(0-384) of VS-6766, In Phase 1 define the area under the curve (AUC) from 0-384 hours of VS-6766, 16 days|Phase I AUC(0-384) of abemaciclib, In Phase 1 define the area under the curve (AUC) from 0-384 hours of abemaciclib, 16 days
This is single-arm open-label phase 1/2 trial assessing the safety and efficacy of the new drug, VS-6766, plus abemaciclib and fulvestrant in treating metastatic hormone receptor-positive and HER2-negative (HR+/HER2-) breast cancer.

VS-6766 is a unique small molecule drug that targets and interrupts a pathway that allows cancer cells to grow.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved VS-6766 as a treatment for any disease. The FDA has approved abemaciclib and fulvestrant as a treatment option for breast cancer.

The study is divided into three study periods: a screening period; a treatment period; and a post-treatment follow-up period. Participants will receive study treatment for as long there are no serious side effects and the disease does not get worse.

It is expected that about 63 people will take part in this research study.

Verastem Oncology, a biopharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing VS-6766 and funding to conduct this trial. Eli Lilly, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing the drug, abemaciclib.