Carboplatin, Pemetrexed Disodium, and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB, Stage IV, or Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and pemetrexed disodium, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Pemetrexed disodium may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving carboplatin and pemetrexed disodium together with bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving carboplatin and pemetrexed disodium together with bevacizumab works in treating patients with stage IIIB, stage IV, or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: pemetrexed
Median Progression Free Survival, Progression Free Survival (PFS) in patients treated with the combination of carboplatin, pemetrexed and bevacizumab is defined as the time from registration to the time of documented disease progression or death from any cause. Patients that were lost to follow up or withdrew consent were censored at that point., Approximately every 3 weeks until disease progression or death. Median follow up of 13 months (range 0.8 to 34.4 months)
Overall Response Rate, Overall Response Rate (ORR) of patients treated with carboplatin, pemetrexed, and bevacizumab combination is defined as the number of patients who's best response is a Complete Response (CR) plus Partial Response (PR)as recorded from the start of treatment until disease progression as assessed by RECIST 1.0.

CR=Disappearance of all target lesions for a minimum of 4 weeks. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions for a minimum of 4 weeks, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. No simultaneous increase in the size of any lesion or the appearance of a new lesion may occur., Every two cycles until disease progression. Median follow up of 13 months (range 0.8 to 34.4 months)|Toxicity of Carboplatin, Pemetrexed and Bevacizumab Combination Treatment, To characterize the toxicity profile of carboplatin, pemetrexed and bevacizumab combination treatment.

Toxicity data will be collected from initiation of treatment, every cycle, until 30 days post last treatment. Adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria for adverse events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0). Only toxicity determined to be a least possibility related to at least one study drug and grade 3 or 4 was collected for this outcome measure.

In general adverse events (AEs) will be graded according to the following:

Grade 1 Mild AE Grade 2 Moderate AE Grade 3 Severe AE Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE Grade 5 Death related to AE, From treatment initiation, at the beginning of each cycle where one cycle equals 21 days until 30 days post treatment (range of cycles 1-51)|Overall Survival Rate, Overall Survival (OS) Rate of carboplatin, pemetrexed and bevacizumab combination treatment is defined from the time of registration to the study until death from any cause. Patients that are lost to follow up will be censored from last documentation of survival status., During treatment and then every 3 months x 2 years, then every 6 months x 3 years or until death.|Duration of Response, Duration of Response for patients treated with the combination of carboplatin, pemetrexed and bevacizumab is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for Complete Response or Partial Response (whichever is first recorded) until the first date of documented progressive disease., From documentation of response, every two cycles (1 cycle = 21 days) until progressive disease with range of cycles completed 1-51.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the median time to disease progression in patients with stage IIIB or IV or recurrent non-squamous cell non-small cell lung cancer treated with carboplatin, pemetrexed disodium, and bevacizumab.

Secondary

* Determine the response rate and duration of response in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes, carboplatin IV over 30 minutes, and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 6 courses, patients with complete response, partial response, or stable disease continue to receive pemetrexed disodium and bevacizumab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.