Influence of a Home-based Nutrition and Exercise Program on Quality of Life of Palliative Cancer Outpatients
The main purpose of the study is to investigate whether a tailor-made nutritional and exercise program including home-based sessions and regular monitoring using an application on the smartphone is effective in improving Quality of Life in patients with advanced lung or gastrointestinal tract cancer.
Cancer, Gastrointestinal|Cancer, Lung|Malnutrition
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Whey protein supplement high in leucine and β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB)|BEHAVIORAL: Standardized nutritional program|BEHAVIORAL: Standardized exercise program
QoL, Questionnaire Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), 3 Months
Nutritional status, Body weight (in kg), used in combination with body height to calculate BMI (in kg/m2), 3 months|Nutritional status, Patient-generated subjective global assessment (PGSGA), 3 months|Nutritional status, Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA), 3 months|Nutritional status, Muscle mass: L3 image of computertomographic (CT) measurements taken in the context of standard cancer therapy (divided by height squared; in cm2/m2), 3 months|Nutritional status, Calf circumference (in cm), 3 months|Nutritional status, Sarcopenia screening questionnaire SARC-F, 3 months|Physical function, Handgrip strength (in kg), 3 months|Physical function, 60 s sit-to-stand test (number of stands), 3 months|Physical function, 6 minute walk test (in m), 3 months|Energy- and protein intake, Data collected with application, Harris-Benedict formula, 3 months|Fatigue, Questionnaire Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue), 3 months|Clinical data, Physical performance status (WHO performance status, grade 0-5), 3 months|Clinical data, Tumor stadium, 3 months|Clinical data, Adverse events grade 3 and 4, 3 months|Clinical data, Serious adverse events, 3 months|Clinical data, Unplanned hospital readmissions, 3 months|Clinical data, Survival, 3 months|Adherence to the nutritional and exercise program, According to data collected with application, 3 months|Usability of the new application, Questionnaire mHealth App Usability (MAUQ), 3 months|Success of recruitment rate in comparison to former studies, Number of eligible patients, participants, rejections as compared to similar past studies, Through study completion (24 months)
Cachexia is highly prevalent among cancer patients and has substantial impact on the Quality of Life (QoL) and the functional status of patients.Therefore, the main purpose of this study is to investigate whether a mainly home-based nutritional and exercise program including regular monitoring using an application on the smartphone is effective in improving QoL in patients with advanced lung or gastrointestinal tract cancer.

The study desing is a randomized, two-arm and multicenter international trial and advanced lung or gastrointestinal cancer patients not eligible for curative treatment make up the patient population.

Patients in the intervention group receive a nutrition and exercise program in combination with an electronic application for data collection and monitoring.

The nutritional program comprises an extensive nutritional assessment and an individual nutritional recommendation. In addition, patients receive a whey protein supplement high in leucine and β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB) to support an optimal protein intake in combination with physical activity. The nutritional situation is reassessed at 2 -3 weeks.

Exercise counselling includes at least two visits with an extensive first baseline assessment. On this basis, an individual training program for 12 weeks in a home-based setting is compiled, with mainly strength and endurance exercises. At week 2-3, the patient and the study physiotherapist have a follow-up meeting.

The application Swiss NutriAct is mainly used for data collection (nutritional, exercise and QoL data). Since the study coordinator, dietician and physiotherapist can see the information entered by the intervention group patients, they can contact patients and offer help regarding the nutrition and exercise program, where deemed appropriate. Vice versa, patients can use the help button to contact the study team to ask questions regarding the nutrition and exercise program.

Patients in the control group receive standard of care and a limited version of the application.

Both arms will be assessed at baseline (0 weeks), after the 12 weeks intervention phase and at a follow up assessment after 24 weeks.