A Study of Adavosertib (MK-1775) in Combination With Topotecan/Cisplatin in Participants With Cervical Cancer (MK-1775-008)
This study will be conducted in two parts. Part 1 will determine whether administration of adavosertib in combination with topotecan and cisplatin is generally well-tolerated and causes clinical objective responses in patients with cervical cancer. Part 1 will also define the recommended Phase 2 dose and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of adavosertib with topotecan and cisplatin. Part 2 of the study will evaluate whether treatment with adavosertib in combination with topotecan and cisplatin causes an improvement in progression-free survival (PFS) compared to treatment with topotecan and cisplatin alone and will further evaluate the tolerability of the combination treatment. The primary hypothesis is the combination of adavosertib, topotecan and cisplatin causes objective radiological responses (assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1 criteria) in ≥30% of participants. Due to the early termination of the study by the sponsor, no participants were enrolled in Part 2 of the study.
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: adavosertib|DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Placebo to adavosertib
Part 1: Percentage of Participants Whose Best Confirmed Response is Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR), On the basis of Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. CR is the disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, where all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in the short axis., Up to approximately 1 year|Part 1: Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A DLT is a protocol-defined, (hematologic and non-hematologic), AE that must be definitely, probably, or possibly related to the study therapy. A DLT is any of the following: Grade 4-5 hematological toxicity; Grade 3 or Grade 4 neutropenia with fever \>38.°C and/or infection requiring antibiotic or anti-fungal treatment. Non-hematologic dose-limiting toxicities are any Grade 3, 4, or 5 non-hematologic toxicity, with specific exceptions. If occurring within the first cycle of combination therapy: unresolved drug-related toxicity, preventing (re) treatment for 3 weeks or more from the date of the next scheduled treatment or any drug-related toxicity preventing the participant from taking at least 75% of the doses of MK-1775 with each administration of chemotherapy., Up to approximately 1 year|Part 2: Length of Time for Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is the length of time during and after treatment that a participant lives, but whose tumor progression does not worsen. PFS is defined as the time from randomization to progressive disease or death, whichever occurs earlier. Tumor volume changes of +20% for progressive disease was used to be consistent with RECIST 1.1., Up to approximately 1 year
This study will be conducted in two parts. Part 1 will determine whether administration of adavosertib in combination with topotecan and cisplatin is generally well-tolerated and causes clinical objective responses in patients with cervical cancer. Part 1 will also define the recommended Phase 2 dose and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of adavosertib with topotecan and cisplatin. Part 2 of the study will evaluate whether treatment with adavosertib in combination with topotecan and cisplatin causes an improvement in progression-free survival (PFS) compared to treatment with topotecan and cisplatin alone and will further evaluate the tolerability of the combination treatment. The primary hypothesis is the combination of adavosertib, topotecan and cisplatin causes objective radiological responses (assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1 criteria) in ≥30% of participants. Due to the early termination of the study by the sponsor, no participants were enrolled in Part 2 of the study.