A Study to Compare Subcutaneous (SC) Versus Intravenous (IV) Administration of Herceptin (Trastuzumab) in Women With Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (HER) 2-Positive Early Breast Cancer
In this open-label multicenter trial, participants with operable or locally advanced breast cancer will be randomized to pre-operative treatment with 8 cycles of chemotherapy (4 cycles of docetaxel followed by 4 cycles of 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide) concurrent with either SC Herceptin or IV Herceptin. After surgery, participants will receive a further 10 cycles of SC or IV Herceptin as per randomization to complete 1 year of treatment. All cycles will be 21 days in length. After the end of study treatment, participants will be followed for safety and efficacy for up to 5 years or until disease recurrence, whichever is earlier.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Herceptin IV [trastuzumab]|DRUG: Herceptin SC [trastuzumab]
Observed Serum Trough Concentration (Ctrough) of Trastuzumab Prior to Surgery, Pre-dose samples were obtained prior to surgery (Cycle 8). The observed Ctrough was recorded, averaged among all participants, and expressed in micrograms per milliliter (μg/mL)., Pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days)|Percentage of Participants With Pathological Complete Response (pCR), Participants were evaluated following eight cycles of treatment and after surgery to assess for pCR, defined as absence of neoplastic invasive cells in the breast according to pathologist examination. The percentage of participants with pCR was reported, and the 95% CI for one-sample binomial was constructed using the Pearson-Clopper method., After surgery following eight cycles of Herceptin + chemotherapy (approximately 6 months from Baseline)
Observed Ctrough of Trastuzumab After Surgery, Pre-dose samples were obtained after surgery (Cycle 13). The observed Ctrough was recorded, averaged among all participants, and expressed in μg/mL., Pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 13 (cycle length of 21 days)|Predicted Ctrough of Trastuzumab Prior to Surgery, Predicted Ctrough at pre-dose prior to surgery (Cycle 8) was determined on the basis of a population PK model from Study BP22023 (NCT00800436). The mean predicted Ctrough was expressed in μg/mL., Pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days)|Predicted Ctrough of Trastuzumab After Surgery, Predicted Ctrough at pre-dose after surgery (Cycle 13) was determined on the basis of a population PK model from Study BP22023 (NCT00800436). The mean predicted Ctrough was expressed in μg/mL., Pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 13 (cycle length of 21 days)|Number of Participants With Ctrough of Trastuzumab >20 μg/mL Prior to Surgery, Pre-dose samples were obtained prior to surgery (Cycle 8). The number of participants who had an observed Ctrough \>20 μg/mL was reported., Pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days)|Number of Participants With Ctrough of Trastuzumab >20 μg/mL After Surgery, Pre-dose samples were obtained after surgery (Cycle 13). The number of participants who had an observed Ctrough \>20 μg/mL was reported., Pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 13 (cycle length of 21 days)|Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Trastuzumab Prior to Surgery, PK samples were obtained prior to surgery (Cycle 7). The Cmax during Cycle 7 was recorded, averaged among all participants, and expressed in μg/mL., Pre-dose (0 hours) and at end of 30-minute infusion (Herceptin IV only) on Day 1 of Cycle 7; on Days 2, 4, 8, 15 of Cycle 7; pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days)|Time of Maximum Serum Concentration (Tmax) of Trastuzumab Prior to Surgery, PK samples were obtained prior to surgery (Cycle 7). The Tmax during Cycle 7 was recorded, averaged among all participants, and expressed in days., Pre-dose (0 hours) and at end of 30-minute infusion (Herceptin IV only) on Day 1 of Cycle 7; on Days 2, 4, 8, 15 of Cycle 7; pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days)|Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve From 0 to 21 Days (AUC21d) of Trastuzumab Prior to Surgery, PK samples were obtained prior to surgery (Cycle 7). Values were extrapolated beyond Day 15 to produce the area over the full 21-day cycle. The AUC21d value at Cycle 7 was calculated from trastuzumab concentration-time profiles using standard non-compartmental PK methods, averaged among all participants, and expressed in days multiplied by micrograms per milliliters (d\*μg/mL)., Pre-dose (0 hours) and at end of 30-minute infusion (Herceptin IV only) on Day 1 of Cycle 7; on Days 2, 4, 8, 15 of Cycle 7; pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days)|Cmax of Trastuzumab After Surgery, PK samples were obtained after surgery (Cycle 12). The Cmax during Cycle 12 was recorded, averaged among all participants, and expressed in μg/mL., Pre-dose (0 hours) and at end of 30-minute infusion (Herceptin IV only) on Day 1 of Cycle 12; on Days 2, 4, 8, 15 of Cycle 12; pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 13 (cycle length of 21 days)|Tmax of Trastuzumab After Surgery, PK samples were obtained after surgery (Cycle 12). The Tmax during Cycle 12 was recorded, averaged among all participants, and expressed in days., Pre-dose (0 hours) and at end of 30-minute infusion (Herceptin IV only) on Day 1 of Cycle 12; on Days 2, 4, 8, 15 of Cycle 12; pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 13 (cycle length of 21 days)|AUC21d of Trastuzumab After Surgery, PK samples were obtained after surgery (Cycle 12). Values were extrapolated beyond Day 15 to produce the area over the full 21-day cycle. The AUC21d value at Cycle 12 was calculated from trastuzumab concentration-time profiles using standard non-compartmental PK methods, averaged among all participants, and expressed in d\*μg/mL., Pre-dose (0 hours) and at end of 30-minute infusion (Herceptin IV only) on Day 1 of Cycle 12; on Days 2, 4, 8, 15 of Cycle 12; pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycle 13 (cycle length of 21 days)|Percentage of Participants With Total Pathological Complete Response (tpCR), Participants were evaluated following eight cycles of treatment and after surgery to assess for tpCR, defined as absence of neoplastic invasive cells in the breast and axillary lymph nodes according to pathologist examination. The percentage of participants with tpCR was reported, and the 95% CI for one-sample binomial was constructed using the Pearson-Clopper method., After surgery following eight cycles of Herceptin + chemotherapy (approximately 6 months from Baseline)|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.0, Among Those With Measurable Disease at Baseline, Tumor response was assessed using RECIST version 1.0. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and short-axis reduction of any pathological lymph nodes to less than (\<) 10 millimeters (mm) with no prior assessment of progressive disease (PD). PR was defined as greater than or equal to (≥) 30% decrease from Baseline in sum diameter (SD) of target lesions with no prior assessment of PD. PD was defined as ≥20% relative increase and ≥5 mm of absolute increase in the SD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest SD recorded since treatment started; or appearance of 1 or more new lesions. The percentage of participants with overall response of CR or PR at the end of neoadjuvant treatment was reported, and the 95% CI for one-sample binomial was constructed using the Pearson-Clopper method., Tumor assessments at Baseline; on Day 1 of Cycles 3, 5, 7 (cycle length of 21 days); and at time of surgery following eight cycles of Herceptin + chemotherapy (approximately 6 months overall)|Time to Response According to RECIST Version 1.0, Among Those With Measurable Disease at Baseline, Tumor response was assessed using RECIST version 1.0. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and short-axis reduction of any pathological lymph nodes to \<10 mm with no prior assessment of PD. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease from Baseline in SD of target lesions with no prior assessment of PD. PD was defined as ≥20% relative increase and ≥5 mm of absolute increase in the SD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest SD recorded since treatment started; or appearance of 1 or more new lesions. Time to response was defined as the time from first dose of study medication to the first assessment of CR or PR, which was the date the response was first documented by objective evidence, among participants with an overall response of CR or PR., Tumor assessments at Baseline; on Day 1 Cycles 3, 5, 7 (cycle length of 21 days); and at time of surgery following eight cycles of chemotherapy (approximately 6 months overall)|Percentage of Participants Who Experienced a Protocol-Defined Event, Protocol-defined events included disease recurrence/progression (local, regional, distant, contralateral) or death from any cause. Imaging was performed at specified visits for up to 5 years after last dose. Thereafter, participants were followed for survival only. The percentage of participants who experienced a protocol-defined event at any time during the study was reported., Screening; Day 1 of Cycle 18 (cycle length of 21 days); and Months 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60 from last dose of Cycle 18; then every 6 months until withdrawal for any reason (up to approximately 87 months overall)|Event-Free Survival (EFS), Protocol-defined events included disease recurrence or progression (local, regional, distant, contralateral) or death from any cause. Imaging was performed at specified visits for up to 5 years after last dose. Thereafter, participants were followed for survival only. EFS was estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis and defined as the time from randomization to the first protocol-defined event., Screening; Day 1 of Cycle 18 (cycle length of 21 days); and Months 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60 from last dose of Cycle 18; then every 6 months until withdrawal for any reason (up to approximately 87 months overall)|Percentage of Participants Who Died, The percentage of participants who died at any time during the study was reported., Continuously during treatment (up to 12 months); at Months 1, 3, 6 from last dose of Cycle 18 (cycle length of 21 days); then every 6 months until withdrawal for any reason (up to approximately 87 months overall)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis and defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., Continuously during treatment (up to 12 months); at Months 1, 3, 6 from last dose of Cycle 18 (cycle length of 21 days); then every 6 months until withdrawal for any reason (up to approximately 87 months overall)|Number of Participants With Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADAs) Against Trastuzumab, Participants provided PK samples for evaluation of anti-trastuzumab antibodies. The number of participants with "Treatment-induced ADAs" and "Treatment-enhanced ADA" against trastuzumab at any time during or after treatment was reported. Treatment-induced ADA = a participant with negative or missing Baseline ADA result(s) and at least one positive post-Baseline ADA result. Treatment-enhanced ADA = a participant with positive ADA result at Baseline who has one or more post Baseline titer results that are at least 0.60 titer unit greater than the Baseline titer result (four-fold increase of titer)., Baseline; pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycles 2, 5, 13, 18 (cycle length of 21 days); and Months 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54, 60 from last dose of Cycle 18|Number of Participants With ADAs Against Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase (rHuPH20), Participants in the Herceptin SC arm provided PK samples for evaluation of anti-rHuPH20 antibodies. The number of participants with "Treatment-induced ADAs" and "Treatment-enhanced ADA" against rHuPH20 (an excipient unique to the SC formulation) at any time during or after treatment was reported. Treatment-induced ADA = a participant with negative or missing Baseline ADA result(s) and at least one positive post-Baseline ADA result. Treatment-enhanced ADA = a participant with positive ADA result at Baseline who has one or more post Baseline titer results that are at least 0.60 titer unit greater than the Baseline titer result (four-fold increase of titer)., Baseline; pre-dose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycles 2, 5, 13, 18 (cycle length of 21 days); and Months 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54, 60 from last dose of Cycle 18
In this open-label multicenter trial, participants with operable or locally advanced breast cancer will be randomized to pre-operative treatment with 8 cycles of chemotherapy (4 cycles of docetaxel followed by 4 cycles of 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide) concurrent with either SC Herceptin or IV Herceptin. After surgery, participants will receive a further 10 cycles of SC or IV Herceptin as per randomization to complete 1 year of treatment. All cycles will be 21 days in length. After the end of study treatment, participants will be followed for safety and efficacy for up to 5 years or until disease recurrence, whichever is earlier.