Effects of a Female Hormone Balance Supplement on Symptoms of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome and Severe Premenstrual Syndrome
This is a virtual single group study that will last 12 weeks. Participants will take 1 scoop of the female hormone balance supplement, and mix it with their drink of choice every morning. Questionnaires will be completed at baseline, 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 12 weeks
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Premenstrual Syndrome
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Female Hormone Balance Supplement
Changes in menstrual cycle regularity., Study-specific questionnaires completed by participants. Questionnaires utilize a 5-point Likert scale with 5 representing the most favorable/best outcome (e.g., "Very regular") and 1 representing the least favorable/worst outcome (e.g., "Extremely irregular")., Baseline to Week 12|Changes in hormonal acne., Study-specific questionnaires completed by participants. Questionnaires utilize a 5-point Likert scale with 5 representing the most favorable/best outcome (e.g., "Not at all") and 1 representing the least favorable/worst outcome (e.g., "Severe")., Baseline to Week 12|Changes in skin issues throughout the menstrual cycle., Study-specific questionnaires completed by participants. Questionnaires utilize a 5-point Likert scale with 5 representing the most favorable/best outcome (e.g., "Not at all") and 1 representing the least favorable/worst outcome (e.g., "Severe")., Baseline to Week 12
Changes in overall mood., Study-specific questionnaires completed by participants. Questionnaires utilize a 5-point Likert scale with 5 representing the most favorable/best outcome (e.g., "Not at all") and 1 representing the least favorable/worst outcome (e.g., "Severe")., Baseline to Week 12|Changes in stress levels., Study-specific questionnaires completed by participants. Questionnaires utilize a 5-point Likert scale with 5 representing the most favorable/best outcome (e.g., "Not at all") and 1 representing the least favorable/worst outcome (e.g., "Severe")., Baseline to Week 12|Changes in food cravings., Study-specific questionnaires completed by participants. Questionnaires utilize a 5-point Likert scale with 5 representing the most favorable/best outcome (e.g., "Not at all") and 1 representing the least favorable/worst outcome (e.g., "Severe")., Baseline to Week 12|Changes in energy., Study-specific questionnaires completed by participants. Questionnaires utilize a 5-point Likert scale with 5 representing the most favorable/best outcome (e.g., "Not at all") and 1 representing the least favorable/worst outcome (e.g., "Severe")., Baseline to Week 12|Changes in menstrual cramps., Study-specific questionnaires completed by participants. Questionnaires utilize a 5-point Likert scale with 5 representing the most favorable/best outcome (e.g., "Not at all") and 1 representing the least favorable/worst outcome (e.g., "Severe")., Baseline to Week 12
This is a virtual single group study that will last 12 weeks. Participants will take 1 scoop of the female hormone balance supplement, and mix it with their drink of choice every morning. Questionnaires will be completed at baseline, 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 12 weeks