Testing the Combination of Cabozantinib, Nivolumab, and Ipilimumab (CaboNivoIpi) for Advanced Differentiated Thyroid Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well cabozantinib, nivolumab, and ipilimumab work in treating patients with differentiated thyroid cancer that does not respond to radioactive iodine and that worsened after treatment with a drug targeting the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR), a protein needed to form blood vessels. Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab and ipilimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving cabozantinib, nivolumab and ipilimumab may work better than the usual approach consisting of chemotherapy with drugs such as doxorubicin, sorafenib, and lenvatinib for this type of thyroid cancer.
Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Follicular Variant Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Poorly Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Refractory Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Tall Cell Variant Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma|Thyroid Gland Oncocytic Carcinoma|Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Objective response rate, Defined as the proportion of patients who have had a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) within the first 6 months after initiation of therapy., Up to 6 months after initiation of therapy
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0. Frequency and severity of AEs and tolerability of the regimen will be collected and summarized by descriptive statistics. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Up to 2 years|Duration of response, From response (PR or CR) to documented progression, assessed up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods, resulting in median survival times with 95% confidence interval (CI)., From initiation of therapy to documented progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods, resulting in median survival times with 95% CI., From initiation of therapy to death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Tumor mutation status, Will be summarized using frequency and compared between responders and non-responders using chi-square test or Fisher's exact test, whichever is more appropriate., Up to 2 years|Tumor infiltrating lymphocyte in biopsies, Will be described graphically using boxplots or summary measures (e.g., mean and standard errors) at each time point. Will also explore how changes in these correlative markers may differ based on whether or not the patient achieved a response. To accomplish this, will utilize different plotting characters and colors for responses versus (vs.) not in the graphical analyses to help identify potential patterns, and summarize the changes quantitatively between responders and non-responders. Changes in levels will also be compared between responders and non-responders using two sample t-test or Wilcoxon test if the data is not normally distributed. Linear mixed effect models will also be used to examine the association of biomarkers over the time with the response. Potential confounders (patients' demographics and clinical characteristics) may also be included in the models., Baseline up to 12 weeks after treatment start date|T cell receptor repertoire in peripheral blood, Will be described graphically using boxplots or summary measures (e.g., mean and standard errors) at each time point. Will also explore how changes in these correlative markers may differ based on whether or not the patient achieved a response. To accomplish this, will utilize different plotting characters and colors for responses vs. not in the graphical analyses to help identify potential patterns, and summarize the changes quantitatively between responders and non-responders. Changes in levels will also be compared between responders and non-responders using two sample t-test or Wilcoxon test if the data is not normally distributed. Linear mixed effect models will also be used to examine the association of biomarkers over the time with the response. Potential confounders (patients' demographics and clinical characteristics) may also be included in the models., Baseline up to 12 weeks post treatment start date|T cell receptor repertoire in biopsies, Will be described graphically using boxplots or summary measures (e.g., mean and standard errors) at each time point. Will also explore how changes in these correlative markers may differ based on whether or not the patient achieved a response. To accomplish this, will utilize different plotting characters and colors for responses vs. not in the graphical analyses to help identify potential patterns, and summarize the changes quantitatively between responders and non-responders. Changes in levels will also be compared between responders and non-responders using two sample t-test or Wilcoxon test if the data is not normally distributed. Linear mixed effect models will also be used to examine the association of biomarkers over the time with the response. Potential confounders (patients' demographics and clinical characteristics) may also be included in the models., Baseline, 2 weeks after starting cabozantinib treatment, 12 weeks post treatment start date, and at the time of disease progression|PD-1/PD-L1 expression in the primary/metastatic tumor in biopsies, Will be described graphically using boxplots or summary measures (e.g., mean and standard errors) at each time point. Will also explore how changes in these correlative markers may differ based on whether or not the patient achieved a response. To accomplish this, will utilize different plotting characters and colors for responses vs. not in the graphical analyses to help identify potential patterns, and summarize the changes quantitatively between responders and non-responders. Changes in levels will also be compared between responders and non-responders using two sample t-test or Wilcoxon test if the data is not normally distributed. Linear mixed effect models will also be used to examine the association of biomarkers over the time with the response. Potential confounders (patients' demographics and clinical characteristics) may also be included in the models., Baseline up to 12 weeks post treatment start date|Peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Will be described graphically using boxplots or summary measures (e.g., mean and standard errors) at each time point. Will also explore how changes in these correlative markers may differ based on whether or not the patient achieved a response. To accomplish this, will utilize different plotting characters and colors for responses vs. not in the graphical analyses to help identify potential patterns, and summarize the changes quantitatively between responders and non-responders. Changes in levels will also be compared between responders and non-responders using two sample t-test or Wilcoxon test if the data is not normally distributed. Linear mixed effect models will also be used to examine the association of biomarkers over the time with the response. Potential confounders (patients' demographics and clinical characteristics) may also be included in the models., Baseline, 2 weeks after starting cabozantinib treatment, 12 weeks post treatment start date, and at the time of disease progression|Circulating myeloid-derived suppressor cells, Will be described graphically using boxplots or summary measures (e.g., mean and standard errors) at each time point. Will also explore how changes in these correlative markers may differ based on whether or not the patient achieved a response. To accomplish this, will utilize different plotting characters and colors for responses vs. not in the graphical analyses to help identify potential patterns, and summarize the changes quantitatively between responders and non-responders. Changes in levels will also be compared between responders and non-responders using two sample t-test or Wilcoxon test if the data is not normally distributed. Linear mixed effect models will also be used to examine the association of biomarkers over the time with the response. Potential confounders (patients' demographics and clinical characteristics) may also be included in the models., Baseline, 2 weeks after starting cabozantinib treatment, 12 weeks post treatment start date, and at the time of disease progression
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the objective response rate, defined as the proportion of patients who have had a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) within the first 6 months after initiation of therapy with cabozantinib S-malate (XL184 \[cabozantinib\]), nivolumab, and ipilimumab (CaboNivoIpi).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess duration of objective response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS).

II. To assess tolerability and adverse events of CaboNivoIpi in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate treatment response (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] version \[v\]1.1) with tumor mutation status.

II. To correlate treatment response (RECIST v1.1) with frequency of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes in biopsies taken pre-treatment and after 12 weeks of CaboNivoIpi therapy.

III. To evaluate the effect of CaboNivoIpi on T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire and to identify the frequency of shared T cell clones between tumor and peripheral blood.

IV. To evaluate the effect of XL184 (cabozantinib) alone and of the CaboNivoIpi combination on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and to correlate their frequency with treatment response (RECIST v1.1).

V. To evaluate the effect of XL184 (cabozantinib) alone and of the CaboNivoIpi combination on myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and to correlate their frequency with treatment response (RECIST v1.1).

VI. To correlate treatment response (RECIST v1.1) with programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) / programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in the primary/metastatic tumor.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -14 to -1 prior to cycle 1, days 1-42 of cycles 1-4 and days 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Patients also receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, and 29 of cycles 1-4 and day 1 of subsequent cycles and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-4. Treatment repeats every 42 days for cycles 1-4 and every 28 days for subsequent cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during screening, and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, and then every 12 weeks for up to 2 years.