A Comparative Study of AZD9833 Plus Palbociclib Versus Anastrozole Plus Palbociclib in Patients With ER-Positive HER2 Negative Breast Cancer Who Have Not Received Any Systemic Treatment for Advanced Disease
The study is intended to show superiority of AZD9833 in combination with palbociclib (a CDK4/6 inhibitor) versus anastrozole (an aromatase inhibitor) and palbociclib as the initial treatment of patients with hormone receptor-positive (ER-positive), human epidermal growth factor 2-negative (HER2-negative) advanced/metastatic breast cancer.

INFORMATION FOR TRIAL PARTICIPANTS

In this trial, the researchers will look at how well camizestrant with palbociclib works, compared with anastrozole with palbociclib, in participants with breast cancer that has either spread into other parts of the body at the time of diagnosis, or has come back after at least 2 years of standard endocrine treatment.

Participants in this trial will have breast cancer that has ER proteins but does not have overexpression of HER2 protein.
ER-Positive HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: AZD9833|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Anastrozole placebo|DRUG: AZD9833 placebo|DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist
Progression-free survival (PFS) assessed by the Investigator as defined by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to objective disease progression (as assessed by RECIST) or death., From randomization until progression per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator at local site or death due to any cause (up to 5 years)
Overall survival (OS), The OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., From randomization until the date of death due to any cause (up to 8 years)|Second progression-free survival (PFS2), Time to second progression or death (PFS2) will be defined as the time from randomisation to the earliest of the progression event (following the initial progression), subsequent to first subsequent therapy or death., From randomization to the earliest of the progression event (following the initial progression), subsequent to first subsequent therapy or death (up to 5 years)|Objective response rate (ORR) assessed by the Investigator as defined by RECIST version 1.1, ORR is defined as the proportion of patients who have a CR or partial response, as determined by the investigator at local site per RECIST 1.1., From randomization until a response or in the absence of a response from randomization up until progression, or the last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression (up to 5 years)|Duration of response (DoR) assessed by the Investigator as defined by RECIST version 1.1, The DoR will be defined as the time from the date of first documented response until date of documented progression or death in the absence of disease progression., From the date of first documented response until date of documented progression per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator at local site or death due to any cause (up to 5 years)|Time to chemotherapy (TTC), Time to chemotherapy is defined as the time from randomization until the earlier of the start date of chemotherapy or death due to any cause., From randomization until the earlier of the start date of chemotherapy or death due to any cause (up to 5 years)|Time to first subsequent anti-cancer therapy (TFST), TFST is defined as time from randomization until the earlier of start date of the first subsequent anti-cancer therapy after discontinuation of randomized treatment, or death due to any cause., From randomization until the earlier of start date of the first subsequent anti-cancer therapy after discontinuation of randomized treatment, or death due to any cause (up to 5 years)|Clinical benefit rate at 24 weeks (CBR24), CBR at 24 weeks is defined as the percentage of participants who have a complete response (CR) or partial response or who have stable disease (SD) per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator at local site for at least 23 weeks after randomization (to allow for an early assessment within the assessment window)., At least 23 weeks after randomisation|Time to second subsequent therapy (TSST), TSST is defined as time from randomization until the earlier of start date of the second subsequent anti-cancer therapy after discontinuation of first subsequent treatment, or death due to any cause., From randomization until the earlier of start date of the second subsequent anti-cancer therapy after discontinuation of first subsequent treatment, or death due to any cause (up to 5 years)|Plasma concentration of AZD9833 at specified timepoints, To assess the steady state PK of AZD9833 in combination with palbociclib in all participants who receive at least one dose of AZD9833 per the protocol, for whom there are at least one reportable PK concentration., on Day 15|Change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 scale scores, Change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 scale scores for each patient at each post-baseline visit. The comparison will include all randomised patients, as randomised, with baseline and at least one post-baseline visit score for the scale score., From baseline to 24 weeks post progression (up to approximately 5 years)|Change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-BR45 scale scores, Change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-BR45 scale scores for each patient at each post-baseline visit. The comparison will include all randomised patients, as randomised, with baseline and at least one post-baseline visit score for the scale score., From baseline to 24 weeks post progression (up to approximately 5 years)
A Randomised, Multicentre, Double-Blind, Phase III study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of AZD9833 (next generation oral SERD) in combination with palbociclib versus anastrozole in combination with palbociclib for the treatment of patients with ER-positive breast cancer. The goal of the study is to demonstrate superiority of AZD9833 over anastrozole in the context of combination with palbociclib in first line setting.

INFORMATION FOR TRIAL PARTICIPANTS

Researchers are looking for a better way to treat breast cancer.

In people with cancer, some cells have grown out of control to form tumours.

The trial drugs palbociclib, camizestrant, and anastrozole are designed to work by blocking the cancer's ability to grow. Camizestrant is also called AZD9833. Palbociclib and anastrozole are already available as treatments for people with certain type of breast cancer.

In this trial, the researchers want to find out how well taking camizestrant with palbociclib, or anastrozole with palbociclib, works in participants with breast cancer that has ER proteins but does not have overexpression of HER2 protein.

The researchers will look at which trial treatments help the participants live longer with cancer before it gets worse.

The trial will split participants into 2 groups:

* Participants in Group 1 will take camizestrant, palbociclib, and a placebo matched with anastrazole.
* Participants in Group 2 will take anastrozole, palbociclib, , and a placebo matched with camizestrant.

A placebo looks like a treatment but does not have any medicine in it.

A computer program will be used to randomly choose the treatments each participant gets. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results of each treatment will be as accurate as possible.

The participants will take their trial treatments in periods called "cycles". Each cycle will last 28 days. During each cycle, the participants will take:

* camizestrant or anastrozole once daily by mouth
* palbociclib once daily by mouth for 21 days. Then, they will not take any palbociclib for 7 days

Some participants will also get either goserelin or leuprorelin once every month. Participants could get goserelin or leuprorelin if:

* They are medically determined yet to reach menopause status
* They are male

They will get this treatment as an injection under the skin or into a muscle. Goserelin and leuprorelin work by decreasing the amount of sex hormones made by the body which will lead to reduction of ER production. This can help stop breast cancer from growing.

Participants will take trial treatment until the cancer gets worse or they leave the trial.

Participants will visit their trial site several times throughout the trial. At these visits, the trial doctors will check the health of the participants. They will also take blood samples and do scans of the participants' tumors.