1922GCCC: Pembro and Bavituximab for Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
This phase II single arm study is being done to determine if bavituximab could potentially synergize with PD-1 inhibitor therapy to generate an effective anti-tumor immune response in patients with recurrent/metastatic squamous cell head and neck cancer (HNSCC) who progressed on a PD-1 inhibitor.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Bavituximab|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
CR+PR, overall response rate, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 55 months.
Progression, Progression free survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 55 months.|Disease Progression, Number of participants with disease progression. For duration of response, CT imaging and RECIST criteria were reviewed to measure patient's response and time of that duration. One cycle is 21 days., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression up to 100 weeks|Survival, Overall survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 55 months.|Participants With Laboratory Correlates of Response, Number of participants with laboratory correlates of response.

The following outcomes are being measured:

PD-L1 expression pre and post treatment Presence of TILs (tumor infiltrating lymphocytes) pre and post treatment Assessment of immune markers in pre-treatment fresh and post-treatment biopsies and blood.

Assessment of genomics and tumor mutation burden in select patients.

These outcome measures are determined through archival tumor tissue and next generation sequencing., through study completion, an average of 1 year
The goal of this study is to assess whether treatment with bavituximab shifts the cellular balance to favor an effective T-cell mediated antitumor response resulting to an enhanced response in conjunction with pembrolizumab. Bavituximab is a chimeric (human/mouse) monoclonal antibody that targets phosphatidylserine (PS). PS facilitates the recognition and clearance of dying cells, triggering the release of immunosuppressive cytokines and inhibiting the production of proinflammatory cytokines. Within the tumor microenvironment, PS polarizes macrophages toward an immunosuppressive phenotype. Bavituximab upregulates the adaptive T cell-mediated response through crosslinking FCRγ and dampening of signaling between PS and PS receptors on immunosuppressive myeloid-derived suppressor cells.

Thus, the investigators are doing this phase II single arm study to determine if bavituximab could potentially synergize with PD-1 inhibitor therapy to generate an effective anti-tumor immune response in patients with recurrent/metastatic squamous cell head and neck cancer (HNSCC) who progressed on a PD-1 inhibitor.