Ziftomenib for the Treatment of Patients With NPM1 Mutated or KMT2A Rearranged Acute Myeloid Leukemia Not Eligible for Standard Therapy
This phase II trial tests how well ziftomenib works in treating patients with NPM1 mutated or KMT2A rearranged acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and are not eligible to receive standard therapy. AML is often due to genetic changes in the cancer cells, including mutations in the NPM1 gene and rearrangements involving the KMT2A gene. These mutations result in activation of the menin pathway. Menin is a type of protein in the body that helps to regulate some of the naturally occurring processes in the body, but can also be involved in some types of cancers. Ziftomenib blocks this menin pathway and may prevent the cancer cells from continuing to grow. Giving ziftomenib may kill more cancer cells in patients with NPM1 mutated or KMT2A rearranged AML that are not eligible to receive standard therapy.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Cytarabine|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Hydroxyurea|PROCEDURE: Leukapheresis|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Ziftomenib
Complete remission (CR) plus CR/response with hematologic improvement, Will be assessed after 6 cycles of treatment using the best response achieved in that time. Will be calculated in each arm for the efficacy analysis population and reported along with two-sided 95% exact binomial confidence limits, in a modified intent-to-treat analysis., After 6 cycles of treatment (cycle length = 28 days)
Rate of transfusion independence, Transfusion independence is defined as the proportion of subjects without transfusions during any consecutive 8 weeks (56 days) starting from Study Day 1 and has correlated with palliative benefits in patients with AML \[19\]. The major criteria for judging response will include physical examination and laboratory evaluation., Up to 24 months|CR rate, Will also be calculated in the primary efficacy analysis cohort along with 95% exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Composite CR (CRc) rate, Will also be calculated in the primary efficacy analysis cohort along with 95% exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|CRc with negative measurable residual disease, Will also be calculated in the primary efficacy analysis cohort along with 95% exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Overall response rate, Will also be calculated in the primary efficacy analysis cohort along with 95% exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Duration of response, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier and calculated in the primary efficacy analysis., From the date first achieved response to the date of progression or relapse or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier and calculated in the primary efficacy analysis., From date of treatment start to death due to all causes, assessed up to 24 months|Event free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier and calculated in the primary efficacy analysis., From initiation of study treatment to the date of confirmed progressive disease, confirmed morphological relapse, treatment failure after 6 cycles of study treatment (cycle length = 28 days) or death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Changes in quality of life, Will be measured using Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) 29 +2 version (v) 2.1 and Patient Reported Outcomes (PRO) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). The raw sum will be calculated and converted to the standardized T score. Descriptive statistics will be used to present the PROMIS and PRO-CTCAE scores at each time point, and we will also use graphical display to visualize the change in quality of life over time. Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to test if the change over time is statistically significant. To further quantify the change over time, linear mixed model will be fit for PROMIS score and PRO-CTCAE score, and if the sample size allows, the model will control for important clinical covariates as well., Day 1 of each cycle up to completion of treatment (cycle length = 28 days)|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be graded according to CTCAE v 5.0. The toxicity data captured will include type, frequency, grade, severity, timing of onset, duration, and relationship to study drug. Frequency tables will be used to summarize the AE data, where the number of patients with different types of AE will be tabulated by toxicity grade, counting only the highest grade of a certain type of AE occurred to the same patient. All adverse events regardless of attribution as well as those treatment-related AEs will be summarized., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of ziftomenib in treatment-naïve patients with KMT2A-rearranged (r) and NPM1-mutated (m) AML who are not candidates for standard therapy, with primary endpoint of complete remission (CR) + CR/response with hematologic improvement (CRh), assessed after 6 cycles of treatment using the best response achieved in that time.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine rates of transfusion independence for 8- and 16-week periods. II. To determine response including CR, composite CR (CRc) (CR + CRh + CR with incomplete blood count recovery \[CRi\] + CR with incomplete platelet recovery \[CRp\]), proportion of patients achieving CRc with negative measurable residual disease (MRD), overall response rate (ORR) (CRc + partial response \[PR\] + morphologic leukemia free state \[MLFS\]).

III. To determine duration of response (DOR). IV. To determine overall survival (OS), and event free survival (EFS) at 24 months.

V. To evaluate if ziftomenib treatment improves quality of life using the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-29+2 version (v) 2.1 questionnaire.

VI. To assess safety in this patient population by determining the number of patients experiencing adverse events/serious adverse events.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess efficacy in patients with mutations thought to be sensitive to menin inhibition, other than KMT2A rearrangements and NPM1 mutations.

II. To perform measurable residual disease (MRD) monitoring via liquid biopsy to monitor clonal dynamics during treatment.

III. To assess the clonal, biochemical and differentiation changes in AML cells during treatment with menin inhibition using flow cytometry, cytogenetics and serial next generation sequencing on bone marrow specimens before and during treatment to assess for potential resistance mutations or clonal evolution that may be predictors of relapse.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ziftomenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also undergo cytoreduction therapy with hydroxyurea up to end of cycle 1, cytarabine within 7 days of starting treatment, or leukapheresis within 7 days of treatment to reduce white blood cell count to =\< 10,000/uL. Additionally, patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) at screening and bone marrow biopsy and/or aspiration and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 24 months.