Genetic Mutation in Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
Little is known about the characteristics of genetic mutation in a large multi-gene panel in epithelial ovarian cancer. This study is to explore the targeted genetic mutations via a multi-gene panel, which consists of more than 500 hundred genes. The mutation characteristics are to be revealed in single nucleotide variants, copy number variations, insertion-deletion variations, and genomic structural variations. The total mutation burden (TMB) will be calculated. The status of microsatellite instability, expression of PD-1 and PD-L1 antibodies are also tested. These findings will be studies in association with the patients' prognosis and sensitivity to platinum-based chemotherapy.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Nucleotide Variant|Copy Number Variation|Insertion-deletion Variation|Genomic Structural Variation|Total Mutation Burden|Microsatellite Instability|PD-1|PD-L1
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: A multi-gene panel testing
Frequency of genetic mutations, Frequency of various genetic mutations among recruited patients, Two years
Total mutation burden, Total mutation burden calculated in definite patient, Two years|Frequency of microsatellite Instability, Microsatellite Instability in definite patient, Two years|Expression rates of PD-1 and PD-L1 antibodies, Expression rates of PD-1 and PD-L1 antibodies among recruited patients, Two years
Little is known about the characteristics of genetic mutation in a large multi-gene panel in epithelial ovarian cancer. This study is to explore the targeted genetic mutations via a multi-gene panel, which consists of more than 500 hundred genes. The mutation characteristics are to be revealed in single nucleotide variants, copy number variations, insertion-deletion variations, and genomic structural variations. The total mutation burden (TMB) will be calculated. The status of microsatellite instability, expression of PD-1 and PD-L1 antibodies are also tested. These findings will be studies in association with the patients' prognosis and sensitivity to platinum-based chemotherapy.