Testing the Use of A Single Drug (Olaparib) or the Combination of Two Drugs (Cediranib and Olaparib) Compared to the Usual Chemotherapy for Women With Platinum Sensitive Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase III trial studies olaparib or cediranib maleate and olaparib to see how well they work compared with standard platinum-based chemotherapy in treating patients with platinum-sensitive ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer that has come back. Olaparib and cediranib maleate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Cediranib maleate may stop the growth of ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, paclitaxel, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether olaparib or cediranib maleate and olaparib is more effective than standard platinum-based chemotherapy in treating patients with platinum-sensitive ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.
Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Tumor|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Tumor|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cediranib Maleate|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Progression Free Survival Determined Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 Criteria, Progression free survival (PFS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and documentation of disease progression (RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause. Patients still alive and disease free at the last follow-up were censored on the date of last CT Scan, or the CT Scan date prior to two missed assessments. Japanese cohort not included in progression free survival analysis, only included in toxicity assessments., The protocol required lesion assessments every 9 weeks from cycle 1, day 1 for the first year, then every 12 weeks thereafter until disease progression. An average of approximately 10 months.
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and death from any cause. Patients still alive at the last follow-up were censored on the date of last contact. Japanese cohort not included in overall survival analysis, the cohort was only included in toxicity assessments., Approximately 30 months|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Effects, Number of treated patients with Adverse Events (grade 3 or higher) observed while receiving randomized therapy, by Preferred term with incidence rate greater than 5%., During treatment period and up to 100 days after stopping the study treatment, up to 39 months.|Patient Reported Scores of Disease-related Symptoms as Measured by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network/Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Ovarian Symptom Index-18 Disease-Related Symptom-Physical, Disease-related physical symptoms were measured by the Disease-Related Symptom-Physical (DRS-P) subscale of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network/Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Ovarian Symptom Index-18 (NCCN/FOSI-18). The DRS-P subscale is composed of 9 items. For the negative statements (or questions), reversal was performed prior to score calculation. According to the FACIT measurement system, a subscale score was the summation of the individual item scores if more than 50% of subscale items were answered. When unanswered items existed, a subscale score was prorated by multiplying the mean of the answered item scores by the number of items in the subscale. The DRS-P score ranges 0-36 with a larger score suggesting better QOL (Quality of Life) or less symptoms. This analysis did not include the Japanese cohort., Prior to cycle 1, week 12, week 24, week 36, week 48, week 60, week 72, week 84, week 96 and 108 weeks after starting treatment
Time From Randomization to the First Non-study, Anti-cancer Treatment or Death, Up to 5 years|Time From Randomization to the Second Non-study, Anti-cancer Treatment or Death, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the efficacy of either single agent olaparib or the combination of cediranib (cediranib maleate) and olaparib, as measured by progression free survival (PFS), as compared to standard platinum-based chemotherapy in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the efficacy of single agent olaparib or the combination of cediranib and olaparib, as measured by response rate and overall survival as compared to standard platinum-based chemotherapy in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

II. Assess the efficacy of single agent olaparib or the combination of cediranib and olaparib, as measured by PFS, in women with or without deleterious germline breast cancer (BRCA) mutations (gBRCAmt) in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer.

III. Assess the effect on disease-related symptoms (DRS) as measured by the 9-item DRS-P subscale of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network-Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (NCCN-FACT) Ovarian Symptom Index-18 (NFOSI-18), of single agent olaparib or cediranib and olaparib, compared to standard platinum-based chemotherapy, in the setting of recurrent platinum sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

IV. Assess the efficacy of single agent olaparib or the combination of cediranib and olaparib, as measured by PFS, in women with or without homologous repair deficiencies as measured by BROCA in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer.

V. To assess changes in the number of circulating endothelial cells (CECs) following three days of treatment with olaparib, combination olaparib/cediranib, or standard platinum-based chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer.

VI. To assess whether change in the number of circulating endothelial cells (CECs) following three days of treatment with olaparib, combination olaparib/cediranib, or standard platinum-based chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer is prognostic for PFS.

VII. To develop a profile from a panel of angiogenic biomarkers in women with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer which is associated with PFS, and then validate the predictive value of this biomarker profile.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the time from randomization to the first non-study, anti-cancer therapy, surgery or death (TFST) for single-agent olaparib or combination cediranib and olaparib relative to standard platinum-based chemotherapy in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

II. To assess the time from randomization to the second non-study, anti-cancer therapy, surgery or death (TSST) for single-agent olaparib or combination cediranib and olaparib relative to standard platinum-based chemotherapy in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

III. Assess the effect on secondary measures of quality of life, as assessed by the treatment side effects (TSE) and function/well-being (F/WB) subscales of the NFOSI-18, sensory neuropathy as measured by the FACT/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity version 4 (GOG-Ntx-4), and health utility as measured by the Euro Quality of Life-5 Dimension (EQ-5D), of single agent olaparib or cediranib and olaparib, compared to standard platinum-based chemotherapy, in the setting of recurrent platinum sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients may be treated with one of the three regimens per investigator discretion.

REGIMEN I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes and on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) during screening. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as well as blood sample collection throughout the trial.

REGIMEN II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 for at least 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA during screening. Patients also undergo CT or MRI as well as blood sample collection throughout the trial.

REGIMEN III: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes and on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA during screening and as clinically indicated on study. Patients also undergo CT or MRI as well as blood sample collection throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA during screening. Patients also undergo CT or MRI as well as blood sample collection throughout the trial.

ARM III: Patients receive olaparib PO BID and cediranib maleate PO once daily (QD). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA during screening and as clinically indicated on study. Patients also undergo CT or MRI as well as blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.