Toripalimab and JS004 Combined With Platinum-based Chemotherapy for Relapsed and Extensive-stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
For extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC), platinum-chemotherapy (cisplatin or carboplatin) combined with etoposide as the first-line treatment is recommended. However, the recurrence rate is extremely high after the initial first-line treatment. For those who relapse or progress within more than six minths after the end of the-first-line treatment, chose the current guideline recommendation trearment plan has the poor prognosis. A new immunotherapeutic strategy is needed to achieve better anti-tumor effects. JS004 is a new antibody targeting B and T lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA), which restrains immune cells; function and leads to immune escape of tumor cells. The combination of PD-1 and BTLA antibodies has shown a good therapeutic effect in solid tumors. This trial aims to investigate the efficacy and safety of the therapeutic regimen of toripalimab and JS004 combined with platinum-based doublet chemotherapy in extensive-stage SCLC or relapsed within more than six months after radical treatment SCLC.
Small Cell Lung Cancer Extensive Stage|Small Cell Lung Cancer Recurrent
DRUG: JS004|DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Platinum
Progression-free survival (PFS), It is defined as the time (months) from the first administration of drug in this study to the disease progression or death (including any cause of death in the case of no progression) as recorded in CRF, regardless of whether the patient exits from the treatment or receives other anti-cancer treatment before progression., up to 60 months
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria., up to 30 months|Treatment-related adverse event (TRAE), TRAE is defined and classified according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0 in all participants., Up to 30 months|Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time (months) from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., up to 60 months|Health related quality of life (HRQol)：EORTC-QLQ-C30, The assessment is made according to the Quality of Life Scale for Lung Cancer Patients (EORTC-QLQ-C30 , Version 3). EORTC's QLQ-C30 (V3.0) is a core scale for lung cancer patients, with a total of 43 items. Among them, Item 29 and 30 are divided into seven grades, which are assigned with 1 to 7 scores according to the answer options., up to 5 months|Health related quality of life (HRQol)：LC13, The assessment is made according to the Quality of Life Scale for Lung Cancer Patients (LC13, Version 3).The items are divided into 4 grades: Not at All, A Little, Quite a Bit, and Very Much, assigned with 1 to 4 scores respectively. The higher score, the worse quality., up to 5 months
For extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC), platinum-chemotherapy (cisplatin or carboplatin) combined with etoposide as the first-line treatment is recommended. However, the recurrence rate is extremely high after the initial first-line treatment. For those who relapse or progress within more than six minths after the end of the-first-line treatment, chose the current guideline recommendation trearment plan has the poor prognosis. A new immunotherapeutic strategy is needed to achieve better anti-tumor effects. JS004 is a new antibody targeting B and T lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA), which restrains immune cells; function and leads to immune escape of tumor cells. The combination of PD-1 and BTLA antibodies has shown a good therapeutic effect in solid tumors. This trial aims to investigate the efficacy and safety of the therapeutic regimen of toripalimab and JS004 combined with platinum-based doublet chemotherapy in extensive-stage SCLC or relapsed within more than six months after radical treatment SCLC.