Trial of Written Exposure for Metastatic Cancer Patients (EASE)
In the face of imminent loss, many adults with metastatic cancer report a range of mental health challenges, including cancer-related trauma symptoms, fear of cancer progression and dying/death, anxiety, depression, and hopelessness, as well as physical symptoms such as fatigue and pain. Cancer patients may report feeling upset or haunted by imagined scenarios in a way that causes them distress and lowers their quality of life.

This study aims to look at the acceptability and feasability of a writing-based intervention for adults with late-stage or recurrent cancer, or actively treated blood cancer. The EASE study uses a writing-based approach to address an individual's worst-case scenario about cancer because previous studies have shown that similar approaches have shown promise in reducing fear in early-stage cancer survivors and among adults with PTSD (posttraumatic stress disorder). The EASE study represents a novel adaptation of this foundational work on written exposure therapy (WET) to address worst-case scenarios among adults with late stage cancers.

The EASE study will include 5 weekly one-on-one online video sessions with a trained therapist where participants will be coached through writing exercises based on a worst-case scenario related to their cancer experience.
Metastatic Cancer|Solid Tumor Cancer|Lymphoproliferative Disorders|Anxiety|Post-traumatic Stress Symptoms|Fear of Cancer Progression
BEHAVIORAL: Written Exposure Therapy
Cancer-related trauma symptoms, A primary outcome will be change in cancer-related trauma symptoms, assessed by the 22-item Impact of Events Scale-Revised. Possible scores range 0-88 with higher scores indicating greater distress/bother., Assessed seven times: prior to the intervention (Pre), before each intervention session, 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|Fear of cancer progression, A primary outcome will be change in fear of cancer progression, assessed by the 12-item Fear of Progression Questionnaire - Short Form and by the four general scale items from the Concerns about Recurrence Scale, with wording adapted to focus on cancer progression rather than recurrence. Range: 12-60, higher scores are associated with higher fear of cancer progression., Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), before each intervention session, 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|Intervention acceptability, Assessed with the Acceptability of Intervention Scale. Possible scores range from 4-20, with higher scores indicating greater intervention acceptability., Assessed in order to compare values at 2 timepoints: 6 weeks after baseline (Post) and separately at 1.5-month follow-up (FU)|Intervention Feasibility, For participants who begin the intervention, at least 70% complete all intervention sessions, Assessed at each intervention session 1-5, 1 to 5 weeks after baseline.
Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-8), Patient-reported depression symptom questionnaire. Range is 0 to 24. Higher scores indicate more depression symptoms, Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post),, at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 Questionnaire, Patient-reported anxiety symptom questionnaire. Possible scores range from 0-21, with higher scores indicating more anxiety symptoms, Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|The Death Attitude Profile-Revised, Fear of Death and Death Avoidance Scales, Patient-reported fear of death and dying questionnaire. Possible scores range from 12-84, with higher scores indicating greater fear of death and dying, Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|Hopelessness Assessment in Illness Questionnaire 8-item, Patient-reported hopelessness specifically intended for use with adults with incurable cancer. Possible scores range 0-16, with higher scores indicating greater hopelessness., Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|The Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue-Short Form v1.0, Patient-reported levels of fatigue. Possible scores range 6-30, with higher scores indicating greater fatigue., Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|The Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Pain Interference-Short Form v1.0, Patient-reported dimension of pain interference (e.g., the extent to which pain interferes with daily life and life roles). Possible scores range 6-30, with higher scores indicating greater pain., Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|Emotional Approach Coping Scale (COPE): Avoidance coping (process measure), Patient-reported coping through avoidance using three avoidance coping scales (mental disengagement, denial, physical disengagement) with cancer as the anchor. Possible scores range 8-28, with higher scores indicating greater denial, mental and behavioral disengagement., Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|Five Factor Mindfulness Questionnaire, Nonjudge and nonreact scales (process measure), Patient-reported coping through acceptance. Possible scores range 15-75, with higher scores reflecting greater nonreactivity and nonjudging of inner experience., Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|Valuing Questionnaire, Valued engagement in daily life. Possible scores range 0-30 for each of the two subscales with higher scores indicating greater engagement and sense of purpose in life., Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)|Self-compassion Scale-Short Form, Self-compassion questionnaire. Possible scores range 12-60 with higher scores indicating higher self-compassion., Assessed: prior to the intervention (Pre), 3 weeks after the intervention begins (Mid), 6 weeks after baseline (Post), at 1.5 and 3-month follow-up (FU)
Intervention Acceptability: Session Feedback Questionnaire, Participant value of the session will be assessed through the Session Feedback. Possible scores range 4-20, with higher scores indicating higher value and acceptability of the session., Once weekly during intervention period from Pre to Post (6 weeks after baseline, e.g., at the end of each weekly session during the intervention period)|Intervention Acceptability: Client Satisfaction Questionnaire-8, Participant satisfaction will be measured using the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire-8 (adapted to the current intervention). Possible scores range 8-32, with higher scores indicating more satisfaction., Assessed and reported two times: 6 weeks after baseline (Post), 3-month follow-up (FU)
This single-arm pilot trial aims to look at the acceptability and feasibility of a writing-based intervention for adults with metastatic or recurrent cancer, or actively treated blood cancer.

The EASE intervention represents a novel adaptation of foundational work on written exposure therapy (WET) to address worst-case scenarios among adults with metastatic cancer, including cancer diagnosed at Stage III or IV, cancer that has recurred, or actively treated lymphoproliferative cancer. The study will consist of 5 weekly one-on-one online sessions with a trained graduate student therapist who will explain the approach and coach participants through writing exercises based on a worst-case scenario related to their fears about cancer.

Remote Delivery.

The intervention will be delivered remotely via videoconferencing software or videoconferencing plus phone. Phone sessions will be available as a backup if a participant has significant technical difficulties with Zoom. All sessions will be recorded.