Sebum Measurement in Newborn to Detect Hyperexposure to Androgens
The source of PCOS is unknown. Our hypothesis is that over exposure to testosterone of the foetus in utero alters the expression of genes thought to be involved in the cause of PCOS.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Sebum test
Sebum secretion, Do term babies of mothers with PCOS have significantly increased sebum output in the neonatal period compared with those from mothers without PCOS, 30 seconds
Maternal testosterone levels, The correlation between the maternal blood levels of androgens during pregnancy and the quantity of sebum produced by the newborn?, 1 minute|Ano-genital distance and finger length in the newborn, Correlation of the level of sebum production in the neonate with other measures (ano-genital distance, finger lengths) of androgen exposure of the foetus during pregnancy?, 15 minute
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affecting 10-15% of the female population causes excess hair, acne, irregular/absent ovulation, infertility and is associated with hypertension, diabetes, heart attacks and stroke in later life.

The economic care-related burden of the syndrome is estimated at $4.36 billion/year in the USA. The root cause is unknown and although mostly familial, the offending genes are unknown. We believe that excess testosterone, to which the foetus is exposed during its life in the womb, causes development of PCOS in adult life. If a mother with PCOS exposes her foetus to high testosterone levels compared to one with no PCOS, this would be the first step in proving the developmental hypothesis for PCOS, opening the door to methods to prevent the appearance of the distressing symptoms of PCOS in adult life.

With no access to the foetal environment, we have used the surrogate measure of sebum on the skin of the newborn, 99% influenced by testosterone. Our pilot study (Homburg et al, 2017) used absorbent paper to measure sebum excretion in PCOS and controls within 24 hours and 1-24 weeks after birth in mother and baby. Higher sebum production in female babies of PCOS mothers strongly supported our hypothesis.

The present proposal utilizes a 30-second, non-invasive, quantitative measurement of sebum (Sebumeter®) in the newborn from PCOS mothers and controls, within 24 hours of birth. We will correlate results with other features in both female and male newborn that may suggest hyper-exposure to testosterone and with maternal testosterone levels in the blood. If confirming the findings of our pilot study in line with the developmental theory of PCOS, this could be used within 24 hours of birth to predict development of PCOS in adult life, induce measures to prevent the symptoms of PCOS and reduce the enormous health burden on patients and economies