Multispectral Digital Colposcope With Probe for Detection of Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia
Although cervical cancer is a preventable cancer, every year more than one-quarter of a million women die worldwide from this disease. Internationally and nationally, cervical cancer is a disease that affects predominantly women who are poor and who live in resource poor settings. With the device the investigators are developing, known as the Multispectral Digital Colposcope with probe, our goal is to make detection of precancerous cervical lesions easier for the patient and for her provider. For the patient, our goal is to reduce the number of clinical visits needed to obtain a diagnosis and treatment and consequently to reduce the resulting fear and anxiety which usually accompanies an abnormal Pap smear. For the provider and the health care system, our goal is to obtain a more accurate diagnosis than the currently available diagnostic methods.
Carcinoma in Situ of Uterine Cervix|Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasias|High Grade Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia
DEVICE: Multispectral Digital Colposcope with probe
Detection of precancerous cervical lesions or cervical cancer, Eligible patients who are referred to the colposcopy clinic for a diagnosis following an abnormal Pap smear will be asked to participate in the study. All participating women will receive their standard of care colposcopy as usual. In addition to their routine care, the MDC with probe will also be used to collect images of the cervix and spectroscopic measurements with the probe. All measurements will be compared with the biopsies obtained. The MDC with probe will not be used to determine from where the biopsies need to be obtained. One or two additional biopsies will be obtained from tissue that appears to be unaffected. These will be the control biopsies. Patients may refuse to provide the additional biopsies which are not part of the standard of care.

Patients scheduled for a treatment with the Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure (LEEP) will be asked for consent to obtain one or two biopsies prior to the LEEP procedure, but after anesthesia has been applied., At point of care for colposcopy or treatment with LEEP (5 minutes).
The multispectral digital colposcope (MDC) is a specialized lightsource and imaging device mounted on a custom-made colposcope that acquires a sequence of fluorescence images. This version of the MDC incorporates an upgraded light source, and updates the firmware and the user interface. This results in shorter acquisition times and improved image and spectrum quality control. The MDC also consists of a point probe that is used to take detailed light measurements (call spectroscopy) from smaller regions of the cervix. The goal of the study is to see whether the MDC can perform better than standard methods in detecting cancerous or pre-cancerous abnormalities of the cervix.

Study subjects will be swabbed for detection and typing of the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV). After vinegar is applied on the cervix as per usual colposcopy practice, the MDC will then be used to take a sequence of images of the cervix. Next 2-4 readings will be taken from the cervix using the point probe.

This data will be used to train, test and validate an algorithm specific to the MDC. The ability of the algorithm to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia will be compared to standard clinical care (colposcopy).

The MDC images and pathology results will be compared to the spectroscopy data from the MDC probe. The investigators will determine if spectroscopy has equal sensitivity to colposcopy for detecting high grade lesions.