Testing the Addition of the Drug Relugolix to the Usual Radiation Therapy for Advanced-Stage Prostate Cancer, The NRG Promethean Study
This phase II trial compares the usual treatment of radiation therapy alone to using the study drug, relugolix, plus the usual radiation therapy in patients with castration-sensitive prostate cancer that has spread to limited other parts of the body (oligometastatic). Relugolix is in a class of medications called gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor antagonists. It works by decreasing the amount of testosterone (a male hormone) produced by the body. It may stop the growth of cancer cells that need testosterone to grow. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x rays or protons to kill tumor cells. The addition of relugolix to the radiation may reduce the chance of oligometastatic prostate cancer spreading further.
Oligometastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Intraductal Carcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fluciclovine F18|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Placebo Administration|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: PSMA PET Scan|DRUG: Relugolix|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Radiological progression-free survival (rPFS), The rPFS curves will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared between the two treatment arms using a one-sided, logrank test stratified by the three randomization factors., Time from randomization to the occurrence of radiological progression detected by conventional imaging or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Positron emission tomography (PET)-based radiological progression-free survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared between treatments arms by stratified logrank test. Cox regression models will also be fit, adjusted for the stratification factors and other prognostic baseline factors, to estimate hazard ratios, together with 95% confidence intervals., Time from randomization to the occurrence of conventional or PET-based radiological progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Metastasis-free survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared between treatments arms by stratified logrank test. Cox regression models will also be fit, adjusted for the stratification factors and other prognostic baseline factors, to estimate hazard ratios, together with 95% confidence intervals., From randomization to distant metastases or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared between treatments arms by stratified logrank test. Cox regression models will also be fit, adjusted for the stratification factors and other prognostic baseline factors, to estimate hazard ratios, together with 95% confidence intervals., From randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Sexual and hormonal quality of life, Assessed by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite Short Form (EPIC-26)., Up to 5 years from randomization|Quality of life, Assessed by European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ5D-5L) and European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-30)., Up to 5 years from randomization|Fatigue, Assessed by Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue short form., Up to 5 years from randomization|Time from randomization to administration of salvage therapy, Will be analyzed using competing-risk methods where, in each case, death prior to occurrence of the event in question will be considered a competing risk. (In the case of death from prostate cancer, the competing risk will be non-prostate cancer death.) Cumulative incidence curves will be generated and compared using the Fine-Gray method and sub-distribution hazard ratios (SHRs) will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals, to summarize the magnitude of the treatment effect. In addition to Fine-Gray tests, we will estimate cause-specific hazard ratios by treating the competing risk as a censored observation via stratified logrank tests and Cox regression modelling., Up to 5 years from randomization|Time from randomization to castrate-resistant prostate cancer, Will be analyzed using competing-risk methods where, in each case, death prior to occurrence of the event in question will be considered a competing risk. (In the case of death from prostate cancer, the competing risk will be non-prostate cancer death.) Cumulative incidence curves will be generated and compared using the Fine-Gray method and SHRs will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals, to summarize the magnitude of the treatment effect. In addition to Fine-Gray tests, we will estimate cause-specific hazard ratios by treating the competing risk as a censored observation via stratified logrank tests and Cox regression modelling., Up to 5 years from randomization|Time from randomization to local progression within a stereotactic ablative body radiation therapy (SABR)-targeted lesion, Will be analyzed using competing-risk methods where, in each case, death prior to occurrence of the event in question will be considered a competing risk. (In the case of death from prostate cancer, the competing risk will be non-prostate cancer death.) Cumulative incidence curves will be generated and compared using the Fine-Gray method and SHRs will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals, to summarize the magnitude of the treatment effect. In addition to Fine-Gray tests, we will estimate cause-specific hazard ratios by treating the competing risk as a censored observation via stratified logrank tests and Cox regression modelling., Up to 5 years from randomization|Time from randomization to biochemical progression, Will be analyzed using competing-risk methods where, in each case, death prior to occurrence of the event in question will be considered a competing risk. (In the case of death from prostate cancer, the competing risk will be non-prostate cancer death.) Cumulative incidence curves will be generated and compared using the Fine-Gray method and SHRs will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals, to summarize the magnitude of the treatment effect. In addition to Fine-Gray tests, we will estimate cause-specific hazard ratios by treating the competing risk as a censored observation via stratified logrank tests and Cox regression modelling., Up to 5 years from randomization|Time from randomization to the occurrence of distance metastases, Will be analyzed using competing-risk methods where, in each case, death prior to occurrence of the event in question will be considered a competing risk. (In the case of death from prostate cancer, the competing risk will be non-prostate cancer death.) Cumulative incidence curves will be generated and compared using the Fine-Gray method and SHRs will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals, to summarize the magnitude of the treatment effect. In addition to Fine-Gray tests, we will estimate cause-specific hazard ratios by treating the competing risk as a censored observation via stratified logrank tests and Cox regression modelling., Up to 5 years from randomization|Time from randomization to death from prostate cancer, Will be analyzed using competing-risk methods where, in each case, death prior to occurrence of the event in question will be considered a competing risk. (In the case of death from prostate cancer, the competing risk will be non-prostate cancer death.) Cumulative incidence curves will be generated and compared using the Fine-Gray method and SHRs will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals, to summarize the magnitude of the treatment effect. In addition to Fine-Gray tests, we will estimate cause-specific hazard ratios by treating the competing risk as a censored observation via stratified logrank tests and Cox regression modelling., Up to 5 years from randomization
Genomic, peripheral tissue, and blood biomarkers, Up to 5 years from randomization
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Compare conventional radiological progression-free survival (rPFS) for positron emission tomography (PET)-detected, biochemically recurrent, oligometastatic, castration-sensitive prostate cancer patients treated with stereotactic ablative body radiation therapy (SABR) plus placebo versus (vs.) SABR plus relugolix.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare conventional or PET-based radiological progression-free survival (prPFS) between treatment arms.

II. Compare patient-reported sexual and hormonal quality of life as assessed by corresponding Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite Short Form (EPIC-26) domains between treatment arms.

III. Compare other measures of quality of life obtained from the European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ5D-5L), European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-30), Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue instruments between the two treatment arms.

IV. Compare time to salvage therapy and time to castration-resistance between treatment arms.

V. Compare local progression (SABR-targeted lesion), biochemical progression, distant metastases, prostate cancer-specific mortality, metastasis-free survival, and overall survival between treatment arms.

VI. Determine adverse events rates and compare rates between the two treatment arms.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate genomic and peripheral tissue and blood markers of treatment response.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive placebo orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-180 and undergo SABR for 1-3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive relugolix PO QD on days 1-180 and undergo SABR for 1-3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients may also undergo bone scan, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography (PET)/CT or PET/MRI, and/or fluciclovine F18 PET/CT or PET/MRI at time of disease progression. Patients may optionally undergo urine and blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 9 and 12 months, subsequently every 6 months to month 60, and then annually thereafter or at the time of progression.