CMV-MVA Triplex Vaccination of Stem Cell Donors in Preventing CMV Viremia in Participants With Allogeneic Transplant
This phase II trial studies how well multi-peptide CMV-modified vaccinia Ankara (CMV-MVA Triplex) vaccination of stem cell donors works in preventing cytomegalovirus (CMV) viremia in participants with blood cancer undergoing donor stem cell transplant. Giving a vaccine to the donors may boost the recipient's immunity to this virus and reduce the chance of CMV disease after transplant.
Accelerated Phase CML, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Phase CML, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Cytomegalovirus Positive|Donor|Hematopoietic Cell Transplant Recipient|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Myelofibrosis|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Multi-peptide CMV-Modified Vaccinia Ankara Vaccine
Delayed Engraftment, Time to neutrophil engraftment was defined as days from stem cell infusion to the first of three consecutive days of absolute neutrophil count ≥0.5 x 109/L. Delayed engraftment was defined as ≥20 days to neutrophil recovery., Up to 1 year from stem cell infusion.|Severe (Grade III-IV) Acute Graft Versus Host Disease, Acute graft versus host disease (aGvHD) happens within days or as late as 6 months after allogeneic transplants. The three main tissues that acute GVHD affects are the skin, liver, and gastrointestinal tract., Up to 6 months from stem cell infusion|Number of Recipients With Grade 3-4 Adverse Events, Toxicities were assessed in recipients by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 1 year from stem cell infusion.|Number of Donors With Grade 2-3 Adverse Events, Toxicities were assessed in recipients by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 6 months after G-CSF mobilization|100-Day Non-Relapse Mortality (NRM), NRM was defined as death without recurrent or progressive disease after allogeneic transplant. Probabilities of NRM were estimated with the use of cumulative incidence curves, with relapse viewed as a competing risk., From stem cell infusion up to 100 days post-HSCT (hematopoietic stem cell transplantation).
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish the feasibility and safety of priming CMV immunity in donors by Triplex vaccination prior to peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) harvest.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine if Triplex vaccination of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) donors has an impact on CMV events.

OUTLINE:

Donors receive multi-peptide CMV-modified vaccinia Ankara vaccine injection between days -60 and -10 prior to granulocyte colony stimulating factor mobilization. Participants undergo hematopoietic cell transplantation on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for 1 year.