Maintenance Obinutuzumab in Treating Patients With Central Nervous System Lymphoma Who Have Achieved a Complete or Partial Response
This randomized phase II trial studies how well obinutuzumab works as maintenance treatment in patients with central nervous system lymphoma who have achieved the disappearance of all signs of cancer in response to treatment (complete response) or a decrease in the size of a tumor, or in the extent of cancer in the body, in response to treatment (partial response). Immunotherapy with obinutuzumab, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Cognitive Assessment|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab|OTHER: Quality of Life Assessment
Partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) duration, PR or CR duration will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates and compared between patients with maintenance versus without obinutuzumab maintenance using the log-rank test. In addition, the Cox proportional hazard model will be used to estimate hazard ratios., From the date of brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) after completion of first-line treatment which confirms PR or CR, to disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years
Overall survival (OS) after CR, OS after PR or CR will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates and compared between patients with maintenance versus without obinutuzumab maintenance using the log-rank test. In addition, the Cox proportional hazard model will be used to estimate hazard ratios., From the date of brain MRI after completion of first-line treatment which confirms PR or CR, to death, assessed up to 2 years|Neurocognitive function - Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Will be measured by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. Scale range 0 to 16 Forward; 0 to 14 Backward. Higher the score means better outcome. Longitudinal data of neurocognitive function will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., Up to 2 years|Quality of life (QOL) - European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Brain Neoplasm 20-item, Will be measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Brain Cancer Module-20 (EORTC QLQ-BN20) questionnaire. Scale 20 to 80 points. Higher score means worse outcome. Longitudinal data of QOL will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates and compared between patients with obinutuzumab maintenance versus without maintenance using the log-rank test. Longitudinal data of neurocognitive function and QOL will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., From the start date of first-line primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) treatment to disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, OS will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates and compared between patients with obinutuzumab maintenance versus without maintenance using the log-rank test. Longitudinal data of neurocognitive function and QOL will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., From the start date of first-line PCNSL treatment to death, assessed up to 2 years.|Neurocognitive function - Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised, Will be measured by the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised. Test evaluates total recall, delayed recall, percent of retention, and recognition. Higher score means better outcome. Longitudinal data of neurocognitive function will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., Up to 2 years|Neurocognitive function - Grooved Pegboard Test, Will be measured by the Grooved Pegboard Test. Scale 0 seconds to time of completion in minutes and seconds. Higher time to completion means worse outcome. Longitudinal data of neurocognitive function will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., Up to 2 years|Neurocognitive function - Trail Making Test, Will be measured by the Trail Making Test. Scale Part A: 0 seconds to 100 seconds (time of greater than 100 seconds discontinues the test. Scale Part B: 0 seconds to 300 seconds (time of greater than 300 seconds discontinues the test. Number of errors recorded. Higher time to completion and greater number of errors means worse outcome. Longitudinal data of neurocognitive function will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., Up to 2 years|Neurocognitive function - Brief Test of Attention, Will be measured by the Trail Making Test. Scale 0 to 20 points. Higher score mean better outcome. Longitudinal data of neurocognitive function will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., Up to 2 years|Quality of life (QOL) - European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30-item, Will be measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Core 30-item (EORTC QLQ-C30) questionnaire. Scale 30 to 126 points. Higher score means worse outcome. Longitudinal data of QOL will be analyzed using a linear mixed model and toxicity indicators will be assessed using a chi-square or exact test., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the effect of maintenance obinutuzumab on duration of response (partial response \[PR\] or complete response \[CR\]) in patients with CD20+ B-cell primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) who attain PR or CR to first-line treatment with high-dose methotrexate-based chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall survival after PR or CR (overall survival \[OS\]-PRCR). II. To evaluate neurocognitive function, quality of life, and neuroimaging as indicators of neurotoxicity.

III. Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) will be calculated.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I (MAINTENANCE THERAPY): Patients receive obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 2 for the first cycle, and on day 1 for the subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 60 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (OBSERVATION): Patients undergo observation for a total of 2 years.