GDFT on the Postoperative Outcome in Head and Neck Cancer Surgery
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate whether goal-directed fluid therapy (GDFT) can improve the postoperative recovery in patients undergoing head and neck cancer surgery. It aims to answer is:

• Whether GDFT can reduce the occurrence of serious postoperative complications? Researchers will compare GDFT protocol to a standard conventional fluid therapy in head and neck cancer surgery to see if GDFT strategy works to improve the postoperative recovery.

Participants will

* Receive GDFT protocol or a conventional fluid therapy during the surgery.
* Be continuously follow-up during hospitalization and after discharge to record the occurrence of postoperative complications.
Postoperative Complications
PROCEDURE: Goal-Directed Fluid Therapy
Serious complications occurred within 30 days after surgery, Unit: %; All postoperative complications will be evaluated according the Clavien-Dino classification(CDc) of surgical complications. Each complication has an equal weight, and patients with at least one complication will be considered to have experienced postoperative complications.

The serious postoperative complications were defined as CDc≥3., within 30 days after surgery
All complications within 30 days after surgery, Unit: %;All postoperative complications will be evaluated according the Clavien-Dino classification(CDc) of surgical complications., within 30 days after surgery|The length of hospital stay after surgery, Unit: days; from date of operation till date of discharge, 1 months after operation|Cost of hospitalization, Unit: yuan; Total cost during hospitalization, 1 months after operation|Quality of Recovery Score, Unit: point; Use QoR-15 to evaluate the postoperative recovery of all patients. QoR-15 is a global measure of recovery after surgery that evaluates five dimensions of recovery: physical comfort (5 items), physical independence (2 items), emotional state (4 items), psychological support (2 items), and pain (2 items). Each item is rated on an 11- point scale based on its frequency on the questionnaire (greater score at greater frequency for positive items and less frequency for negative items). The total score ranged from 0 (poorest recovery quality) to 150 (best recovery quality)., At 1,3, and 5 days after surgery
Postoperative complications have become the main cause of prolonged hospitalization and reduced postoperative survival rate among surgical patients. Goal-Directed Fluid Therapy (GDFT) has been reported to reduce the incidence of postoperative complications and mortality, shorten the hospital stay, and improve the outcome in major abdominal surgery patients. However, the benefit of the GDFT in patients undergoing head and neck surgery remains controversial. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether GDFT can reduce the occurrence of serious postoperative complications and shorten the postoperative hospital stay, compared with a standard conventional fluid therapy in patients undergoing head and neck cancer surgery.