SBRT Versus Conventional Fractionated Radiotherapy for Vertebral Metastases
Vertebral metastases are events that affect the quality of life of tumor patients, and are often accompanied by severe pain at the site of metastasis and even by the risk of compression fracture. For vertebral metastases who are not yet at risk of vertebral instability fracture, a moderate dose (30Gy/10F) external radiation therapy is the most widely used treatment technique. Previous studies have shown that 60-80% of patients could achieve pain relief with moderate doses of radiation therapy, with median pain control duration of approximately 4 months. Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (SBRT) is currently the most advanced radiation therapy technique. This project proposes to treat vertebral metastases from non-small cell lung cancer using SBRT technology on the True Beam radiotherapy system to compare its efficacy with conventional external irradiation technology in terms of pain relief as well as local control.
NSCLC
RADIATION: Metastatic vertebrae treated with SBRT
Complete pain relief rate, Complete pain relief rate after completion of radiotherapy, 3 months
Quality of life scores, Quality of life score after radiotherapy, 3 months and 6 months
Vertebral metastases are events that affect the quality of life of tumor patients, and are often accompanied by severe pain at the site of metastasis and even by the risk of compression fracture. For vertebral metastases who are not yet at risk of vertebral instability fracture, a moderate dose (30Gy/10F) external radiation therapy is the most widely used treatment technique. Previous studies have shown that 60-80% of patients could achieve pain relief with moderate doses of radiation therapy, with median pain control duration of approximately 4 months.

Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (SBRT) is currently the most advanced radiation therapy technique. It enables focused radiation therapy with small fields through stereotactic techniques. In June 2021, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University introduced the True Beam radiotherapy system, which has a higher treatment rate compared to conventional radiotherapy equipment, while It is the most reliable vehicle to achieve SBRT.

Therefore, this project proposes to treat vertebral metastases from non-small cell lung cancer using SBRT technology on the True Beam radiotherapy system to compare its efficacy with conventional external irradiation technology in terms of pain relief as well as local control.