CPI-613 and Fluorouracil in Treating Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This pilot phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of CPI-613 when given together with fluorouracil in treating patients with colorectal cancer that has spread to other parts of the body and cannot be removed by surgery. CPI-613 may kill tumor cells by turning off their mitochondria. Mitochondria are used by tumor cells to produce energy and are the building blocks needed to make more tumor cells. By shutting off these mitochondria, CPI-613 deprives the tumor cells of energy and other supplies that they need to survive and grow in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving CPI-613 with fluorouracil may kill more tumor cells.
Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Stage IIIA Colon Cancer|Stage IIIA Rectal Cancer|Stage IIIB Colon Cancer|Stage IIIB Rectal Cancer|Stage IIIC Colon Cancer|Stage IIIC Rectal Cancer|Stage IVA Colon Cancer|Stage IVA Rectal Cancer|Stage IVB Colon Cancer|Stage IVB Rectal Cancer
DRUG: 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid|DRUG: fluorouracil|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid in combination with fluorouracil based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicities graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 2 weeks
Incidence of toxicity of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid and fluorouracil combination graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Examine toxicities by assessing each toxicity by grade., Up to 3 years|PK parameters (maximum observed concentration, area under the curve, half-life, elimination rate constant, drug clearance, and volume of distribution) of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid in plasma samples, Week 1: days 1 and 4 before infusion of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid and at 30 minutes, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 6 and 8 (optional) hours after the completion of infusion
Progression-free survival (PFS), Plot a PFS curve using Kaplan-Meier methods, examine median PFS., Time from the first dose of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid to disease progression, assessed up to 3 years|Overall response rate (ORR) (i.e., sum of complete response [CR] and partial response [PR]), Assess ORR and its 95% confidence interval., Up to 3 years|Disease control rate (DCR) (i.e., sum of CR, PR, and stable disease), Assess DCR and its 95% confidence interval., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CPI-613 (6,8-bis\[benzylthio\]octanoic acid), when used in combination with 5-FU (fluorouracil), in patients with non-resectable metastatic colorectal cancer who have failed FOLFOX (leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil and oxaliplatin), FOLFIRI (leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and irinotecan hydrochloride) and, if Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) wild type, then a epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor-based regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the pharmacokinetic (PK), safety and efficacy of various doses of CPI-613, when used in combination with 5-FU, in patients with non-resectable metastatic colorectal cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid.

Patients receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1-4 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on days 2-4. Courses repeat every 2 weeks for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 3 years.