Letrozole Versus Chinese Herbal Medicine on Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
This is a multicenter double-blind randomized controlled trial. A total of 420 anovulatory Chinese women with PCOS will be recruited, and the randomization will be stratified by each participating site. Participants will be randomized into one of the two treatment arms: letrozole and CHMG or letrozole and CHMG placebo. CHMG or its placebo will be taken twice a day for up to six months. Letrozole (2.5 mg daily) was given on days 3-7 of the menstrual cycle after a spontaneous period or withdrawal bleeding, and the dose will be increased to 5.0 mg daily during the last three months for non-pregnant women in both groups.The aim of the present study is to determine the efficacy of combined treatment with letrozole and CHMG on improving live birth rates in infertile Chinese women with PCOS. Our hypothesis is that the combination of letrozole and CHMG is more likely to increase the ovulation rate and decrease the miscarriage rate and result in a higher live birth rate in PCOS women than letrozole alone.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Chinese herbal medicine granules or Chinese herbal medicine granules placebo
Live birth rate, Up to 2 years
Ovulation rate, Up to 1 year|Miscarriage rate, Up to 1 year|Change in hormonal profile, Follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, total testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate., Up to 1 year|Change in metabolic profile, glucose and insulin concentrations, cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol., Up to 1 year|Change in physical measurements, weight, vital signs, and hip and waist measurements., Up to 1 year|Pregnancy complications, gestational diabetes, pregnancy-induced hypertension, intrauterine growth retardation, ectopic pregnancy, congenital anomaly, preeclampsia, preterm labor, HELLP syndrome, preterm premature rupture of membranes, placental abruption, placenta accreta, placenta previa, postpartum hemorrhage, and others., Up to 1 year|Birth defects, Up to 1 year|Safety parameters, renal and liver function tests and complete blood count., Up to 1 year|Side effect profile, The major risks to the subject are side effects from letrozole and CHMG and the risks associated with pregnancy., Up to 1 year
This is a multicenter double-blind randomized controlled trial. A total of 420 anovulatory Chinese women with PCOS will be recruited, and the randomization will be stratified by each participating site. Participants will be randomized into one of the two treatment arms: letrozole and CHMG or letrozole and CHMG placebo. CHMG or its placebo will be taken twice a day for up to six months. Letrozole (2.5 mg daily) was given on days 3-7 of the menstrual cycle after a spontaneous period or withdrawal bleeding, and the dose will be increased to 5.0 mg daily during the last three months for non-pregnant women in both groups.The aim of the present study is to determine the efficacy of combined treatment with letrozole and CHMG on improving live birth rates in infertile Chinese women with PCOS. Our hypothesis is that the combination of letrozole and CHMG is more likely to increase the ovulation rate and decrease the miscarriage rate and result in a higher live birth rate in PCOS women than letrozole alone.