The Role and Mechanism of TCR-T Cells in Immunotherapy for Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the main type of leukemia, accounting for about 60% of all leukemia, with complex pathogenesis and great clinical heterogeneity. Effective targets for AML need to be further developed. We performed next-generation sequencing analysis of the TCR sequence of an AML patient to find the patient's specific TCR clone for leukemia. The rearranged TCR gene stimulated by leukemia antigens was transduced into the patient's own T cells, and the TCR gene-modified T cells (TCR-T) that could specifically recognize leukemia antigens and kill leukemia cells were constructed. Enhancing the specificity and killing activity of T cells can truly achieve individualized treatment for patients. In addition, through TCR sequencing, the TCR sequence database of leukemia patients can be constructed to find the common specific TCR clones for AML among different patients, which can realize the precise treatment of AML.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
BIOLOGICAL: TCR-T Cells Injection
Decreased AML percentage in blood, TCR-T Cells were infused back into the patients then the decreased percentage of AML tumor cells in blood after infusion was measured, From date of initial treatment to the 20 days after TCR-T Cells infusion
Decreased AML percentage in cerebrospinal fluid, TCR-T Cells were infused back into the patient then the decreased percentage of AML tumor cells in cerebrospinal fluid after infusion was measured, From date of initial treatment to the 20 days after TCR-T Cells infusion
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the main type of leukemia, accounting for about 60% of all leukemia, with complex pathogenesis and great clinical heterogeneity. Effective targets for AML need to be further developed. T cell receptor (TCR) is a characteristic marker on the surface of T cells. Stimulated by leukemia cell antigens, TCR can produce specific rearrangement and produce specific T cell clones for leukemia. However, immunosuppressive cells and immunosuppressive molecules in the leukemia microenvironment have inhibitory effects on T cells, which reduce the activity of T cells with specific clone proliferation. The anti-tumor effect was weakened. In order to solve this clinical problem, we performed next-generation sequencing analysis of the TCR sequence of an AML patient to find the patient's specific TCR clone against leukemia. The rearranged TCR gene stimulated by leukemia antigen was transduced into the patient's own T cells. To construct TCR gene-modified T cells (TCR-T) that can specifically recognize leukemia antigens and kill leukemia cells, enhance the specificity and killing activity of T cells, and truly realize the individualized treatment of patients. In addition, through TCR sequencing, the TCR sequence database of leukemia patients can be constructed to find the common specific TCR clones for AML among different patients, which can realize the precise treatment of AML.