Trial of NanoPac® Focal Therapy in Subjects With Prostate Cancer
Open-label, dose rising, Phase IIa trial of intratumorally-injected NanoPac® 6, 10, or 15 mg/mL in subjects with prostate cancer scheduled for prostatectomy.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
DRUG: NanoPac®
Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Treatment Emergent Adverse Events included laboratory assessments, physical examination findings, and vital signs., Day 1 to Day 29
Tumor Response Based on Change in Image Volume on mpMRI, Tumor response to treatment with NanoPac was determined by evaluating the change in image volume with multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) within three months prior to consent and again within 48 hours of the prostatectomy procedure (Day 29). In those cases where two dimensions/axes were available, width was imputed to height for the purposes of calculation, i.e. the lesion was assumed to be an oblate spheroid. In those cases where only one dimension/axis was available, that dimension/axis was imputed for all three dimensions i.e. the lesion was assumed to be a sphere. For this reason, analyses were performed for all subjects with two dimensions available, as well as those for which at least one dimension was available. The data presented for this outcome measure is the one dimension lesion volume calculation: Lesion Volume (cc) = (3.14/6)\*(length)³, where length is the longer or only measured dimension., Up to three months prior to consent and Day 29|Tumor Response Based on Histologic Evaluation of Biopsied Prostate Samples (Gleason Score), Prostate tissue samples were obtained via biopsy at baseline and immediately prior to prostatectomy (Day 29). Histologic evaluation of these samples was used to determine the Gleason score, and the results at baseline and Day 29 were used to evaluate the tumor response to treatment with NanoPac®. The Gleason score is calculated by adding together the two grades of cancer cells that make up the largest areas of the biopsied tissue sample. The Gleason score usually ranges from 6 to 10. The lower the Gleason score, the more the cancer cells look like normal cells and are likely to grow and spread slowly; a higher Gleason score is likely to indicate a worse outcome. The Gleason score is used to help plan treatment and determine prognosis., Screening and Day 29|Percentage of Sample Considered Adenocarcinoma, Tissues excised from the primary tumor during prostatectomy (Day 29) were evaluated for the percentage considered adenocarcinoma, Day 29 (prostatectomy)|Concentration of Paclitaxel in the Systemic Circulation, Pharmacokinetic samples were taken on Day 1 at 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours post-injection, and weekly until prostatectomy. All numeric paclitaxel concentration data above the Lower Limit of Quantitation (25 pg/mL) was tabulated by cohort., Day 1, Day 8, Day 15, Day 22, and Day 29
In this open-label, dose rising, Phase IIa trial with an expanded cohort at the dose of NanoPac® determined to have the best tolerability and safety profile, subjects with prostate cancer scheduled for prostatectomy will have NanoPac® injected under image guidance directly into the lobe of the prostate with the dominant lesion 4 weeks prior to prostatectomy. The study will include a dose escalation phase and a dose confirmation phase.

In the dose escalation phase, NanoPac® concentrations of 6, 10, and 15 mg/mL in an injection volume of 20% of the lobe of the prostate containing the dominant lesion will be studied in cohorts of 3, with cohorts enrolled sequentially starting at the lowest concentration. Following DSMB review of the cohort data the next cohort may begin enrolling, or an additional 3 at the current dose may be enrolled, or if the first dose does not provide adequate safety and tolerability the study may be halted. The dose determined to be the most suitable for further evaluation, defined as the highest dose with an acceptable safety and tolerability profile as determined by the DSMB, will enroll additional subjects to provide a cohort of 12 subjects at that dose level.

Tumor volume and serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) will be determined prior to NanoPac® injection. Pharmacokinetic samples, PSA, and ejaculate will be collected in the interval between injection and prostatectomy. Imaging with mpMRI will be performed prior to NanoPac® injection and prior to prostatectomy. Prostate and pelvic lymph nodes excised at prostatectomy will be evaluated.