Effects of Folfirinox and Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This study wants to find out how safe and effective the use of Folfirinox combined with Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy )(SBRT) is for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer Non-resectable
DRUG: Folfirinox|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Event(s) as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Event(s) as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability. This is based on CTCAE to assess toxicity at specified time points by the treating physician., Assessed up to 24 months post treatment
Overall Response Rate for Participants as Assessed by Contrast-enhanced CT Scan of the Abdomen at 12 Months., Response to therapy at 12 months post treatment as measured from CT Scan by modified RECIST criteria as follows; Response is measured as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of LD., Assessed at 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months post-treatment
Quality of Life Assessment at 12 Months Post-treatment, Assessment is based on participant results from administration of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Pancreas (FACT-Hep). FACT-Hep is an established tool for measuring quality of life both before and after intervention. The form consists of 45 questions and should take approximately 8 minutes to complete. Higher scores indicate higher quality of life. This assessment consists of the following sub-scales (with associated score ranges): Physical Well-Being (0-28); Social/Family Well-Being (0-28); Emotional Well-Being (0-24); Functional Well-Being (0-28); Hepatobiliary Cancer (0-72). All items are ranked on a five-point scale ranging from 0-4. Results were based on the mean FACT-G total score of all participants. The FACT-G total score is derived from the sum of scores on the Physical, Emotional, Social/Family, Functional Well-Being and Hepatobiliary Cancer subscales and is designed to measure Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) in subjects undergoing cancer treatment., 12 months from completion of therapy
The study will be a prospective, non-randomized, single center, trial to assess the effects of FOLIRINOX chemotherapy with SBRT on locally advanced, non-resectable pancreatic cancer. Patients will either undergo a biopsy to confirm the diagnosis or have strong clinical suspicion of a new cancer or recurrence based on the recommendations of a multi-disciplinary GI oncology team. FOLFIRINOX with be delivered prior to SBRT for 4 cycles. Restaging imaging will occur prior to SBRT delivery. SBRT will be delivered using standard stereotactic techniques to a dose of 3200cGy at 650cGy per fraction delivered over 2 weeks. Additional adjuvant chemotherapy with be delivered at the physician's discretion. Patients will be reassessed both clinically and radiographically at 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months post-treatment. Quality of life analysis will occur at 3 month intervals after treatment. Blood will be drawn for exploratory biomarker analysis at strategic timepoints during treatment and followup. Following the initial imaging time points, standard surveillance will be employed with clinical assessment and imaging at 3 month intervals for the first 2 years post-treatment.