Testing the Combination of Two Anticancer Drugs M1774 (Tuvusertib) and Avelumab to Evaluate Their Safety and Effectiveness in Treating Merkel Cell Skin Cancer, MATRiX Trial
This phase II trial compares tuvusertib in combination with avelumab to tuvusertib alone to determine whether the combination therapy will lengthen the time before the cancer starts getting worse in patients with Merkel cell cancer that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Tuvusertib is a drug that inhibits an enzyme called ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR) kinase, which is an enzyme that plays a role in repair of damaged deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) as well as tumor cell replication and survival. It may lead to tumor cell death by inhibiting ATR kinase activity. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as avelumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving tuvusertib in combination with avelumab may lengthen the time before Merkel cell cancer starts getting worse compared to giving avelumab alone.
Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Merkel Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Merkel Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Refractory Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Unresectable Merkel Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Avelumab|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Tuvusertib
Composite progression-free survival (PFS), The stratified (on disease, acquired versus primary immune checkpoint inhibitor-refractory disease) log-rank test will be used to compare PFS between arms. The primary analysis will be done on an intent-to-treat basis. An as-treated analysis will also be done as a sensitivity analysis., From registration to progressive disease or death whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years
Overall response rate (ORR), The sum of complete and partial responses per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria. Evaluated using the Mantel-Haenszel test., Up to 2 years|Duration of response, Will be evaluated by estimating the probability of response using a cumulative incidence estimate, and then among those who responded, creating a time-to-recurrence curve using a cumulative-incidence estimate. Will be compared between arms using the stratified log-rank test and the Mantel-Haenszel test will be used to compare binary outcomes., From the time measurement criteria are met for complete or partial response (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be evaluated using a stratified log-rank test. Will be compared between arms using the stratified log-rank test and the Mantel-Haenszel test will be used to compare binary outcomes., Up to 2 years|Gene expression-based immunologic signatures predictive of response, Annotated transcriptome sequences at baseline and on-therapy will be correlated with response in both virus-positive and -negative tumors. Descriptive statistical analyses will be performed. Volcano plots will be evaluated. Gene set enrichment analysis will be used to compare pre-treatment samples from patients with response to treatment to samples from patients experiencing disease progression. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be used to test for statistical differences followed by the Bonferroni correction to adjust for multiple comparisons., Up to 2 years
Biomarker levels, Will examine the association of various biomarkers with the primary and secondary endpoints. All patients will be combined for these purposes, and separate examination of biomarkers will be conducted by treatment group to allow for the possibility that certain correlates will have differing associations with outcome according to treatment group. This will be done using logistic regression for ORR and Cox regression for OS and PFS. In addition, descriptive statistics for biomarkers will be presented (mean, standard deviation, median, and interquartile range) by treatment group and based on presence or absence of response. Biomarker levels will also be compared between the two treatment groups using the two-sample t-test (or the non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test as needed)., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the potential efficacy, using progression free survival (PFS), of ATR inhibition alone to ATR inhibition plus anti-PD-(L)1 therapy through a randomized clinical trial for patients with advanced Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) who have progressed on anti-PD(L)1 therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the clinical activity of ATR inhibition alone to that in combination with avelumab through a randomized clinical trial for patients with advanced MCC that has progressed after PD-1 pathway blockade.

II. To identify gene expression-based immunologic (replication stress / neuroendocrine \[NE\] differentiation) signatures predictive of response to ATR inhibition in advanced immunotherapy-refractory MCC tumors through ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the association of various biomarkers with the clinical activity of ATR inhibition alone or in combination with PD-(L)1 pathway blockade.

II. To explore the safety and efficacy (PFS, overall response rate \[ORR\], and overall survival \[OS\]) of the addition of avelumab to M1774 (tuvusertib) after documented progressive disease of M1774 (tuvusertib) monotherapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive tuvusertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET)/CT, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), biopsy, and collection of blood and stool/rectal swabs at screening and on study. Patients with documented progression may cross over to Arm 2.

ARM 2: Patients receive tuvusertib PO QD on days 1-14 of each cycle and avelumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT, PET/CT, or MRI, biopsy, and collection of blood and stool at screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6 months for 2 years from the last dose of treatment.