Super-Selective Intraarterial Intracranial Infusion of Bevacizumab (Avastin) for Glioblastoma Multiforme
The high-grade malignant brain tumor glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) comprise the majority of all primary brain tumors in adults. This group of tumors also exhibits the most aggressive behavior, resulting in median overall survival durations of only 9-12 months for GBM. Initial therapy consists of surgical resection, external beam radiation or both. Currently, all patients experience a recurrence after this first-line therapy, so improvements in both first-line and salvage therapy are critical to enhancing quality-of-life and prolonging survival. Superselective Intraarterial Cerebral Infusion (SIACI) is a technique that can effectively increase the concentration of drug delivered to the brain while sparing the body of systemic side effects. This technique threads a tiny catheter through the patient's femoral artery in the leg, up through the body and neck and into the brain. Once the catheter reaches the brain, chemotherapy is released to the blood vessels that feed the tumor.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: Bevacizumab
Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety, The frequency of adverse events will be quantified until disease progression or death., 3 years
Tumor Response, 3 years
The high-grade malignant brain tumor glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) comprise the majority of all primary brain tumors in adults. This group of tumors also exhibits the most aggressive behavior, resulting in median overall survival durations of only 9-12 months for GBM. Initial therapy consists of surgical resection, external beam radiation or both. Currently, all patients experience a recurrence after this first-line therapy, so improvements in both first-line and salvage therapy are critical to enhancing quality-of-life and prolonging survival. Superselective Intraarterial Cerebral Infusion (SIACI) is a technique that can effectively increase the concentration of drug delivered to the brain while sparing the body of systemic side effects. This technique threads a tiny catheter through the patient's femoral artery in the leg, up through the body and neck and into the brain. Once the catheter reaches the brain, chemotherapy is released to the blood vessels that feed the tumor.