The Use of FDG-PET in Patient With Hodgkin Lymphoma: a Population Based Study From Northern Italy
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) represents a step forward in the definition of response to therapy in patients with Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL). In particular the use of PET for the early assessment of response has been described as the most important tool for predicting the risk of disease progression. As no data are available to support the use of early assessment of response for adapting and modifying subsequent treatment, the use of PET should be limited only to patients enrolled in clinical trials. Irrespective of recommendations PET scanning is included in the current management of patients with HL at baseline, mid treatment, end of treatment, and follow-up. So far no study has been performed to verify how PET is currently used in the clinical setting and to assess if and how results of PET scanning are used for supporting treatment and clinical decisions.
Histologically Confirmed Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma According to the Current World Health Organisation Classification
PROCEDURE: FDG-PET
Progression-free survival, within 1 month after end of treatment|Overall survival, within 1 month after end of treatment|Disease-free survival, within 1 month after end of treatment
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) represents a step forward in the definition of response to therapy in patients with Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL). In particular the use of PET for the early assessment of response has been described as the most important tool for predicting the risk of disease progression. As no data are available to support the use of early assessment of response for adapting and modifying subsequent treatment, the use of PET should be limited only to patients enrolled in clinical trials. Irrespective of recommendations PET scanning is included in the current management of patients with HL at baseline, mid treatment, end of treatment, and follow-up. So far no study has been performed to verify how PET is currently used in the clinical setting and to assess if and how results of PET scanning are used for supporting treatment and clinical decisions.