Long-Term Follow-Up in Patients With Prostate Cancer After Surgery
This clinical trial studies how well a long-term follow-up works in patients with prostate cancer after surgery. Long-term follow-up data may serve as a resource to help ask clinical questions, describe health-related quality of life and long-term complications related, and facilitate future studies focusing on interventions to improve health status and health-related quality of life in prostate cancer survivors.
Cancer Survivor|Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Long-term Follow-up|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
HRQL assessed using Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite, Linear mixed effects models can be used to estimate long-term trends and examine the effects of baseline and concomitant factors on these trends., Up to 10 years|HRQL assessed using Sexual Health Inventory for Men, Linear mixed effects models can be used to estimate long-term trends and examine the effects of baseline and concomitant factors on these trends., Up to 10 years|Incidence rates of the study end-points, Incidence rates of the study end-points that may be associated with original diagnosis or treatment received, and delineation of temporal changes in serial measurements and their relationship to time-invariant characteristics such as original diagnosis, race, and education and time-varying characteristics such as age and body mass index will be estimated. Incidence rates may be compared with national standards adjusted for key demographic variables and between patient subgroups., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To provide comprehensive long-term follow-up care to prostate cancer survivors at the City of Hope who underwent definitive surgical therapy.

II. To use the information obtained from follow-up of prostate cancer survivors who underwent definitive surgical therapy to serve as a resource that will help answer clinical questions, generate and test hypotheses, describe the incidence of long-term complications, and facilitate future studies focusing on interventions for long-term complications of prostate cancer and its therapy.

III. To use the information gained from follow-up of prostate cancer survivors who underwent definitive surgical therapy to describe health-related quality of life (HRQL) concerns and to serve as a resource to facilitate future studies focusing on interventions to improve health status and HRQL in prostate cancer survivors.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo long-term follow-up and receive a written survivorship care plan including comprehensive health evaluation and health education beginning 1 year post surgery.