A Dose-Escalation Study Evaluating the Combination of Trastuzumab Emtansine (T-DM1) With Neratinib in Women With Metastatic HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
This study is being done for the following reasons:

* The study has two parts. The purpose of the first part (Phase I) of the study is to find out the highest dose of neratinib that can be given safely with T-DM1.
* The purpose of the second part of the study (Phase II) is to find out whether the dose of neratinib with T-DM1 determined in Phase I will keep breast cancer from getting worse for a period of time.
* In order to learn more about study therapy levels in blood and discover genetic and protein changes associated with cancer, the study includes special research tests using samples from blood and from breast tumor. Blood samples will be collected before study treatment, once during treatment, and after study treatment stops.
* In the optional part of this study, three biopsies will be performed to obtain fresh tumor samples from an area where your cancer has spread.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Neratinib|DRUG: T-DM1
Number of Evaluable Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicity Events in Phase 1, If 1 of 3 patients in this cohort experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), 3 more patients will be added at the same dose level. If 0 of 3 initial patients or 1 of 6 patients in an expanded cohort experiences a DLT, the dose for the next cohort will be escalated to dose level 2; otherwise, the combination will be considered too toxic., Day 1, 8, and 15 of cycle 1.|Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Measurement of Target Lesions in Phase II, Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Every 42 days after the start of protocol therapy through disease progression, approximately 2 years
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Time From Start of Study Therapy to Disease Progression or Death From Any Cause, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Every 42 days after the start of protocol therapy through disease progression, approximately 2 years|Adverse Events Experienced by Participants as a Measure of Toxicity, Summary of frequency and severity of serious adverse events,, Day 1, 8, 15 of cycle one, day 1 of each subsequent cycle, at the end of protocol therapy and 30 days following the end of protocol therapy. Duration of therapy varied across patients from a few days to a couple of years.|Clinical Benefit Rate (Phase II), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions assessed by MRI or CT; Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of new lesions; Stable Disease (SD) otherwise; Clinical Benefit (CB) = CR+PR+SD (confirmation of response not required)., Every 63 days after the start of study therapy until disease progression or until 30 days following the end of protocol therapy if due to another cause. Duration of therapy varied across patients from a few days to a couple of years.
The FB-10 study is designed as an open label, single arm, Phase Ib/II study with a dose-escalation phase and an expanded cohort (phase II) to evaluate the combination of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) with neratinib in women with metastatic, HER2-positive breast cancer. The primary aim of the phase Ib portion of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of the two-drug combination. The primary aim of the phase II portion is to demonstrate efficacy.

Patients will receive concurrent therapy with T-DM1 (3.6 mg/kg IV) on Day 1 of a 3-week (21 day) cycle and neratinib as a continuous daily oral dose. The neratinib dose-escalation will include 4 dose levels (120 mg, 160 mg, 200 mg, and 240 mg). At the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the T-DM1 and neratinib combination, up to 39 additional patients will be treated.

The sample size of the phase I portion of the study was 27 patients. The sample size of the Phase II portion will be 22 evaluable patients (and 4 replacement patients). The total study enrollment, phase Ib and II, will be a maximum of 50 patients.

Submission of diagnostic tumor samples and blood samples for FB-10 correlative science studies will be a study requirement for all patients. Blood samples for pharmacokinetics (PKs) and for future study will be collected prior to administration of study therapy on Cycle 1/Day 1, Cycle 1/Day 8, and Cycle 2/Day1.

A tumor biopsy will be procured from an accessible site of metastasis before study therapy is initiated (after the patient has signed the consent and has been screened for eligibility).