Magnetic Resonance Imaging for Lymph Node Staging in Ovarian Cancer
Advanced epithelial ovarian cancer has high morbidity and mortality. Patients presenting with advanced stage ovarian cancer often have cancer spread to regional lymph nodes. Imaging strategies to depict involved lymph nodes are currently not successful. The purpose of this study is to evaluate if magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadofosveset trisodium contrast enhancement (GDF-MRI) and diffusion weighted imaging (DW-MRI) is able to identify involved lymph nodes in a preoperative setting. This could guide the surgeon during surgery to dissect lymph nodes which could lead to an optimal diagnosis/staging with the lowest possible morbidity. We want to determine the optimal imaging settings and feasibility of MRI for the detection of pathological lymph nodes in women with advanced (FIGO stage IIB-IV) ovarian cancer undergoing primary debulking surgery and compare this to conventional imaging with computer tomography (CT).
Ovarian Neoplasms
DRUG: Gadofosveset trisodium (Ablavar™ )|DEVICE: MRI
Feasibility of MRI in depicting lymph nodes., Primary outcome measure is to determine the optimal imaging settings and feasibility of MRI combined with DW-MRI and GDF-MRI (gadofosveset-MRI) in the identification of pathologic lymph nodes in women with advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer., One year
Diagnostic accuracy of MRI., Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value for the detection of metastatic lymph nodes will be calculated for MRI (+/- DW-MRI and GDF-MRI) and compared with conventional CT imaging., One year
Advanced epithelial ovarian cancer has high morbidity and mortality. Patients presenting with advanced stage ovarian cancer often have cancer spread to regional lymph nodes. Imaging strategies to depict involved lymph nodes are currently not successful. The purpose of this study is to evaluate if magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadofosveset trisodium contrast enhancement (GDF-MRI) and diffusion weighted imaging (DW-MRI) is able to identify involved lymph nodes in a preoperative setting. This could guide the surgeon during surgery to dissect lymph nodes which could lead to an optimal diagnosis/staging with the lowest possible morbidity. We want to determine the optimal imaging settings and feasibility of MRI for the detection of pathological lymph nodes in women with advanced (FIGO stage IIB-IV) ovarian cancer undergoing primary debulking surgery and compare this to conventional imaging with computer tomography (CT).