A Study of HS-20124 in Patients with Advanced Solid Tumors
HS-20124 is a novel DAR-8 antibody-drug conjugate （ADC） targeting CDH6. In preclinical studies, it inhibited tumor cell growth expressing CDH6 in vitro and in vivo. The first-in-human trial is conducted to assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT), to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety and preliminary anti-tumor activity of HS-20124 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors.
Solid Cancer
DRUG: HS-20124 (Phase Ia：Dose escalation )|DRUG: HS-20124 (Phase Ib: Dose expansion)
Objective tumor response for target lesions will be assessed by imaging/measurement compared with the overall tumor burden at baseline (Day -28 to -1). ORR is evaluated by the number of participants with best overall response of complete response (CR) an, To determine the MTD/MAD for further evaluation of IV administration of HS-20124 in subjects with advanced solid tumors, 3 weeks after initiation of treatment|Ⅰb (Dose-Expansion Stage): Objective response rate (ORR) determined by investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, Objective tumor response for target lesions will be assessed by imaging/measurement compared with the overall tumor burden at baseline (Day -28 to -1). ORR is evaluated by the number of participants with best overall response of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) \[Confirmed CR/PR assessment require at least one repeat (≥4 weeks)\], From the first dose up to PD or withdrawal from study, whichever came first.
Incidence and severity of treatment-emergent adverse events, AE assessed by investigator exclusively related to subject's underlying disease or medical condition \[graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 5.0\]. Any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. Incidence and severity of AEs are assessed according to vital signs, laboratory variables, physical examination, electrocardiogram, etc., From the first dose through 30 days post end of treatment|Observed maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), Cmax will be obtained following administration of the first dose of HS-20124 during the first cycle, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days)|Time to reach maximum plasma concentration (Tmax), Tmax will be obtained following administration of the first dose of HS-20124 during the first cycle, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days)|Terminal half-life (T1/2), Apparent terminal half-life is the time measured for the concentration to decrease by one half. Terminal half-life calculated by natural log 2 divided by λz., At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days)|Percentage of participants with antibodies to HS-20124 in serum, Serum samples were collected for the determination of anti-drug antibody (ADA) at designated time points, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days)|ORR determined by investigators according to RECIST 1.1 (dose-escalation stage), Objective tumor response for target lesions will be assessed by imaging/measurement compared with the overall tumor burden at baseline (Day -28 to -1). ORR is evaluated by the number of participants with best overall response of CR and PR (Confirmed CR/PR assessment require at least 1 repeat)., during the intervention|Duration of response (DOR) determined by investigators according to RECIST 1.1, DoR was defined as the period from the first occurrence of CR or PR to PD or death from any cause. If no PD or death after CR/PR, the cut-off date of progression-free survival (PFS) would be used \[Confirmed CR/PR assessment require at least one repeat (≥4 weeks)\]., during the intervention|Progression-free survival (PFS) determined by investigators according to RECIST 1.1, Objective tumor response for target lesions will be assessed by imaging/measurement compared with the overall tumor burden at baseline (Day -28 to -1). PFS was defined as the time from random assignment (dose expansion stage) or first dose (dose escalation stage) to PD or death from any cause, From the randomization/first dose up to PD or death, whichever came first
This is a Phase 1a/1b open-label, multicenter study with dose escalation and dose expansion cohorts to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK and preliminary efficacy of HS-20124 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

The dose escalation will utilize rolling-6 design. In phase of dose expansion, preliminary efficacy will be evaluated in planned expansion cohorts that include patients with specific advanced solid tumor types.