Tremelimumab and Durvalumab With or Without Radiation Therapy in Patients With Relapsed Small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized clinical trial studies how well tremelimumab and durvalumab with or without radiation therapy works in treating patients with small cell lung cancer that has returned after a period of improvement. Monoclonal antibodies, such as tremelimumab and durvalumab, may limit the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread by enhancing immune function. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving tremelimumab and durvalumab together with radiation therapy may lead to improved clinical benefit.
Recurrent Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Tremelimumab
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from initiation of therapy to objective disease progress or death, From initiation of systemic therapy to first documented disease progression, assessed through study completion, up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate, Disease response to therapy measured according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, After every 2 cycles of treatment (1 cycle = 4 weeks), assessed through study completion, up to 2 years
Immune-related Objective Response Rate, Disease response to treatment using immune-related response rate (irRR) criteria, Assessed after every 2 cycles (1 cycle = 4 weeks) on treatment; assessed through study completion, up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Time interval from entering the study until death, From randomization until death from any cause, assessed through study completion, up to 2 years
Change From Baseline in the Proportion of Lymphocyte Subset (CD8+ICOS+) Between Baseline and On-Treament (End of Cycle 1), Change in circulating and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes between baseline and on-treatment samples at the end of Cycle 1. The proportion was calculated as the number of specific lymphocytes subset out of the total number of lymphocytes at baseline compared to the same proportion at the end of cycle 1., Result presented for assessment at baseline and the end of cycle 1.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the efficacy (progression free survival \[PFS\] and objective response rate \[ORR\]) of combined immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy as treatment for relapsed small-cell lung cancer (SCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact of antigen priming using radiation therapy (XRT) on the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors.

II. To determine immune related objective response rate.

III. To estimate overall survival measured as time from randomization to death from any cause.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1)/programmed cell death 1 (PD1) expression in paired tumor biopsies at baseline, end of cycle 2 and at the time of progression.

II. To determine dynamic changes in cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) and the immunophenotype of peripheral blood repertoire of circulating lymphocytes using multiparameter flow cytometry.

III. To determine changes in circulating cytokine mediators of inflammation and immunity using Luminex assay.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive tremelimumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving disease control may restart treatment upon evidence of progressive disease, with or without confirmation.

ARM II: Patients undergo radiation therapy daily for 5 days over 1 week or for 3 fractions every other day for 1 week and then receive the same treatment as in Arm I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.