AFP464 in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of AFP464 in treating patients with advanced solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as AFP464, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: AFP464|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated dose determined by dose-limiting toxicity, 28 days|Types and grades of toxicity, Full frequency distributions of grade of toxicity, by toxicity type, will be generated, by dose level. Among all treated patients, both point and exact confidence interval estimates of the rate of every specific type of Grade 3-4 toxicity will be calculated, by dose level. Grade 2 DLCO rates (point and confidence level) will also be computed, by dose level., Up to 4 weeks
Pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, and pharmacogenomic parameters, Up to 4 weeks|Response rate, Point and exact confidence interval estimates of response rate will be provided for all eligible patients combined, and if warranted, by specific dose levels., Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the dose-limiting toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of AFP464 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

II. Assess the safety and tolerability of this drug in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Observe clinical response in patients treated with this drug. II. Characterize the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the clinical significance of genetic polymorphisms on the genes coding metabolizing enzymes (e.g., CYP1A1, 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, and SULTA1) and on the disposition and efficacy/toxicity of AFP464 and AF.

OUTLINE: This a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

Patients receive AFP464 IV over 3 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Cohorts of 2-6 patients receive escalating doses of AFP464 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which ≤ 1 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 10 patients whose tumor is amenable to biopsy are treated at the MTD.

Patients undergo blood collection periodically for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies. Patients treated at the MTD also undergo tumor tissue biopsies periodically for additional pharmacodynamic and correlative biomarker studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.