Vadastuximab Talirine (SGN-CD33A; 33A) Combined With Azacitidine or Decitabine in Older Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
The purpose of this study in AML patients is to test whether vadastuximab talirine (SGN-CD33A; 33A) combined with either azacitidine or decitabine improves remission rates and extends overall survival as compared to placebo combined with either azacitidine or decitabine.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: 33A|DRUG: placebo|DRUG: azacitidine|DRUG: decitabine
Overall Survival, Time from randomization to death due to any cause, Up to 1.5 years|Composite Complete Remission (CRc) Rate, Number of patients who achieved complete remission (CR) or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) according to the modified response criteria for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) per Cheson 2003., Up to 1.5 years
Minimal Residual Disease (MRD)-Negative Composite Complete Remission Rate, Number of patients who achieve both remission (CR or CRi) and MRD-negative status, Up to 1.5 years|Duration of Remission, Duration of remission is calculated from the first documentation of CR or CRi to the first documentation of disease relapse or death, whichever comes first. Patients who are in remission at the time of analysis cutoff are censored at the date of last response assessment. Patients who started another anticancer therapy before relapse or death are censored at the date of last response assessment prior to start of new therapy., Up to approximately 9.5 months|Event-free Survival, Event-free survival is calculated from the time of randomization to the first documentation of progression, relapse, or death, whichever comes first. Patients who do not have event (progression, relapse, or death) prior to analysis cutoff date are censored at the date of last response assessment. Patients who started another anticancer therapy before progression, relapse, or death are censored at the date of last response assessment prior to the start of new therapy. Patients who do not have response assessment post-baseline are censored at the date of randomization., Up to approximately 11.24 months|Leukemia-free Survival, Leukemia-free survival is calculated from the first documentation of blast clearance (CR, CRi, mLFS) to the first documentation of disease relapse or death, whichever comes first. Patients who are in remission at the time of analysis cutoff are censored at the date of last response assessment. Patients who started another anticancer therapy before relapse or death are censored at the date of last response assessment prior to start of new therapy., Up to approximately 9.49 months|Type, Incidence, Severity, Seriousness, and Relatedness of Adverse Events, Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) are presented and defined as newly occurring (not present at baseline) or worsening after first dose of investigational product. SAE = serious adverse event. "Study treatment" in this data set refers to blinded study treatment., Up to 1.5 years|Incidence of Grade 3 or Higher Laboratory Abnormalities, Participants who experienced a laboratory grade increase to Grade 3 or higher (per National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI CTCAE\], v4.03), Up to 1.5 years|Time to Complete Remission, Time to CR or CRi is the time from randomization to the first documentation of CR/CRi, Up to 1.5 years|Mortality Rates at Day 30 and Day 60, 30- and 60-day survival from date of randomization. Estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 60 days
Hypomethylating agents (HMAs), such as decitabine or azacitidine, are considered a standard treatment for older patients with AML. The primary goals of this study are to test whether patients treated with an HMA (either decitabine or azacitidine) in combination with 33A will have better anti-tumor activity and/or survive longer than patients treated with an HMA in combination with placebo.

Patients who meet eligibility criteria will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups: 1) 33A plus HMA (Experimental Arm); or 2) placebo plus HMA (Comparator Arm). In addition to evaluating survival and remission rates, the minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative remission rate, duration of remission, event free- and leukemia-free survival, and safety and tolerability will be compared between arms.