The Mechanism of Enhancing the Anti-tumor Effects of CAR-T on PC by Gut Microbiota Regulation
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the deadliest diseases of human digestive malignancies. Despite the recent advances in surgery and chemotherapy, the 5-year survival rate of PC continues to be less than 10%. As a promising tumor therapy,Chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T), however, performed poorly in PC treatment and need to be further updated. In our study, on the basis of our previous research, we use anti-MSLN CAR-T as effector cell and explore the different effects and mechanism of gut microbiota (PC or healthy control) on anti-MSLN CAR-T treatment. Firstly, we detect the differences of gut microbiota and T cell cholesterol metabolism in PC and healthy control by means of 16S-rRNA,PCR, western blot and ELISA; explore the different effects of gut microbiota on the subtype of T cells; and analyze the relationships between intestinal flora composition and T cell cholesterol metabolism or subtype changes by means of Spearman's correlation. Secondly, we also explore the different effects of gut microbiota on the proliferation, migration, subtype, inflammatory cytokines expression and anti-tumor effector function of anti-MSLN CAR-T cells by means of flow cytometry and cytotoxicity assay. Thirdly, we discuss the different expression of cholesterol esterification enzyme 1 (ACAT-1) and other core genes of cholesterol metabolism in anti-MSLN CAR-T. Lastly, we evaluate the effects of different gut microbiota on the treatment of PC by anti-MSLN CAR-T cells in NSG mouse model of subcutaneous PC transplantation and liver metastasis. Through the above experiments, a new theoretical basis is provided in which gut microbiota regulates the subtype and anti-tumor function of anti-MSLN CAR-T by ACAT-1 expression. Furthermore, our findings, which demonstrate the relationship of gut microbiota and CAR-T cell, may be translatable for the treatment of other solid tumors like PC.
Pancreatic Cancer|Gut Microbiota|CAR-T
In vivo experiment: comparison of intestinal microflora and T cell cholesterol metabolism and subtypes between pancreatic cancer patients and healthy people The difference of proportion and the correlation., Fecal and peripheral blood samples were collected from patients with pancreatic cancer and healthy people respectively: (1) through Illumina miseq

High throughput sequencing technology was used to detect 16S rRNA to analyze the diversity of intestinal flora (α and β diversity), and bioinformatics methods such as random forest and lefse were used to analyze the diversity of flora composition; (2) the difference of cholesterol content in T cells was detected by ELISA; (3) the difference of ACAT-1 expression in T cells was detected by PCR and WB; (4) the difference of ACAT-1 expression in T cells was detected by flow cytometry. The proportion of CD8 +, TNF α +, Th1, Th2, Th17, Treg and other subtypes in T cells was detected by cell analyzer. Furthermore, the correlation between intestinal microflora composition and peripheral blood T cell cholesterol metabolism and subtype difference was determined by Spearman correlation analysis (statistical method)., from January 2020 to December 2020.|In vitro experiment: to verify the regulation of intestinal flora on the biological behavior of anti msln car-t in vitro and the role of ACAT-1 in it., In vitro, intestinal flora supernatant of pancreatic cancer and healthy human were co-cultured with anti-msln car-t, respectively, to verify the effect of intestinal flora on biological behavior of anti-msln car-t.To analyze how the metabolism of cholesterol in anti-msln car-t cells, with acat-1 as the key enzyme, participates in the process of regulating the biological behavior of anti-msln car-t by intestinal flora, and preliminarily uncover the relevant mechanism., from January 2021 to December 2021.|Animal model experiment: to verify the ability of intestinal bacteria to control anti msln car-t targeted killing pancreatic cancer cells., Furthermore, the influence of differences in intestinal flora composition between pancreatic cancer and healthy human on anti-msln car-t function was verified in animal models of pancreatic cancer., from January 2022 to December 2022.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the deadliest diseases of human digestive malignancies. Despite the recent advances in surgery and chemotherapy, the 5-year survival rate of PC continues to be less than 10%. As a promising tumor therapy,Chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T), however, performed poorly in PC treatment and need to be further updated. In our study, on the basis of our previous research, we use anti-MSLN CAR-T as effector cell and explore the different effects and mechanism of gut microbiota (PC or healthy control) on anti-MSLN CAR-T treatment. Firstly, we detect the differences of gut microbiota and T cell cholesterol metabolism in PC and healthy control by means of 16S-rRNA,PCR, western blot and ELISA; explore the different effects of gut microbiota on the subtype of T cells; and analyze the relationships between intestinal flora composition and T cell cholesterol metabolism or subtype changes by means of Spearman's correlation. Secondly, we also explore the different effects of gut microbiota on the proliferation, migration, subtype, inflammatory cytokines expression and anti-tumor effector function of anti-MSLN CAR-T cells by means of flow cytometry and cytotoxicity assay. Thirdly, we discuss the different expression of cholesterol esterification enzyme 1 (ACAT-1) and other core genes of cholesterol metabolism in anti-MSLN CAR-T. Lastly, we evaluate the effects of different gut microbiota on the treatment of PC by anti-MSLN CAR-T cells in NSG mouse model of subcutaneous PC transplantation and liver metastasis. Through the above experiments, a new theoretical basis is provided in which gut microbiota regulates the subtype and anti-tumor function of anti-MSLN CAR-T by ACAT-1 expression. Furthermore, our findings, which demonstrate the relationship of gut microbiota and CAR-T cell, may be translatable for the treatment of other solid tumors like PC.