Gadolinium and Ferumoxytol MRI in Diagnosing Patients With Abnormalities in the Central Nervous System
This phase II trial studies how well gadolinium and ferumoxytol magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) work in diagnosing patients with abnormalities in the central nervous system. Diagnostic procedures, such as gadolinium and ferumoxytol MRI, may help find and diagnose abnormalities in the central nervous system.
Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Cranial Nerve Disorder|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain
DRUG: Ferumoxytol|DRUG: Gadolinium|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Visualization of normal vasculature, Primary analysis will use the average score of the two readers. The mean difference and the associated 95% confidence interval (CI) between the two groups will be estimated using a linear regression model. Equivalence will be claimed if the 95% CI does not include 0.4 on either side (equivalence margin is 0.4)., Up to 5 years|Visualization of abnormal vasculature, Primary analysis will use the average score of the two readers. The mean difference and the associated 95% CI between the two groups will be estimated using a linear regression model. Equivalence will be claimed if the 95% CI does not include 0.4 on either side (equivalence margin is 0.4)., Up to 5 years|Visualization of normal anatomical structures, Primary analysis will use the average score of the two readers. The mean difference and the associated 95% CI between the two groups will be estimated using a linear regression model. Equivalence will be claimed if the 95% CI does not include 0.4 on either side (equivalence margin is 0.4)., Up to 5 years|Identification of the lesion corresponding areas on cerebral blood volume (CBV) maps, Will assess the confidence in identifying the lesion corresponding areas on CBV maps as well as signal change (deltaR2\*) and relative cerebral blood volume. Primary analysis will use the average score of the two readers. The mean difference and the associated 95% CI between the two groups will be estimated using a linear regression model. Equivalence will be claimed if the 95% CI does not include 0.4 on either side (equivalence margin is 0.4)., Up to 5 years
Contrast enhancement, The mean difference and the associated 95% CI before versus after ferumoxytol in the three visualization variables will be estimated using a paired t-test based on the average score of the two readers. Will use the same equivalence margin of 0.4. To compare the two magnetic field strengths, will also use a linear regression model to analyze contrast to noise ratios, Image homogeneity and susceptibility artifacts (the latter two based on average score of the two readers)., Up to 5 years|Border delineation, The mean difference and the associated 95% CI before versus after ferumoxytol in the three visualization variables will be estimated using a paired t-test based on the average score of the two readers. Will use the same equivalence margin of 0.4. To compare the two magnetic field strengths, will also use a linear regression model to analyze contrast to noise ratios, Image homogeneity and susceptibility artifacts (the latter two based on average score of the two readers)., Up to 5 years|Internal morphology, The mean difference and the associated 95% CI before versus after ferumoxytol in the three visualization variables will be estimated using a paired t-test based on the average score of the two readers. Will use the same equivalence margin of 0.4. To compare the two magnetic field strengths, will also use a linear regression model to analyze contrast to noise ratios, Image homogeneity and susceptibility artifacts (the latter two based on average score of the two readers)., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test if prior gadolinium administration affects vascular imaging using ferumoxytol.

II. To test signal changes of T2\*w multi-echo fast field echo (mFFE) scans before and after contrast agent injection.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test if ferumoxytol affects gadolinium enhanced MRI. II. To test if steady state cerebral blood volume (CBV) maps are different at various magnetic field strengths.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore late ferumoxytol enhancement (optional MRI) hours to days after ferumoxytol administration in various brain pathologies.

II. To evaluate the effects of ferumoxytol on malignant and non-malignant lesions in head \& neck, and liver lesions

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive gadolinium intravenously (IV) and then ferumoxytol IV and undergo MRI over 60 minutes on day 1.

GROUP II: Patients receive ferumoxytol IV and then gadolinium IV and undergo MRI over 60 minutes on day 1.