Erlotinib in Patients With Resected, Early Stage NSCLC With Confirmed Mutations in the EGFR
In this research study erlotinib will be given to eligible participants whose lung cancer has been removed by surgery. Eligible patients have adenocarcinoma, a type of non-small lung cancer, and must have 1 or more of the following characteristics: be female, be of Asian or Pacific Rim descent and/or be a never smoker. The potential participant's tumor will be examined for Epidermal growth factor (EGFR) mutations. EGFR is a protein that is overexpressed in most non-small cell lung cancers. Some EGFR has been found to have specific mutations and the participant must have one of these mutations in his tumor.

Erlotinib blocks this protein and may control tumor growth and increase survival. Previous research has shown that erlotinib is most effective for people who have these specific mutations in the EGFR.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib
2-year Disease-free Survival, The number of participants alive and free from disease recurrence 2 years after enrollment. Participants were monitored for disease recurrence with the use of surveillance radiographs. When possible and medically appropriate, tissue biopsies were obtained to prove recurrence., 2 years
Number of Participants With Treat Related Serious Adverse Events, Adverse events were assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 3.0) from the start of treatment until 30 days after the end of treatment. Serious adverse events were defined as adverse events that were grade 3 or greater and deemed to be possibly, probably or definitely related to the study treatment., From the start of treatment until 30 days after the end of treatment, up 13 months total|Median Overall Survival, The median amount of time from the time of registration until death due to any cause, From the time of registration until death, up to approximately 9 years|Median Disease Free Survival, The median amount of time measured from the time of registration until the time of disease recurrence or death., From registration to disease recurrence or death, up to approximately 9 years
* Erlotinib is a pill taken daily and participants may continue to receive erlotinib for up to two years, as long as the cancer does not return and they do not experience any unacceptable side effects.
* While participants are receiving erlotinib, they will be asked to return to the clinic for study visits to monitor the status of their disease and their general health. For the first 5 months of erlotinib, they will return to the clinic monthly. After that they will return to the clinic every three months.