Social Interventions for Support During Treatment for Endometrial Cancer and Recurrence
The SISTER study is a randomized trial, looking at various modalities of social support for Black patients undergoing treatment for endometrial cancer. There are three study arms: group support, 1:1 peer support, and enhanced usual care. The primary outcome is treatment completion, and the secondary outcome is social isolation.
Endometrial Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Facilitated group support|BEHAVIORAL: 1:1 Peer Support
Treatment completion (relative dose), Relative dose is the ratio of actual-to-expected total dose of treatment received. The calculation of expected total dose will be made from the baseline treatment recommendation data collected at enrollment., 6 months
Patient-reported social isolation (SPS-24), The Social Provisions Scale (SPS) is one of the most frequently used scales on social support, and is validated to measure the components of social support that directly impact health outcomes: attachment, social integration, reassurance of worth, reliable alliance, guidance, and opportunity for nurturance., 6 months
SISTER is a prospective, open randomized controlled trial of U.S. Black/African-American people with high-risk endometrial cancer requiring treatment with chemotherapy, radiation, or immunotherapy. We will compare social support interventions of enhanced usual care, weekly group-based support, and 1:1 peer support to determine the most effective option to improve treatment completion and decrease social isolation.

The SISTER study comparators are based on multiple systematic reviews of peer support literature, input from the multi-stakeholder Steering Group of the Endometrial Cancer Action Network for African Americans (ECANA), two focus groups of Black women with EC, and cancer center leadership at selected enrollment sites. The core function of each comparator is to decrease social isolation for women on active treatment. Of the peer support intervention options available, the SISTER study includes the two that have the most data collected among Black women with cancer, have been most efficacious with regard to social isolation9 and treatment completion, and were enthusiastically supported by ECANA patient partners and focus group data.