Study Of Intrabucally Administered Electromagnetic Fields and Regorafenib
The primary goal of this study is to gather efficacy data concerning the progression-free survival rate with electromagnetic fields plus Regorafenib when compared to historical data with Regorafenib alone as a second-line therapy in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who have received any first line systemic therapy either standard of care Sorafenib or Lenvatinib or any experimental therapy. Patients who have received any treatment that includes either electromagnetic fields or Regorafenib will be excluded.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DEVICE: TheraBionic|DRUG: Regorafenib
Progression-Free Survival, Progression-free survival will be estimated along with estimates of 95% confidence intervals for the treatment group. In addition, we will determine the proportion of patients who are progression free after 12 weeks (after 2nd 6-week visit) and compare this to the proportion of patients that were described as progression free in the RESORCE trial using a Simon's two stage design., 12 weeks
Overall Survival, Kaplan Meier curves for patients survival and also estimate the percent of patients who are alive at 6 months and the corresponding 95% Clopper Pearson exact confidence intervals will be calculated., 6 months|Percentage of Participants with Disease Control, Disease control is defined as the percentage of participants alive and have documented response status of complete response, partial response or stable disease according to the modified RECIST (mRECIST) for hepatocellular carcinoma using a 95% Clopper Pearson exact confidence interval. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameters of target lesions, without evidence of disease progression. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease., At 4 months and at 6 months from the date of enrollment|Incidences of Adverse Events, Type, incidence, severity of adverse events graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Adverse events will be described for each CTL type for this study using counts/percent's., Up to 30 days after treatment ends|Comparison of Adverse Events (WFBCCC 55319 to RESORCE historical trial), Type, incidence, severity of adverse events graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.

Adverse events will be compared for each CTL type for the treatment group (WFBCCC 55319 study) and historical control (from the RESORCE trial), using the Fisher's exact test (two-sided) at level 0.05. These comparisons will be made to compare events of grade greater than or equal to 3 between each group., Up to 30 days after treatment ends|Change in Alpha-fetoprotein Levels, Average alpha-fetoprotein level levels will be examined over time, and these changes in Alfa-fetoprotein rates after 6 months will be examined for each Response category (complete response/ partial response/ stable disease/ progressive disease) and tested using a 1-way ANOVA to see if the change in alpha-fetoprotein level differs by response category., 6 months
Primary Objective: To estimate progression-free survival rates.

Secondary Objectives

* To obtain information concerning the feasibility of administration of the proposed treatment, including patient participation in trials using the proposed treatment.
* To evaluate safety and tolerability in this patient population.
* To evaluate the effect on levels of alpha-fetoprotein.