Evaluation of New or Worsening Lens Opacifications in Men With Non-metastatic Prostate Cancer Receiving Denosumab for Bone Loss
This is a phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate new or worsening lens opacifications in men with non-metastatic prostate cancer receiving denosumab for bone loss due to androgen deprivation therapy.
Cancer|Cataract|Low Bone Mineral Density|Osteopenia|Osteoporosis|Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Denosumab|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo
Percentage of Participants With Lens Opacification Event Development or Progression by Month 12, The Lens Opacities Classification System III (LOCS III) is a slit lamp based opacification grading method. Photographs of slit lamp cross-sections of the lens are used as references for grading nuclear opalescence (NO) and nuclear color (NC), and photographs of the lens seen by retroillumination are used as references for grading cortical (C) and posterior subcapsular (P) cataract. Opacification severity is graded on a decimal scale, scores can range from 0.1 to 6.9 for NO and NC and from 0.1 to 5.9 for C and P. For each opacification type the higher grading scores indicate greater severity. Lens opacification event development or progression by month 12 was based on a change of ≥ 1.0 in P, ≥ 1.0 in C, or ≥ 0.7 in NO in the LOCS III score from baseline., 12 months
Percentage of Participant With Lens Opacification Event Development or Progression by Month 12 Based on a Change of ≥ 1.5 in P, ≥ 1.5 in C, or ≥ 1.5 in NO in the LOCS III Score, The Lens Opacities Classification System III (LOCS III) is a slit lamp based opacification grading method. Photographs of slit lamp cross-sections of the lens are used as references for grading nuclear opalescence (NO) and nuclear color (NC), and photographs of the lens seen by retroillumination are used as references for grading cortical (C) and posterior subcapsular (P) cataract. Opacification severity is graded on a decimal scale, scores can range from 0.1 to 6.9 for NO and NC and from 0.1 to 5.9 for C and P. For each opacification type the higher grading scores indicate greater severity. Lens opacification event development or progression by month 12 was based on a change ≥ 1.5 in P, ≥ 1.5 in C, or ≥ 1.5 in NO in the LOCS III score from baseline., 12 months|Percentage of Participants With Lens Opacification Event Development or Progression by Month 6, The Lens Opacities Classification System III (LOCS III) is a slit lamp based opacification grading method. Photographs of slit lamp cross-sections of the lens are used as references for grading nuclear opalescence (NO) and nuclear color (NC), and photographs of the lens seen by retroillumination are used as references for grading cortical (C) and posterior subcapsular (P) cataract. Opacification severity is graded on a decimal scale, scores can range from 0.1 to 6.9 for NO and NC and from 0.1 to 5.9 for C and P. For each opacification type the higher grading scores indicate greater severity. Lens opacification event development or progression by month 6 was based on a change of ≥ 1.0 in P, ≥ 1.0 in C, or ≥ 0.7 in NO in the LOCS III score from baseline., 6 months|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Lens Opacification Event Development or Progression by Month 12, The Lens Opacities Classification System III (LOCS III) is a slit lamp based opacification grading method. Photographs of slit lamp cross-sections of the lens are used as references for grading nuclear opalescence (NO) and nuclear color (NC), and photographs of the lens seen by retroillumination are used as references for grading cortical (C) and posterior subcapsular (P) cataract. Opacification severity is graded on a decimal scale, scores can range from 0.1 to 6.9 for NO and NC and from 0.1 to 5.9 for C and P. For each opacification type the higher grading scores indicate greater severity.

Lens opacification event development or progression by month 12 was based on a change of ≥ 1.0 in P, ≥ 1.0 in C, or ≥ 0.7 in NO in the LOCS III score from baseline. A confirmed lens opacification event development or progression was defined as 2 directly subsequent events per protocol assessments at the same location (P, C, NO) using LOCS III as above., 12 months|Percentage of Participants With a Decrease From Baseline in Best Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA) of ≥ 10 Letters, The best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) is the best vision one can achieve with correction (such as eye glasses) as measured on an eye chart. BCVA was assessed by a trained ophthalmologist using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) eye chart at 4 meters. The modified University of Crete ETDRS chart was used in Ukraine, Greece, Russia and Bulgaria, which do not use the Roman alphabet. The 2000 series revised ETDRS chart was used to assess the change in all other countries.

The letter score was calculated based on the number of letters that were correctly identified; higher letter scores correspond to better visual acuity., Baseline and Months 3, 6, 9 and 12|Change From Baseline in Refraction Needed to Achieve BCVA, Refraction error was measured using a phoropter. The change from baseline in spherical refraction error needed to achieve BCVA is reported., Baseline and months 3, 6, 9, and 12|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse events (AEs) were assessed for severity by the investigator according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) severity grading scale, version 3.0, where Grade 1 = Mild AE, Grade 2 = Moderate AE, Grade 3 = Severe AE, Grade 4 =Life-threatening AE and Grade 5 = Death due to AE.

Treatment-related AEs (TRAEs) include only events for which the investigator indicated there was a reasonable possibility they may have been caused by the study drug., 12 months
This is a phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate new or worsening lens opacifications in men with non-metastatic prostate cancer receiving denosumab for bone loss due to androgen deprivation therapy.