Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma of the Eye
This phase II trial studies how well vorinostat works in treating patients with melanoma of the eye that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Metastatic Uveal Melanoma|Stage IV Uveal Melanoma AJCC v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Vorinostat
Overall response rate in patients with uveal melanoma, Defined as the rate of complete and partial responses. The response rate along with 90% confidence interval will be estimated., Up to 3 years
Overall survival, Overall survival curves will be generated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., From start of treatment to death or last follow-up will be estimated, assessed up to 3 years|Progression free survival, Progression-free survival curves will be generated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., From start of treatment to date of progression, death or last follow-up will be estimated, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of toxicities, Assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria 4.0. Toxicity will be reported by type, frequency and severity., Up to 3 years
Gnaq mutation status, Associations of each unique mutation status with overall response will be assessed using Fisher's exact test., Up to day 15|GNA11 mutation status, Associations of each unique mutation status with overall response will be assessed using Fisher's exact test., Up to day 15|BAP1 mutation status, Associations of each unique mutation status with overall response will be assessed using Fisher's exact test., Up to day 15
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the overall objective response rate (RR) to vorinostat in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall survival (OS). II. Progression free survival (PFS). III. To determine the tolerability of vorinostat in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate clinical outcome with changes in histone acetylation status by immunohistochemistry.

II. To correlate clinical outcome with changes in known proliferation and apoptotic markers including Ki67 by immunohistochemistry and BIM, survivin, c-myc, Mcl-1, cleaved PARP, gamma-H2AX and RAD51 by western blot.

III. To assess for changes in pathways such as the MAPK pathway with treatment. IV. To describe the evolution of circulating cell-free, tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) levels measured by pyrophosphorolysis activated polymerization (PAP) in plasma of patients under treatment for metastatic uveal melanoma.

V. To correlate overall objective RR with GNAQ, GNA11, SF3B1 and BAP1 mutational status.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 3 days weekly for 4 weeks. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks.