Docetaxel With or Without AZD6244 in Melanoma
This is a randomised, double-blind placebo controlled phase 2 trial. Patient will be randomly assigned 1:1 between 2 treatment arms. They will receive either docetaxel 75mg/m2 IV and placebo given bd, or AZD6244 75mg bd daily with docetaxel 75mg/m2 IV. Docetaxel will be administered every 3 weeks for a maximum 6 cycles, but AZD6244/placebo may be continued beyond this, until disease progression. The objective is to assess whether the combination of AZD6244 with docetaxel is worthy of evaluation in a definitive randomised study, with the null hypothesis being that the combination has activity similar to that of docetaxel alone in this population. After consent has been obtained mutational analysis of tumour BRAF will be performed on archival tumour tissue, where this information is not already known, to assess eligibility for the study. If there is no archival tissue a fresh biopsy will be requested from the patient. A blood sample will also be taken for future genetic analysis. Once taking part in the trial patients will need to attend their oncology unit regularly for monitoring and the delivery of treatment. Patients will undergo complete physical examination at screening, on C1D1, C1D8, C1D15, C2D1, C2D8 and day 1 of every subsequent cycle. Blood for haematology, biochemistry and clotting will be taken at each of these visits. A 12 lead ECG will be performed at screening . Disease assessment will be by CT scanning using modified RECIST criteria after 9 and 18 weeks, then every 3 months until disease progression.
Melanoma
DRUG: Docetaxel and AZD6244|DRUG: Docetaxel and placebo
Progression Free Survival, This is defined as time from date of randomisation to the first of date of progression (using CT scan, x-ray, MRI scan and clinical examination) using modified RECIST (v1.1) criteria or date of death (events). For patients without an event, the time from date of randomisation to date last known alive will be the censored PFS time., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months.
Progression Free Survival Rate at 6 Months, PFS at 6 months is defined as the percentage progression free survival at 6 months from the PFS Kaplan Meier graph. This would allow all patients randomised to be included. progression was diagnosed using CT scan, x-ray, MRI scan and clinical examination using modified RECIST(v1.1) criteria., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months.|Overall Survival, This is defined as the time from randomisation to death (event) or time from randomisation to date last known alive (censored time)., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months.|Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate calculated as number of patients with Complete Response (CR) or Partial response (PR) over all patients randomised. The numerator of the objective response rate is the number of patients achieving a CR or PR. The denominator is all patients randomised. RECIST(v1.1) criteria was used for assessment., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months.|Overall Survival Results - Post Final Analysis, OS analysis was carried out at the final analysis time point on data taken on 01Oct2012. Another data extraction was taken on 05Mar2013 in order to carry out posthoc analyses, OS was analysed again on this data.

OS is time from randomisation to death (event) or time from randomisation to date last known alive (censored time)., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months.|Vital Signs - Temperature, Vital signs - temperature., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Vital Signs - Pulse Rate, Vital signs - pulse rate., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Vital Signs - Systolic Blood Pressure, Vital signs - systolic blood pressure., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Vital Signs - Diastolic Blood Pressure, Vital signs - diastolic blood pressure., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Weight, Weight., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Haematology - Haemoglobin, Haematology - haemoglobin., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Haematology - White Cell Count, Haematology - white cell count., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are median values across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Haematology - Neutrophils, Haematology - neutrophils., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Haematology - Platelets, Haematology - platelets., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Phosphate, Biochemistry - phosphate., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Calcium, Biochemistry - calcium., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Sodium, Biochemistry - sodium., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Potassium, Biochemistry - potassium., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Urea, Biochemistry - urea., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Bilirubin, Biochemistry - bilirubin., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Alkaline Phosphatase, Biochemistry - alkaline phosphatase., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - ALT, Biochemistry - ALT., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - AST, Biochemistry - AST., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Albumin, Biochemistry - albumin., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - GGT, Biochemistry - GGT., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Total Protein, Biochemistry - total protein., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - LDH, Biochemistry - LDH., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Biochemistry - Creatinine, Biochemistry - creatinine., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported value for each arm is median value across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Assessment - General Appearance, Physical assessment - general appearance., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Skin, Physical exam - skin., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Head and Neck, Physical exam - head and neck., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Chest, Physical exam - chest., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Cardiovascular, Physical exam - cardiovascular., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Abdomen, Physical exam - abdomen., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Lymph Nodes, Physical exam - lymph nodes., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Extremities, Physical exam - extremities., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Musculoskeletal, Physical exam - musculoskeletal., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Neurological, Physical exam - neurological., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Physical Exam - Other, Physical exam - other., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|ECG - Pre-dose, ECG - pre-dose., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|ECG - Post-dose, ECG - post-dose., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.|Urinalysis, Urinalysis., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months. Reported values for each arm are total counts across all time-points for all patients in that arm.
Progression Free Survival: Sensitivity Analysis 1, Same as for primary analysis. This is defined as time from date of randomisation to the first of date of progression (using CT scan, x-ray, MRI scan and clinical examination) using modified RECIST v1.1 criteria or date of death (events). For patients without an event, the time from date of randomisation to date last known alive will be the censored PFS time., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months.|Progression Free Survival- Per Protocol Analysis, Same as for primary analysis. This is defined as time from date of randomisation to the first of date of progression (using CT scan, x-ray, MRI scan and clinical examination) using modified RECIST v1.1. criteria or date of death (events). For patients without an event, the time from date of randomisation to date last known alive will be the censored PFS time., From randomisation date to date of PFS event, if they did not have an event by the end of trial datalock (01Oct2012), an average of 9.3 months.
No further information in addition to what has been provided in the brief summary