Decitabine and Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of bortezomib when given together with decitabine in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bortezomib together with decitabine may kill more cancer cells.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: decitabine|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of bortezomib in combination with decitabine, If a patient meets the definition of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the patient may continue on with study therapy provided that the toxicity can be managed according to the dose modification guidelines. For DLT = 2, dose level will stop. This dose level will be declared the MTD administered dose (highest dose administered). As an exploratory, phase I study, no inferential statistical tests of hypotheses are planned. Data collected will be descriptive and provide limited estimates of variability given the small sample sizes at each dose level., During course 1 (28 days)|Specific toxicities, Toxicity will be characterized using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. As an exploratory, phase I study, no inferential statistical tests of hypotheses are planned. Data collected will be descriptive and provide limited estimates of variability given the small sample sizes at each dose level., Up to 30 days post-treatment|DLT of bortezomib in combination with decitabine, Toxicity will be characterized using the National Cancer Institute CTCAE version 3.0. As an exploratory, phase I study, no inferential statistical tests of hypotheses are planned. Data collected will be descriptive and provide limited estimates of variability given the small sample sizes at each dose level., During course 1 (28 days)
Overall response rate, Assessment of clinical response will be made according to International Working Group criteria. The major criteria for judging response will include physical examination and examination of blood and bone marrow., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Rate of complete remission (CR), The major criteria for judging response will include physical examination and examination of blood and bone marrow (morphologic CR and cytogenetic CR), Up to 30 days post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bortezomib (Velcade, PS-341) in combination with decitabine in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) II. To define the specific toxicities and the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of decitabine plus bortezomib combination

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR). II. To determine the rate of complete remission (CR) of decitabine plus bortezomib in AML III. To correlate the biological activity of decitabine as demethylating agent (changes in target gene methylation and gene expression, DNMT1 protein expression, global methylation) with clinical endpoints and plasma pharmacokinetics of decitabine.

IV. To characterize the biological activity of bortezomib as a potential demethylating agent V. To correlate intracellular concentration of decitabine-triphosphate with global DNA methylation and other biological endpoints as well as clinical response.

VI. To explore the biologic role of microRNAs in determining clinical response to the decitabine plus bortezomib combination and achievement of the other pharmacodynamic endpoints.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bortezomib.

Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-5 or 1-10 and bortezomib IV on days 5 and 8 or days 5, 8, 12, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Once the maximum tolerated dose is determined, an additional 6 patients are treated at the recommended phase II dose.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 30 days.