Safety and Anti-Disease Activity of CHR-2797 (Tosedostat) in Elderly and/or Treatment Refractory Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) and Multiple Myeloma (MM)
This is an open-label, non-randomised, multi-centre phase I-II study of CHR-2797 administered orally once a day. The study involves two distinct phases:

* Phase I: an open-label, dose-escalating phase of the study to explore the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of CHR-2797.
* Phase II: the recommended dose level of CHR-2797, as determined in phase I, will be administered to a further cohort of approximately 40 patients to determine whether CHR-2797 has sufficient biological activity against the disease(s) under study.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: CHR-2797 (tosedostat): Aminopeptidase inhibitor
Phase I: To determine the safety, tolerability, dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CHR-2797 when administered orally, once daily., first 28 days of treatment|Phase II: To evaluate the anti-leukaemia/myeloma effect of the recommended dose of single agent CHR-2797., End of study
Phase I and II: To determine trough levels of CHR-2797 when administered orally, once daily, at different dose levels., End of study|Phase II: To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the recommended dose of CHR-2797 when administered orally, once daily., End of study
This is an open-label, non-randomised, multi-centre phase I-II study of CHR-2797 administered orally once a day. The study involves two distinct phases:

Phase I: an open-label, dose-escalating phase of the study to explore the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of CHR-2797. Cohorts of 3-6 patients each will be treated with escalating, once daily, oral doses of CHR-2797 for 84 days (12 weeks), of which the first 28 days constitute the dose finding/ DLT phase. The starting dose will be 60 mg once daily. Doses will be increased in a stepwise fashion by around 40 percent per step until the MTD is reached. The proportion of patients with Multiple Myeloma will be limited to one third: one per cohort of 3 or 2 per cohort of 6. It is anticipated that 24-30 patients will be enrolled in the phase I portion of the trial. A decision will be made with regard to the disease indication to be tested in phase II (either AML/MDS or MM or both), after completion of phase I, or following definition of MTD.

Phase II: the recommended dose as determined in phase I, will be administered for 84 days to a maximum of 40 patients. The primary objective is to determine whether CHR-2797 has sufficient biological activity against the disease(s) under study. A multinomial stopping rule has been included in the design that incorporates objective responses and early progression into a decision to stop or continue this phase I/II trial. An interim assessment will be performed after 15 patients have received the maximum acceptable dose (MAD) dose of CHR-2797 with clearly defined early stopping rules.

There will be a clinical conference at the end of every cohort in the phase I portion of the study, between phase I and II and after the first 15 patients have completed therapy in phase II.