Tolerability of Utidelone Capsule in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of Utidelone Capsule in patients with advanced solid tumors and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). The secondary objectives are to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of Utidelone Capsule in patients with advanced solid tumors, preliminarily assess the anti-tumor activity of Utidelone Capsule in patients with advanced solid tumors via objective radiologic tumor response using RECIST 1.1, and to recommend the dose and dosage regimen for subsequent clinical trials.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: Utidelone Capsule
Maximum Tolerated Dose, MTD, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the highest dose tested in which none or only one patient experienced DLT attributable to the study drug(s), when 6 patients were treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. The MTD is one dose level below the lowest dose tested in which 2 or more patients experienced DLT attributable to the study drug(s)., 12 months|Dose-Limiting Toxicity, DLT, DLT is observed during Cycle 1 in the dose escalation trial. Any toxicity meeting the criteria outlined in the protocol, at least possibly related to study drug (i.e. definitely, probably, or possibly attributed), will be considered a DLT., 12 months
Maximum (or peak) serum concentration-Cmax, Cmax of Utidelone Capsule, 12 months|Time to peak drug concentration-Tmax, Tmax of Utidelone Capsule, 12 months|the area under the concentration-time curve from dosing (time 0) to time t-AUC0-t, the AUC0-t of Utidelone Capsule, 12 months|the time required for plasma concentration of a drug to decrease by 50%-t1/2, the t1/2 of Utidelone Capsule, 12 months|Objective Response Rate-ORR, The percentage of patients who have a partial response or complete response to the treatment within a certain period of time., 12 months|Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D), To recommend the dose and dose regimen for subsequent clinical trials., 12 months
At least 4 dose cohorts are planned, and 16-28 cases are expected.

1. Cohort 1 and 2: 2 cases are planned for each.
2. Other dose-escalation cohorts: 3-6 cases are planned in each cohort, following the 3 + 3 design.