Translation of the International Consensus Definition of LARS Into a Bowl Dysfunction Severity Scoring Tool (New LARS Score)
The purpose of this study is to develop a new severity scoring tool for Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) drawing on the international consensus criteria for LARS as well as opinions of patients with lived-experience of LARS.
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
Development of LARS Severity tool, Qualitative research methods will be used develop the new tool. A patient focus group will be conducted to review the draft questionnaire and refine question and response wordings., 6 months
Gain patient opinion on new scoring tool name, Focus groups will be asked to rank proposed tool names from 'least favoured' to 'most favoured'. This will be considered along with clinical opinion to derive final tool name., 6 months|Commence initial psychometric evaluation of the New LARS score, Participants will be asked to complete the new LARS score tool, along with existing LARS tool to test proposed question set and administration method as well as comparability to existing tool., 6 months
Six out of ten patients have significant bowel problems in the first 12 months after surgery to remove their rectum (last bit of bowel), with as many as 4 out of 10 having longer term issues. This is an operation which is most commonly performed to treat bowel cancer. Bowel problems can include having to rush to the toilet, having accidents or leakage into the underwear or difficulty fully emptying the bowels. This condition is called Low Anterior Resection Syndrome, or 'LARS' for short. The definition of Low Anterior Resection Syndrome was developed in 2020 with patient involvement throughout the process so it accurately captures the real-world experience of LARS. This definition is to be used to create a new scoring system to measure the severity of LARS.

The aim of this study is to transform this new definition into a scoring tool which can be used to assess the severity of Low Anterior Resection Syndrome and investigate how well various treatments work for LARS. It is vital to have patients involved throughout this work to ensure that the new score gives an accurate picture of the severity of these symptoms.