Carboplatin, Nab-Paclitaxel and Pembrolizumab for Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see how effective the combination of the two chemotherapy drugs (carboplatin and nab-paclitaxel) are when added to a third drug, pembrolizumab.

Pembrolizumab is an investigational (experimental) drug that works by reinvigorating the immune system, allowing it to target and destroy cancer cells. Pembrolizumab is experimental because it is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for this type of breast cancer treatment.
Metastatic Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR) in Patients Treated With CNP, The number of people with tumor responses according to RECIST (V1.1). These responses include Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression). Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study, Up to 24 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS) in Patients Treated With CNP, Average time (in months) patient's tumors did not progress according to the RECIST criteria (V1.1). Progressive disease is defined as Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, Up to 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) in Patients Treated With CNP, the percentage of patients with advanced or metastatic cancer who have achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease to a therapeutic intervention. Responses are defined as Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm or Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study, Up to 24 months|Duration of Response in Patients Treated With CNP, Average time patients have a response, as defined by the RECIST criteria (V1.1). Response includes: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm or Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 24 months
Primary Objective - Determine overall response rate (ORR) in patients treated with CNP

Secondary Objective(s)

* Determine progression-free survival (PFS), and disease control rate (DCR) in patients treated with CNP.
* Determine duration of response in patients treated with CNP.
* Determine safety/tolerability of CNP.

Correlative Endpoints

- Identify pathologic and genomic correlates of response to CNP.

Study design including dose escalation / cohorts This is prospective pilot clinical trial of CNP in up to 30 patients with mTNBC