Stroke Volume Variation-guided Fluid Infusion in Major Liver Tumour Resection
Studies have demonstrated that the rate of change in stroke volume variation (SVV) can be used to determine the volume of body fluids during major abdominal surgery. Anaesthesiologists can use SVV as a guide for the appropriate administration of intraoperative fluids to improve postoperative prognoses. Liver surgery is a major abdominal operation, and the amount of blood lost is typically higher than that during other general abdominal surgeries. Blood loss is positively correlated with the intraoperative fluid infusion volume, and greater blood loss is associated with more postoperative complications. Additionally, comorbid liver disease or cirrhosis can increase the complexity of liver tumour resection, causing difficulty in assessing intravascular volume and determining the appropriate intraoperative infusion volume.
Fluid Management
PROCEDURE: SVV-guided fluid management
The incidence of postoperative complications in the two groups., calculate the incidence of postoperative complication within 30 days, From day 1 to day 30 after surgery.
The differences of perioperative ALT, Calculate the difference of the perioperative physiological variables, Examination report on the 1st postoperative day.|The differences of perioperative eGFR, Calculate the difference of the perioperative physiological variables, Examination report on the 1st postoperative day.|The differences of perioperative creatinine, Calculate the difference of the perioperative physiological variables, Examination report on the 1st postoperative day.|The differences of perioperative T.bil, Calculate the difference of the perioperative physiological variables, Examination report on the 1st postoperative day.|The differences of perioperative Hb, Calculate the difference of the perioperative physiological variables, Examination report on the 1st postoperative day.|The differences of perioperative arterial lactate, Calculate the difference of the perioperative physiological variables, Examination report on the 1st postoperative day.|The differences of perioperative albumin, Calculate the difference of the perioperative physiological variables, Examination report on the 1st postoperative day.|The pain scale, Assessment of postoperative pain scale, up to three days postoperatively
Studies have demonstrated that the rate of change in stroke volume variation (SVV) can be used to determine the volume of body fluids during major abdominal surgery. Anaesthesiologists can use SVV as a guide for the appropriate administration of intraoperative fluids to improve postoperative prognoses. Liver surgery is a major abdominal operation, and the amount of blood lost is typically higher than that during other general abdominal surgeries. Blood loss is positively correlated with the intraoperative fluid infusion volume, and greater blood loss is associated with more postoperative complications. Additionally, comorbid liver disease or cirrhosis can increase the complexity of liver tumour resection, causing difficulty in assessing intravascular volume and determining the appropriate intraoperative infusion volume.