Testing the Effects of Low Dose Apalutamide on Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Levels in Men Scheduled for Removal of the Prostate Gland
Apalutamide is an anti-androgen that blocks the effect of testosterone on prostate cancer growth. This phase IIa trial is designed to determine whether very low doses of apalutamide, given for 3 to 4 weeks before prostate surgery to men with prostate cancer confined to the prostate gland, reduces plasma levels of PSA (a biomarker of apalutamide's ability to block testosterone). If low dose apalutamide lowers PSA levels in this setting, further study of this agent in men with localized prostate cancer who wish to delay definitive therapy with surgery or radiation may be warranted.
Localized Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Apalutamide|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Change in prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels, The proportion of participants with \>= 25% decline in PSA levels (from baseline to end-of-intervention) will be reported along with the 97.5% credible interval for the response rate based on the posterior distribution of the response rate derived from a non-informative prior for the response rate, which is consistent with the Bayesian approach., Baseline up to end of treatment
Reversibility of testosterone levels, The post-operative testosterone levels will be compared with the levels at baseline and end-of-intervention within each dose cohort. Paired t test will be performed on the changes in testosterone to evaluate the effects of low dose apalutamide for each dose group. A 95% CI will be reported for each of the two dose groups., Baseline, and at 7-14 days post-intervention (post-operative)|Post-intervention plasma trough apalutamide concentrations, Post-intervention plasma trough apalutamide concentrations will be quantified by a sensitive and specific liquid chromatography mass spectrometry assay. The correlation between plasma trough apalutamide and the change of PSA levels will be assessed. Pearson correlation coefficient will be derived to evaluate the correlation between the plasma trough apalutamide levels and the change of PSA levels. A 95% CI will be reported for each of the two dose groups., Up to 7-14 days after prostate surgery|Health-related quality of life (HRQOL), HRQOL will be assessed by a validated questionnaire (Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite for Clinical Practice \[EPIC-CP\]) to allow for efficient and accurate measurement of urinary incontinence, urinary irritation, bowel, sexual, and hormonal HRQOL in prostate cancer patients. Changes (from baseline to end-of-intervention) in the overall score and subscore for each measure will be assessed for each dose group. Changes in EPIC-CP (from baseline to end-of-intervention) in the overall score and sub-score for each measure will be derived and paired t test will be performed to evaluate the change for each dose group. A 95% CI will be reported for each of the two dose groups., Baseline, until end of intervention
Gleason score of pre- and post-intervention tumor(s) with matched location, Changes (from most recent biopsy to prostatectomy) in the Gleason score of pre- and post-intervention tumor(s) with matched location will be assessed for each dose group. Linear mixed effects model with a random intercept accounting within-subject dependence will be performed to compare the change in Gleason score of pre- and post-intervention tumor(s) with matched location since a participant can have more than one tumor. A 95% CI will be reported for each of the two dose groups., Up to 7-14 days after prostate surgery|Intra-prostatic immune cell infiltration, CD8+, CD4+, and CD56+ positive cells in the prostate tissues will be assessed by immunohistochemistry. Changes (from most recent biopsy to prostatectomy) in these immune cells will be assessed for each dose group. Changes in immune cell infiltration will also be assessed in a subgroup of participants where materials are available from pre- and post-intervention tumor(s) with matched location. Changes (from most recent biopsy to prostatectomy) in these immune cells will be assessed for each dose group by paired t test. A 95% CI will be reported for each of the two dose groups., Up to 7-14 days after prostate surgery|Effects of tobacco/alcohol use, Will be assessed by examining the associations between tobacco and alcohol consumption and the effects of apalutamide on the study endpoints., Baseline, every 7-10 during study, within 3 days prior to surgery, and 7-14 days after surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the effects of low dose apalutamide on circulating levels of prostate specific antigen (PSA).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of low dose apalutamide on:

Ia. Reversibility of testosterone levels 7-14 days post intervention; Ib. Post-intervention plasma trough apalutamide concentration; Ic. Health-related quality of life.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the effects of apalutamide on intra-prostatic immune cell infiltration and Gleason score and the effects of tobacco/alcohol use on the study endpoints.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive apalutamide orally (PO) on study. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples throughout the study.

After completion of the trial intervention, patients are followed up at 7-10 days, 60 days, and 3 months post-prostatectomy.