Acupuncture for Unintentional Weight Loss and Anorexia With GI Cancer
Patients with cancer often experience appetite loss and weight loss unintentionally. Rapid weight loss negatively impact on physical functioning, quality of life, and overall survival. Patients will be randomly assigned into two groups. An intervention with acupuncture may slow down or stop the progression of cancer-related anorexia and weight loss.
Malignant Neoplasm of Gastrointestinal Tract
DEVICE: Cachexia Acupuncture-A (Peace Classic Needles® )|DEVICE: General Acupuncture-B (Peace Classic Needles®)
Percentage weight change over 8 weeks between two arms, Weight will be measured each visit (pounds)., up to 8 weeks
Appetite change between two arms, Three different short survey forms will be used to measure appetite change. Visual analogue scale (0 indicates no appetite and 10 is the best appetite). Simplified Nutritional Appetite Questionnaire score (min-max: 4-20 and the higher the better appetite) Patient Generated Subjective Global Assessment: 0-1, no intervention is needed. 9 or higher score indicates critical intervention., up to 8 weeks|physical functioning, survey form (min-max: 0-100, increment by 10%- 100% indicates full functioning)., up to 8 weeks|body composition, Small, non-invasive device (bioelectrical impedance analysis) like a miniature version of EKG will measure changes in body composition (numeric scale)., up to 8 weeks
Quality of life between two arms, Survey format includes the 27 items (5 points scale: 0 means 'not at all' and 4 means 'very much") ., up to 8 weeks|biomarkers, Small amounts of blood will be drawn., weeks 1, 4 and 8 (three measurements)|symptom experience, Survey format: 13 areas related to the symptom experience and patient's concerns will be assessed (4 points scale; 0 means 'not at all' and 3 means 'very much')., up to 8 weeks
The purpose of this research study is to investigate if acupuncture helps to improve appetite and slow down unintentional weight loss. The participants will be randomly divided into two groups and receive 8 sessions of acupuncture (two groups will receive different acupuncture points) for 8 weeks. During the study period, participants will be asked various questions about appetite, physical functioning, cancer-related symptoms and quality of life to understand changes related to body weight, as well as blood samples. The research team members will collect data regarding changes in appetite, body weight, body composition, and physical functioning.