Effect of Qigong Therapy in Patients With Advanced Lung and Gastrointestinal Cancer Undergoing Chemotherapy
Cancer patients face a number of symptoms related to treatment or disease which may impair quality of life, such as decreased functional capacity, fatigue, nausea an vomiting, distress, depression and unmet psychological needs. Due to this array of symptoms, cancer patients often seek supportive complementary and alternative medicine, which many patients use along with conventional treatments. Qigong, a type traditional chinese medicine, is a mind-body exercise that combines meditation, slow physical movements, and controlled breathing. The investigators hypothesise that Qigong therapy is better in the reduction of anxiety and depression levels and the improvement of quality of life in patients with lung and gastrointestinal (GI) cancer who are eligible for anti-cancer treatment, when compared to standard exercise training.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Cancer of the Gastrointestinal Tract
BEHAVIORAL: Standard Exercise|BEHAVIORAL: Qigong Exercise
Change in Depression and Anxiety, Depression and anxiety will be measured using the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS); The HADS is a 14-item self-rated questionnaire, consisting of two 7-item subscales. It was developed to identify anxiety and depression in non-psychiatric medical outpatients. Each item on the HADS is scored from 0 (no problem) to 3 (maximum distress). The HADS will be administered within 2 weeks of completing each exercise program., 6 weeks|Change in Quality of Life (QoL), The general version of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy scale (FACT-G) will be used to measure Quality of Life (QoL) after completion of each 6 week exercise program. This questionnaire consists of 4 subscales: Physical well-being (PWB), Social well-being (SWB), Emotional well-being (EWB) and Functional well-being (FWB). A change of 4 points on the total FACT score is regarded as clinically significant., 6 weeks
Change in functional capacity, Functional capcity will be measured using the Simmonds Functional Assessment (SFA) within 2 weeks of finishing each 6-week exercise program. This tool consists of eight items: putting on a sock, tying a belt, putting coins in a cup, reaching forward, repeated reach up (3 times), repeated sit to stand (2 times), speed walk for 50 feet, and walking for 6 minutes. Patient satisfaction will be measured by asking all participants to answer a two item questionnaire with a 10-point visual analog scale response option., 6 weeks|Change in cancer Symptoms, Symptoms commonly reported by lung and GI cancer patients will be measured using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS). The ESAS is a 12-item patient rated symptom questionnaire scored using a 10-point visual analogue scale. The ESAS will be administered within 2 weeks of completing each 6-week exercise program., 6 weeks|Program Satisfaction, Patient satisfaction will be measured by asking all participants to answer a two-item questionnaire after they have completed each 6-week exercise program., 6 weeks
As per summary above