Testing an Active Form of Tamoxifen (4-hydroxytamoxifen) Delivered Through Breast Skin to Control Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS) of the Breast
This randomized phase IIB trial studies how well tamoxifen or afimoxifene works in treating patients with estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using tamoxifen citrate or afimoxifene may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells.
Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Estrogen Receptor Positive
DRUG: Afimoxifene|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Placebo|DRUG: Tamoxifen Citrate
Change in Ki-67 Labeling Index, Change in the Ki-67 labelling index of DCIS lesions evaluated using immunohistochemistry, baseline to up to 10 weeks
Change in Oncotype DCIS-Score, Change in Exact Sciences Oncotype Diagnosis Breast Ductal Carcinoma in Situ Score (Oncotype DCIS-Score), a clinical validated clinically validated, commercially available genomic test for patients with DCIS. Oncotype DCIS-Score Range is 0-100. A negative change in scores indicates a lower risk of recurrence (better outcome)., baseline to up to 10 weeks|Post-therapy Breast Tissue Levels of Tamoxifen and Its Metabolites, Post-therapy concentrations of 4-OHT and endoxifen in breast tissue samples, up to 10 weeks|Post-therapy Plasma Levels of Tamoxifen and Its Metabolites, Post-therapy concentrations of 4-OHT and endoxifen in plasma samples, up to 10 weeks|Ki-67 Labelling Index in the Terminal Duct Lobular Units (TDLUs), Mean change in Ki-67 labelling index in the terminal duct lobular units (TDLUs), baseline to up to 10 weeks|Change in Plasma Proteins Involved in Coagulation, Mean change in percentage of plasma proteins involved in coagulation: Factor VIII, Factor IX, von Willebrand Factor, and total protein S, baseline to up to 10 weeks|Change in Plasma Markers of Systemic Estrogenic Effect (SHBG), Mean change in plasma markers of systemic estrogenic effect: SHBG., baseline to up to 10 weeks|Change in Plasma Markers of Systemic Estrogenic Effect (IGF-1), Mean change in plasma markers of systemic estrogenic effect: IGF-1, baseline to up to 10 weeks|Change in Symptoms as Captured in the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) Eight Symptom Scale (BESS) Questionnaire and Skin Reactions to 4-OHT Gel., Mean change in symptoms as captured using the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) Eight Symptom Scale (BESS) questionnaire. A patient reported outcome, scores range from 0 (Not at All) to 4 (Extremely) when asked about experiencing symptoms. A positive change in scores indicates an increase in symptoms experienced and a negative change in scores indicates a decrease in symptoms experienced, baseline to up to 10 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate that 2 mg once daily per breast of 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT) topical gel results in a reduction in the Ki-67 labeling index of ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS) lesions that is not inferior to that seen with 20 mg daily oral tamoxifen citrate (TAM) for 4-10 weeks, when comparing the base-line diagnostic core biopsy to the therapeutic surgical excision sample.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare post-therapy changes in the oncotype DCIS-score between arms (this is a validated reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction \[RT-PCR\] assay for Ki67, STK15, survivin, cyclin B1, MYBL2, PR, GSTM1).

II. To compare between-group post-therapy changes in immunohistochemistry (IHC) markers: CD-68 macrophage marker as a surrogate for response to therapy, p16 and COX-2.

III. To compare post-therapy changes in breast density, quantitative estimate, between arms.

IV. To compare post-therapy breast tissue and plasma levels of TAM and its metabolites (N-desmethyl tamoxifen \[NDT\], \[E\] and \[Z\] isomers of 4-hydroxytamoxifen \[4-OHT\], N-desmethyl-4-hydroxytamoxifen \[endoxifen\]).

V. To compare post-therapy breast tissue and plasma levels of estradiol and progesterone between arms (optional).

VI. To compare the post-therapy fraction of participants demonstrating "no residual DCIS".

VII. To compare post-therapy changes in plasma proteins involved in coagulation: factors VIII and IX, von Willebrand factor, total protein S between arms.

VIII. To compare post-therapy changes in plasma markers of systemic estrogenic effect (IGF-1, SHBG).

IX. To compare post-therapy changes in symptoms as captured in the breast cancer prevention trial (BCPT) Eight Symptom Scale (BESS) questionnaire and skin reactions to 4-OHT gel.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients apply afimoxifene gel to both breasts and receive placebo orally (PO) daily for 4-10 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

ARM II: Patients apply placebo gel to both breasts and receive tamoxifen citrate orally PO daily for 4-10 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1-2 weeks and 1 month after surgery.