T-regulatory Cell Depletion with E7777 Combined with Pembrolizumab in Recurrent or Metastatic Solid Tumors
Epithelial ovarian cancer (OC) is the most lethal gynecologic cancer: nearly 22,000 women are diagnosed with OC in the US annually and 63% are expected to die from their disease. The 5-year overall survival rate is unacceptably low at 20-30%, with \> 50% of patients experiencing recurrence of their disease. Recurrent, platinum-resistant OC is characterized by a low response to chemotherapy (\<10-15%) and poor prognosis, with overall survival estimated to be \<12 months. Thus, there is an urgent need to identify novel therapies to improve outcomes for patients with recurrent, platinum resistant OC. The primary focus in this trial is targeting tumor associated immunosuppressive T-regs with E7777 combined with PD-1 inhibitor, pembrolizumab. This trial will enroll patients with solid tumors in the dose escalation portion and specified cohorts in the dose expansion portion. In the Phase I portion, 18-30 patients will be enrolled. In the dose expansion portion, approximately 40 patients (20 in each cohort) will be enrolled. Given the relatively poor prognosis and limited treatment options for these patients, this population is considered appropriate for trials of novel therapeutic candidates.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: E7777
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) related to E7777 with the immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI), pembrolizumab. DLT per CTCAE v5.0 will be assessed to determine the RP2D of the treatment combination. Up to twenty patients will be evaluated for DLTs during each dose levels for first 2 cycles (42 days). The transition to next dose level will be determined and planned based on the review of the data on the prior dose level. Safety will be assessed by DLTs, as well as the frequency and severity of immune and non-immune mediated adverse events. or a treatment-related toxicity of any grade requiring dose delay of 3 weeks or more between the first and second cycles, Up to 12 months (cohort)|Change in T-regulatory cells in tumor, Change in levels of T-regulatory cells within the immune microenvironment of tumors., Up to 5 years|Change in CD8+ T cells in tumor, Change in levels of CD8+ T cells within the immune microenvironment of tumors., Up to 5 years|Change in myeloid cells in tumor, Change in levels of myeloid cells within the immune microenvironment of tumors., Up to 5 years|Change in T-regulatory cells - peripheral blood, Change in T-regulatory cells within the immune microenvironment of peripheral blood., Up to 5 years|Change in CD8+ T cells - peripheral blood, Change in levels of CD8+ T cells within the immune microenvironment of peripheral blood., Up to 5 years|Change in myeloid cells in peripheral blood, Change in levels of myeloid cells within the immune microenvironment of peripheral blood., Up to 5 years
Objective Response, Objective Response will be expressed as the proportion of patients with Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR). Per RECIST v1.1, Complete Response (CR) is defined as disappearance of all target lesions; disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Partial Response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is the (estimated) median length of time measured from the initial date of treatment to the date of documented progression, or the date of death (in the absence of progression),whichever occurs first, with progression defined by RECIST v 1.1. Progressive disease(PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), The (estimated) median length of time from the start of treatment that patients remain alive, until death from any cause., Up to 5 years
Immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) has emerged as a promising option in several solid tumors, given its durable response and low toxicities. However, the durable benefit of ICI as monotherapy is limited to certain cancers like melanoma, or cancer with a deficient mismatch repair system. However, in the majority of cancers the response rate is lower. For example, the response rate to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) monotherapy in recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer (PROC) has been underwhelming, with a range of 8-15%.

E7777 or denileukin diftitox is a recombinant cytotoxic fusion protein composed of the amino acid sequences for diphtheria toxin fragments A and B (Met1-Thr387)-His and for human interleukin-2 (Ala1-Thr133). Denileukin diftitox has been marketed in the US as ONTAK® (Eisai code name E7272) since 1999 and is indicated for the treatment of patients with persistent or recurrent cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) whose malignant cells express the CD25 component of the IL-2 receptor.

This open label study will investigate the safety and efficacy of a combined regimen of pembrolizumab with T-regulatory cell depletion and E7777 in patients diagnosed with recurrent or metastatic solid tumors in the second line setting. This study will have 2 stages: dose escalation and dose expansion. In the dose escalation, any solid tumor where pembrolizumab is approved for or felt as an appropriate therapy by treating physician based on prior trials with encouraging activities including (but not limited to): renal cell carcinoma, melanoma, ovarian cancer, MSI-H cancer, endometrial cancer (EC), and non-small cell lung cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, cervical cancer, urothelial cancer. The expansion cohort will include ovarian cancer and MSI-H cancer cohort. More cohorts can be considered later.

The TITE-CRM method of dose assignment will be used, which will improve the quality of the assessment of potential toxicities better than the 3+3 method, and will facilitate the evaluation of efficacy. Participants will be treated until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities and/or dose limiting toxicities. E7777 will be given for 8 cycles and Pembrolizumab will be continued after that.