RC48 Combined with Toripalimab As Neoadjuvant Therapy for Cisplatin Ineligible MIBC Patients
A single-arm, prospective, exploratory clinical trial to explore the pathological complete response (pCR) rate of immune checkpoint inhibitors combined with antibody conjugate drugs as the perioperative treatment of platinum-intolerant bladder cancer patients. Fifty-five patients with clinically or pathologically confirmed muscle-invasive bladder urothelial carcinoma (MIBC) who were ineligible for cisplatin-based chemotherapy or refused cisplatin-based chemotherapy were enrolled. Each subject will receive RC48-ADC and toripalimab intravenously every 2 weeks for a total of 4 cycles before surgery, 8 cycles after surgery. The efficacy was evaluated and followed up after 4 cycles of neoadjuvant therapy, 3 months postoperative, and every 3-6 months thereafter. The primary endpoint of this study was pathological complete response rate (pCR). The secondary endpoints were to explore the safety, disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS), objective response rate (ORR) and disease control rate (DCR) of RC48 combined with toripalimab neoadjuvant therapy followed by radical cystectomy.
Bladder Cancer|Muscle-Invasive Bladder Carcinoma
DRUG: DisitamabVedotinForIicction Toripalimab
PcR, The resected primary tumor specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes (ypT0N0) had no viable tumor cells., 2months
This study was a single-arm, prospective, exploratory clinical trial to explore the pathological complete response (pCR) rate of immune checkpoint inhibitors combined with antibody conjugate drugs as the perioperative treatment of platinum-intolerant bladder cancer patients. Fifty-five patients with clinically or pathologically confirmed muscle-invasive bladder urothelial carcinoma (MIBC) who were ineligible for cisplatin-based chemotherapy or refused cisplatin-based chemotherapy were enrolled. Each subject will receive RC48-ADC 2.0mg/kg and toripalimab 3.0mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks for a total of 4 cycles before surgery. RC48-ADC 2.0mg/kg and toripalimab 3.0mg/kg were intravenously infused every 2 weeks for 8 cycles after surgery. The efficacy was evaluated and followed up after 4 cycles of neoadjuvant therapy, 3 months postoperative, and every 3-6 months thereafter. The primary endpoint of this study was pathological complete response rate (pCR). The secondary endpoints were to explore the safety, disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS), objective response rate (ORR) and disease control rate (DCR) of RC48 combined with toripalimab neoadjuvant therapy followed by radical cystectomy. In the process of research, plasma and tumor tissues need to be obtained for proteomics and genomics analysis to explore the relationship between potential predictive biomarkers and efficacy.