Safety and Efficacy of Combination Listeria/GVAX Immunotherapy in Pancreatic Cancer
Test the safety, immune response and efficacy of GVAX pancreas vaccine (with cyclophosphamide) and CRS-207 compared to GVAX pancreas vaccine (with cyclophosphamide) alone in adults who have failed or refused prior treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: GVAX Pancreas|BIOLOGICAL: CRS-207|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Overall Survival (OS) in Subjects Receiving Test Treatments (FAS), For all treated subjects, OS was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death or censoring, and was estimated using Kaplan-Meier (KM) methods with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Subjects without documentation of death at the time of the final analysis were censored using the date the subject was last known to be alive. Per the study protocol, following an Interim Analysis (IA), subjects in the Cy/GVAX arm were offered rollover to Cy/GVAX + CRS-207 arm. 3 subjects rolled over to the Cy/GVAX + CRS-207 arm (rollover subjects). These rollover subjects were censored at the day prior to the first rollover treatment dose date, and were included for analysis in the Cy/GVAX arm. Additionally, 2 subjects originally treated per the Cy/GVAX + CRS-207 arm discontinued treatment and entered follow-up, but following IA were re-treated per the Cy/GVAX + CRS-207 arm regimen. Data from these "re-treated subjects" were included in the Cy/GVAX + CRS-207 arm analysis., Subjects were followed from the date of randomization to the date of death or discontinuation, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.
To Assess Safety of the Cyclophosphamide, GVAX Pancreas Vaccine, and CRS-207 Treatment Regimen, Safety was assessed based upon the number of adverse events (AEs) that occurred in the FAS of each treatment arm, including serious AEs and total AEs. Total AEs included both serious and non-serious AEs. AEs reported for the Cy/GVAX + CRS-207 arm (FAS) include the 61 treated subjects initially assigned to this arm plus AEs occurring on/after the first rollover dose date for the 3 Cy/GVAX rollover subjects. AEs reported for the Cy/GVAX arm (FAS) include treated subjects initially assigned to this arm but exclude AEs for rollover subjects occurring on/after the first rollover dose date., Starting with administration of first investigational drug product through 28 days after final study treatment, assessed up to 60 months from the date of randomization.
Test the safety, immune response and efficacy of GVAX pancreas vaccine (with cyclophosphamide) and CRS-207 compared to GVAX pancreas vaccine (with cyclophosphamide) alone in adults who have failed or refused prior treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer.