Parent and Infant Inter(X)Action Intervention (PIXI)
The objective is to develop and test, through an iterative process, an intervention to address and support the development of infants with a confirmed diagnosis of a neurogenetic disorder with associated developmental delays or intellectual and developmental disabilities. The proposed project will capitalize and expand upon existing empirically based interventions designed to improve outcomes for infants with suspected developmental delays.

Participants will be infants with a confirmed diagnosis of a neurogenetic disorder (e.g., fragile X, Angelman, Prader-Willi, Dup15q, Phelan-McDermid, Rhett, Smith Magenis, Williams, Turner, Kleinfelter, Down syndromes, Duchenne muscular dystrophy) within the first year of life and their parents/caregivers.

The intervention, called the Parent and Infant Inter(X)action Intervention (PIXI) is a comprehensive program inclusive of parent education about early infant development and the neurogenetic disorder for which they were diagnosed, direct parent coaching around parent-child interaction, and family/parent well-being support. The protocol includes repeated comprehensive assessments of family and child functioning, along with an examination of feasibility and acceptability of the program.
Fragile X Syndrome|Angelman Syndrome|Prader-Willi Syndrome|Dup15Q Syndrome|Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy|Phelan-McDermid Syndrome|Rett Syndrome|Smith Magenis Syndrome|Williams Syndrome|Turner Syndrome|Klinefelter Syndrome|Chromosome 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome|Tuberous Sclerosis|Down Syndrome
BEHAVIORAL: Parent-Infant Inter(X)action Intervention (PIXI)
Social Validity and Acceptability, A social validity measure will be completed to better understand to inquire about family satisfaction with aspects of the intervention including curriculum, timing, goals targeted, and perceived effects of the intervention., Completion of Phase 1 (approximately six months of age)|Social Validity and Acceptability, A social validity measure will be completed to better understand to inquire about family satisfaction with aspects of the intervention including curriculum, timing, goals targeted, and perceived effects of the intervention. Qualitative interviewing will be also be conducted to examine parent perceptions of feasibility and acceptability., Completion of Phase 2 (approximately twelve months of age)|Fidelity, Overall intervention fidelity will be measured by determining if the following goals were achieved:

Enrollment target of 10-15 families 80% retention rate with at least 75% completing the 20 sessions across Phase 1 and Phase 2, Completion of Phase 1 (approximately six months of age)|Fidelity, Overall intervention fidelity will be measured by determining if the following goals were achieved:

Enrollment target of 10-15 families 80% retention rate with at least 75% completing the 20 sessions across Phase 1 and Phase 2, Completion of Phase 2 (approximately twelve months of age)
Parent Implementation and Engagement, Internal parent implementation and engagement forms will be used to measure parent participation across both intervention phases. These components include parent readiness for the session, attention to materials, participation in topic discussion, appropriateness of intervention activity practice, and general presentation with their child., Across phase 1 and phase 2 engagement (approximately ages 6-months through 1-year of age)|Early Developmental Outcomes, Descriptive statistics around early learning, motor, communication skills, interpersonal, and adaptive skills in the sample will be derived from the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales, Third Edition: Parent/Caregiver Report (Vineland-3). Subdomain v-Scaled scores range from 1-24 with higher numbers indicating greater performance; while domain scores are presented in standard score formats with a range of 20-140 with higher scores indicating greater performance., Completion of Phase 1 (approximately 6-months of age) and completion of follow-up (approximately 36-months of age)|Autism Symptoms, A combination of measures will be used across study engagement to assess parent reported autism symptomology. These measures include the Communication and Symbolic Behavior Scale (CSBS). The parent report developmental profile is a standardized measure is completed to evaluate language and social communication predictors. A total of 57 points are available with age corresponding cutoff scores for clinical concern., Completion of Phase 1 (approximately 6-months of age) and completion of follow-up (approximately 36-months of age)|Autism Symptoms, A combination of measures will be used across study engagement to assess parent reported autism symptomology. These measures include the Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers (MCHAT). The Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers is a scientifically validated tool for screening children between 16 and 30 months of age that assesses risk for autism spectrum disorder (ASD).Scores range from 0-20 with corresponding ranges for cutoff scores warranting further follow-up., Completion of Phase 1 (approximately 6-months of age) and completion of follow-up (approximately 36-months of age)|Autism Symptoms, A combination of measures will be used across study engagement to assess parent reported autism symptomology. These measures include the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule, Second Edition (ADOS-2). The ADOS-2 is a semi-structured, standardized assessment of communication, social interaction, play, and restricted and repetitive behaviors. It is directly administered to the participant and behaviors are scored. Total scores range based on age of participant/module administered. Scores are calculated and compared against cutoff scores for autism spectrum and autism., Completion of Phase 1 (approximately 6-months of age) and completion of follow-up (approximately 36-months of age)|Autism Symptoms, A combination of measures will be used across study engagement to assess parent reported autism symptomology. These measures include the TELE-ASD-PEDS. The TELE-ASD-PEDS was developed by researchers at Vanderbilt University to assess remotely autism symptomology. The TELE-ASD-PEDS measures communication, social interaction, play, and restricted and repetitive behaviors. It is administered via telehealth and behaviors are scored. Total scores range based on age of participant/module administered. Scores are calculated and compared against cutoff scores for autism spectrum and autism., Completion of Phase 1 (approximately 6-months of age) and completion of follow-up (approximately 36-months of age)|Autism Symptoms, A combination of measures will be used across study engagement to assess parent reported autism symptomology. These measures include the Repetitive Behavior Scales (RBS). The RBS-EC is a questionnaire measure of restricted and repetitive behaviors designed for use in children from infancy through early school age. It is intended to capture individual differences across a broad range of behaviors associated with the repetitive behavior domain. Total scores range from 0-136 with a higher score indicating greater need/presence of behaviors., Completion of Phase 1 (approximately 6-months of age) and completion of follow-up (approximately 36-months of age)
The primary goal of the proposed project is to develop and test, through an iterative process, an intervention to address and support the development of infants with a rare neurogenetic condition (e.g., fragile X, Angelman, Prader-Willi, Dup15q, Phelan-McDermid, Rhett, Smith Magenis, Williams, Turner, Kleinfelter, Down syndromes, Duchenne muscular dystrophy) identified prior to emergence of symptoms. PiXI aims to utilize the foundational knowledge available around the development of and early intervention for at-risk infants to both understand the needs of and provide intervention services for families of infants diagnosed pre-symptomatically with rare neurogenetic disorders.

The investigators aim to 1) develop PIXI with a pilot sample of families, 2) test the preliminary effects of PIXI on infant and parent outcomes