Patient Care Needs and the Decision-Making Experience of Patients With Cancer and Family Caregivers Regarding Immunotherapy: A Qualitative and Quantitative Mixed Methods Study
Immunotherapy is currently a crucial cancer treatment option. Despite the development of new cancer treatment, patients and their family caregivers still experience complex psychological feelings and challenges about the effectiveness of immunotherapy, financial burden, and treatment related side effects which reflect the problems related to decision-making and the supportive care needs.
Supportive Care Needs|Immunotherapy
Supportive Care Needs Survey, Patients' and family caregivers' supportive care needs will be measured by Supportive Care Needs Survey(SCNS) .It is a 5-Point Likert Scale,higher scores mean more care needs., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.
Physical and Psychological Symptoms Scale, Patients' and family caregivers' physical and psychological symptoms will be measured by Physical and Psychological Symptom Scale.It use Numerical Rating Scale(VRS)0-10.It is a 11 Point Likert Scale(e. g. 0 is no pain; 10 is unbearable pain) ., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|CollaboRATE scale and SURE scale, Patients' and family caregivers' decision making process and conflict will be measured by CollaboRATE scale and SURE scale. CollaboRATE scale is a 10-Point Likert Scale (0-9), higher the score, the more effort you pay on this issues. SURE scale which base on Decisional Conflict Scale are 4 items,The question you agree that you can answer "YES" and got 1 point,if you not fit the description you have to answer "NO" and got 0 points,The lower the total score, the greater the decision conflict., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity-Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (COST-FACIT), Patients' financial toxicity will be measured by COST-FACIT. It is a 5-Point Likert Scale (0-4),The higher the score for each question, the more often the problem occurs., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, Patients' immunotherapy side effects will be measured by CTCAE.The severity is divided into 5 grades, the higher the grade, the higher the severity., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.
Immunotherapy is currently a crucial cancer treatment option. Despite the development of new cancer treatment, patients and their family caregivers still experience complex psychological feelings and challenges about the effectiveness of immunotherapy, financial burden, and treatment related side effects which reflect the problems related to decision-making and the supportive care needs.