Safety Study of BMX-001 (Radio-protector) in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Anal Cancer
Over 80% of anal cancers are squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Current standard treatment for locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal is a combination of radiation therapy (RT) and concurrent chemotherapy. This allows for organ preservation in approximately 75% of patients. The use of concurrent radiation and chemotherapy with infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and mitomycin results in locoregional relapse rates of 20-32 and 5-year overall survival rates of 58-78%. However, while mitomycin significantly increases the rate of grade 4 toxicities, it improves local outcomes and has been considered a necessary agent in the care of anal cancer. Oxidative stress induced by radiotherapy and chemotherapy tends to protect tumor cells and promote normal tissue damage. A recently developed compound, BMX-001 (MnTnBuOE-2- PyP5+), is among the most highly potent metalloporphyrin compounds which reduce oxidative stress, thereby protecting normal tissues and augmenting tumor killing.

In this Phase 1/2 study, the investigators will conduct a safety and efficacy study of the combination of BMX-001 with standard radiation therapy and concurrent (5FU)/mitomycin in newly diagnosed Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (ASCC) patients. The primary Phase 1 objective is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BMX-001 in ASCC patients receiving RT and concurrent 5FU/mitomycin chemotherapy. Three participants will be treated at Dose Level 1 and three at Dose Level 2, then three at Dose Level 3. Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) experienced by any participant will be used to determine the MTD. The Phase II objective is to examine the impact of BMX-001 on the overall acute ≥ grade 3 toxicity rate of the normal tissue including rectum, bladder, and skin in combination with RT and concurrent 5FU/mitomycin in treatment of newly diagnosed ASCC patients. These will be determined by participant reports, biological materials (blood, tissue, urine) sampling and imaging. Participant health-related quality of life will be assessed by two questionnaires.
Anal Cancer, Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Radiation Exposure
DRUG: BMX-001
Maximum Tolerated Dose of BMX-001, Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BMX-001 will be determined by the highest dose level at which at least 1 out of 6 participants experienced a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT)., Within first year of the study|Count of Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events and Dose Limiting Toxicities, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for adverse events (AE), serious adverse events (SAE) and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy
Impact of Study Treatment on Acute Rectal Bleeding, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for rectal bleeding will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Impact of Study Treatment on Acute Rectal Pain, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for rectal pain will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Impact of Study Treatment on Bowel Movements, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for diarrhea will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Impact of Study Treatment on Acute Dysuria, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for dysuria will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Impact of Study Treatment on Acute Hematuria, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for hematuria will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Impact of Study Treatment on Acute Urinary Frequency, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for urinary frequency will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Impact of Study Treatment on Acute Perianal Grade 3 Radiation Dermatitis, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for acute perianal grade 3 radiation dermatitis will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Impact of Study Treatment on Late Rectal Bleeding, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for late rectal bleeding per will be recorded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Impact of Study Treatment on Rectal Fibrosis, Acute grade 3 of normal tissue for rectal fibrosis will be evaluated by endoscopy., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Local Control Survival, To assess local recurrence rate survival Progression-Free Survival (PFS)., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) rate will be determined., 10 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Locoreginal Progression-free Survival, Locoreginal progression-free survival rate survival (PFS) will determined., 10 months post-radiation therapy
Effect of Study Treatment on Urine Levels of 4-hydroxynonenal, 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) will be measured in urine., 4 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Plasma Levels of 4-hydroxynonenal, 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) will be measured in plasma., 4 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Serum Level of 8-OHdG, 8-OHdG will be measured in serum., 4 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Blood Cells Level of 8-OHdG, 8-OHdG will be measure in blood cells., 4 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Urine Level of 8-OHdG, 8-OHdG will be measured in urine., 4 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Urine Levels of Malondialdehyde, Malondialdehyde (MDA) will be measured in urine., 4 months post-radiation therapy|Effect of Study Treatment on Plasma Levels of Malondialdehyde, Malondialdehyde (MDA) will be measured in plasma., 4 months post-radiation therapy|Single-dose and Repeated-dose Pharmacokinetic Profiles of BMX-001, Serum drug concentration of BMX-001 will be measured after single-dose and repeated-dose BMX-001 delivery., Up to 36 days of the chemoradiation phase|Effect of Study Treatment on Participant-reported Outcomes of Health-related Quality of Life, Participant-reported outcomes will be evaluated with the EORTC QLQ-CR29 questionnaire. This instrument consists of five functional scales, four subscales and 19 single items related to various colorectal cancer-related symptoms and functional problems. Scores can be linearly transformed to a range from 0 to 100, where higher scores generally indicate better functioning or a higher level of symptoms., 10 months post-radiation therapy
Over 80% of anal cancers are squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Current standard treatment for locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal is a combination of radiation therapy (RT) and concurrent chemotherapy. This allows for organ preservation in approximately 75% of patients. The use of concurrent radiation and chemotherapy with infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and mitomycin results in locoregional relapse rates of 20-32 and 5-year overall survival rates of 58-78%. However, while mitomycin significantly increases the rate of grade 4 toxicities, it improves local outcomes and has been considered a necessary agent in the care of anal cancer. Oxidative stress induced by radiotherapy and chemotherapy tends to protect tumor cells and promote normal tissue damage. A recently developed compound, BMX-001 (MnTnBuOE-2- PyP5+), is among the most highly potent metalloporphyrin compounds which reduce oxidative stress, thereby protecting normal tissues and augmenting tumor killing.

In this Phase 1/2 study, the investigators will conduct a safety and efficacy study of the combination of BMX-001 with standard radiation therapy (RT) and concurrent 5-fluorouracil (5FU)/mitomycin in newly diagnosed anal squamous cell carcinoma (ASCC) participant. A recently completed Phase 1 study using BMX-001 with concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy in patient with newly diagnosed high-grade gliomas (BMX-HGG-001) demonstrated no adverse effects in subcutaneous dosing up to 28 mg/subject load with half the loading dose (14 mg/subject) given biweekly for 8 weeks in 12 participants. One of three participants dosed with 42 mg/subject load with half the loading dose given biweekly for 8 weeks experienced dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of grade 3 tachycardia and grade 3 hypotension at loading dose. These resolved with treatment within 24 hours and the participant returned to the study with no recurrence for the maintenance does. The sponsor determined that the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of BMX-001 is 28 mg/subject load followed by 14 mg/subject twice a week for up to eight weeks as the maximum dose that was tolerated with no adverse effects. The most common related toxicity seen in this study grade 1 injection site reaction. There is no apparent toxicity to end organ tissues or bone marrow.

For this study, after completion of Phase 1 and establishment of a RP2D for the treatment regimen in participants undergoing radiation therapy and chemotherapy, the protocol will proceed to Dose Level 3, after completion of Dose Level 1 and Dose Level 2. Up to 20 participants will be enrolled with a safety lead-in of 6 participants to confirm safety in subjects in this cohort receiving radiation therapy and 5FU/mitomycin. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of BMX-001 in combination with current chemoradiation, blood samples will be drawn for analysis in three to six participants in enrolled in the safety lead-in. Next, the first dose of BMX-001 will be administered subcutaneously from 4 days up to 1 hour prior to the start of radiation treatment. Blood will be drawn for PK on the following days: Day 1 (before and after loading dose), Day 8, Day 22 and Day 36. Measures will be obtained at approximately the following times: -1 to 0 hour (before loading dose), 30 minutes after the drug is given, 4 hours post-dose, and 24 hours post-dose. Samples will be analyzed for BMX-001 using validated analytical methods. Skin, gastrointestinal (GI), and genitourinary (GU) symptoms will be measured on the day of screening, weekly during RT, 1 months, 4 months and 10 months after the completion of RT. Perianal skin will be assessed weekly during RT, 1 month, 4 months, and 10 months after completion of RT. Further follow up will be per standard of care.