imPlementing ROutine Molecular Characterization in Patients With Metastatic Castration Resistant ProstaTe Cancer by NGS
The PROMPT study aims to routinely implement genomic pre-sorting of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients for personalized treatment (e.g. immuno-, PARP inhibitors, or platinum-therapy). The investigators hypothesize that, by doing this early in the disease course (before exhausting standard of care options), it will improve treatment planning, patient outcome, quality of life, and reduce costs.
Metastatic Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Blood sample
Responsiveness ratio, Ratio of radiographic progression-free survival of personalized treatment or standard of care to the standard last line therapy (PFS-MPT-ratio vs PFS-SOC-ratio), Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)
Efficacy endpoint: ORR, Best objective response rate (ORR) per RECIST1.1 criteria, Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Efficacy endpoint: rPFS, Radiographic progresssion free survival (per RECIST1.1), Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Efficacy endpoint: PSA response, PSA decline \>50% at 12 weeks or later, Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Efficacy endpoint: PSA-PFS, Time to PSA progression (per PCWG3 criteria), Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Efficacy endpoint: OS, Overall survival capped at 1 year, Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Quality of life endpoint: EORTC-QLQ-30, Score of EORTC-QLQ-30 questionnaire, Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Quality of life endpoint: EPIC-26, Score of EPIC-26 questionnaire, Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Quality of life endpoint: EQ-5D-5L, Score of EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Quality of life endpoint: BIP-SF, Score of BIP-SF questionnaire, Throughout completion of study (estimated 5 years from start)|Medical Resource Utilization (MRU); nr of lines, Averaged number of lines of standard care per year, At the end of year 1, year 2, year 3, and at completion of the study (estimated end of year 5)|Medical Resource Utilization (MRU); costs, Averaged costs of standard care per year, At the end of year 1, year 2, year 3, and at completion of the study (estimated end of year 5)|Medical Resource Utilization (MRU); treatment-related costs, Averaged costs of treatment-related resource utilization (e.g. admissions in ward or ICU) per admission and/or per duration, At the end of year 1, year 2, year 3, and at completion of the study (estimated end of year 5)
Prostate cancer is a major health problem leading to significant morbidity and mortality in men worldwide. Approved therapies for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) include abiraterone and enzalutamide (targeting the androgen signaling pathway), radium-223 (bone targeting radionuclide therapy), and taxane chemotherapy. Controversy remains on optimal sequencing of available therapeutic agents, and these drugs are still commonly prescribed in a trial-and-error manner. Only a minority of patients receives the full benefit of the anticancer armamentarium, but all experience unnecessary side-effects, quality of life deterioration, and delay in onset to adequate life-prolonging treatment. In addition, the prescription of ineffective drugs and avoidable hospital admissions contribute to the financial burden of health care systems.

In recent years, distinct molecular subsets of prostate cancer have been identified in mCRPC. These molecular defects may guide physicians in proper sequencing of medication and in predicting the individual response more accurately. In previous studies using next-generation sequencing (NGS) mCRPC patients could be grouped into clearly distinct molecular subtypes. Moreover, in these subtypes biomarkers associated with resistance to certain therapies, or biomarkers actually predictive for enhanced response were identified.

In this study the investigators will introduce routine molecular characterization in participants with mCRPC as early as possible in their disease state. Participants will be screened before initiation of second-line treatment, since early identification will maximize clinical and financial benefit. Following screening, participants will be discussed in molecular tumor board and clinical meetings, and stratified to the agent they are most likely to respond to. Translational research is included to identify and validate additional predictive molecular biomarkers.