Nilotinib as First-line Treatment of Ph+ CML in Early Chronic Phase
Treating Ph pos CML with Imatinib is very effective since the majority of the patients achieve a complete cytogenetic response and a major molecular response and are alive and progression-free after 5 years. However, the great majority of responding patients are not leukemia-free and may be at risk of progression, molecular, cytogenetic and clinical, at any time. In case of disease progression due to Imatinib failure, nilotinib has been found to be very effective, as expected from the preclinical profile of the drug, that is much more potent against BCR-ABL and inhibits nearly all the imatinib-resistant BCR-ABL mutants. For these reasons, nilotinib is going to be registered for the treatment of imatinib-resistant CMl patients. For the same reasons, nilotinib is expected to be more efficient than imatinib also front-line, based on the principle that we should aim at preventing the emergence of resistance better that at treating resistance once it has emerged. This expectation can be tested safely, because the "toxicity profile" of Nilotinib may be even more convenient than that of Imatinib, due to the lower frequency of edema and fluid retention.
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Nilotinib
Complete cytogenetic response (CCgR ) rate, At 1 year
The complete and the partial cytogenetic response rate, At 6 months|The major molecular response (MMR) rate, At 1 year|The kinetics of haematologic, cytogenetic and molecular response to AMN107, At 1 year|The development of bcr-abl mutation during the treatment with AMN107 (number and type), At 1 year|The safety and tolerability of nilotinib treatment at the dose of 300 mg b.i.d, At 1 year|To describe any SAE, At 1 year
Study Phase:

Phase II, Prospective, multicentric, non randomized, open label

Objectives:

The primary objective of the trial is to investigate the cytogenetic and molecular effects of the protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitor nilotinib in the treatment of early chronic phase Ph+ CML.

The secondary objectives are:

To investigate in early CP Ph+ CML patients treated with nilotinib the clinical and the hematologic effects, the effect on bcr/abl point mutations, the kinetic of the response, the toxicity, the compliance to treatment and the dose density.

Study design:

This study is an open-label, multicenter, exploratory, Phase II study of nilotinib administered orally twice daily for one year. For the patients who will benefit an extension to 4 years is planned.

Visit Schedule and Assessments:

A visit with blood counts and differential and serum chemistry is due baseline, every 15 days for 3 months, hence every 30 days.

An ECG is due baseline, after 15 and 30 days, hence at 60, 90, 150, 240 and 360 days.

An echocardiogram is due baseline and at end-of-study (360 days) or early withdrawal.

A bone marrow aspirate is due baseline (cytology, cytogenetics and quantitative molecular biology), after 3 and 6 months (cytology and cytogenetics) and after 12 months (cytology, cytogenetics, quantitative molecular biology and mutational analysis).

A peripheral blood sample is due baseline, at 30, 60, 90, 180, 270 and 360 days for quantitative molecular biology.

After the end of the study (i.e. after one year) clinical, cytogenetic and molecular data are due every 6 months.

Biologic Monitoring:

Bone marrow and peripheral blood cells will be collected before, during and at the end of the study, stored at the central lab in Bologna and used for molecular assays that are listed in details in the protocol, with the exclusion of any test allowing the identification of patients genotype. The samples are kept for a minimum of 10 years and can be destroyed upon patient request. A specific consent form to the sample storage will be submitted to the patients.