Presurgery Bortezomib for Recurrent Malignant Gliomas Followed by Postop Bortezomib & Temozolomide
Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bortezomib before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Giving bortezomib together with temozolomide after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.

This phase II trial is studying how well giving bortezomib before surgery followed by giving bortezomib together with temozolomide after surgery works in treating patients with recurrent malignant glioma.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Temozolomide
Number of Patients Surviving Without Disease Progression After 6 Months, Patients will be monitored from date of first treatment to the date of first observation of progressive disease, non-reversible neurologic progression or increasing steroid requirements, death due to any cause, or early discontinuation of treatment. Progression-free survival will be defined as the absence of any of the above after 6 months.

Progression (defined by MacDonald Criteria) is a 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed compared to baseline, OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to the cancer)., From date of first treatment until disease progression, death, or early discontinuation of treatment (up to 24 months)
Number of Participants Achieving a Response to Treatment (Either Complete or Partial Response) as Defined by MacDonald Criteria, This measure was assessed only in patients who had residual tumor post-operatively. Per MacDonald Criteria:

Complete Response requires complete disappearance of all measurable \& evaluable disease, no new lesions, no evidence of non-evaluable disease, and only minimal or no use of steroids.

Partial Response is defined as \>= 50% decrease compared to baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions, no progression of evaluable disease, and no new lesions. Responders must be on the same or decreasing doses of steroid.

Response was assessed by imaging (MRI or CT with contrast)., Day of treatment post-surgery and then approximately every 8 weeks thereafter until off treatment|Number of Grade 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 Adverse Events Observed During Study Treatment (Defined by CTCAE v 3.0), Adverse events (AEs) were graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. In general, AEs are graded according to the following:

Grade 1 Mild AE Grade 2 Moderate AE Grade 3 Severe AE Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE Grade 5 Death related to AE, Days 1, 4, 8 pre-surgery, and then at the start of every cycle (approximately every 4 weeks) post-surgery while on treatment|Overall Survival (in Days), Days 1, 4, 8 pre-surgery, once per cycle (every 4 weeks) while on treatment post-surgery, and then every 3 months up to 2 years during follow-up|Overall Survival Rate at 6 Months, The rate of overall survival at 6 months (regardless of disease progression) was calculated., After 6 months on study
Correlation of Expression of NFKBIA Gene With Response to Therapy and Survival., The effects of bortezomib on the endogenous modulators of NF-Kappa B pathways, especially the NFKBIA gene (nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor, alpha) were assessed using novel assay technology; expression of NFKBIA was then correlated with response to therapy and patient survival., Tissue samples for analysis were obtained on the day of surgery for all patients|Change in MGMT Methylation Status as Well as Other Methylation Patterns in Plasma, To determine MGMT methylation status as well as other methylation patterns in plasma, Blood samples drawn on days 1, 4, and 8 pre-surgery, and then prior to cycle 1 and every 2 cycles thereafter|Pharmacokinetics of Bortezomib in Tumor Tissue Taken at the Time of Surgery., Tissue sample taken at the time of surgery for all patients.
Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, and 8. Patients then undergo surgical resection of the tumor on day 8 or 9.

Beginning approximately 14 days after surgery, patients receive oral temozolomide on days 1-7 and 14-21 and bortezomib IV on days 7 and 21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Tumor tissue and blood samples are collected periodically for biomarker analysis, gene methylation studies, and pharmacokinetic studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.