Evolution of the Therapeutic Care in Lung Cancer in France Since 2015 (ESME LC)
This database compiles data from existing data available from patient's electronic medical records (EMR) at the 38 participating hospitals (20 French comprehensive cancer centers and 18 public hospitals).
Lung Cancer
Patient characteristics, Age in years, Tobacco consumption, other exposures, Legal recognition as occupational disease, Medical history, History of other cancer, weight in kg and performance status (ECOG), Baseline|Tumor characteristics, Staging, Tumor size, sampling Method, histological type, Baseline|Treatment patterns, Drug, therapeutic class, treatment duration at each n treatment line, From Baseline until 2024 (yearly basis)
Median overall survival, Assessment of overall survival through treatment lines, From date of diagnosis or first treatment until the date of death from any cause. Follow up until 2024|Median surrogate endpoints for overall survival, Surrogate endpoints (Progression-free Survival, Time to Progression, Time to Next Treatment) at each n treatment line., From start date of the nth treatment line until the date of first applicable event. Follow up until 2024
The database includes data related to patient demographics, tumor characteristics (diagnosis, histology, relapses, metastatic disease, etc.), treatments (dates, INN, route of administration, treatment protocols, reason for termination, etc.), and clinical events. Data is collected at each participating site by technicians who are specifically trained for the project using an electronic data collection (eDC) tool.

Data imported into the final database are controlled, recoded, and harmonized before import according to the data management plan. All coding procedures are predefined by the data manager. There is no transmission of individual data; all data are centralized within each center using a shared anonymous format. All data is exclusively obtained retrospectively; no attempts are made to recover non available data from the patient's medical record by contacting healthcare providers or patients.

ESME LC Data Platform aims to be a clinical and therapeutic database centralizing existing and available data from different sources used in the participating sites.

Data do not contain any personal data on patients. In compliance with the authorization delivered by the French Data Protection agency to Unicancer, only aggregated statistical reports and publication are released.