Circulating Tumor Cells as an Early Predictive head-and -Neck Squamous-cell Carcinoma
In France, the incidence of head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC) is 16 000 new cases/year. During these last years, many new chemotherapies and targeted therapies have been developed improving significantly the overall survival of patients notably anti-HER molecules. In inoperable recurrent and/or metastatic HNSCC, the best treatment is based on an anti-Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) antibody, targeting Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 1 (HER1), the Cetuximab combined with platinum +/- 5 Fluoro Uracil (5FU): " Extreme protocol ". However, no clinical or biological criteria predictive of drug efficacy have been reported yet. Thus, the development of such a predictive factor is an urgent need in HNSCC at both the clinical and pharmacy-economic level, to propose the best personalized treatment. One idea would be to enumerate and characterize the circulating tumor cells (CTC) which could give us an early evaluation of the therapeutic efficiency. In this context, the investigators have developed an innovative technology, the EPISPOT assay (patent of the University Medical Center of Montpellier), that allows the detection \& characterization of viable CTC in the peripheral blood. The EPISPOT technology has been already evaluated in the breast and prostate cancer.Thus, the investigators would like for the first time to perform a prospective study on a cohort of patients treated following the Extreme protocol, with this technology, to assess the predictive value of CTC count. The investigators will use the CellSearch速 system as the reference test.
Metastatic Head-and-neck Squamous-cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Blood analysis by EPISPOT and CellSearch速
Predictive value of the CTC on the Progression Free Survival, The primary outcome aims to evaluate the predictive value of the early progression of the CTC performed with the EPISPOT assay on the progression free survival in a cohort of patients treated with protocol "Extreme". The progression disease is assessed based on imagery techniques., Duration study 2 years
Prognostic value of the CTC at baseline (EPISPOT) and to compare for the first time the results with those obtained with the CellSearch system., Duration study 2 years|Prognostic value of the CTC at baseline (EPISPOT), Duration study 2 years|Predictive value of the early progression of CTC (EPISPOT) on the overall survival, Duration study 2 years|Compare for the first time the results with those obtained with the CellSearch速 system, Duration study 2 years|Evaluate the expression of EGFR in CTCs before and after administration of cetuximab (Erbitux) with both technologies and EPISPOT CellSearch 速, Duration study 2 years|Evaluate the impact of the presence of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker on the prognosis, Duration study 2 years
This is a multi-centric prospective non randomized open labeled study performed on a cohort of patients with inoperable recurrent and/or metastatic HNSCC who will be treated, with a first line treatment based on an anti-Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (HER), the Cetuximab.