Nintedanib (BIBF 1120) in Mesothelioma
This is a phase II/III confirmatory study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of nintedanib (BIBF 1120) in combination + (pemetrexed / cisplatin) followed by nintedanib (BIBF 1120) versus placebo + pemetrexed / cisplatin followed by placebo for the treatment of patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma.
Mesothelioma
DRUG: Nintedanib|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Placebo
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), This outcome measure presents progression-free survival. Disease progression was defined according to the modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) criteria. Progression-free survival time was calculated as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death, whichever occurred first. For patients with known date of progression (or death): PFS (days) = min (date of progression, date of death) - date of randomization + 1 day. For patients without progression or death, PFS was censored at the last imaging date that showed no disease progression: PFS (days, censored) = date of last imaging showing no progression - date randomization + 1 day., From randomization until the earliest of disease progression, death or (Phase II: cut-off date of 4-March-2016; up to 889 days) (Phase III: cut-off date of 16-March-2018; up to 31 months)
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the duration of time from randomization to time of death.

This is the key secondary endpoint of the trial., From randomization until the earliest of disease progression, death or (Phase II: cut-off date of 4-March-2016; up to 889 days) (Phase III: cut-off date of 16-March-2018; up to 31 months)|Objective Response According to Modified RECIST- Investigator Assessment, Objective response (best overall tumour response of confirmed complete response \[CR\] or confirmed partial response \[PR\]).

Complete Response: disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response: at least a 30 % decrease in the total tumour measurement of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline total tumour measurement.

Percentage of Patients with confirmed objective response is presented. This endpoint was only evaluated for Phase III part., Tumour imaging was to be performed every 6 weeks until disease progression, death or start of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurred earlier; up to 54 months|Disease Control According to Modified RECIST- Investigator Assessment, Disease control (best overall response of confirmed CR or PR, or Stable Disease (SD) that lasted ≥36 days) according to modified RECIST.

Percentage of Patients with Disease control is presented. This endpoint was only evaluated for Phase III part., Tumour imaging was to be performed every 6 weeks until disease progression, death or start of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurred earlier; up to 54 months
This is a phase II/III confirmatory study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of nintedanib (BIBF 1120) in combination + (pemetrexed / cisplatin) followed by nintedanib (BIBF 1120) versus placebo + pemetrexed / cisplatin followed by placebo for the treatment of patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma.