Compassionate Treatment in Children With Brain Tumors With the Cytotron®
This is a prospective case-control study. This study is expected to last for approximately 12 months, comprised of 4-8 weeks of enrollment period, 28 days of treatment and 6 months of follow up. The enrollment will be completed prior to the beginning of initial treatment. The study will be closed when 10 subjects have completed the study. The recruitment will be carried out with a sample at convenience.
Pediatric Brain Tumor
PROCEDURE: QMRT with the Cytotron®
Quality of life with the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) brain tumors, Change in the total score in the PedsQL of the patients diagnosed with brain tumor will be measured before starting the treatment and 6 months later. Higher values are going to represent a better outcome., 6 months
Measuring the increase, decrease, or change in the use of medication use for seizure or spasticity, The change in the use of medications use for seizure or spasticity as a symptom manifestation in children brain tumors before initiating the treatment and 6 months later will be measured., 6 months|Measuring the change in the number of seizures during the study period., The change in the use of the number of epileptic seizures of the patients diagnosed with terminal brain tumor before initiating the treatment and 6 months later will be measured., 6 months|Change of brain activities using fMRI, Identifying the change in representative modules, visual, motor and basal ganglia measuring the brain activities during resting state before and after treatment., 6 month|Change of brain activities using the Diffusion tensor imaging in MRI, Identifying the change in representative modules, visual, motor and basal ganglia by measuring diffusion tensor data and the anisotropic diffusion of the brain before and after treatment., 6 month|Change of brain activities using the EEG., Identifying the change in electrical activity in the brain before and after treatment., 6 month
A case-study study. The controls will be historical and matched to the age range (preschool, school age, early adolescent, late adolescent) and type of tumor. This study is expected to last for approximately 12 months, comprised of 4-8 weeks of enrollment period, 28 days of treatment and 6 months of follow up. The recruitment will be carried out with a sample at convenience in patients with brain tumors in terminal phase that are outside conventional treatment. Quantum magnetic resonance therapy (QMRT) will be administrated with the Cytotron® device.. The CYTOTRON-RTE-6040-864GEN (Class IIA Medical Therapeutic Device; developed by Scalene Cybernetics Ltd, Bengaluru, India), is a patented (U.S. Patent 9162076 B2 awarded 20/10 2015, European Patent EP 175350831, awarded 3/11/2015, Chinese Patent issued 2010, 09/08), CE marked device. QMRT will be administered as a compassionate treatment with the authorization signed by the parent(s) and with the respective informed consent (depending on age). Study Center: Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez. Objectives: To determine the safety and efficacy of QMRT using the Cytotron in terminal brain tumors. Number of Subjects: 10. Diagnosis and main Inclusion Criteria Subjects with clinically diagnosed terminal brain tumors, age: 3 to 16. Study Device, Dose,Route Device: Cytotron-generated precisely computed, individualized Dosimetry with Radiofrequencies (RF) in the presence of a pulsed, instantaneous electromagnetic resonance (MR) field, applied to a subject. Dose: 1 hour per day. Route: Focused, non-invasive RF and MR beams delivered to target areas identified by brain MRI scan and individual proton density (PD) measurements of the target lesions. Duration of administration: Once a day for 28 consecutive days. Reference therapy: None