ALEctinib for the Treatment of Pretreated RET-rearranged Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
A research study to evaluate the activity of alectinib for the Treatment of pretreated patients with advanced NSCLC that have confirmed RETrearrangement.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Recurrent
DRUG: Alectinib
Best Overall Response (BOR), Best overall response (OR = CR or PR), per investigator assessment. OR was determined using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1). OR is defined as the best overall response \[Complete Response (disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, no new lesions) or Partial Response (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, no measurable increase in a non-target lesion, no new lesions)\] across all assessment points. Radiological tumour assessments were performed using CT scans., Evaluated from enrollment through study completion, up to a maximum of 28 months.
Disease Control at 24-weeks, Best overall response of CR or PR, or SD (or non-CR/non-PD in the case of non-measurable disease only) by RECIST v1.1 criteria. Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions detected; Partial Response (PR): at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters (no measurable increase in a non-target lesion and no new lesion detected); Stable disease (SD): at most 20% increase or at most 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters (no measurable increase in a non-target lesion and no new lesion detected). Radiological tumour assessments were performed using CT scans., From first documented response (CR, PR, SD, non-CR/non-PD) to 24 weeks or first documented progression or death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed every 8 weeks (±4 days).|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival time was measured from the date of enrolment until documented progression or death from any cause, whichever came first. PFS is assessed according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. Progressive disease: at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Evaluated from enrollment through study completion, up to a maximum of 28 months.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival time is measured from the date of enrolment until death from any cause., Evaluated from enrollment through study completion, up to a maximum of 28 months.|Number of Patients Experienced Adverse Events, The safety and tolerability of alectinib treatment is assessed through analysis of the worst grade of toxicity/adverse events according to CTCAE v4.0 criteria observed over the whole treatment period., Evaluated from enrollment through study completion, up to a maximum of 28 months.
The trial is investigating the efficacy of alectinib in patients with advanced stage RET-rearranged NSCLC, treated with at least one platinum based systemic chemotherapy regimen. Preclinical studies have shown that alectinib, a highly selective next generation ALK inhibitor, has potent anti-tumour activity in RET-rearranged NSCLC. Therapeutically, several multiple kinases inhibitors, are potentially able to inhibit RET kinase function, which has been tested in several unselected NCSLC trials. However, those result were negative and none of the tested drugs was approved for lung cancer treatment.

The ALERT-lung trial is a single arm, phase II trial with the primary objective to assess the efficacy of alectinib in terms of best overall response (OR) assessed by RECIST v1.1 in selected NSCLC patients with RET rearrangement. The secondary objectives are to evaluate secondary measures of clinical efficacy including disease control, progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) as well as to assess safety and tolerability of the treatment and to describe the association of primary and secondary outcomes with tumour characteristics.

Alectinib is administered orally, 600 mg, twice per day, until progression, refusal or unacceptable toxicity. Trial treatment may also continue beyond progression, with physician and patient agreement, for as long as the patient may still derive clinical benefit. A total sample size of 44 patients is required.