Feasibility Pilot Exploring Variability in Biomarkers and PROs in AML
This research study is being conducted to help understand how the symptoms during treatment for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) may be affected by metabolism and how best to study this association. Symptoms include experiences like fatigue, sleep disturbance, pain, and depression.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
OTHER: Blood Sample Collection - Observational Study|OTHER: Symptom questionnaires - Observational Study
Completion rate, Evaluate the feasibility of conducting this type of study on an in-patient oncology unit (i.e., \>70% of enrolled participants will complete 30-day outcome assessments). Using descriptive statistics, feasibility will be calculated as the percent of eligible participants who enroll in the study and among those who enroll, the percent who complete the study. Using a 90%-exact binomial confidence interval estimate, 8 out of 10 participants completing the 30-day study will be considered acceptable for feasibility, 30 Days
Enrollment rate, Evaluate the feasibility of conducting this type of study on an in-patient oncology unit (i.e., ≥ 50% approach-to enrollment rate of eligible participants). Using descriptive statistics, feasibility will be calculated as the percent of eligible participants who enroll in the study and among those who enroll, the percent who complete the study. Using a 90%-exact binomial confidence interval estimate, 8 out of 10 participants completing the 30-day study will be considered acceptable for feasibility, 30 Days
This is a prospective, longitudinal, observational exploratory study. Ten participants will be enrolled and will complete baseline and week 4 blood sample collections. Symptom questionnaires will be completed at baseline, 1-, 2-, 3- and 4-weeks.

This research study is a Pilot Study, which means it is the first time that researchers are studying the associations between symptoms and metabolism in this way.

The National Institute of Nursing Research is supporting this research study by providing funding for the research study.