Phase IIA Open Label Study to Evaluate Efficacy and Safety of BL-8040 Followed by (hATG), Cyclosporine and Methyprednisolone in Adult Subjects With Aplastic Anemia or Hypoplastic Myelodysplastic Syndrome
An open label single arm study to assess efficacy and safety of BL-8040 on top of standard immunotherapy regimen of hATG, cyclosporine and steroids in patients with Hypoplastic MDS and AA over the course of a six month (180 day) treatment period.
Aplastic Anemia|Hypoplastic Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: BL-8040|DRUG: horse anti-thymocyte globulin (hATG)|DRUG: Methylprednisolone|DRUG: Cyclosporine
Response Rate, 95% confidence interval (CI) will be calculated for subjects who achieve Complete response (CR), Partial response (PR), for all AA and MDS subjects, and hematological improvement (HI) for MDS subjects only. Measurement in percentages (%), up to 6 months (180 days)
Toxicity, Safety and tolerability parameter monitored according to CTCAE version 4.03 criteria for adverse events and clinical laboratory parameters. Adverse events will be summarized by MedDRA dictionary and by patient population (AA /MDS), study treatment duration (180 days) plus 30 days following last dose of last treatment|general safety, measurement of vital signs, ECG, and physical exam, up to end of study treatment (180 days)|tolerability, number of subjects who discontinued study treatment early for any reason or due to toxicity, up to end of end of study treatment (180 days)|Time to response, Interval between treatment start and date of best response following treatment with the BL-8040 in addition to hATG, cyclosporine, and methylprednisolone., up to 5 years|Response duration, Time interval between the date of complete response (CR) and the date of first sign of disease recurrence or last follow-up or to the date of last follow-up if patients are alive without disease recurrence, within those patients who have achieved CR., up to 5 years|Overall survival, Time from treatment start until the death or last follow-up time (visit or call)., up to 5 years|Change in blood product requirements compared to Baseline, number of transfusions per month compared to Baseline, up to 6 months (180 days)
This will be an open-label, single arm, phase IIa study in subjects with AA or Hypoplastic MDS.

Eligible subjects will receive subcutaneous (SC) injections of BL-8040 monotherapy over 10 days. From Day 11 through Day 14, subjects will receive hATG, Methylprednisolone and Cyclosporine. From Day 15 until Day 30 (of the first month), subjects will continue treatment only with Methylprednisolone and Cyclosporine. Cyclosporine will continue daily through Month 6/Day 30 (M6/D30) (end of study treatment). Beginning on M2/D1, BL-8040 will be administered daily as part of the maintenance period for the first 5 days of each month through M6. All BL-8040 injection courses will be given at the site, as either an inpatient or outpatient per the treating physician's decision.

The primary objective of the study is to determine the efficacy of the treatment with BL-8040 on top of the standard immunotherapy regimen of: hATG, cyclosporine, and steroids in patients with Hypoplastic MDS and AA. Safety and efficacy will be assessed at defined time-points throughout the study. Duration of response and overall survival will be assessed as a part of the long term FU. A maximum of 25 patients will be enrolled in the study. Subjects will be equally distributed between the disease populations.