Talimogene Laherparepvec and Panitumumab for the Treatment of Locally Advanced or Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin
This phase I trial studies the side effects and how well talimogene laherparepvec and panitumumab work in treating patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the skin that has spread to nearby tissues or lymph nodes (locally advanced) or other places in the body (metastatic). Talimogene laherparepvec is a type of vaccine made from a gene-modified virus that may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as panitumumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving talimogene laherparepvec and panitumumab may work better in treating patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the skin compared to panitumumab alone.
Locally Advanced Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab|BIOLOGICAL: Talimogene Laherparepvec
Number of Participants With Treatment Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Number of participants who experience adverse effects greater than or equal to a grade three as defined by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Grade 1-4, with 4 being the most severe., Up to 30 days|Response Rate to Panitumumab as Measured by Evaluation of the Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1., Response will be evaluated by using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement)of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used for tumor measurements., Up to two years
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) of Participants From Start to Progression of Disease, Best response on treatment was based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Complete response (CR) is complete disappearance of all targeted lesions. Partial response (PR) is at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum. LD Progressive disease (PD) is at least 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of the targeted lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum recorded in treatment PD for the evaluation of non-targeted lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and or progression of non-targeted lesions. Stable disease is defined as any condition not meet above criteria. The response rate of the drug will be assessed according to the decision rule based on Simons two-stage design., Up to two years|Durable Response Rate Based on Simons Two-stage Design, Will be defined as the percent of participants with complete response or partial response maintained continuously for a minimum of six months. The response rate of the drug will be assessed according to the decision rule based on Simons two-stage design., Up to two years|Duration of Response Based on Simons Two-stage Design, The response rate of the drug will be assessed according to the decision rule based on Simon?s two-stage design., Time from initial response until document progression up to two years|Progression-free Survival (PFS) to Assess Participants Progressive Free-survival, The estimate of PFS will be performed by the Kaplan-Meier product limit model.\>valuated by RECIST 1.1., From date of enrollment to the date of death or progression, whichever occurred earlier assessed up to 2 years|Change in Overall Survival (OS) Measured by the Kaplan-Meier, The estimate of OS will be performed by the Kaplan-Meier product limit model., From date of enrollment to the date of death or date last known alive, whichever comes first, assessed up to assessed up to two years|Mutation Load in Tumor Tissue Measured by Next Generation Sequencing, Next generation sequencing (NGS) is a massively parallel sequencing technology that offers ultra-high throughput, scalability, and speed. The technology is used to determine the order of nucleotides in entire genomes or targeted regions of DNA or RNA, and has the ability to detect variants at lower allele frequencies. With response to therapy and but the actual knowledge of the genetic basis of participants disease., Up to two years|Deoxyribonucleic Acid Mutation Signature in Tumor Tissue, Will be analyzed by next generation sequencing with response to therapy., Up to two years|Messenger Ribonucleic Acid Signature in Tumor Tissue Measured by Nanostring Technology, Nanostring is an amplification-free technology that measures nucleic acid content by counting molecules directly. NanoString provides several pre-made gene expression panels that examine up to 770 genes at once and custom CodeSets for up to 800 targets. With response to therapy and descriptive statistics applied., Up to two years|Immune Cell Populations in Tumor Tissue, Will be analyzed by flow cytometry with response to therapy., Up to two years|Immune Cell Populations Peripheral Blood as Measured by Flow Cytometry, Cytometry, in its purest form, is the measurement of cell characteristics. Flow cytometry can identify the type of cells in a blood or bone marrow sample, including the types of cancer cells. It detects types of cancer cells based on either the presence or the absence of certain protein markers (antigens) on a cell's surface. This technique allows researchers to get highly specific information about individual cells. Flow cytometry will be used, with response to therapy and descriptive statistics applied., Up to two years|Expression of Cytokines in Tumor Tissue, Will be analyzed by flow cytometry, any suspended particle or cell from 0.2-150 micrometers in size, is suitable for analysis., Up to two years|Expression of Cytokines in Peripheral Blood, Will be analyzed by flow cytometry, any suspended particle or cell from 0.2-150 micrometers in size is suitable for analysis, with response to therapy., Up to two years|Pathologic Complete Response Rate, Pathologic complete response (pCR) was defined as percent necrosis of the surgical specimen greater than or equal to 90% .Pathologic complete response (pCR) is a surrogate endpoint to demonstrate the study drug's efficacy., Up to two years|Time to Resectability, A resectable tumor is one in which there is no technical barrier to surgical excision. Able to be removed by surgery., Up to two years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of the combined treatment of talimogene laherparepvec and panitumumab.

II. To determine the preliminary efficacy of the combined treatment of talimogene laherparepvec and panitumumab, in comparison to single-agent panitumumab by historical control.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical efficacy of panitumumab in combination with intratumoral talimogene laherparepvec in terms of immune-related progression-free survival (irPFS) at 12 months, progression-free survival (PFS) hazard ratio, overall response rate (ORR), 1-year survival, overall survival (OS) and time to resectability.

II. To measure the pathologic complete response rate to panitumumab combined with talimogene laherparepvec.

III. Assess the response of injected and non-injected tumor deposits after panitumumab and talimogene laherparepvec.

IV. Assess the time to initial response. V. Assess the durable response rate.

VI. To analyze the following molecular correlates with response to therapy to confirm mechanism of action, and identify potential future targeted strategies and biomarkers of response:

VIa. Mutation load in tumor tissue by next generation sequencing. VIb. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mutation signature in tumor tissue pre- and post-therapy by next generation sequencing.

VIc. Messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) signature in tumor tissue pre-and post-therapy by Nanostring technology.

VId. Immune cell populations and immune profile in pre- and post-therapy tumor tissue and peripheral blood by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry (IHC).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive talimogene laherparepvec intratumorally (IM) on day 1. Patients then receive talimogene laherparepvec IM and panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 22. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive up to 3 additional cycles of treatment per physician discretion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 2 months for 2 years.