Evaluation of Targeted Biopsy Plus Sextant Biopsy in Diagnosis of Prostate Cancer
The goal of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of different prostate biopsy schemes, including targeted biopsy plus sextant biopsy (3TB+6SB) and combination of targeted biopsy and 12-core systematic biopsy (3TB+12SB).

The main questions it aims to answer are:

Does 3TB+6SB promote the accurate diagnosis of clinically significant prostate cancer? What's the value of 3TB+6SB in improving the safety of prostate biopsy? Researchers will compare the cancer detection rates of 3TB+6SB and combination of 3TB+12SB to explore the efficacy of different prostate biopsy schemes. They will evaluate the safety profile of different prostate biopsy schemes through the complication rates and postoperative quality of life.

Participants will:

Receive 3TB+6SB or 3TB+12SB.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: 3TB+6SB|PROCEDURE: 3TB+12SB
The clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa) detection rate, csPCa was defined as PCa with a grade group \> 2 or GS ≥ 7. The reference standard was the pathological result., One month after the biopsy procedure.
The overall complication rate, The complication (mainly including bleeding, infection, pain, and lower urinary tract symptoms) rate after the prostate biopsy (3TB+6SB or 3TB+12SB)., One week and one month after the biopsy procedure.|The self-reported quality of life after the prostate biopsy, The self-reported levels of pain and discomfort after the prostate biopsy was measured through visual analogue scale (VAS). The minimum and maximum values of VAS are 0 and 10. The higher VAS means the higher level of pain and discomfort., One week and one month after the biopsy procedure.|The operation time of prostate biopsy, The operation time of prostate biopsy was defined as the time from the beginning to the end of the prostate biopsy., During the prostate biopsy procedure.|The PCa detection rate, The PCa detection rate for 3TB+6SB and 3TB+12SB., One month after the biopsy procedure.|The clinically insignificant PCa detection rate, The clinically insignificant PCa was defined as PCa with a grade group \< 2 or GS \< 7. The reference standard was the pathological result., One month after the biopsy procedure.|The Gleason score (GS) of the biopsy sample, The Gleason score (GS) was reported by senior uropathologists according to the Standards of Reporting for MRI Targeted Biopsy Studies (START) criteria and interpreted according to the recommendations of the International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) Grade Group. The minimum and maximum of GS are 3 and 5. The higher GS means the higher pathological grade., One month after the biopsy procedure.|The GS of radical prostatectomy (RP) specimens, For the RP specimens, the Gleason score (GS) was reported by senior uropathologists according to the Standards of Reporting for MRI Targeted Biopsy Studies (START) criteria and interpreted according to the recommendations of the International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) Grade Group. The minimum and maximum of GS are 3 and 5. The higher GS means the higher pathological grade., One month after the biopsy procedure.
Currently, combination of targeted biopsy and 12-core systematic biopsy (3TB+12SB) has been recommended for the diagnosis of patients with suspicious lesion found on multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI). Although the 3TB+12SB approach could effectively detect clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa), the increased number of biopsy cores would increase the risk of complications and decrease the postoperative quality of life. In recent years, urological and radiologic thinking has changed after realizing that systemic biopsies may be reduced when the chance of missing a clinically significant lesion is low. More and more radiologists and urologists focused on the issue of optimization of prostate biopsy schemes. Some retrospective studies have proved that the cancer detection rate of targeted biopsy plus sextant biopsy (3TB+6SB) was not inferior to 3TB+12SB. However, the safety profile warrants further evaluation, and there is still a lack of high-quality, prospective evidence for the 3TB+6SB schemes. Thus, this randomized controlled trial (RCT) aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 3TB+6SB schemes and the routine 3TB+12SB schemes, provide high-quality evidence for the optimization of prostate biopsy schemes.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

Does 3TB+6SB promote the accurate diagnosis of clinically significant prostate cancer? What is the value of 3TB+6SB in improving the safety of prostate biopsy? This prospective RCT compared the csPCa detection rates of 3TB+6SB and 3TB+12SB. Participants were prospectively enrolled at Peking University First Hospital (Beijing, China) from September 2024 to February 2025. Participants were randomly allocated to 3TB+6SB group and 3TB+12SB group.

Researchers will compare the cancer detection rates of 3TB+6SB and 3TB+12SB to explore the efficacy of different prostate biopsy schemes. They will evaluate the safety profile of different prostate biopsy schemes through the complication rates and postoperative quality of life.