Study to Assess Effect of 8 Wks of Duloxetine Therapy on Breast Cancer Patients With Aromatase-Inhibitor Associated Pain
Many women with breast cancer who are treated with aromatase inhibitor medications develop aches and pains during treatment, and some develop numbness and tingling in their hands and feet. Some examples of aromatase inhibitor medications include anastrozole (Arimidex), exemestane (Aromasin), and letrozole (Femara). Frequently, pain medications do not work very well to relieve the pain. Duloxetine (Cymbalta) is a medication that was originally developed to treat depression. It has also been found to relieve pain that occurs in people with diabetes, fibromyalgia, arthritis, and other painful conditions. In this study we are testing to see if duloxetine will help treat the pain that can occur in women treated with aromatase inhibitors.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Duloxetine
Percentage of Patients Who Experience 30% Reduction in Average Pain Score From Baseline to 8 Weeks Due to Duloxetine Therapy., Subjects were considered evaluable if they met all eligibility criteria and took at least one dose of duloxetine. Average pain was measured using Wisconsin Brief Pain Inventory Questionnaire.(BPI) The BPI is a 17-item patient self-rating scale that assessed sensory \& reactive components of pain. The BPI uses 0 to 10 numeric rating scales for item rating.Since pain can be variable,the BPI asks patients to rate pain at completing questionnaire, and also at its worst, least, and average over the previous 24 hours. The primary endpoint is based on the 24-hour avg pain as reported on BPI., 8 weeks
Decrease in Average Pain With 8 Weeks of Duloxetine Therapy. (Sustained), A secondary measure is the percentage of patients treated with duloxetine who experience a sustained 30% reduction in average pain score from baseline to 8 weeks. Sustained 30% reduction is defined as at least 30% reduction in 24-hour average pain severity at the 8 week endpoint, with a 30% reduction from baseline at a visit at least 2 weeks prior to the last visit, and at least 20% reduction from baseline at every visit in between., Baseline, 2, 4 , 6 and 8 weeks
Aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy is commonly used for treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. The most common toxicities are arthralgias and myalgias, which can be difficult to manage and necessitate discontinuation of therapy in up to 10% of patients. One potential interventional approach is with a pharmaceutical agent such as duloxetine, which has been shown to be effective for treatment of other types of chronic pain, including fibromyalgia and diabetic neuropathic pain.

The primary objective of this pilot study is to determine the proportion of breast cancer patients with AI-associated musculoskeletal symptoms who experience a 30% reduction in average pain score from baseline to 8 weeks due to duloxetine treatment. Participants will be treated with duloxetine for 8 weeks. Questionnaires to evaluate pain, functional status, depression, menopausal symptoms, and sleep difficulties will be administered at baseline and after 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks of therapy. In addition, 10 milliliters blood of will be drawn from the subjects at baseline for future pharmacogenetic evaluation. If the results of this pilot study suggest that the efficacy of duloxetine therapy is greater than that expected from placebo based on historical controls, then these data will be used to design future prospective, placebo-controlled, randomized trials of treatment with duloxetine in this patient population.