Activated Allogeneic Lymphocytes for Induction Graft Versus Tumor Effect in Metastatic Solid Tumors
The present protocol is a phase 2 study designed to investigate the potential application of allogeneic cell-mediated immunotherapy in metastatic solid tumors, similarly to the well established graft versus leukemia (GVL) effects, in patients with metastatic solid tumors resistant to conventional treatment modalities. Patients will be eligible to participate in a treatment program based on systemic administration of mismatched lymphocytes activated in vitro with rIL-2 (LAK) followed by rIL-2 inoculation in vivo. This treatment is aiming to induce an anti-tumor effect mediated by the efficient killing activity of the rIL-2 activated cells. Prior to cell infusion patients will receive the conditioning treatment with low dose Cyclophosphamide (Cyc) or Fludarabine with 2 injections of low dose alpha interferon. Cell therapy will be combined with specific anti-tumor monoclonal antibodies if available for the specific disease. Further activation of the anti-tumor activity of alloreactive donor T cells and natural killer (NK) cells will be accomplished by in vivo inoculation of rIL-2, aiming for enhancing the anti-cancer potential of donor-derived effectors cells. Patients will receive one - three cycles of cell therapy, as long as there are no signs of Graft- versus - Host - disease (GVHD) and the malignant disease is controlled.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Malignant Melanoma|Renal Cell Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer
PROCEDURE: one - three cycles of cell therapy during 4-6 weeks (3-5x10^7 cells/kg will be given through IV systemically
CR:disappearance of disease.PR:<50% decrease in the total tumor load of the lesions SD:<50% reduction and 25% increase in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of the measured lesions.PD:>25% increase in the size of lesion., on day +7 day +17, day +28 post cell therapy.
The present protocol is a phase 2 study designed to investigate the potential application of allogeneic cell-mediated immunotherapy in metastatic solid tumors, similarly to the well established graft versus leukemia (GVL) effects, in patients with metastatic solid tumors resistant to conventional treatment modalities. Patients will be eligible to participate in a treatment program based on systemic administration of mismatched lymphocytes activated in vitro with rIL-2 (LAK) followed by rIL-2 inoculation in vivo. This treatment is aiming to induce an anti-tumor effect mediated by the efficient killing activity of the rIL-2 activated cells. Prior to cell infusion patients will receive the conditioning treatment with low dose Cyclophosphamide (Cyc) or Fludarabine with 2 injections of low dose alpha interferon. Cell therapy will be combined with specific anti-tumor monoclonal antibodies if available for the specific disease. Further activation of the anti-tumor activity of alloreactive donor T cells and natural killer (NK) cells will be accomplished by in vivo inoculation of rIL-2, aiming for enhancing the anti-cancer potential of donor-derived effectors cells. Patients will receive one - three cycles of cell therapy, as long as there are no signs of Graft- versus - Host - disease (GVHD) and the malignant disease is controlled.