Tisleizumab Combined With Lenvatinib and XELOX Regimen (Oxaliplatin Combined With Capecitabine) in the First-line Treatment of Advanced and Unresectable Biliary Tract Tumors
This study is a single-center, single-arm, open-label clinical study. All patients with advanced and unresectable biliary tract tumors will be treated with the combination of tisleizumab, lenvatinib and XELOX regimen (oxaliplatin plus capecitabine) until disease progression , unacceptable toxicity, death or the patient meets any other discontinuation criteria described in the protocol, whichever occurs first. Subjects can receive up to 8 cycles of the XELOX regimen. For subjects who are intolerant to XELOX regimen or have stable disease or objective response after complete 8 cycles of XELOX regimen, treatment with tisleizumab and lenvatinib will be continued until tumor progression or for a maximum of 2 years. Patients will be closely monitored for safety and tolerability throughout the study.
Biliary Tract Tumor
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine
Objective response rate (ORR) per RECIST v1.1 assessed by investigator, It is defined as the proportion of patients whose tumors shrink to a predetermined size and maintain a minimum time limit. It includes the cases of CR and PR., 12months|Safety as measured by the rate of AEs, Safety will be evaluated by incidence, severity and outcomes of adverse events (AEs) and categorized by severity in accordance with the NCI CTC AE Version 5.0, 12months
ORR per iRECIST by the investigator, ORR assessed by the investigator according to iRECIST, 12months|Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST, 12months|duration of response (DOR), DOR assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST, 12months|progression-free survival (PFS), progression-free survival (PFS) assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST, 12months|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS), 24months
This study is a single-center, single-arm, open-label clinical study. All patients with advanced and unresectable biliary tract tumors will be treated with the combination of tisleizumab, lenvatinib and XELOX regimen (oxaliplatin plus capecitabine) until disease progression , unacceptable toxicity, death or the patient meets any other discontinuation criteria described in the protocol, whichever occurs first. Subjects can receive up to 8 cycles of the XELOX regimen. For subjects who are intolerant to XELOX regimen or have stable disease or objective response after complete 8 cycles of XELOX regimen, treatment with tisleizumab and lenvatinib will be continued until tumor progression or for a maximum of 2 years. Patients will be closely monitored for safety and tolerability throughout the study.