Study on the Utilization of Cabozantinib in Adult Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) in 2nd Line Treatment Following Prior Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF)-Targeted Therapy Under Real-real Life Clinical Setting in France.
The purpose of the protocol is to assess the Overall Survival (OS) at 1 year in patients after cabozantinib initiation.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
Overall survival (OS) rate at 1 year after cabozantinib initiation, OS is the time between treatment initiation and the date of death from any cause. For participants who are alive, their survival time will be censored at the last date that they were known to be alive if before 1 year., up to 12 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) at 1 year, ORR is defined as the proportion of participants who achieve partial or complete response from the start of the study treatment. The ORR will be assessed by tumour response evaluation according to investigator assessment. Tumour response will be evaluated per routine clinical practice by the physician., Day 15, 1 month, 3, 6 and 12 months|Best Overall Response (BOR) at 1 year, BOR is the best response recorded from the start of the study treatment until the disease progression/recurrence. The BOR will be assessed by tumour response evaluation according to investigator assessment. Tumour response will be evaluated per routine clinical practice by the physician., Day 15, 1 month, 3, 6 and 12 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 1 year, PFS is defined as the time elapsed from the date of first treatment intake to the date of documented progression reported by the investigator or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression will be assessed by tumour response evaluation according to investigator assessment. Tumour response will be evaluated per routine clinical practice as Progressive / not progressive disease by the physician., Day 15, 1 month, 3, 6 and 12 months|Previous systemic neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapies for RCC prior cabozantinib initiation in terms of nature of the therapy, duration, and reason for discontinuation., Baseline|First-line therapy for RCC prior cabozantinib initiation in terms of nature of the therapy, duration, and reason for discontinuation., Baseline|Pattern of use of cabozantinib, Dose modification, reason of modification and treatment duration of cabozantinib will be described from cabozantinib initiation until participants' end of study treatment or study withdrawal., Baseline, day 15, 1 month, 3, 6 and 12 months|Quality of life (QoL) change according to Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FKSI-19) questionnaire, QoL change from baseline. The score will be evaluated with FKSI 19 questionnaires at the planned visits and at treatment discontinuation. The FKSI-19 is a disease-specific instrument that measures disease and treatment-related symptoms in 4 domains by using a 5-point scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). Higher scores represent better health. A negative change from Baseline represents a worsening of condition., Baseline, day 15, 1 month, 3, 6 and 12 months|Pain assessment, To assess pain according to the Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) questionnaire and analgesic consumption/duration and the time for improvement of symptomatology. BPI-SF has a scale of 0 to 10 with 0 indicating "No pain" and 10 indicating "Pain as bad as you can imagine"., Baseline, day 15, 1 month, 3, 6 and 12 months|Subsequent systemic treatment for RCC after cabozantinib discontinuation in terms of the description of the nature of the therapy, starting date., End of Study visit (12 months if the patient didn't discontinue earlier)|Safety of cabozantinib in the real-world setting, Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs),Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) assessed overall and by intensity and causality., Day 15, 1 month, 3, 6 and 12 months
The purpose of the protocol is to assess the Overall Survival (OS) at 1 year in patients after cabozantinib initiation.