Immunological Profile of Solid Tumors Sample
It has become clear in the recent year that the nature of the immune cells infiltrate within a tumor was essential in the control of the tumor growth. This so-called immune contexture does vary between cancer types and in response to treatments. In this context, this trial is a non-interventional, mono-centric in patients with solid tumors. Samples in paraffin-embedded material block of biopsies or surgical pieces (either primitive tumor or metastases) will be analysed. For each sample, clinically relevant data associated with treated cancer and needed for characterization of tumor microenvironment will be documented.

This trial is, through accessing to well documented selected archival tumor materials, to validate selected biomarker for early phase trial.
Solid Cancer
OTHER: immunohistochemistry assay
Immunohistochemistry scores, The immunohistochemistry scores is evaluated with the score of the percentage of stained cells.

Scale of the score of the percentage of stained cells, From 0 to 4, 0 : no stained cell (absence)

1. : \< 10 % stained cell (minimal)
2. : 10 to 50 % (mild)
3. : 51 to 79 % (moderate)
4. : = or \> 80 % (marked), 24 months|Immunohistochemistry scores, The immunohistochemistry scores is evaluated with the score of the staining intensity.

Staining Intensity: from 0 to 3 0 : no staining (absence)

1. : low staining
2. : middle staining
3. : high staining, 24 months
It has become clear in the recent year that the nature of the immune cells infiltrate within a tumor was essential in the control of the tumor growth. This so-called immune contexture does vary between cancer types and in response to treatments. In this context, this trial is a non-interventional, mono-centric in patients with solid tumors. Samples in paraffin-embedded material block of biopsies or surgical pieces (either primitive tumor or metastases) will be analysed. For each sample, clinically relevant data associated with treated cancer and needed for characterization of tumor microenvironment will be documented.

This trial is, through accessing to well documented selected archival tumor materials, to validate selected biomarker for early phase trial.