Brain Imaging, Nutrition, and Cognition in Breast Cancer Survivors
Up to 78% of women diagnosed with breast cancer experience impairments in their cognitive function (e.g., frequent forgetfulness, slow processing speeds, and difficulties in concentration, multitasking and/or word retrieval) in the course of cancer treatment. These cognitive impairments (CI) have negative effects on patients' social relationships, overall life satisfaction, and treatment adherence. Dietary intake may be an important factor in mitigating risk of CI that breast cancer patients experience. Several studies have suggested that dietary intake of specific nutrients and foods (e.g., carotenoids, B-vitamin, and omega-3 fatty acids rich foods) can be helpful to decrease the severity of cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI). High-quality dietary patterns can be also helpful to protect white matter volume and its integrity; damage to and changes in white matter contributes to CRCI. However, despite the high incidence of CRCI in breast cancer patients, very little is known about etiology of CRCI. Thus, the purpose of this observational study with cross-sectional design is to examine the relationships of diet with brain structural and functional outcomes of breast cancer patients. The study will aim to enroll 30 female postmenopausal breast cancer survivors (age 45-75) who have recently completed chemotherapy treatment within 3-12 months from study enrollment. Participants will complete study questionnaires online, and will have an in-person study visit to complete a functional magnetic resonance imagine (MRI) scan, cognitive testing, and blood sample collection via fingerstick and venous blood draw. It is expected that this study will advance the field's understanding and ability to early assess, manage, and prevent CRCI.
Breast Cancer
Evaluate feasibility through recruitment and retention, Retention is determined by numbers of participants who drop out from the study versus compared to those who complete the study., Two years
Assessment of Brain connectivity, Assess brain connectivity from MRI images, one day|Assessment of Diet Quality Measures, Assess diet quality measures from an electronic food frequency questionnaire, one day|Assessment of cognition using the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test, Assess cognition by using the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test (HVLT), a brief cognitive test of episodic memory and verbal learning., One day|Assessment of cognition using the WAIS-IV Digit Span, Assess cognition by using the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS)-IV Digit Span, a cognitive test of attention and working memory., One day|Assessment of cognition using the Oral Trail Making Test, Assess cognition by using the Oral Trail Making Test (TMT), a brief cognitive test of executive function and attention., One day|Assessment of cognition using the COWA Test, Assess cognition by using the Controlled Oral Word Association (COWA) Test, a brief cognitive test of oral fluency and executive function., One day|Assessment of cognition using the Boston Naming Test, Assess cognition by using the Boston Naming Test Short Form, a brief test of language., One day|Assessment of presence of CRCI symptoms, Assess presence of cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI) symptoms using the Neuro-QoL Cognitive Function Test, a self-report measurement of cognitive function., One day
Up to 78% of women diagnosed with breast cancer experience impairments in their cognitive function (e.g., frequent forgetfulness, slow processing speeds, and difficulties in concentration, multitasking and/or word retrieval) in the course of cancer treatment. These cognitive impairments (CI) have negative effects on patients' social relationships, overall life satisfaction, and treatment adherence. Dietary intake may be an important factor in mitigating risk of CI that breast cancer patients experience. Several studies have suggested that dietary intake of specific nutrients and foods (e.g., carotenoids, B-vitamin, and omega-3 fatty acids rich foods) can be helpful to decrease the severity of cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI). High-quality dietary patterns can be also helpful to protect white matter volume and its integrity; damage to and changes in white matter contributes to CRCI. However, despite the high incidence of CRCI in breast cancer patients, very little is known about etiology of CRCI. Thus, the purpose of this observational study with cross-sectional design is to examine the relationships of diet with brain structural and functional outcomes of breast cancer patients. The study will aim to enroll 30 female postmenopausal breast cancer survivors (age 45-75) who have recently completed chemotherapy treatment within 3-12 months from study enrollment. Participants will complete study questionnaires online, and will have an in-person study visit to complete a functional magnetic resonance imagine (MRI) scan, cognitive testing, and blood sample collection via fingerstick and venous blood draw. It is expected that this study will advance the field's understanding and ability to early assess, manage, and prevent CRCI.