Vemurafenib, Cetuximab, and Irinotecan Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors That Are Metastatic or That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of vemurafenib when given together with cetuximab and irinotecan hydrochloride in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other parts of the body or cannot be removed by surgery. Vemurafenib and irinotecan hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving vemurafenib with cetuximab and irinotecan hydrochloride may be a better treatment for solid tumors.
BRAF NP_004324.2:p.V600X|KRAS wt Allele|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Unresectable Solid Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Vemurafenib
Maximum tolerated dose of vemurafenib defined as the highest dose studied in which the incidence of dose limiting toxicity was less than 33% as graded by the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0, Descriptive statistics will be provided on the grade and type of toxicity by dose level., Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vemurafenib when used in combination with cetuximab and irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride).

II. To define the safety profile of this combination. III. To determine the antitumor activity of this combination specifically in patients with advanced solid malignancies with positive v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF) (V600)/negative Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (K-RAS) mutation. (Part II-expanded cohort) IV. To determine the antitumor activity of this combination in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer with positive BRAF (V600)/negative K-RAS mutation. (Part II-expanded cohort)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate clinical response signals of the combination. II. To assess the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profile of the combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vemurafenib.

Patients receive vemurafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14, cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes, and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.