Feasibility and Acceptability of Primary Palliative Care Intervention in Patients Undergoing Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
Primary PC - or training HCT clinicians to deliver PC domains as part of routine practice - is an alternative model of supportive care. We have developed Sentinel, a primary PC intervention for HCT clinicians and patients. This study will assess Sentinel's feasibility and acceptability.
Hematopoietic Cell Transplant|Hematologic Malignancy
BEHAVIORAL: Primary palliative care
Feasibility, We will assess feasibility of Sentinel based on the proportion of eligible patients who enroll and the proportion of enrolled patients retained. Sentinel will be deemed feasible if at least 60% of eligible patients are enrolled in the study and patient retention through study procedures is at least 80%, commonly utilized metrics in PC trials, Up to Day 90
Acceptability, The intervention will be acceptable for patients if at least 80% of patients report intervention satisfaction (Client Satisfaction Questionnaire mean greater than or equal 3.0/4.0), At Day 30
Quality of Life, We will assess longitudinal quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Bone Marrow Transplantation (FACT-BMT), Up to Day 90|Physical Symptoms, We will assess longitudinal physical symptom burden using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System - Revised (ESAS-r), Up to Day 90|Anxiety Symptoms, We will assess longitudinal symptoms of depression with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Up to Day 90|Depression Symptoms, We will assess symptoms of depression with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Up to Day 90|Post-traumatic stress symptoms, We will assess longitudinal symptoms of post-traumatic stress using the Post-traumatic Stress Checklist-Civilian Version (PCL-C), Up to Day 90|Coping, We will use select subscales of the Brief-COPE, a 28-item questionnaire that assess patients' use of 14 methods of coping per a 4-point Likert scale. Coping will be classified as 'Approach-oriented' and 'Avoidant', Up to Day 90
Patients hospitalized for hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) experience physical and psychological symptoms that lead to a deterioration in quality of life (QOL). Integrating specialty palliative care (PC) reduces physical and psychological symptom burden and improves QOL during HCT hospitalization. However, specialty PC remains unavailable and underused at many HCT centers. Primary PC - or training HCT clinicians to deliver PC domains as part of routine practice - is an alternative model of supportive care. We have developed Sentinel, a primary PC intervention for HCT clinicians and patients. We will train HCT clinicians to deliver PC to patients before and during HCT hospitalization. This study will assess Sentinel's feasibility and acceptability.