Telehealth Weight Loss Program for Breast Cancer Survivors
This is a single-arm longitudinal group to examine patient-reported outcomes, body mass and mammographic density changes pre- and post- weight loss intervention of breast cancer survivors using video conferencing telehealth visits.
Cancer Survivors|Cancer of Breast|Body Weight|Overweight and Obesity
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Weight-loss Program Via Telehealth|BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Weight-Loss Program Via Telehealth - Weight Measures|BEHAVIORAL: Validated Surveys of Patient-Reported Outcomes
Determine feasibility and Acceptability Using the City of Hope Quality of Life Instrument - Breast Cancer Patient to Assess Changes in Quality of Life, To determine the feasibility and acceptability of a weight loss program via telehealth for breast cancer survivors. The participants will be asked to complete the City of Hope Quality of Life Instrument (COH-QOL) - Breast Cancer Patient (QOL-BC) at two time points: baseline (pre-) and treatment end (at week 24).

* COH-QOL Instrument - Breast Cancer Patient (QOL-BC) - 46 items
* The scoring is based on a scale of 0 = worst outcome to 10 = best outcome. Some items have reverse anchors and the value should be scored as the reverse of the item circled, e.g., if a patient selected "4" then their score on a reverse anchor would be 10 - 4 = 6., 24 weeks|Determine feasibility and Acceptability Using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire to Assess Changes in Physical Activity, To determine the feasibility and acceptability of a weight loss program via telehealth for breast cancer survivors. The participants will be asked to complete the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) at two time points: baseline (pre-) and treatment end (at week 24).

* The International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) Short Form
* This is an open-ended questionnaire surrounding individuals' last 7-day recall of physical activity., 24 weeks|Determine feasibility and Acceptability Using the Patient Health Questionnaire to Assess Changes in Measures of Depression, To determine the feasibility and acceptability of a weight loss program via telehealth for breast cancer survivors. The participants will be asked to complete the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) (Depression) at two time points: baseline (pre-) and treatment end (at week 24).

- The PHQ-9 is a nine item questionnaire and the scoring is based on a scale of 0= best outcome to 3 = worst outcome. Total scores range from 0 to 27 and higher scores are associated with higher severities of depression, ranging from minimal to severe., 24 weeks|Using the Acceptability of Intervention Measure to Assess Acceptability and Feasibility, To determine the feasibility and acceptability of a weight loss program via telehealth for breast cancer survivors. The participants will be asked to complete the Acceptability of Intervention Measure at two time points: baseline (pre-) and treatment end (at week 24).

- The Acceptability of Intervention Measure is a four item questionnaire and the scoring is based on a scale ranging from 1 = completely disagree to 5= Completely Agree. Higher scores are associated with greater acceptability of the intervention., 24 weeks|Requesting Direct Verbal Feedback From Participants to Assess Elements of the Program that Work Well, to Acquire Suggestions, and to Seek Suggestions to Determine Feasibility and Acceptability, Finally, investigators will conduct an exit interview with each participant to assess the acceptability of the intervention, the delivery of the intervention via telehealth, and their satisfaction with their treatment outcomes. Investigators will also solicit suggestions for improvements to the program for future interventions., 24 weeks
To measure changes from pre- to post-weight-loss intervention for 1) body mass., To assess change in body mass index (BMI), height (measured in meters) and weight (measured in kilograms) will be combined to report BMI in kg/m\^2. Weight will be reported at baseline and after week 24 of the intervention. Participants' height (in meters) will be collected from the electronic medical record at baseline., 24 Months|To measure changes from pre- to post-weight-loss intervention for 2) Qualitative Changes in Mammographic Breast Density, To assess mammographic breast density changes, investigators will measure mammographic density of annual mammogram pre- and post-weight-loss program. The qualitative MBD as reported by Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) scores are collected from the clinical radiologist reports., 24 Months|To measure changes from pre- to post-weight-loss intervention for 2) Quantitative Changes in Mammographic Breast Density, To assess mammographic breast density changes, investigators will measure mammographic density of annual mammogram pre- and post-weight-loss program. Quantitative MBD will be analyzed using LIBRA, which is a fully-automated, free, and publicly available program that estimates MBD. Following digital segmentation, the LIBRA software analysis provides breast area, absolute dense area, and area percent density for each image of a mammographic study. Mean breast area (cm\^2), mean dense area (cm\^2), and quantitative MBD (%) will be calculated for each mammographic study as described., 24 months
Participants will receive weekly group sessions of lifestyle counseling for the first 20 weeks, followed by every other week sessions in weeks 22 and 24, for a total of 6 months of intervention. These group sessions, with 6 participants per group, will be delivered virtually via a HIPAA Compliant Teleconference Platform. The expected number of participants is at least 2 and no more than 6 in this 90-min group sessions which will be provided by a counselor from Penn Center for Weight and Eating Disorders.

The content of the sessions addresses the domains associated with behavioral weight management, including nutrition, exercise, stress and emotion management, and lifestyle modification strategies (to improve adherence to the diet and activity plan). Participants will monitor energy intake and physical activity daily to help them achieve recommended calorie and activity goals. Self-monitoring will be encouraged online with MyFitnessPal.com, which will be shared with the study staff to increase accountability and provide opportunity for feedback to participants.

Each participant will also be mailed a digital scale so they can weigh themselves each week and report their weight to the group leader. Participants will be encouraged to start with at least 10 minutes of moderately vigorous physical activity (e.g., brisk walking, swimming), at least five days per week, building up to at least 30 minutes per day (150 minutes per week) by week 6.

The primary objective is to assess feasibility and acceptance of telehealth weight loss intervention by the participants. The participants will be asked to complete the following surveys at two time points: baseline (pre-) and treatment end (at week 24). The participants will complete the following psychosocial measures.

1. City of Hope Quality of Life (COH-QOL) Instrument - Breast Cancer Patient (QOL-BC)
2. The International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) Short Form - that assess the types and intensity of physical activity and sitting time in which people routinely engage. It provides an estimate of total physical activity in MET-min/week and time spent sitting.
3. Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) (Depression)
4. Acceptability of Intervention Measure

Finally, investigators will conduct an exit interview with each participant to assess the acceptability of the intervention, the delivery of the intervention via telehealth, and the patients' satisfaction with their treatment outcomes. Investigators will also solicit suggestions for improvements to the program for future interventions.

The secondary objectives are to measure changes from pre- to post weight-loss intervention for 1) body mass and 2) mammographic breast density.

To assess body mass changes, weight will be reported at baseline and after week 24 of the intervention. The scale will be mailed to participants at the beginning of the study. Participants' height from the electronic medical record will be used. Percent weight loss will be calculated to assess weight change across participants.

To assess mammographic breast density changes, investigators will measure mammographic density of annual mammogram pre- and post weight-loss program. Annual mammograms are routinely performed for breast cancer survivors except for those who have had bilateral mastectomy. Two annual mammograms will be used to measure mammographic density. The annual mammogram performed between 1 month - 12 months prior to weight loss program initiation will be used as baseline (pre-intervention). The post-intervention mammogram will be the first annual mammogram performed after weight loss program. If routine annual mammogram occurs during the 20-week weight loss program, then the next annual mammogram will be used for breast density assessment.

Therefore, study duration for each participant from enrollment to completion (mammographic density) is estimated to be up to 24 months.