The Efficacy of Topical Bupivacaine and Triamcinolone Acetonide Injection in the Relief of Pain After Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection for Gastric Neoplasia: A Randomized Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Trial
Although pain is a common complication of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), management strategies are inadequate. bupivacaine is used for visceral pain control in chronic pain and in pain associated with surgery in clinical practice. Further, triamcinolone, a type of steroid, is often mixed with bupivacaine to lengthen the analgesic effect. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of topical bupivacaine and triamcinolone acetonide for abdominal pain relief and as a potential method of pain control after ESD for gastric neoplasia. We hypothesized that topical bupivacaine and/or triamcinolone acetonide injection after ESD would be effective for pain relief. For this, we designed randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Eligible patients with early gastric neoplasm were randomized into one of three groups: bupivacaine (BV) only, bupivacaine with triamcinolone (BV-TA), or placebo. To evaluate the pain after ESD, the Present Pain Intensity (PPI) score and the Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) were used to evaluate pain at 0, 6, 12 and 24 h after ESD.
Gastric Cancer|Gastric Adenoma
DRUG: Saline|DRUG: Bupivacaine + saline|DRUG: Bupivacaine + triamcinolone acetonide
Present Pain Intensity (PPI) score, Present Pain Intensity (PPI) score at 6 hour after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is assessed, at 6 hour after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD)
Although pain is a common complication of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), management strategies are inadequate. bupivacaine is used for visceral pain control in chronic pain and in pain associated with surgery in clinical practice. Further, triamcinolone, a type of steroid, is often mixed with bupivacaine to lengthen the analgesic effect. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of topical bupivacaine and triamcinolone acetonide for abdominal pain relief and as a potential method of pain control after ESD for gastric neoplasia. We hypothesized that topical bupivacaine and/or triamcinolone acetonide injection after ESD would be effective for pain relief. For this, we designed randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Eligible patients with early gastric neoplasm were randomized into one of three groups: bupivacaine (BV) only, bupivacaine with triamcinolone (BV-TA), or placebo. To evaluate the pain after ESD, the Present Pain Intensity (PPI) score and the Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) were used to evaluate pain at 0, 6, 12 and 24 h after ESD.