A Study of Gemcitabine, Capecitabine and Bevacizumab to Treat Cancer of the Gall Bladder or Bile Ducts
To assess the proposed therapy for patients with advanced gallbladder or biliary cancers.
Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine, Capecitabine and Bevacizumab
The Primary Objective of This Study is to Assess Progression Free Survival (PFS) With Proposed Therapy for Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Gallbladder and Biliary Cancers., Progression will be evaluated in this study using the international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.0). Changes in only the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions are used in the RECIST criteria. Note: Lesions are either measurable or non-measurable using the criteria provided below. The term "evaluable" in reference to measurability will not be used because it does not provide additional meaning or accuracy., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years
Estimate the Proportion of Patients With Clinical Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years|Assess the Toxicity of the Regimen., Number of patients with Serious Adverse Events. Please refer to the adverse event reporting for more detail., up to 5 years|Assess the Change in the Quality of Life Among Patients Using the FACT-Hep (Version 4) for Hepatobiliary Cancers., We utilized the FACT-HEP TOTAL SCORE (version 4) quality-of-life scale, which is a 45 item scale ranging from 96-178. Higher scores of the reflect better quality of life.

For a Detailed description see:

Nancy Heffernan, David Cella, Kimberly Webster, Linda Odom, Mary Martone, Steven Passik, Marilyn Bookbinder, Yuman Fong, William Jarnagin, and Leslie Blumgart: Measuring Health-Related Quality of Life in Patients With Hepatobiliary Cancers: The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Hepatobiliary Questionnaire. Journal of Clinical Oncology, Vol 20, No 9 (May 1), 2002: pp 2229-2239.

No subscales were analyzed.

., Baseline, Day 22 and Day 43|Assess Overall Survival (OS), From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years|Circulating Tumor Cells (CTC) Will be Assessed at Baseline, Day 22 and Day 43, Mean number of CTCs in 7.5 ml of whole blood, baseline, day 22 and day 43|Collect Samples at Baseline, Day 8 and Day 43 for Future Biomarker Studies and Development of Profiles of Responders to Anti-VEGF Therapy (Optional), This was a tissue banking end point of sample collection for future studies. No analysis was completed., Baseline, day 8 and day 43
The primary objective of this study is to assess progression free survival with proposed therapy for patients with locally advanced or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder or biliary ducts.