Clinical Trial of BCMA CAR T Cell Infusion in Patients With BCMA-positive r/r Multiple Myeloma
Multiple myeloma is a kind of hematological malignancy caused by the proliferation of malignant clonal plasma cells. In recent years, the emergence of new therapeutic drugs such as bortezomib and lenalidomide has significantly improved the therapeutic effect of mm. However, due to the presence of myeloma stem cells, most patients will inevitably relapse and die. With the development of biomedicine and immunology, immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor modified T cells has attracted great attention for its amazing efficacy. CAR-T cells carry receptors that can specifically recognize myeloma associated antigens, and their killing effect is not limited by MHC molecules. B-cell mature antigen is only expressed on the surface of B cells in germinal center, malignant and normal plasma cells, not on other normal human tissues and CD34 + hematopoietic stem cells. It is a relatively specific high expression on the surface of myeloma cells, which is an ideal target for MM immunotherapy. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of BCMA targeted T cell infusion in the treatment of BCMA positive multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: BCMA-CART cells
safety(Incidence of AE or SAE of ≥ grade 3 ), Incidence of AE or SAE of ≥ grade 3 (refer to CTCAE version 4.03) related to the study drug within 12 weeks after infusion of the study drug, 12 weeks after infusion of the study drug
Effectiveness, ORR at 12 weeks after infusion (ORR12), 12 weeks after infusion of the study drug
Multiple myeloma is a kind of hematological malignancy caused by the proliferation of malignant clonal plasma cells. In recent years, the emergence of new therapeutic drugs such as bortezomib and lenalidomide has significantly improved the therapeutic effect of mm. However, due to the presence of myeloma stem cells, most patients will inevitably relapse and die. With the development of biomedicine and immunology, immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor modified T cells has attracted great attention for its amazing efficacy. CAR-T cells carry receptors that can specifically recognize myeloma associated antigens, and their killing effect is not limited by MHC molecules. B-cell mature antigen is only expressed on the surface of B cells in germinal center, malignant and normal plasma cells, not on other normal human tissues and CD34 + hematopoietic stem cells. It is a relatively specific high expression on the surface of myeloma cells, which is an ideal target for MM immunotherapy. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of BCMA targeted T cell infusion in the treatment of BCMA positive multiple myeloma.