Sentinel Lymph Node Mapping in Rectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to develop a technique that allows physicians to identify the first lymph nodes draining from a rectal tumor (the sentinel lymph nodes). Currently, there is no technique used to find these lymph nodes in the rectum during surgery and therefore many patients with rectal cancer need to undergo a total rectal resection. Dyes, tracers, imaging and a gamma probe will be used in this study during a standard minimally invasive transanal endoscopic surgery (TES) to try to locate these lymph nodes. If surgeons are able to locate these lymph nodes they will be removed during surgery. If the technique is successfully developed as a result of this research, it could help patients in the future with early stage rectal cancer by allowing doctors to see if their cancer has spread to the lymph nodes of the rectum without having to undergo a total rectal resection. These patients would then be able to undergo a TES combined with a lymph node dissection to gain more knowledge about the stage of their disease. This knowledge would then be used to determine if and what further treatment is necessary for the patient's rectal cancer.
Rectal Neoplasms
OTHER: Endoscopic injection of 99mTc-sulfur colloid|OTHER: Endoscopic injection of ICG|OTHER: Endoscopic injection of Spot|PROCEDURE: Flexible sigmoidoscopy|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic NIR imaging and gamma probe|PROCEDURE: Dissection of sentinel lymph node(s)
1st Phase: Detection rate of sentinel lymph node in first 6 patients, Data from the first 6 eligible patients will be used to verify feasibility. For this phase, the data need to support a detection rate of at least 50% for the procedure to be considered feasible to move forward with the 2nd phase. The proposed SLNm technique will be declared 'feasible' if at least one SLN is identified per patient. Identification of the SLN in three consecutive patients would provide 80% confidence of successful identification more than 50% of the time. A total sample of size of 6 patients would allow for three refinements in technique if necessary to establish feasibility., Throughout first phase of study, an average of 1 year.|2nd Phase: Detection rate of refined protocol in identifying SLN, 2nd Phase: Sample size is set at 16 eligible patients. For this study, continued investigation of the proposed technique would be of interest if 70-100% of the SLNs are detected. If at least on SLN is detected in 14 of 16 patients, an observed rate of 87.5%, then the lower limit of a one-sided 90% confidence interval is 70%. Thus, detection of at least one SLN in 14 or more patients out of 16 assessed would provide strong preliminary data for the technique (i.e. SLN is detected in at least 70% of patients). If it's assumed, on average, 1.5 SLN could be identified and excised per patient, then with 24 possible SLN, the estimated rate of SLN positive for disease would have an expected half width (or precision of the estimate) of 12-14%., Throughout first phase of study, an average of 1.5 years.
Size of the SLN according to pathologic analysis, Throughout study, an average of 2.5 years|Location of the SLN according to pathologic analysis, Throughout study, an average of 2.5 years.|Time required for completion of the protocol, Throughout study, an average of 2.5 years.|Number of protocol modifications for procedural and/or technical issues, Throughout study, an average of 2.5 years|Ergonomic optimization of the protocol as measured by operative time, Throughout study, an average of 2.5 years|Ergonomic optimization of the protocol as measured by surgeon satisfaction, Throughout study, an average of 2.5 years
The purpose of this study is to develop a technique that allows physicians to identify the first lymph nodes draining from a rectal tumor (the sentinel lymph nodes). Currently, there is no technique used to find these lymph nodes in the rectum during surgery and therefore many patients with rectal cancer need to undergo a total rectal resection. Dyes, tracers, imaging and a gamma probe will be used in this study during a standard minimally invasive transanal endoscopic surgery (TES) to try to locate these lymph nodes. If surgeons are able to locate these lymph nodes they will be removed during surgery. If the technique is successfully developed as a result of this research, it could help patients in the future with early stage rectal cancer by allowing doctors to see if their cancer has spread to the lymph nodes of the rectum without having to undergo a total rectal resection. These patients would then be able to undergo a TES combined with a lymph node dissection to gain more knowledge about the stage of their disease. This knowledge would then be used to determine if and what further treatment is necessary for the patient's rectal cancer.