HGG-TCP (High Grade Glioma - Tumor Concentrations of Protein Kinase Inhibitors)
The purpose of this study is to determine intratumoral concentration of kinase inhibitors upon 2 weeks of treatment in tumor tissue (in the brain) of patients with high-grade gliomas (HGG).
Cancer|High-grade Glioma
DRUG: Sunitinib|DRUG: vandetanib|DRUG: Erlotinib
PKI and active metabolites concentrations in tumor tissue, PKI concentrations and active metabolites in tumor tissue after approximately two weeks of PKI treatment will be determined., 2 weeks
Correlation of PKI and active metabolites concentrations in tumor., Venous blood sampling will be performed to determine plasma drug and active metabolites concentrations after approximately one and two weeks of PKI treatment and during surgery. CSF samples will be drawn during surgery. Plasma- and CSF drug concentrations will be correlated to tumor drug concentrations. Plasma samples for pharmacodynamics will be simultaneously drawn with the on- and after treatment hematology and chemistry analysis., 2 weeks|Feasibility of determining the (phospho)proteomic profiles and kinase activity profiles in tumor tissue and CSF., Kinome wide and quantitative (phospho)proteomic profiles will be determined in tumor tissue of study patients and in tumor tissue of matched controled patients. We anticipate that these profiles will reveal information on the effect of treatment on kinase abundances, phosphopeptide levels and on phosphorylation sites. Differences in levels of phosphopeptides and fold-change of phosphorylation sites will be quantified. In an exploratory design, we will determine whether observed profile differences can be correlated to drug concentrations in tumor tissue. Kinase inhibition profiles will be measured according to standard methods as developed and modified in our laboratory., 2 weeks|Significant difference of the (phospho)proteomic profiles and kinase activities of tumor tissue in study patients and control group., The (phospho)proteomic profiles and kinase activity profiles will be determined in tumor tissue of study patients and in tumor tissue of patients in a control group.

Kinase inhibition profiles will be measured according to standard methods as developed and modified in our laboratory., 2 weeks
In clinical trials for HGG, multiple agents targeting various oncogenic signaling pathways that play an important role in the biology of HGG have been studied, but unfortunately only a small number of patients seem to benefit from these treatment strategies. Whether these disappointing results are due to a restricted drug delivery through the blood-brain barrier, or due to differential biological characteristics of these HGGs, remains unknown. To better understand these clinical observations and to find potential insight how to overcome them, we intend to measure tumor concentrations of PKIs after approximately two weeks treatment and to determine whether these tumor concentrations correlate with plasma- and CSF concentrations of PKIs. Subsequently, we intend to determine the (phospho)proteomic profiles and kinase inhibitory activity in tumor tissue from these HGG patients after approximately two weeks of treatment with a PKI.