A Study to Compare Two Surgical Procedures in Individuals With BRCA1 Mutations to Assess Reduced Risk of Ovarian Cancer
This clinical trial evaluates how well two surgical procedures (bilateral salpingectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy) work in reducing the risk of ovarian cancer for individuals with BRCA1 mutations. Bilateral salpingectomy involves the surgical removal of fallopian tubes, and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy involves the surgical removal of both the fallopian tubes and ovaries. This study may help doctors determine if the two surgical procedures are nearly the same for ovarian cancer risk reduction for women with BRCA1 mutations.
Ovarian Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Bilateral Salpingectomy|PROCEDURE: Bilateral Salpingectomy with Oophorectomy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Transvaginal Ultrasound|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound Imaging
Time to development of incident high-grade serous carcinomas (HGSC), specifically ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancers, Will be assessed using a stratified log rank test, stratifying for age. The effects of other covariates, such as familial history of gynecologic cancer, time to crossover for bilateral salpingectomy (BLS) patients, and age at study entry, will be adjusted for in Cox proportional hazard models. Patients who crossover will be analyzed according to the initial surgery received at study enrollment as this will reflect actual practice., Up to 20 years
Health-related quality of life (QOL), Will be measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Endocrine Symptom (FACT-ES). The FACT total score (calculated from the physical, functional, social and emotional well-being subscales) and ES subscale will be assessed. Scores range from 0 to 76. Higher scores indicate better QOL for the FACT-ES and better functioning for the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) total score., Up to 24 months post-surgery|Cancer distress, Will be measured by the Impact of Events Scale (IES). The total score can range from 0 to 88, with higher scores indicating a greater impact of the event., Up to 24 months post-surgery|Medical decision making, Will be measured by the Shared Decision Making Questionnaire (SDM-Q-9) and, Decisional Regret Scale. The SDM-Q-9 total score and Decisional Regret Scale total score at each time point of collection will be compared between arms using a t-test with a significance level of 0.05. A linear model will be used to assess the association of the SDM-Q-9 total score with treatment arm and patient characteristics such as age and race. A similar model will be used to assess the association of the Decisional Regret Scale total score with treatment arm and patient characteristics such as age, race, crossover from BLS arm, and hysterectomy status. minimum score of 0 and a maximum score of 45. A higher score indicates a greater level of perceived shared decision-making in a consultation., Up to 24 months post-surgery|Incidence of adverse events, Will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Counts and frequencies will be provided for the worst grade adverse event (AE) experienced by the patient by treatment arm. The distribution of AE grade in the BLS arm will be compared to the bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy arm using a chi-square test, or Fisher's exact test if cell frequencies are \< 5, at the one-sided 0.05 significance level., Up to 20 years|Estrogen deprivation symptoms (pre-menopaused patients only), Will be measured by the FACT-ES. The FACT total score (calculated from the physical, functional, social and emotional well-being subscales) and ES subscale will be assessed. Scores range from 0 to 76. Higher scores indicate better QOL for the FACT-ES and better functioning for the FSFI total score. Models will also include hormonal therapy as a covariate., Up to 24 months post-surgery|Sexual dysfunction (pre-menopausal patients only), Will be measured by the FSFI. Scores range from 0 to 36. Higher scores indicate better functioning for the FSFI total score., Up to 24 months post-surgery|Menopausal symptoms (pre-menopausal patients only), Will be measured by the Menopausal Symptom Checklist (MSCL). Models will also include hormonal therapy as a covariate. The MSCL total score and individual items will be compared between groups using the t-test and Wilcoxon test, respectively. The change from baseline in total score will be compared between groups at each follow-up time point. The change form baseline in the 3 items not included in the subscale scores will be compared between groups using the Wilcoxon test at each follow-up time point., Up to 24 months post-surgery
Cost effectiveness, Will be measured by European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire. A Markov model will be used to model cost. Scores range from 0 to 100 with higher score indicating better overall health., Up to 24 months post-surgery|Section dysfunction (pre-menopausal patients only), Will be measured by selected Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) screener and external sexual function items. Each item will be analyzed separately and compared between treatment arms using a chi-square test. Scores range from 0 to 100 with higher score indicating more of the concept being measured., Up to 24 months-post surgery|Health related (HR)-QOL, Will examine the correlation between HR-QOL, as measured by the FACT, with menopausal symptoms, as measured by the MCL, sexual dysfunction, as measured by FSFI, and PROMIS screener and external sexual function items and cancer distress as measured by the IES. Pearson correlation coefficients will be used for correlating the FACT total score with the FSFI overall score and Impact of Events Scale total distress score. Spearman correlation coefficients will be used to assess the correlation between FACT total score and the Menopausal Symptom Checklist symptoms, FSFI, and PROMIS items., Up to 24 months post-surgery|Risk-reducing medical decision making validation and assessment, Measured by population-specific items examining the factors associated with the risk reducing surgical treatment choice. Will by assessed using the Risk-Reducing Medical Decision Making survey., Up to 24 months post-surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the non-inferiority of bilateral salpingectomy (BLS) with delayed oophorectomy to bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer among individuals with deleterious BRCA1 germline mutations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To prospectively assess estrogen deprivation symptoms in pre-menopausal BLS patients as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Endocrine Symptom (FACT-ES) subscale compared to pre-menopausal patients in the BSO arm.

II. To determine if health-related quality of life (QOL) (FACT) is negatively impacted by menopausal symptoms (menopausal symptom checklist-Menopausal Symptom Checklist \[MSCL\]) and sexual dysfunction (Female Sexual Function Index \[FSFI\]) in pre-menopausal patients who have undergone BLS, in comparison to normative data (MSCL/FACT-ES) and data from pre-menopausal BSO patients.

III. To determine if health-related QOL (FACT) is negatively impacted by cancer distress (Impact of Event Scale \[IES\]) in individuals who have undergone BLS, in comparison to BSO patients.

IV. To assess medical decision making, as measured by the Shared Decision Making Questionnaire (SDM-Q-9) and Decision Regret Scale (DRS), and determine factors associated with the risk of reducing surgical treatment choice.

V. To assess adverse events, graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Sexual dysfunction, as measured by selected Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) screener and external sexual function items (pre-menopausal patients).

II. To estimate the cost-effectiveness of BLS compared to BSO for ovarian cancer risk reduction.

III. To assess medical decision making, as measured by the Risk-Reducing Medical Decision Making (RR-MDM) survey, a targeted set of questions on risk reducing surgical treatment choice.

TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank tissue and blood biospecimens for future research.

OUTLINE: Patients choose between 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo bilateral salpingectomy. Patients may then undergo oophorectomy after initial surgery.

GROUP II: Patients undergo bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

Patients in both groups also undergo a pelvic or transvaginal ultrasound during screening and blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 10-60 days, 6, 12, and 24 months, and then annually for up to 20 years.