A Study in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the hypothesis that cixutumumab given in combination with cisplatin and pemetrexed is superior to cisplatin and pemetrexed as first-line therapy for patients with advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC).
Non-Small-Cell Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cixutumumab
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from date of randomization until the date of disease progression, or death from any cause, whichever was first. Disease progression was assessed via Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s), and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Participants without documentation for disease progression or death were censored at the date of last tumor assessment. The PFS was estimated following the Kaplan-Meier method., Randomization Date to Disease Progression or Death From Any Cause Up to 18.3 Months
Percentage of Participants Achieving an Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is the percentage of all participants with Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR) according to RECIST v1.1. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s), and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. ORR is confirmed best overall tumor response of CR and PR. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR defined as a \>30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of the target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the LD., Randomization to Disease Progression Up to 18.3 Months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. If the participant is alive at the end of the follow-up period or is lost to follow-up, OS will be censored on the last date the participant is known to be alive. OS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Randomization Date to Death From Any Cause Up to 20 Months|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for CR/PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that the criteria for PD is met, or death, is objectively documented. DOR was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease progression was assessed via RECIST version 1.1, and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s), and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, Time from Response to Disease Progression or Death from Any Cause Up to 20 Months|Time to Progressive Disease (TTPS), TTPS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of disease progression. Disease progression was assessed via RECIST version 1.1, and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s), and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions.TTPS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Randomization Date to Disease Progression Up to 18.3 Months|Time to Worsening of Symptoms as Measured by Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS) Score, TTPS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of worsening of symptoms as measured by Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS) score. Symptomatic progression was defined as an increase (worsening) of the Average Symptomatic Burden Index (ASBI) that is, the mean of the six major lung cancer specific symptom scores of the LCSS patient scale - ranging from 0 to 100 where higher score indicates worst outcome). For each participant, the maximum improvement over baseline score was calculated for each of the 9 LCSS items, ASBI and LCSS total score. Participants without event are censored at the date of the last LCSS assessment. TTPS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time to worsening of symptoms as measured by LCSS score Up to 18.3 Months|Change in Tumor Size (CTS), CTS was measured by percentage change of tumor size at the end of Cycle 2 comparing to baseline tumor size., Change from baseline measurement to the end of Cycle 2, average of 42 days|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Cixutumumab, Cycle 1 (First Infusion) and Cycle 4 (Fourth Infusion), First Infusion: [Prior to Infusion (of Cycle1): 1, 72, 168, 336 hours(hrs) and 504 hrs (i.e. Prior to Infusion of Cycle 2)] and Fourth Infusion; [Prior to Infusion (of Cycle 4),1,24,72,120,168,240,336 hrs and 504 hrs (i.e. Prior to Infusion of Cycle 5)]|PK: Area Under the Concentration Time Curve (AUC[0-inf]) of Cixutumumab, Cycle 1 (i.e. First Infusion), Prior to Infusion (of Cycle 1), 1, 72, 168, 336 hrs and 504 hrs (i.e. Prior to Infusion of Cycle 2)|PK: Area Under the Concentration Time Curve During 1 Dosing Interval (i.e. 504 hr, AUC(0-tau) of Cixutumumab, Cycle 4 (i.e. Fourth Infusion), Prior to Infusion (of Cycle 4), 1, 24, 72, 120, 168, 240, 336 hrs and 504 hrs (i.e. Prior to Infusion of Cycle 5)|Pharmacodynamics (PD) Markers: Free Insulin-like Growth Factor-I (IGF-I, Total IGF-I, and IGF Binding Proteins (IGFBP-3), Blood samples for the determination of PD marker concentrations were collected at the specified time points for all participants. Analysis of the following markers include free IGF-I, total IGF-I, and IGFBP-3., Preinfusion, Cycle 2, Cycle 4, Cycle 8, Postinfusion, 30-Day Follow-Up|Immunogenicity of Cixutumumab, Preinfusion, Cycle1(C1): 1, 72, 168, 240, 336 hours(hrs); C2 and C3: 1, 168, 336 hrs; C4: 1, 24,72,120,168, 240, 336, 504 hrs, Postinfusion; 30 Day Follow Up
The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the hypothesis that cixutumumab given in combination with cisplatin and pemetrexed is superior to cisplatin and pemetrexed as first-line therapy for patients with advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC).