Apatinib Plus IE Chemotherapy (Ifosfamide and Etoposide) for Relapsed or Refractory Osteosarcoma
Apatinib has led to positive responses in the treatment of osteosarcoma refractory to first-line chemotherapy. However, apatinib demonstrates only short-lived activity, and the disease control of musculoskeletal lesions is worse than that of pulmonary lesions. This treatment failure has been partly overcome by the addition of ifosfamide and etoposide (IE). We have ever retrospectively compared the activity of apatinib + IE in relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma in two sarcoma centers in China and concluded that for osteosarcoma with multiple sites of metastasis, apatinib + IE demonstrated clinically meaningful antitumor activity and delayed disease progression in patients with recurrent or refractory osteosarcoma after failure of chemotherapy. However to overcome the influence of other interventions on the outcome, we are currently performing a prospective trial to investigate this combination, from which more accurate data on this treatment strategy are expected.
Effect of Drug|Toxicity, Drug
DRUG: apatinib
Progression free survival, from the start of target treatment until disease progression or death, whichever came first., 2 years
Overall survival, from the date of treatment initiation to death from any cause., 3 years
Apatinib has led to positive responses in the treatment of osteosarcoma refractory to first-line chemotherapy. However, apatinib demonstrates only short-lived activity, and the disease control of musculoskeletal lesions is worse than that of pulmonary lesions. This treatment failure has been partly overcome by the addition of ifosfamide and etoposide (IE). We have ever retrospectively compared the activity of apatinib + IE in relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma in two sarcoma centers in China and concluded that for osteosarcoma with multiple sites of metastasis, apatinib + IE demonstrated clinically meaningful antitumor activity and delayed disease progression in patients with recurrent or refractory osteosarcoma after failure of chemotherapy. However to overcome the influence of other interventions on the outcome, we are currently performing a prospective trial to investigate this combination, from which more accurate data on this treatment strategy are expected.