Use Feasibility of the iThermonitor in Pediatrics Patients on Myelosuppresive Therapies
This is a pilot study to evaluate the use feasibility of the iThermonitor, a continuous temperature monitoring device, as a clinical support and patient self-management tool in the management of pediatrics patients on myelosuppressive therapies for acute leukemia and other childhood cancers.
Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DEVICE: iThermonitor
Percent of Participants That Successfully Used the iThermonitor, This will be assessed by ability of the device to successfully capture, transmit and display the patient's body temperature data on the study iPod TouchiPad mini. To limit recall bias, subjects will be required to log the ability to view the temperature data on the iPad mini once a day for the entire duration of the study. The device will be deemed a feasible continuous temperature monitoring tool if at least 80% of study subjects are able to successfully use the iThermonitor to monitor their body temperature. A subject must be able to view temperature data on the provided iPad mini at least 80% of the time in the study to be considered successful. "Time in the study" here is defined as the number of days the subject spends in the study which is expected to be two weeks., Two Weeks
Care Giver Anxiety, The Generalized Anxiety Disorder, 7 item questionnaire was given to caregivers to see if using the device increased feelings of anxiety. This will be assessed using the GAD-7 questionnaire administered at enrollment and closeout, 0 & 2 weeks|Usability, Acceptability and Satisfaction, This will be assessed by questionnaires specifically designed for this study. We will be assessing ease of use, acceptability, connection and use problems like the device falling off the skin, usefulness of out-of-range temperature alerts and adverse reactions. We will also assess to see if the device helps to build caregiver self-efficacy skills in caring for the patient., 2 weeks
Neutropenia, secondary to myelosupressive therapies, predisposes patients to significant risk for infectious complications which increases morbidity and mortality. Usually, fever is the first clinical sign of the inflammatory response to the infective process; and early detection is an indication for empiric antimicrobial therapy and further evaluation to determine risk for sepsis. Today, broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy at the first detection of fever has helped significantly decreased the mortality associated with neutropenia in the intensive phase of chemotherapy. Therefore, early detection of fever, through regular temperature monitoring, in a neutropenic patient is critical to improved clinical outcome. Vigilance on the part of care providers and care givers is crucial to early detection. Traditionally, this is simply done through episodic oral or axillary monitoring of temperature. In this study, we propose to test the use feasibility of an innovative device that continuously monitors body temperature as a clinical decision support tool in pediatric patients undergoing myelosuppressive therapies for acute leukemias and other childhood cancers.

The iThermonitor, a FDA class II device, is a high accuracy device that continuously monitors body temperature and connects to a receiver (iPad mini) via bluetooth to display body temperature data in real time. The iThermonitor is attached to the skin by a hydrogel dressing which can be changed as needed. It captures data even without connection to a receiver and it can establish connection to a paired receiver device (the iPad mini) within a range of three meters. The provided iPad mini will be pre-loaded with the iThermonitor app which will be used to pair the receiver with the iThermonitor device. The device monitors body temperature every four seconds and is able to store 10 days worth of data that can be offloaded as soon as it establishes connection with a receiver. It is able to measure temperature in the range of 25-45 degrees Celsius. Users are able to set temperature limits at which alerts for which out-of-range temperature can go off. It also provides care providers an opportunity to remotely monitor their patients' temperature in the immediate period after discharge from the hospital. Therefore, we hypothesize that the iThermonitor can serve as a feasible clinical decision support in the management of pediatric patients undergoing intensive treatments for acute leukemia and other childhood cancers.

This study will be implemented as a pilot study to test the use feasibility of the iThermonitor as a clinical decision support for continuous temperature monitoring in a dyad of 25 pediatrics patients, (aged 2yrs - 17yrs) on myelosuppressive therapies for acute leukemia and other childhood cancers at the MGH Pediatric Hematology and Oncology group, and their caregivers. The iThermonitor will be used by patients and their caregivers at home over a 2-week study period starting from the day after chemotherapy. There will be two study visits: study enrollment and study closeout.

The investigators have chosen to implement this study as a feasibility study because the investigators' goal is to determine if continuous temperature monitoring by the iThermonitor can work in home settings. To the investigators' knowledge, the researchers are not aware of any previous research exploring continuous temperature monitoring in pediatric oncology patients on myelosuppresive therapies. Therefore, findings from this study have the potential to advance knowledge about the management of fever in pediatric patients on myelosuppresive therapies.