Japan Phase 2 Study of Niraparib in Participants With Advanced, Relapsed Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of niraparib in participants with advanced, relapsed, high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who have received 3 or 4 previous chemotherapy regimens.
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Niraparib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR or PR as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST v.1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in SoD of target lesions, taking as a reference the Baseline SoD., Until disease progression or death (Up to 3.8 years)
Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the first documented CR or PR per RECIST v.1.1 to disease recurrence or objective disease progression whichever occurs first. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in SoD of target lesions, taking as a reference the Baseline SoD., Until disease progression or death (Up to 3.8 years)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR, PR or SD as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST v.1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in SoD of target lesions, taking as a reference the Baseline SoD. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SoD of target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since (and including) Baseline., Until disease progression or death (Up to 3.8 years)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (eg, a clinically significant abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a drug, whether or not it is considered related to the drug. A TEAE was defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after the last dose or beginning of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever came first (Up to 3.8 years)|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher TEAEs, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who has enrolled in a study; it does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. A TEAE was defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug. A severity grade was defined by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 4.03. As per NCI-CTCAE, Grade 1 scales as Mild; Grade 2 scales as Moderate; Grade 3 scales as severe or medically significant but not immediately life threatening; Grade 4 scales as life-threatening consequences; and Grade 5 scales as death related to AE., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after the last dose or beginning of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever came first (Up to 3.8 years)|Number of Participants With Serious TEAEs, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who has enrolled in a study; it does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. A serious adverse event (SAE) was any AE that results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of an existing hospitalization, results in significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is a medically important event. TEAE was defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after the last dose or beginning of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever came first (Up to 3.8 years)|Number of Participants With TEAEs Leading to Drug Discontinuation, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who has enrolled in a study; it does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. A TEAE was defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after the last dose or beginning of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever came first (Up to 3.8 years)|Number of Participants With TEAEs Leading to Dose Interruption, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who has enrolled in a study; it does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. A TEAE was defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after the last dose or beginning of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever came first (Up to 3.8 years)|Number of Participants With TEAEs Leading to Dose Reduction, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who has enrolled in a study; it does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. A TEAE was defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after the last dose or beginning of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever came first (Up to 3.8 years)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time in months from the date of first study drug administration to the date of first documentation of PD or death as assessed by the RECIST v.1.1. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SoD of target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since (and including) Baseline., Until disease progression or death (Up to 3.8 years)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time in months from the study enrollment to death due to any cause., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after the last dose or beginning of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever came first (Up to 3.8 years)
The drug being tested in this study is called niraparib. Niraparib is being tested to treat people who have the homologous recombination deficiency (HRD)-positive, advanced, relapsed, high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. This study will look at the efficacy and safety of niraparib in Japanese participants.

The study will enroll approximately 16 participants. Participants will be enrolled to one group and after that will be asked to take niraparib capsules at the same time each day throughout the study:

- Niraparib 300 mg

This multi-center trial will be conducted in Japan. The overall time to participate in this study is approximately 23 months. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic in the treatment period, and the post-treatment period including follow-up assessments after the last dose of the study drug.