Pembrolizumab With Carboplatin Compared to Carboplatin Alone in Breast Cancer Patients With Chest Wall Disease
This is a phase II multicenter study including breast cancer patients with chest wall disease that is hormone resistant (estrogen receptor (ER) positive/progesterone receptor (PR) positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) negative breast cancer with progressive disease on 2 prior lines of hormonal therapy) or triple negative (ER negative/PR negative/HER2 negative, TNBC). Eighty-four patients will be enrolled at Translational Breast Cancer Research Consortium (TBCRC) sites and will be randomized 2:1 to receive treatment with pembrolizumab and carboplatin (n=56, Arm A) or carboplatin alone (n=28, Arm B) until documented disease progression. Patients randomized to Arm B may cross-over following progression to pembrolizumab with or without carboplatin at investigator's discretion (Arm Bx). Patients may have received any number of prior lines of chemotherapy. Patients in Arm A will be treated with pembrolizumab 200 mg IV and carboplatin area under curve (AUC) 5 IV every 3 weeks for at least 6 cycles followed by maintenance pembrolizumab 200 mg IV every 3 weeks if stable or responding disease. Patients in Arm B will be treated with carboplatin AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks until progression, whereupon they may cross-over to pembrolizumab 200 mg IV every 3 weeks with or without carboplatin at investigator's discretion (Arm Bx). An interim analysis for futility will be performed after 18 patients are enrolled into Arm B to allow early stopping of that trial arm for lack of efficacy. The primary endpoint is to compare disease control rates at 18 weeks of treatment. Secondary endpoints include progression free survival, toxicity, and overall response rate.
Breast Cancer|Chest Wall Disease
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab
Disease Control Rate (DCR), Complete response (CR), Partial Response (PR), and stable disease (SD)as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 at 18 weeks of treatment in breast cancer patients with chest wall disease treated with pembrolizumab and carboplatin or carboplatin alone, Up to 18 weeks|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from observed objective response to disease progression and will be summarized by treatment arms using the Kaplan-Meier method, Up to 18 weeks
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Complete response (CR) and Partial Response (PR),defined by Immune related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST) at 18 weeks of treatment, Up to 18 weeks|DCR by immune-related (ir) RECIST, Complete response (CR), Partial Response (PR), and stable disease (SD)as defined by Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST) at 18 weeks of treatment in breast cancer patients with chest wall disease treated with pembrolizumab and carboplatin or carboplatin alone also based on PD-L1 expression, Up to 18 weeks|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events (AEs), Adverse events will be graded and recorded according to NCI CTCAE Version 4.0 and characterized in terms regarding up to 30 days after the last treatment or end of treatment. Grade 1 laboratory abnormalities and white blood cell differential abnormalities excluding neutrophils (i.e., lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, etc.) do not need to be recorded as AEs., Up to 24 weeks
There will be a companion translational study operating concurrently with the study described above. In this study, biomarker research to be performed on tumor biopsies and peripheral blood samples will be performed to explore the immunologic and genomic mechanism of action underlying treatment with pembrolizumab and carboplatin versus carboplatin alone. This protocol includes tissue and blood correlative exploratory endpoints including changes in tumor PD-L1 (programmed death ligand 1) gene expression, tumor and peripheral blood immune composition and cytokine expression, plasma tumor DNA, circulating tumor cells, and tumor myelocytomatosis (MYC) oncogene expression using tumor biopsy and peripheral blood testing before and after treatment; correlations with these markers and disease control rate will be assessed.