A Study of Ibrutinib With Rituximab in Relapsed or Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to provide continued access to treatment for participants who continue to benefit from treatment.
Lymphoma, Mantle-Cell
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Bortezomib
Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment: Arms A1, A2, A3 and B, An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant administered a medicinal (investigational or non-investigational) product. An AE does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the intervention. TEAEs was defined as any new or worsening AE occurring at or after first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after last dose or prior to start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first. All TEAEs including serious and non-serious events were reported in this outcome measure., From start of treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug or start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first (up to 12 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment: Monotherapy Arm, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant administered a medicinal (investigational or non-investigational) product. An AE does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the intervention. TEAEs was defined as any new or worsening AE occurring at or after first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after last dose or prior to start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first. All TEAEs included serious and non-serious events were reported in this outcome measure., From start of monotherapy (post protocol amendment 1, dated 08 June 2023) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug or start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first (up to 6 months)|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher TEAEs Based on National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version (v) 5.0: Arms A1, A2, A3 and B, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant administered a medicinal (investigational or non-investigational) product. An AE does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the intervention. TEAEs was defined as any new or worsening AE occurring at or after first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after last dose or prior to start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first. TEAEs were graded according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0 as Grade 1- Mild; Grade 2- Moderate; Grade 3- Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; Grade 4- Life-threatening consequences and Grade 5- Death related to AE. Number of participants with grade 3 or higher TEAEs (including serious and non-serious events) were reported in this outcome measure., From start of treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug or start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first (up to 12 months)|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher TEAEs Based on National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version (v) 5.0: Monotherapy Arm, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant administered a medicinal (investigational or non-investigational) product. An AE does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the intervention. TEAEs was defined as any new or worsening AE occurring at or after first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after last dose or prior to start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first. TEAEs were graded according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0 as Grade 1- Mild; Grade 2- Moderate; Grade 3- Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; Grade 4- Life-threatening consequences and Grade 5- Death related to AE. Number of participants with grade 3 or higher TEAEs (including serious and non-serious events) were reported in this outcome measure., From start of monotherapy (post protocol amendment 1, dated 08 June 2023) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug or start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first (up to 6 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs): Arms A1, A2, A3 and B, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant administered a medicinal (investigational or non-investigational) product. An AE does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the intervention. A serious AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect, was a suspected transmission of any infectious agent via a medicinal product, or was medically important. TESAEs was defined as SAEs occurring at or after first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after last dose or prior to start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first., From start of treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug or start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first (up to 12 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs): Monotherapy Arm, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant administered a medicinal (investigational or non-investigational) product. An AE does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the intervention. A serious AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect, was a suspected transmission of any infectious agent via a medicinal product, or was medically important. TESAEs was defined as SAEs occurring at or after first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after last dose or prior to start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first., From start of monotherapy (post protocol amendment 1, dated 08 June 2023) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug or start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first (up to 6 months)|Number of Participants With Clinical Laboratory Abnormalities: Hematology Parameters: Arms A1, A2, A3 and B, Number of participants with clinical abnormalities in hematology laboratory parameters were reported. Hematology parameters included: Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), hemoglobin, neutrophil count, white blood cell (WBC) count, lymphocyte count, platelet count and prothrombin international normalized ratio (INR). Abnormality criteria was assessed as per NCI CTCAE v5.0 grading, where Grade 1 = mild; Grade 2 = moderate; Grade 3 = severe; Grade 4 = life-threatening. Grade 0 was assigned when the laboratory value was not assigned a Grade 1 or higher. Only those categories in which at least 1 participant had data were reported., From start of treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug (up to 12 months)|Number of Participants With Clinical Laboratory Abnormalities: Hematology Parameters: Monotherapy Arm, Number of participants with clinical abnormalities in hematology laboratory parameters were reported. Hematology parameters included: Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), hemoglobin, neutrophil count, white blood cell (WBC) count, lymphocyte count, platelet count and prothrombin international normalized ratio (INR). Abnormality criteria was assessed as per NCI CTCAE v5.0 grading, where Grade 1 = mild; Grade 2 = moderate; Grade 3 = severe; Grade 4 = life-threatening. Grade 0 was assigned when the laboratory value was not assigned a Grade 1 or higher. Only those categories in which at least 1 participant had data were reported., From start of monotherapy (post protocol amendment 1, dated 08 June 2023) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug (up to 6 months)|Number of Participants With Clinical Laboratory Abnormalities: Chemistry Parameters: Arms A1, A2, A3 and B, Number of participants with clinical abnormalities in chemistry laboratory parameters were reported. Chemistry parameters included: sodium, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), potassium, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), creatinine, total bilirubin (BL), alkaline phosphatase, albumin, and calcium. Abnormality criteria was assessed as per NCI CTCAE v5.0 grading, where Grade 1 = mild; Grade 2 = moderate; Grade 3 = severe; Grade 4 = life-threatening. Grade 0 was assigned when the laboratory value was not assigned a Grade 1 or higher. Only those categories in which at least 1 participant had data were reported., From start of treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug (up to 12 months)|Number of Participants With Clinical Laboratory Abnormalities: Chemistry Parameters: Monotherapy Arm, Number of participants with clinical abnormalities in chemistry laboratory parameters were reported. Chemistry parameters included: sodium, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), potassium, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), creatinine, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, albumin, and calcium. Abnormality criteria was assessed as per NCI CTCAE v5.0 grading, where Grade 1 = mild; Grade 2 = moderate; Grade 3 = severe; Grade 4 = life-threatening. Grade 0 was assigned when the laboratory value was not assigned a Grade 1 or higher. Only those categories in which at least 1 participant had data were reported., From start of monotherapy (post protocol amendment 1, dated 08 June 2023) up to 30 days after last dose of study drug (up to 6 months)
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is an uncommon and incurable clinicopathologic subtype of B-cell non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL). Ibrutinib is a first-in-class potent, orally administered, covalently-binding small molecule inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTKi) for the treatment of B-cell malignancies and chronic graft-versus-host disease. The primary hypothesis of the study is to provide continued access to treatment for participants who continue to benefit from treatment. The study will include a screening phase (up to 30 days prior to randomization), a treatment phase (from randomization until study treatment discontinuation). safety assessments include adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), clinical laboratory tests, vital signs, electrocardiogram (ECG), physical examination. The Phase 2 exploratory objectives and endpoints of characterization of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic of ibrutinib may continue to be evaluated using blood samples already collected. The total duration of the study will be up to 2 years 1 month.