Lung-MAP: Nivolumab With or Without Ipilimumab as Second-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Recurrent Stage IV Squamous Cell Lung Cancer and No Matching Biomarkers
This randomized phase III trial compares nivolumab with ipilimumab and nivolumab alone in treating patients with stage IV squamous cell lung cancer that has come back after previous treatment. This is a "non-match" sub-study that includes all screened patients not eligible for a biomarker-driven sub-study. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab and ipilimumab, may be able to shrink tumors. It is not yet known whether nivolumab works better with or without ipilimumab in treating patients with squamous cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Squamous Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IV Squamous Cell Lung Carcinoma AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Overall Survival, Duration from randomization to death due to any cause, From date of registration to maximum of 3 years or death
Investigator-assessed Progression-free Survival (IA-PFS), Duration from randomization to first occurrence of progression by RECIST 1.1, symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. The IA-PFS for patients last known to be alive and free of progression or symptomatic deterioration was censored at the date of last disease assessment.

Progression is defined as one or more of the following: 20% increase in the sum of appropriate diameters of target measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease during therapy) using the same techniques as baseline as well as an absolute increase of at least 0.5 cm; Unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease in the opinion of the treating physician (an explanation must be provided); Appearance of any new lesion/site; Death due to disease without prior documentation of progression and without symptomatic deterioration, From date of registration to maximum of 3 years or death|Objective Response Rate, Response was defined as the occurrence of a complete or partial response, confirmed or unconfirmed per RECIST 1.1 criteria. Response for patients not known to have a response was coded as nonresponse.

Complete response: Complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Any lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm. All disease must be assessed using the same technique as baseline.

Partial response: Applies only to patients with at least one measurable lesion. Greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of appropriate diameters of all target measurable lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease. No new lesions. All target measurable lesions must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline., From date of registration to maximum of 3 years or death|Number of Participants With Gr 3 Through 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drugs, Only adverse events that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study drug are reported. CTCAE Version 4.0 was used for routine toxicity reporting and CTCAE Version 5.0 was used for reporting SAEs., Duration of treatment and follow up until death or 3 years post registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced stage refractory squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) of the lung randomized to nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS) in patients with advanced stage refractory SCCA of the lung randomized to nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

II. To compare the response rates (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 among patients randomized to receive nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

III. To compare the response rates (confirmed only, complete and partial) per RECIST 1.1 among patients randomized to receive nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus nivolumab.

TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate if there is a differential treatment effect on OS, IA-PFS, and response by tumor programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression status.

II. To examine patient reported outcomes by treatment arm.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and ipilimumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of every third course (every 42 days). Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment but prior to disease progression, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for up to 3 years. After disease progression, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and at end of year 3 after sub-study registration.