Impact of MOHO on Therapists Working With Clients in Cancer Population
The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of an introduction to the occupation-based theory (MOHO) on the clinical reasoning of therapists working with cancer clients.
Cancer
Interviews and training sessions-observational analysis of video taped sessions, The study will begin with a video chat (20-30 minutes) to attain a baseline of participants understanding of MOHO. An initial video chat interview guide (Appendix B) will be used to facilitate the chat session and a training session on MOHO concepts (4-8 hours) will also be held (Appendix F). The training session is a 6 part overview of the MOHO framework. All following video chats will be conducted using the follow up video chat interview guide (Appendix C). There will be 8 follow up video chat sessions (20-30 minutes) occurring every 6 weeks after the initial training session on MOHO concepts. Video chat sessions will be facilitated by a research team member. There will be 12 monthly group meetings (60-90 minutes) with all participants to allow a time to discuss use of MOHO in practice and troubleshoot issues and offer support in a formal manner. The monthly group meeting will be facilitated by the PI and/or an onsite collaborator. The maximum possible time commitment stands at 1830, 30 1/2 hours over course of year
Observational data analysis-theme sorting until saturation reached, This is a qualitative study and data will be analyzed using theme sorting until commonn themes are determined., 1 year
The study will occur at MDACC, a comprehensive cancer center in the Texas Medical Center (TMC) in Houston. The center is the largest freestanding comprehensive cancer center in the world. The facility provides inpatient and outpatient services and supports research and education.

The facility has more than 50 buildings in the greater Houston area and in central Texas. The setting for this study will be the rehabilitation services area on the main campus in the TMC.

There are private offices, conference rooms and treatment areas where video chats and monthly meetings will occur.

The study is projected to occur over a one year period. Sessions will be videotaped (video chats - initial and follow ups and monthly group meetings) for further review. Analysis of the tapes will provide data for further research and education presentations. Sessions will also be audiotaped and transcribed for further review and data analysis purposes. Neither the videotapes nor audiotapes will be shared with anyone at the facility or any uninvolved parties. Audiotapes and videotapes will be stored in locked file cabinets and password protected computers will be used to view and analyze the audio and video tapes. Only the research team will have access to the stored data locked in the file cabinet.