Clinical Trial of Oral Ciprofloxacin and Etoposide in Subjects With Resistant Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)(UF-AML-CE-101)
The purpose of the first part of this study is to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of oral ciprofloxacin when given in combination with a fixed dose of oral etoposide in patients with resistant acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The purpose of the second part of this study is to determine if the established dose of oral ciprofloxacin in combination with oral etoposide is effective in the treatment of patients with resistant AML.
Leukemia|Acute Myelogenous Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Ciprofloxacin 750 MG|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ciprofloxacin 1000 MG|DRUG: Ciprofloxacin 500 mg
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of oral ciprofloxacin when given in combination with a fixed dose of oral Etoposide for the treatment of resistant AML., 1 month|Rate of Complete Remission, Determine the rate of complete remission (CR) following treatment with the MTD of oral ciprofloxacin in combination with oral Etoposide for the treatment of resistant AML., 0 months
Response Duration, Measure the response duration following treatment with oral ciprofloxacin in combination with oral etoposide for the treatment of resistant AML., 111 days|Progression-free Survival, Measure progression-free survival following treatment with oral ciprofloxacin in combination with oral Etoposide for the treatment of resistant AML., 317 days|Overall Survival, Measure overall survival following treatment with oral ciprofloxacin in combination with oral Etoposide for the treatment of resistant AML., 317 days|Percentage of Grade ≥ 3 Adverse Events, Estimate the rate of Grade ≥ 3 adverse events following treatment with oral ciprofloxacin and oral etoposide at the MTD., 93 days
This study will look at: any side effects that occur, the effectiveness of the study drug, and how your disease reacts to ciprofloxacin in combination with etoposide. This study will try to find the highest tolerated dose of ciprofloxacin without causing serious side effects.

Ciprofloxacin is a commonly used antibiotic drug that is approved for use by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has not approved ciprofloxacin to treat AML. Etoposide is an anticancer chemotherapy drug that is approved for use by the FDA for the treatment of small cell lung cancer and testicular cancer. Etoposide is also used for treatment of various blood cancers.

There is laboratory research that has shown that ciprofloxacin can make leukemia cells more sensitive to etoposide chemotherapy. This observation indicates that ciprofloxacin may help improve the effectiveness of etoposide in the treatment of resistant AML.