Effect of Informing Family Members of Patients During Surgery
Psychological and physiological issues encountered by family members due to the intraoperative process are factors that complicate the support and care systems of the patient. It is stated that family members of patients undergoing surgery, especially those who do not have sufficient information about the surgical process, experience stress, anxiety, and concern. The need for nursing interventions aimed at providing information about the surgical process, reducing the anxiety levels of family members during the surgery, and supporting them is emphasized. In this context, the study aims to evaluate the effect of periodically informing family members of patients undergoing abdominal cancer surgery via phone during the surgery on their anxiety levels.
Anxiety
OTHER: Information
Anxiety, The patient's anxiety level 2 hours after the start of the surgical procedure. Self reported anxiety intensity before surgical process that includes on the day of surgery. State-Trait Anxiety Inventory will be used to evaluate the anxiety. The higher the score is the more anxiety., During surgery
Satisfaction with Telephone Information Provided During Surgery, The satisfaction levels of family members in the experimental group with the information provided through telephone calls during the surgery will be assessed using the "Evaluation Form for Telephone Information During Surgery," developed by the researcher based on the literature and validated for content., Immediately after the surgery.
Once the patient scheduled for surgery is taken to the operating room, communication between the family members and the surgical team, as well as the patient, is cut off. Family members who do not have any information about the progress of the surgery experience anxiety during the waiting period. High levels of anxiety can limit the family members' ability to understand and process information, affecting their ability to cope with the situation. The high anxiety experienced by family members during the surgery can reflect onto the patient postoperatively, potentially negatively impacting the patient's adaptation, recovery process, and family relations. It is known that family members of patients undergoing cancer surgery experience a higher level of anxiety. The anxiety emerging during this process leads to various physiological and psychological negative consequences for the family members. It is known that informing family members by nurses during surgery helps reduce their anxiety. In this direction, the primary aim of the study is to determine the effect of periodically informing family members of patients undergoing abdominal cancer surgery via phone during the surgery on their anxiety levels. Additionally, the study will evaluate the satisfaction levels of the participants.