Bevacizumab (Avastin) in Unresectable/Recurrent Hemangioblastoma From Von-Hippel-Lindau Disease
Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is an inherited syndrome manifested by a variety of benign and malignant tumors. Hemangioblastomas are the most common lesion associated with VHL disease affecting 60-84% of patients with a mean age at diagnosis of 29 years. Standard treatment for this disease is by surgery or radiotherapy. No approved systemic therapy yet exists. Patients with VHL have an increased growth factor production, specifically vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), resulting in angiogenesis (growth of blood vessels). Studies show that Bevacizumab inhibits the growth of VEGF protein and will block the VEGF-driven angiogenesis and result in stabilization and regression of hemangioblastomas in VHL disease patients. The dose of bevacizumab will be 10 mg/kg every two weeks for up to 6 months.
Hemangioblastomas|Von Hippel Lindau Disease
DRUG: Avastin
Radiographic response in the size of the hemangioblastoma on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 24 months
Changes in VEGF with bevacizumab treatment assist in the predication of radiographic response. Products of the HIF-1A synthesis pathway: plasma VEGF, PDGF, TGF-a and erythropoietin., 24 months
Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is an inherited syndrome manifested by a variety of benign and malignant tumors. Hemangioblastomas are the most common lesion associated with VHL disease affecting 60-84% of patients with a mean age at diagnosis of 29 years. Standard treatment for this disease is by surgery or radiotherapy. No approved systemic therapy yet exists. Patients with VHL have an increased growth factor production, specifically vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), resulting in angiogenesis (growth of blood vessels). Studies show that Bevacizumab inhibits the growth of VEGF protein and will block the VEGF-driven angiogenesis and result in stabilization and regression of hemangioblastomas in VHL disease patients. The dose of bevacizumab will be 10 mg/kg every two weeks for up to 6 months.