NEUWAVE Flex Microwave Ablation System in the Ablation of Primary Soft Tissue Lesions of the Lung
Patients with medically inoperable primary soft tissue lesion of the lung will have transbronchial microwave ablation performed via transbronchial approach by an interventional pulmonologist or thoracic surgeon using CT imaging. Prior to the ablation procedure, the treating physician will use endobronchial ultrasound to confirm staging. Patients will be followed for one year following the ablation procedure for efficacy and safety.
Cancer of Lung|Cancer of the Lung|Lung Cancer|Neoplasms, Lung|Carcinoma, Non-Small Cell Lung|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Non-Small-Cell Lung Carcinoma
DEVICE: Microwave Ablation
Number of Patients Whose Ablation Resulted in Technical Success, Ablation of the target lesion according to the protocol and covered completely, with an adequate margin, as defined by the performing physician (that is, the ablation zone completely overlaps or encompasses the target lesion plus an ablative margin), as assessed by CBCT imaging, immediately following the procedure., Immediately post-ablation (day 0)|Number of Patients Whose Ablation Resulted in Technique Efficacy, Ablation of the target lesion according to the protocol and covered completely, with an adequate margin, as defined by the performing physician (that is, the ablation zone completely overlaps or encompasses the target lesion plus an ablative margin), as assessed by CT imaging, 30 days (+/- 7 days) after the first ablation procedure., 30 days post-ablation|User Experience Survey (Part I), A Sponsor-created survey completed by the treating physician immediately post-ablation. Questions were all YES/NO., Immediately post-ablation|User Experience Survey (Part II), A Sponsor-created survey completed by the treating physician immediately post-ablation. This question asked the time it took to place the probe in a position that was ready for ablation., Immediately post-ablation|User Experience Survey (Part III), A Sponsor-created survey completed by the treating physician immediately post-ablation. This question asked how many cone-beam CT (CBCT) scans were taken to place the probe such that it was ready for ablation., Immediately post-ablation|User Experience Survey (Part IV), A Sponsor-created survey completed by the treating physician immediately post-ablation. This question asked the distance of the tip of the probe to the center of the soft-tissue lesion (in mm) just before the ablation procedure was initiated., Immediately post-ablation|User Experience Survey (Part V), A Sponsor-created survey completed by the treating physician immediately post-ablation. This question asked how many times the probe had to be repositioned to complete the ablation procedure., Immediately post-ablation
Number of Patients Who Experienced Target Lesion Recurrence, Analyzed at 6 months and 1 year post-ablation via CT imaging, measured at 6 months and 1 year post-ablation|Number of Patients Who Were Readmitted to the Hospital, Any readmission to the hospital within 30 days of the ablation procedure., Within 30 days post-ablation
Patients with medically inoperable primary soft tissue lesion of the lung (lesions less than or equal to 2cm and located in the outer two-thirds of the lung and not closer than 1cm to the pleura) will have transbronchial microwave ablation performed using CT imaging. All ablations will be performed under general anesthesia via transbronchial approach by an interventional pulmonologist or thoracic surgeon.

Prior to the ablation procedure, the treating physician will use endobronchial ultrasound to confirm staging.

Patients will be followed for one year following the ablation procedure for efficacy and safety with specific follow-up visits at 30 days, 6 months, and 12 months post-ablation. A user experience questionnaire is completed by the treating physician to better understand the ease of the procedure.