Randomized, Double Blind, Placebo-controlled Topical Resiquimod Adjuvant for NY-ESO-1 Protein Vaccination
The study is designed to see if a course of injections containing the NY-ESO-1 protein (a tumor antigen, marker expressed by tumors); in combination with an immune stimulant (adjuvant) Montanide, with or without resiquimod (another adjuvant) is well tolerated and safe in patients with surgically resected Stage IIB, IIC, Stage III or Stage IV (AJCC criteria) melanoma, a tumor that expresses NY-ESO-1. In addition, this study is designed to see if the patient's body's defense (immune) system can be boosted (strengthened) by this vaccine and if the addition of resiquimod to the vaccine makes this more likely.
Tumors
DRUG: NY-ESO-1 protein; Montanide ISA®-51 VG; Resiquimod|DRUG: NY-ESO-1 protein; Montanide ISA®-51 VG; Resiquimod/placebo
The primary objectives of the study are to define the safety and immunogenicity of vaccination with NY-ESO-1 protein emulsified in Montanide® ISA-51 VG when given with or without the topical TLR 7/8 agonist resiquimod., Blood samples are obtained at baseline, 1 week after each vaccination, and at follow-up 1visit.
To document tumor response by RECIST criteria if applicable. Skin section analysis of resiquimod/placebo treated site for immune cell infiltration and gene expression analysis. Investigation of polymorphisms for TLR7/8 through germline SNP analysis, Skin biopsies will be obtained after the last vaccination cycle. Clinical hematology and biochemistry measurements will be taken at baseline, one week after the second vaccination and two to four weeks after the fourth vaccination
There is no published data on the application of topical resiquimod in combination with an antigen in Montanide, therefore, this study includes a 2-part design where Part I represents a dose-escalation part with topical resiquimod in an open-label fashion. Part II represents the randomized part.

In Part I, 2 cohorts are planned: If no dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) occurs by day 8 of the last vaccination cycle in the last patient enrolled the first cohort, 3 additional patients (cohort 2) will be enrolled. If no DLT occurs by day 8 of the last vaccination cycle in the last patient enrolled the second cohort in Part I, the trial will proceed to Part II where patients will be randomized.