The Risk Assessment Scale for Peripherally Inserted Central Venous Catheter (PICC) Related Thrombosis in Cancer Patients
The aim of this study is to compare the accuracy and clinical predictive value of the Michigan Risk Score, Caprini Risk Assessment Model , and Maneval Scale （Chinese version）in predicting PICC-related thrombosis.
Thrombosis|Catheter
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Michigan Risk Score, Caprini Risk Assessment Model , Maneval scale
PICC thrombosis, symptomatic thrombosis，diagnosed by symptoms such as pain, tenderness and swelling of the affected part and the verification of color doppler ultrasound of venous vessels, through study completion，up to 1 year|The Michigan Risk Score, The risk score will be assessed. In this scale，risk factors associated with PICC-DVT included: history of DVT; multi-lumen PICC; active cancer; presence of another CVC when the PICC was placed; and white blood cell count greater than 12 000. The total score on the scale are 0 to 14 points, with a higher score indicates higher risk of thrombosis., From date of PICC catheterization until the date of PICC removal or date of occurrence of PICC related thrombosis, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months.|Maneval Scale, The risk score will be assessed. This scale includes 45 risk factors associated with PICC thrombosis. The total score on the scale are 0 to 45 points, with a higher score indicates higher risk of thrombosis., From date of PICC catheterization until the date of PICC removal or date of occurrence of PICC related thrombosis, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months.|Caprini Risk Assessment Model, The risk score will be assessed. This scale includes more than 40 risk factors associated with PICC thrombosis. In this scale，a higher score indicates higher risk of thrombosis., From date of PICC catheterization until the date of PICC removal or date of occurrence of PICC related thrombosis, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months.
The aim of this study is to compare the accuracy and clinical predictive value of the Michigan Risk Score, Caprini Risk Assessment Model , and Maneval Scale（Chinese version） in predicting PICC-related thrombosis.

Patients who will receive PICC placement will be evaluated by using the Michigan Risk Score, Caprini Risk Assessment Model , and Maneval Scale the day during PICC placement, 24-48h after PICC placement and every time patients receive PICC maintenance.