Phase II Trial of SOM230 in Patients With Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The hypothesis of this clinical trial is that hepatocellular carcinomas contain somatostatin receptors which make them sensitive to the inhibitory effects of a new somatostatin analog, SOM230. This analog has greater and broader binding affinity to somatostatin receptors compared to the current drug in use, sandostatin LAR. Thus, SOM230 has the potential to be more effective in the treatment of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: SOM230
Disease Control Rate (DCR), The disease-control rate (DCR) is defined as the proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response or stable disease (SD) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions assessed by MRI or CT Scan, and that is maintained for at least 8 weeks. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; and SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., At least 2 cycles, about 8 weeks
Rate of Progression-Free Survival (PFS):, Rate of Progression-Free Survival (PFS). PFS will be measured from the date of enrollment to the earliest date of documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever is earlier. Progression is defined according to RECIST v 1.1 criteria as an at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. For patients who remain alive without progression, follow up time will be censored at the date of last disease assessment., From Enrollment Until Study Completion, Approximately 3 Years|Rate of Overall Survival (OS), Rate of Overall Survival (OS) in participants receiving protocol therapy. OS will be measured from the date of enrollment to the date of death or last contact., From Enrollment Until Study Completion, Approximately 3 Years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Proportion of patients achieving Complete Response and Partial Response (CR+PR) to protocol therapy per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT Scan. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 2 Years|Duration of Overall Response, Duration of Overall Response in participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to SOM230 treatment. The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). Overall response is assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions assessed by MRI or CT Scan. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 2 Years|Toxicity Profile of Protocol Therapy, Number of patients experiencing adverse events and/or toxicities while receiving protocol therapy., Up to 2 Years
For all patients, SOM230 will be given at a starting dose of 60 mg intramuscularly (IM) every 28 days. Dose reduction will be allowed for toxicities which are deemed to be therapy-related. Patients will receive SOM230C (IM) as an outpatient and will be observed for at least 30 minutes for any immediate adverse reactions. Toxicity checks will be done every 2 weeks and laboratory tests every 4 weeks during study therapy). Safety and efficacy will be assessed throughout the treatment period. Toxicities will be graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.02.

Therapy will continue for maximum of two years if the patient shows no evidence of disease progression or intolerable toxicity. After completion of all study related therapy patients will complete a 30 day safety follow up visit. Patients who are still benefiting from therapy after two years may continue longer only after discussion between the Principal Investigator (PI) and the drug sponsor.