Tobacco Dependence in Breast Cancer Patients Trial of Varenicline (Chantix)
Breast cancer patients who smoke, are at greater risk for treatment complications. The purpose of this study is to see if the researchers can find ways to help patients who have breast cancer quit smoking. They will compare two ways to help people quit smoking. Some patients will receive varenicline, a prescription medicine also known as Chantix,®. Other patients will receive a placebo drug. A placebo is an inactive substance that contains no medicine. All patients will receive smoking cessation counseling provided by our tobacco treatment specialists. They hope that what the researchers learn from this study will help us improve our smoking cessation treatment program for breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer|Tobacco Dependence
DRUG: placebo|DRUG: varenicline
effectiveness, To conduct a double-blind, randomized clinical trial to obtain pilot data on the the effectiveness of Intervention (varenicline and behavioral smoking cessation counseling) and Control (placebo and behavioral smoking cessation counseling) with regard to tobacco (smoking) cessation outcomes (point abstinence, continuous abstinence) in tobaccodependent breast cancer patients., 2 years
examine baseline factors that are associated with poor treatment response, To describe the association between baseline factors (i.e., demographic, smoking history and psychosocial) and poor cessation treatment response (i.e., persistent smoking, post-surgical smoking relapse, 2 years|tolerability of and adherence, Adherence to study medication will be assessed by summarizing the medication logs. Tolerability will be assessed by percent of patients who discontinue study medication due to side effects. Using CTCAE 4.0, 2 years|rates of surgical complications, among tobacco dependent breast cancer patients. We will primarily use descriptive statistics to summarize the rates of surgical complications among tobacco dependent breast cancer patients, as indicated by the prevalence of surgical complications (i.e., occurrence of infection, skin flap necrosis, reconstructive flap failure, seroma, and hematoma) documented in the patient's medical record., 2 years
Breast cancer patients who smoke, are at greater risk for treatment complications. The purpose of this study is to see if the researchers can find ways to help patients who have breast cancer quit smoking. They will compare two ways to help people quit smoking. Some patients will receive varenicline, a prescription medicine also known as Chantix,®. Other patients will receive a placebo drug. A placebo is an inactive substance that contains no medicine. All patients will receive smoking cessation counseling provided by our tobacco treatment specialists. They hope that what the researchers learn from this study will help us improve our smoking cessation treatment program for breast cancer patients.