Muscle Composition and Function for Swallowing in Head/Neck Cancer Patients
Swallowing dysfunction after chemo-radiation is common, but there is no reliable evidence for how it should be managed. This pilot randomized controlled trial evaluated the relative benefit of a battery of isometric / isotonic exercises on the maintenance of muscle composition and function for swallowing in Head / Neck Cancer patients undergoing chemo-radiation therapy.
Head & Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: focused attention sessions|BEHAVIORAL: Valchuff|BEHAVIORAL: Pharyngocise
Oropharyngeal muscle volume and signal intensity measured by T2 weighted MRI, Baseline, 6 weeks( end of CRT), 6 months(following CRT)|Level of functional swallowing ability- measured by functional eating score (FOIS), clinical swallowing score, videoendoscopy and videofluoroscopic evaluation, Baseline, 6 week(end of CRT), 6 months(following CRT)|Patient perception of swallowing ability, Baseline, 6 weeks (end of CRT), 6 months (following CRT)|Quality of Life, Baseline, 6 weeks (end of CRT), 6 months (following CRT)
Taste perception, Baseline, 6 weeks (end of CRT), 6 months (following CRT)|Perception of smell, Baseline, 6 weeks (end of CRT), 6 months (following CRT)|Salivation rates, Baseline, 6 weeks (end of CRT), 6 months (following CRT)
Swallowing deficits resulting from oropharyngeal cancer and the ablative therapies used to control the disease are often devastating to the functional feeding outcome in these patients. Most patients will experience some degree of dysphagia along with nutritional decline. In particular, the swallowing outcome of those patients treated with external beam radiation is suggested to be poorer than those patients treated by surgical interventions alone. It has also been postulated that the formation of radiation-induced fibrotic tissue, along with the acute radiation effects (edema, mucositis, xerostomia) may act collectively to promote muscular disuse or atrophy, and the noted decline in swallowing function. We therefore suggest that a program of swallowing exercises may help facilitate and maintain muscle function in the oral cavity and pharynx during radiotherapy, thus preserving or supporting swallowing function in these patients.

This study will follow a randomized controlled trial design. Patients with confirmed head / neck cancer identified for planned radiotherapy will undergo a baseline evaluation including clinical and instrumental swallowing assessment, nutritional examination, and MRI prior to CRT. Subjects will then be randomized to one of three intervention arms representing control, placebo and intervention groups. Patients will be treated for 6 weeks and progress reassessed at 6 months. Outcome assessment will be completed by a blinded observer. Primary outcomes include; I)Oropharyngeal active muscle volume, signal intensity, and tissue composition over time as identified by T2 weighted MRI, II)Level of functional swallowing ability,III)Patient perception of swallowing function and quality of life.The results of the study will provide information on the efficacy (or lack of efficacy) of isometric / isotonic exercises for the maintenance of swallowing function post radiotherapy for Head /Neck cancer.