Desflurane and Anesthesia Recovery Period in Endonasal Endoscopic Pituitary Adenoma Resection
Nasal packing is required after endoscopic pituitary adenoma resection. The patient can only breathe through the mouth. The blood and secretion in the nasal cavity may be inhaled into the trachea after the operation. GH-secreting pituitary adenoma causes pharyngeal soft tissue and tongue hypertrophy. These conditions increase the risk of respiratory obstruction and hypoxemia during anesthesia recovery. Propofol total intravenous anesthesia has a rapid effect and a low incidence of nausea and vomiting. Patients anesthetized with desflurane recover quickly is conducive to early recovery of respiratory function and orientation. This study intends to compare the effects of desflurane and propofol on the quality of anesthesia recovery period in patients undergoing endonasal endoscopic pituitary adenoma resection and to provide clinical evidence for the use of desflurane in neurosurgical anesthesia.
Pituitary Neoplasms
DRUG: Desflurane|DRUG: Propofol
Time required of the Aldrete score reached 9 points after drug withdrawal., immediately after the surgery
Nasal packing is required after endoscopic pituitary adenoma resection. The patient can only breathe through the mouth. The blood and secretion in the nasal cavity may be inhaled into the trachea after the operation. GH-secreting pituitary adenoma causes pharyngeal soft tissue and tongue hypertrophy. These conditions increase the risk of respiratory obstruction and hypoxemia during anesthesia recovery. Propofol total intravenous anesthesia has a rapid effect and a low incidence of nausea and vomiting. Patients anesthetized with desflurane recover quickly is conducive to early recovery of respiratory function and orientation. This study intends to compare the effects of desflurane and propofol on the quality of anesthesia recovery period in patients undergoing endonasal endoscopic pituitary adenoma resection and to provide clinical evidence for the use of desflurane in neurosurgical anesthesia.