Early Detection of CMP in Patients With Breast Cancer Using Cardiac Magnetic Resonance
Breast cancer is the most common cancers among women worldwide.Although chemotherapy and surgery have greatly improved the survival rate, most types of chemotherapy have been reported to have varying degrees of cardiotoxicity. The investigators will focus on the cardiotoxicity of pyrotinib and apatinib which belong to the new tyrosine kinase inhibitors in respective chemotherapy among more subjects.
Breast Cancer|Chemotherapy Induced Systolic Dysfunction
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CMR examination
Composite endpoint of cardiac condition, Compose of ejection fraction (%), change between 1 and 6 months after treatment|Composite endpoint of quantitative fibrosis assessment, Compose of percentage of extracellular volume (%) and positive rate of late gadolinium enhancement (%)., change between 1 and 6 months after treatment|Exercise tolerance, 6 minutes walking test, change between 1 and 6 months after treatment
Breast cancer is the most common cancers among women worldwide. Although chemotherapy and surgery have greatly improved the survival rate, most types of chemotherapy have been reported to have varying degrees of cardiotoxicity. We have focused on the field of chemotherapy-related cardiomyopathy. Using the unified magnetic resonance sequences and parameters, effect of chemotherapeutic drugs on the myocardium are studies. Our team's previous pilot study has found that chemotherapy-related cardiomyopathy (CMP) may be predicted within one week after chemotherapy initiation. The specific intervention timing, and the sensitivity and specificity of the early screening indicators are to be explored. At the same time, in patients with human epidermalgrowth factor receptor-2-positive breast cancer, our team observed the change of blood pressure, exercise tolerance and myocardial structure, function and tissue characteristics in patients who used tyrosine kinase inhibitors (pyrotinib and apatinib). This is a supplement to the existing drug knowledge. We are planning to further explore whether it is related to the patient's pre-existing cardiovascular diseases, drug type, dose or dosing. There are no published data addressing the above two research areas. The overall goal is to explore the commonness and specificity of myocardial changes after chemotherapy in breast cancer patients and to predict the development of CMP through multimodality imaging and clinical indices. We aim to propose the CMP time window in respective chemotherapy among more subjects.