Phase II PAP Plus GM-CSF Versus GM-CSF Alone for Non-metastatic Prostate Cancer
The investigators are trying to find new methods to treat prostate cancer. The approach the investigators are taking is to try to enhance patients' own immune response against the cancer. In this study the investigators will be testing the effectiveness of a vaccine that may be able to help the body fight prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: pTVG-HP|BIOLOGICAL: rhGM-CSF
2-year Metastasis-Free Survival Rate, 2-year Metastasis-Free Survival (MFS) Rate with the development of metastases by conventional imaging used to define progression (as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria). The 2-year MFS rate estimates which were obtained using the Kaplan-Meier analysis (taking into account censoring) using the intention-to-treat population., 2 years
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Doubling Time (DT), PSA DT was calculated using all serum PSA values available from the same clinical laboratory for the specified period by the equation log2/b where b denotes the least-squares estimator of the linear regression model of the log-transformed PSA values on time. Pretreatment PSA DT (3-6 months before treatment, with a minimum of 4 values), on-treatment PSA DT was determined using values from month 3 to month 9., up to 9 months|Number and Severity of Observed Toxicities, Number of participants who experienced any adverse events greater than grade 1 that were determined to be at least possibly related to treatment, highest grade reported per participant for each adverse event (AE). All toxicities were graded using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 4). Higher grades indicate more severe toxicities., 2 years|Median Time to Radiographic Disease Progression, Time to metastasis was determined from the date of registration to the first CT or bone scan that demonstrated metastatic disease. As defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria., up to 2 years|PSA Progression Free Survival, up to 2 years
The investigators are trying to find new methods to treat prostate cancer. The approach the investigators are taking is to try to enhance patients' own immune response against the cancer. In this study the investigators will be testing the effectiveness of a vaccine that may be able to help the body fight prostate cancer.