Efficacy and Safety of Radiotherapy Combined With Apatinib Mesylate in the Treatment of Rhabdomyosarcoma in Children
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of radiotherapy combined with apatinib mesylate in the treatment of rhabdomyosarcoma in children.
Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma
DRUG: Apatinib mesylate tablets|RADIATION: Three-dimensional conformal intensity modulation
Objective response rate (ORR), Refers to the proportion of patients whose tumors have shrunk to a certain extent and maintained for a certain period of time, including CR and PR cases. Objective remission of solid tumors was assessed by RECIST 1.1. Subjects must be accompanied by measurable tumor lesions at baseline. According to RECIST 1.1, the criteria for evaluating efficacy are complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR), stability (SD), and progression (PD)., First analysis will occur 1 month after accrual of all patients.
Disease Control Rate (DCR), The percentage of patients whose tumors shrink or remain stable for a certain period of time, First analysis will occur 1 month after accrual of all patients.|Total Survival (OS), The time from enrollment to death for any reason. For those who had lost interviews before death, the last follow-up time was usually calculated as the time of death., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months.|Quality of Life Score, Quality of life score refer to EORTC qlq-c30 (version 3, Chinese version). Quality of Life Questionnare-Core 30 prepared by The European O-rganization for Reasearch and Treatment of Cancer.

EORTC qlq-c30 (V3.0) is the core scale for all cancer patients, with a total of 30 items. Items 29 and 30 are rated on a scale of 1 to 7 according to their answer choices. The other items are divided into four levels: totally not, a little bit, a lot and very much, and are scored on a scale of 1 to 4.

The higher the score of functional domain and general health domain, the better the functional status and quality of life. The higher the score of symptom domain, the more symptoms or problems (the worse the quality of life)., Weekly assessment , assessed up to 1 month.|Incidence and severity of Adverse Events, The safety of the drug was evaluated by NCI-CTCAE 4.0. Common Terminology Criteria Adverse Events Version 4.0 prepared by National Cancer Institute., From date of enrollment until 30 days after the last medication.
This study is a Interventional study. The target group was 3-18 years old, and the pathological stage was group II-IV recurrence or distant metastasis. A total of 48 patients were enrolled in this study. The treatment was radiotherapy combined with apatinib. The main outcome measures were ORR, DCR , OS , quality of life and drug safety. The main safety indicators were vital signs, laboratory indicators, adverse events (AE), and severe adverse events (SAE). This study is expected to be enrolled for 6 months.