Imiquimod and Tumor Lysate Vaccine Immunotherapy in Adults With High Risk or Recurrent Grade II Gliomas
This is a pilot study of a vaccination regime that is designed to efficiently induce anti-tumor T-cell responses in patients with WHO grade II glioma. The proposed regime with BTIC Lysate in combination with imiquimod, an FDA-approved immune response modifier will induce potent anti-glioma immune response with minimal or no toxicity.
High Risk WHO Grade II Glioma|Recurrent/Post-Chemotherapy WHO Grade II Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: Tumor Lysate Vaccine|DRUG: Imiquimod
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), The incidence and severity of adverse events associated with the vaccine regime will be assessed according to NCI's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events V 4.0 (CTCAE), as follows:

1. . Grade 3-5 vaccine related allergic reaction
2. . Grade 3-5 organ toxicity (cardiac, dermatologic (excluding localized skin reaction), gastrointestinal, hepatic, pulmonary, renal/genitourinary, or neurologic) not pre-existing or due to the underlying malignancy and occurring within 28 days of vaccination and of any length in duration
3. . Grade 2 -5 autoimmune reactions (such as hypothyroidism), Two Years|Induction of BTIC Lysate-specific T-cell response, We will determine the response rate and magnitude of immune response in post-vaccine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) against the BTIC Lysate in response to this form of vaccine, using IFN-enzyme-linked immuno-spot (ELISPOT) assays., Two Years
To determine the response rate and magnitude of CD8+ T-cell responses against the Imiquimod/BTIC lysate-based vaccines in post-vaccine PBMC using IFN- ELISPOT. ELISPOT assays indicate functional status of the antigen-specific T cells as cytokine-expression, and we are particularly interested in Type-1 (i.e. IFN expressing) T cell response. Therefore, IFN ELISPOT will be used as the primary assay for the immunological endpoint.

Using flow-cytometry, we will also evaluate the numbers of lymphocyte subsets such as CD4+ T cells, CD4+/Foxp3+ regulatory T cells in an exploratory manner. In addition, in participants who undergo surgical debulking of the progressing tumor, if the tumor tissue is available, infiltration of antigen-specific CTLs will be evaluated by flow cytometry of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes with the Imiquimod/BTIC lysate-based vaccine-targeted GAA specific MHC-tetramers. In addition, serological responses will be evaluated with flow-cytometry of BTIC cells as well as western blotting. These plans (in this paragraph) are immunological evaluations; however, do not compose the primary endpoints due to their exploratory nature.

We will determine whether it is safe to administer Imiquimod/BTIC lysate-based vaccines in patients with grade II gliomas. Endpoints will therefore include incidence and severity of adverse events, using standard criteria as well as close clinical follow-up as would be performed normally in this group of participants following vaccinations. All reported or observed toxicities and adverse events at all clinic visits will be graded, documented and reported according to a standard toxicity table, the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0