NEOadjuvant Trial in Adenocarcinoma of the oEsophagus and oesophagoGastric Junction International Study (Neo-AEGIS)
This is a multicentre phase III open-labelled, randomised controlled trial. Eligible patients will be randomised in a 1:1 fashion between neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy (Investigator's choice modified MAGIC (ECF/ECX or EOF/EOX) or FLOT regimen) and surgery or Arm B (CROSS protocol: chemotherapy with radiation therapy and surgery as per multimodal protocol).

Primary Objective:

To evaluate one, two and three year survival of patients treated with resection plus neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy versus resection plus neoadjuvant chemo radiotherapy.

Secondary Objective(s):

To evaluate the effect of both neoadjuvant regimens on clinical and pathological response rate (in particular relief of dysphagia, improvement in health related quality of life (HRQL), endoscopic regression, and CT-PET evidence of tumour response), tumour regression grade, node-positivity, post-operative pathology, disease-free survival, time to treatment failure, toxicity, post-operative complications and Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL).

Exploratory Objective(s):

Translational Research: The collection of blood and tissue samples for storage in the bio bank for future research.
Adenocarcinoma of the Oesophagus|Adenocarcinoma of the Oesophago-gastric Junction|Oesophageal Tumours|Junctional Tumours|Oesophageal Cancer
DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cisplatin / Oxaliplatin|DRUG: 5 Flourouracil/ Capecitabine|RADIATION: (41.4 Gy/23 fractions)|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil
Overall survival, Overall survival will be calculated from the date of randomisation and an event registered on the date of death from any cause. Patients lost to follow up, or those with no death recorded on the day the database is frozen, will be censored on the date of last follow up., At end of trial- up to 3 years in follow up
Indication:

Patients with cT2-3 N0-1 M0 adenocarcinoma of the oesophagus or junction, based on clinical, CT-PET, and EUS staging, will be randomised to the modified MAGIC (ECF/ECX or EOF/EOX) or FLOT regimen and chemotherapy regimen versus the CROSS neoadjuvant chemo radiation protocol prior to surgery. Patients will be randomised to either Arm A (modified MAGIC or FLOT chemotherapy only and surgery) or Arm B (CROSS protocol: chemotherapy with radiation therapy and surgery as per multimodal protocol).

Eligible patients will be randomised in a 1:1 fashion between the modified MAGIC or FLOT regimen or the CROSS protocol.

Exploratory Study- Translational Research :

The collection of blood and tissue samples for storage in the bio bank for future research.

Patients enrolled in this trial at the St James's' Hospital site, will be invited to consent to having some of their tissue and blood taken for use in future research studies. Following consent from the patient, tissue biopsy of tumour and/or normal oesophageal tissue will be obtained for research at the same time as that biopsied for histological diagnosis. In addition, tumour and/or normal tissue will also be obtained following surgical resection. Patient blood samples will also be obtained, both before and during treatment. The identification of both tumour and circulating biomarkers will increase knowledge of the molecular mechanism(s) underlying treatment response in oesophageal cancer and may facilitate the identification of biomarkers predicting patient response to treatment.