Idarubicin, Cytarabine, and Pravastatin Sodium in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This clinical trial studies idarubicin, cytarabine, and pravastatin sodium in treating patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as idarubicin and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Pravastatin sodium may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving idarubicin and cytarabine together with pravastatin sodium may kill more cancer cells.
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm, Unclassifiable|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: pravastatin sodium|DRUG: idarubicin|DRUG: cytarabine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Number of Participants With Good Complete Remission (CR), A Bayesian design intended to simultaneously monitor efficacy and toxicity will be used.

Definition of Good CR: Conventional criteria for CR (absolute neutrophil count \> 1,000/uL, platelet count \> 100,000/uL, marrow with \<5% morphologic blasts) and additionally the requirements that marrow Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) - detected by 10-color flow cytometry or conventional cytogenetic evaluation - be absent and that the above blood counts be obtained., 35 days|Number of Participants With TRM., A Bayesian design intended to simultaneously monitor efficacy and toxicity will be used.

TRM: Treatment Related Mortality, 28 days
Progression Free Survival (PFS), 1 year after treatment with IAP|Overall Survival, Amount of time a patient lives after treatment with IAP, 1 year after treatment with IAP|Number of Biomarker-positive Participants With Clinical Responses, Biomarkers: FLT3-ITD positive, NPM1 positive, CEBPA. A "good CR" is defined as \<5% blasts in the marrow by morphologic evaluation along with the absence of any MRD by flow cytometry or cytogenetics and recovery of blood counts (platelets \>100,00 and absolute neutrophil count \>1,000) by day 35 after induction. Cheson AML Response Criteria is used for Morphologic Leukemia Free State, Morphologic Complete Remission, Cytogenetic Complete Remission (CRc), Molecular Complete Remission (CRm), Morphologic Complete Remission with Incomplete Blood Count Recovery (CRi), Partial Remission (PR), Treatment Failure, Recurrence (Progressive Disease)., 38 days after dosing|Rate of Complete Remission (CR), Remission With Incomplete Blood Count Recovery (CRi) and Partial Remission (PR), Complete remission (CR) - includes patients with good CR and CR with minimal residual disease (MRD); remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), partial remission (PR), 35 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the rate of achieving a "good complete response (CR)" after treating patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with idarubicin, cytarabine and pravastatin (pravastatin sodium) (IAP).

II. To determine the toxicity (death within 28 days of starting therapy = treatment related mortality or "TRM") with IAP in newly-diagnosed AML.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine rates of complete remission (CR), remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), partial remission (PR), relapse-free survival and overall survival.

II. To identify biomarkers (ie. changes in serum cholesterol) associated with clinical responses.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pravastatin sodium orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-8, idarubicin intravenously (IV) over 10-15 minutes on days 4-6, and cytarabine IV continuously on days 4-7. Treatment repeats every 28-56 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then annually for 3 years.