Psilocybin-assisted Existential, Attachment and RelationaL (PEARL) Therapy for Patients With Advanced Cancer
The PEARL Pilot is a phase II open-label trial. Participants will receive a single high-dose (25 mg) of psilocybin in the context of Psilocybin-assisted Existential, Attachment and RelationaL (PEARL) therapy.
Advanced Cancer|Stage IV Solid Tumor Cancer|Stage IV Sarcoma of Bone|Stage IV Lymphoma|Stage IV Melanoma|Endocrine Cancer
DRUG: Psilocybin
Recruitment feasibility as assessed by the number of patients who consent/number of patients who meet eligibility criteria., Used to assess feasibility of PEARL therapy., 24 months|Retention feasibility as assessed by the number of patients completing primary endpoint measures/number of patients consented., Used to assess feasibility of PEARL therapy., 24 months|Adherence feasibility as assessed by the number of patients completing all PEARL sessions/number of patients consented., Used to assess feasibility of PEARL therapy., 24 months|Acceptability of PEARL therapy from the perspective of advanced cancer patients obtained through qualitative interviews., Participants will be interviewed regarding their experiences with PEARL, including acceptability and perceived positive and negative effects of the intervention, with a semi-structured interview guide., 24 months|Safety of PEARL therapy., Safety will be assessed throughout the trial. Adverse events (AEs) attributed to psilocybin will be monitored for and recorded after the psilocybin session. This study will use CTCAE v5.0 to assess AEs.

Serious adverse events (SAEs) will be tracked until study completion and will be defined as any adverse drug experience that: results in death; that is life-threatening (i.e. any AE that places the participant, in the view of the investigators, at immediate risk of death from the reaction as it occurs); requires hospital admission; results in persistent or significant disability (i.e. a substantial disruption of a person's ability to conduct normal life functions); or may jeopardize the participant or necessitate medical intervention to prevent one of the aforementioned criteria., 24 months
Patient perspectives on the clinical relevance of potential PEARL therapy outcomes: Death anxiety in advanced cancer patients as assessed with the DADDS., The Death and Dying Distress Scale (DADDS) is a 15-item self-report measure designed for populations facing imminent death and addresses fears about the dying process, and about lost opportunities and self-perceived burden placed on others as a result of impending mortality. Total score range is 0 to 75. Higher scores indicate greater death-related distress., 24 months|Patient perspectives on the clinical relevance of potential PEARL therapy outcomes: Depressive symptoms as assessed with the PHQ-9., The Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) is a 9-item self-report scale measuring depressive symptoms. Total score range is 0 to 27. Higher scores indicate greater severity of depression., 24 months|Patient perspectives on the clinical relevance of potential PEARL therapy outcomes: Anxiety symptoms as assessed with the GAD-7., The Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) is a 7-item self-report scale used to screen for and measure anxiety symptoms. Total score range is 0 to 21. Higher scores indicate higher levels of anxiety., 24 months|Patient perspectives on the clinical relevance of potential PEARL therapy outcomes: Loss of meaning and purpose, disheartenment and helplessness as assessed with the DS., The Demoralization Symptoms (DS) is a 24-item self-report measure that assesses loss of meaning and purpose, disheartenment, and helplessness. Total score range is 0 to 96. Higher scores indicate higher levels of demoralization., 24 months|Patient perspectives on the clinical relevance of potential PEARL therapy outcomes: Overall measure of spiritual well-being, meaning/peace and faith as assessed with the FACIT-Sp., The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Spiritual Well-Being (FACIT-Sp) is a 12-item scale designed to measure important aspects of spirituality including sense of meaning in one's life, harmony, peacefulness and a sense of comfort and strength from one's faith. Total score range is 0 to 48. Higher scores indicate higher spiritual well-being., 24 months|Patient perspectives on the clinical relevance of potential PEARL therapy outcomes: Broad quality of life construct in patients facing end of life as assessed with the QUAL-EC., The Quality of Life at the End of Life-Cancer (QUAL-EC) is a 17-item measure that includes subscales which assess symptom impact, preparation for end of life (i.e., the extent to which the family is prepared and financial plans have been made), relationship with healthcare providers (i.e., the extent to which patients feel informed and are able to participate in decisions about their care) and sense of life completion (i.e., being able to share important things and feel connected to others). For Symptom Control, score range is 3 to 15, with higher scores reflecting greater symptom control; for the Relationship with Healthcare Provider, score range is 5 to 25, with higher scores reflecting a better relationship with healthcare providers; for the Preparation for End-of-Life, score range is 4 to 20, with higher scores reflecting greater preparation for end-of-life; and the for Life Completion, score range is 5 to 25, with higher scores reflecting a greater sense of life completion., 24 months|Patient perspectives on the clinical relevance of potential PEARL therapy outcomes: Desire for death in the medically ill as assessed with the SAHD., The Schedule of Attitudes Toward Hastened Death (SAHD) is a 20-item self-report measure of desire for death in the medically ill. Total score range is 0 to 20. Higher scores indicate greater desire for death., 24 months
Individuals with advanced cancer often experience high levels of distress due to physical suffering, difficult treatment decisions, social isolation, and fear of death. While there are many treatment options for the management of physical symptoms associated with cancer, there are relatively few standard treatment approaches to help patients deal with psychological and existential suffering. Over the past decade, research has shown that psychotherapies incorporating existential, attachment and relational approaches can address the specific needs and challenges of the advanced cancer population and thus help to reduce distress. Simultaneously, recent research has shown that psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy, in which, an individual ingests the psychoactive drug within the carefully monitored therapeutic setting, can reduce end-of-life distress and greatly benefit those with advanced disease. The multidisciplinary team has combined these two evidence-based approaches into what the team calls Psilocybin-assisted Existential, Attachment and RelationaL (PEARL) therapy. PEARL therapy combines elements from psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy, including preparatory therapy sessions, a high-dose drug session, and integration sessions, with important elements from manualized individual psychotherapies designed for patients with advanced cancer. This study will assess the feasibility, acceptability, and safety of PEARL therapy among patients with advanced cancer. This study will yield important information about the feasibility of this type of therapy and contribute to the growing research around the efficacy of psychedelic-assisted therapies. This type of therapy has the potential to improve quality of life among those with advanced disease and careful research is needed to build upon previous findings to outline the necessary components of therapy and guide public policy, legislation, and clinical guidelines.