Pembrolizumab in Combination With Cisplatin and Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) in Head and Neck Cancer
The goal of this research study is to learn which therapy order (adding pembrolizumab during vs. after cisplatin and radiation) may be more effective in treating head and neck cancer, as well as learn the side effects of these combinations. Pembrolizumab is an immune therapy, a drug that stimulates the immune system to fight cancer, and is FDA approved in lung cancer and melanoma.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: IMRT
Progression-free Survival at ≤12 Months, Probability of participants (expressed as a percentage) without disease progression at less than or equal to12 after start of treatment: Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR)/total number of patients assessed. Per RECIST v1.1, CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., Up to 12 months|Progression-free Survival at ≤ 36 Months, Probability of participants (expressed as a percentage) without disease progression at less than or equal to 36 months after start of treatment: Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR)/total number of patients assessed. Per RECIST v1.1, CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., Up to 36 months|Progression-free Survival at ≤ 48 Months, Probability of participants (expressed as a percentage) without disease progression time from treatment initiation to disease progression or death from any cause or last follow up. Per RECIST v1.1: Progressive Disease: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., Up to 48 months|Acute Toxicity / DLT Rate, The number of patients who experience unacceptable toxicity during protocol treatment as measured by the NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Up to 6 months|1-year Locoregional Failure Rate, Percent probability of participants for which time to locoregional failure (TTLRF) (calculated from treatment initiation to locoregional failure, or censored at other failure, death, or the last follow up; death is not an event) is less than 1 year. Locoregional failure is disease recurrence in either the location or regional location of the original disease, as opposed to a distant site., Up to 1 year|3-year Locoregional Failure Rate, Percent probability of participants for which time to locoregional failure (TTLRF) (calculated from treatment initiation to locoregional failure, or censored at other failure, death, or the last follow up; death is not an event) is less than 3 years. Locoregional failure is disease recurrence in either the location or regional location of the original disease, as opposed to a distant site., Up to 3 years
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Median number of months from treatment initiation to disease progression or death from any cause or last follow up. Per RECIST v1.1 Progressive Disease: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., Up to 48 months|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from start of study treatment that patients are still alive., Up to 48 months|Overall Survival (OS) at ≤ 12 Months, Probability of patients (expressed as a percentage) still alive at less than or equal to 12 months after start of study., Up to12 months|Overall Survival (OS) at ≤ 36 Months, Probability of patients (expressed as a percentage) still alive at less than or equal to 36 months after start of study., Up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS) at ≤ 48 Months, Probability of patients (expressed as a percentage) still alive at less than or equal to 48 months after start of study., Up to 48 months
The study regimen consists of cisplatin and radiation for all patients, the standard treatment for head and neck cancer. All patients will also receive pembrolizumab (the study drug), and will be randomized to two treatment schedules: either pembrolizumab with cisplatin-radiation, or pembrolizumab after completing cisplatin-radiation.