Effectiveness of Managing Suspected Metastasis and Progress Using Plasma D-dimer Testing in Gastric Cancer Patients
For prognosis evaluation, investigators enroll gastric cancer patients who underwent radical gastrectomy and collect the laboratory examination and clinicopathological characteristics. Then independent risk factors for overall survival will be analysed. For predicting efficacy evaluation, investigators also collect information of patients first diagnosed with metastases. Diagnostic efficacy is analysed by receiver operator characteristic curve method.
Stomach Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: radical gastrectomy
overall survival time, From date of radical gastrectomy until the date of last follow-up or date of death from gastric cancer, whichever came first, assessed up to 48 months, From date of radical gastrectomy until the date of last follow-up or date of death from gastric cancer, whichever came first, assessed up to 48 months
To investigate the novel predictive value of coagulation factors for postoperative outcomes after radical gastrectomy in patients with gastric cancer, investigators enroll patients with a pathologically confirmed diagnosis of gastric cancer who underwent radical gastrectomy between January 2021 and february 2017. Patients follow up data were obtained by regular follow-up. The most recent preoperative laboratory tests and clinicopathological characteristics were evaluated. Patients are devided into two groups according to our target indicator. The 5-year overall survival rate is analysed by Kaplan-Meier method. The independent risk factors for overall survival are analysed by Cox proportional hazard regression method. Investigators hypothesized that the target factor is closely related to disease progression. Whether it can be used as a tumor marker to predict metastasis is to be studied. Investigators collect laboratory examination including tumor markers of patients first diagnosed with metastases. Diagnostic efficacy is analysed and compared by receiver operator characteristic curve method.