Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) Alpha iNhibition In Advanced Breast Cancer
This is a phase II, exploratory, open-label, single arm study of BYL719 monotherapy, a selective phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) alpha inhibitor, in adult patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer progressing after first line therapy. Patients with advanced hormone receptor positive tumors will be required to have an alteration of the PI3K pathway. Those patients with advanced triple negative breast cancers are genetically unselected for this study.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: BYl719
Objective response rate, The percentage of patients who achieve a complete or partial response as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria., Response is assessed from date of study enrolment every 2 cycles for the first 24 weeks and every 12 weeks after that or as clinically indicated until documented date of progression, death from any cause whichever came first assessed up to 60 months
Clinical Benefit Rate, Defined as Complete or partial responses according to RECIST 1.1 criteria or stable disease for 6 months or greater, Response is assessed from date of study enrolment every 2 cycles for the first 24 weeks and every 12 weeks after that or as clinically indicated until documented date of progression, death from any cause whichever came first assessed up to 60 months.|Progression free survival, Defined as the time from study entry until documented disease progression, Defined as the time from study entry until documented disease progression. Patients will be followed up for a maximum of 2 years.|Safety and tolerability of BYL719, Safety and tolerability will be described using frequency of significant treatment related adverse events (AEs) using CTCAE 4.0 grade ≥3, all Serious Adverse Events and SUSARs. Safety analysis will include all patients who have received at least one dose of the drug and will be evaluated descriptively, Safety is assessed by incident of adverse events according to NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) version 4 though out the study from until documented one month post cessation of study medication - on average 8 months
The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether BYL719 is a safe and effective drug treatment for adult patients with advanced breast cancer who have progressed after first line therapy.

Who is it for? Patients may be eligible to join this study if over 18 years old, male or female, with advanced metastatic or locally recurring breast cancer which has progressed after first line therapy.

Study details All participants enrolled in this study will take the study drug, BYL719, which is a selective phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) alpha inhibitor. This will involve taking tablets daily.

Participants will attend regular follow-up visits for up to 2 years in order to evaluate objective response rate, clinical benefit rate, progression free survival, safety and tolerability of treatment. Regular scans and blood tests will be performed

There will be two cohorts of participants involved in this study - those with metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and those with estrogen receptor positive and HER2 negative (ER+/HER2-) breast cancers with a genetic mutation in the PI3K pathway. Efficacy and safety of BYL719 in these patients and associations with genetic features will be evaluated in order to try to identify biomarkers of response in breast cancer.

Study medication will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or requirement to start another anti-cancer medication.