TMEM-MRI: A Pilot Feasibility Study of MRI for Imaging of TMEM in Patients With Operable Breast Cancer
The aim of this study is to assess feasibility of a new imaging technology in the management of breast cancer (TMEM-MRI)
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: TMEM-MRI|PROCEDURE: FNA
Tumor permeability assessed by TMEM-MRI, Tumor permeability will be assessed by TMEM-MRI, and is defined as a number of Uth units (the number of tumor voxels with permeability density above threshold divided by the number of all tumor voxels) that will be obtained from the permeability map and TMEM-MRI algorithm., Cohort B: ~14 days following breast biopsy and signing of consent. Cohort C: After neoadjuvant therapy and signing of consent and 0-56 days before surgery
TMEM density in breast cancer patients, TMEM density is defined as the number of TMEM units visualized by triple immunohistochemistry in 10 high power fields (40X). TMEM density will be measured with a fully automated and scalable clinical assay for identification and enumeration of TMEM utilizing digital pathology methods coupled with image analysis, Cohort B: ~14 days following breast biopsy and signing of consent. Cohort C: After neoadjuvant therapy and signing of consent analyses. Conducted on tissue sections from FFPE breast cancer specimen resected for therapeutic purposes|MenaCalc, MenaCalc is calculated by subtracting the Z-score value of Mena11a from the Z-score value of pan-Mena, obtained by quantitative immunohistochemistry in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded breast tumor specimens. MenaCalc can also be measured by qRT-PCR in cancer cells obtained by FNA, Cohort B: ~14 days following breast biopsy and signing of consent. Cohort C: After neoadjuvant therapy and signing of consent analyses. Conducted on tissue sections from FFPE breast cancer specimen resected for therapeutic purposes|MenaInv, MenaInv is calculated as pixel intensity obtained by quantitative immunofluorescence per area of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor tissue. MenaINV can also be measured by qRT-PCR in cancer cells obtained by FNA, Cohort B: ~14 days following breast biopsy and signing of consent. Cohort C: After neoadjuvant therapy and signing of consent analyses. Conducted on tissue sections from FFPE breast cancer specimen resected for therapeutic purposes|Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs), CTCs will detected and enumerated from peripheral blood samples using EPIC sciences or RareCyte platform. Patients will undergo venipuncture to obtain specimen for CTC assays. Specimens will be shipped to EPIC sciences (using CTC liquid biopsy blood collection kit) or the University of Southern California (using RareCyte collection kit) to be processed and analyzed as per respective protocols. CTCs will be measured +/- 3 days of TMEM-MRI. Group mean results in number of cells/mL of peripheral blood will be reported for patients in pilot phase Cohort B and pilot phase Cohort C., Cohort B: ~14 days following breast biopsy and signing of consent. Cohort C: After neoadjuvant therapy and consent and 0-56 days before surgery
The goal of this study is to assess the feasibility of a new imaging technology in the management of breast cancer. Tumor Microenvironment of Metastasis - Magnetic Resonance imaging (TMEM-MRI) has the ability to detect tumor areas with more leakiness (perfusion), where cancer cell enter blood vessels to travel to other sites. This novel TMEM-MRI has potential to be used in clinical practice to identify tumors with high leakiness that might have higher chances to recur after breast cancer treatment. In addition, TMEM-MRI can potentially be used to assess response to preoperative treatments (chemotherapy, hormonal therapy) over time.

In a prior study, it was found that patients with high TMEM doorway score, compared to patients with mid/low TMEM doorway score, in their residual disease after neoadjuvant therapy, had worse distant relapse-free survival (p = 0.008). These results demonstrated that TMEM doorway density after neoadjuvant therapy is a prognostic biomarker of breast cancer outcomes. In the initial development of the proposed TMEM MRI in humans, the tumor microenvironment is naïve to treatment. However, neoadjuvant therapy may affect the tumor microenvironment which could affect vascular anatomy - a key component of the TMEM MRI algorithm. Therefore, the study team aims to assess the correlation between TMEM doorway density and TMEM MRI activity after neoadjuvant therapy (Pilot Cohort C).