Assessment of Exhaled Breath Condensate Hydrogen Peroxide (EBC H2O2) as Measured Using a New Device (Inflammacheck™) in Patients With Interstitial Lung Disease, Lung Cancer and Healthy Volunteers.
A cross-sectional study of EBC H2O2 levels, as measured by a novel device, 'Inflammacheck™', and other markers of disease severity in patients with ILD and Lung Cancer.
Interstitial Lung Disease|Lung Cancer
Level of exhaled breath condensate hydrogen peroxide (EBC H2O2), Respiratory outcome EBC H2O2 levels as measured by 'Inflammacheck™', 1 day study visit
Experience outcome, rating of ease of use of test and participants perception of device as assessed by self completion questionnaire, 1 day study visit|Disease Stage (lung cancer), measured by Tumour, Node, Metastasis stage, 1 day study visit|Disease stage (interstitial lung disease), measured by the GAP index, 1 day study visit|safety outcome, incidence of adverse events reported during the study procedures, 1 day study visit
Inflammation and oxidative stress are processes that occur early in the disease process within both ILD and lung cancer. Current tools for assessing inflammation and oxidative stress, such as fibre-optic bronchoscopy with bronchial wall biopsy and bronchial fluid lavage, are invasive procedures not suitable for regular repeat sampling. Sample analysis requires a series of laboratory measurements and results can take over 24 hours to become available.

In contrast, measurement of Exhaled Breath Condensate Hydrogen Peroxide (EBC H2O2) is performed during normal tidal breathing, and is well tolerated even in patients with severe airways obstruction and those unable to perform a consistent controlled exhalation. It is also not limited to inflammatory cell specific inflammation.

To date, the measurement of EBC H2O2 has been used as a research tool only, due to the complex multiple procedural steps required to deliver a result from the collected exhaled breath. Exhalation Technology Ltd. have now developed a novel, handheld device (Inflammacheck™) which can produce an immediate measurement of EBC H2O2 levels at the patient's side. By detecting EBC H2O2 levels immediately, Inflammacheck™ could tell clinicians and patients the current level of global airway inflammation in a simple, effort independent manner. This could be used by clinicians to diagnose ILD and even Lung Cancer.

The 'Inflammacheck™' device now requires a study in a clinical setting to determine whether it can detect ILD and Lung Cancer. The acceptability and ease of use of the device also needs to be assessed for both patients and clinicians.