Trilaciclib Combined With Anti-PD-1 Antibody and Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Locally Advanced TNBC
Trilaciclib is a highly potent, selective, and reversible CDK4/6 inhibitor that protects bone marrow by protecting hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells (HSPCs) during systemic chemotherapy. The proliferation and differentiation of HSPCs are highly dependent on the CDK4/6 signaling pathway, and when exposed to the appropriate dose of treacilil, they will be blocked in the G1 phase of the cell cycle, thus avoiding the killing of cell cycle-specific chemotherapy drugs. This is an open, single-arm, multicenter Phase II clinical study. Newly diagnosed TNBC patients with T1c N1-2 or T2-4 N0-2 will be screened according to the inclusion criteria. Fifty patients meeting the inclusion criteria will sign informed consent letters and receive neoadjuvant therapy with Trilaciclib + anti-PD-1 antibody + Paclitaxel-albumin + carboplatin. To evaluate the synergistic effect of Trilaciclib on bone marrow protection and anti-tumor therapy.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trilaciclib
Incidence of ≥ grade 3 neutropenia during chemotherapy, Incidence of ≥ grade 3 neutropenia during chemotherapy. (neutrophil count ≤ 1\*10\^9/L）, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 21days)
event-free survival, Time from randomization to occurrence of any event, one year after the last dose|Duration of grade 3 or 4 neutropenia in the first treatment cycle of chemotherapy (days);, Duration of grade 3 or 4 neutropenia in the first treatment cycle of chemotherapy (days), From the initiation of the first dose to 28 days after the last dose|The incidence of grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, The incidence of grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia (Platelet\<50×109/L), From the initiation of the first dose to 28 days after the last dose|The incidence of grade 3 or 4 anemia during chemotherapy treatment, The incidence of grade 3 or 4 anemia during chemotherapy treatment (HGB\<80g/L), From the initiation of the first dose to 28 days after the last dose|Incidence of adverse events (AES) and serious adverse events (SAEs), The incidence of adverse events (AES) and serious adverse events (SAEs), and the incidence of AES/SAEs leading to treatment termination, From the initiation of the first dose to 28 days after the last dose|pathologic complete response (pCR), Proportion of patients with no residual invasive tumor cells on pathological examination of primary breast lesions and axillary lymph node surgical specimens of all patients, At the end of Cycle 6-8 (each cycle is 21 days)|Utilization rate of Granulocyte colony stimulation (G-CSF), Utilization rate of Granulocyte colony stimulation (G-CSF), From the initiation of the first dose to 28 days after the last dose|All-cause chemotherapy dose reduction rate., All-cause chemotherapy dose reduction rate., From the initiation of the first dose to 28 days after the last dose
Myelosuppression is the cause of many cancer chemotherapy-related adverse events, such as infections, sepsis, bleeding, and fatigue, resulting in delayed hospital stays or the need for treatment with hematopoietic growth factors, blood transfusions, and so on. In addition, myelosuppression usually leads to a lower dose or more extended interval of chemotherapy, which reduces the intensity of chemotherapy and affects the benefit of chemotherapy for patients.

Trilaciclib is a highly potent, selective, and reversible CDK4/6 inhibitor that protects bone marrow by protecting hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells (HSPCs) during systemic chemotherapy. The proliferation and differentiation of HSPCs are highly dependent on the CDK4/6 signaling pathway, and when exposed to the appropriate dose of treacilil, they will be blocked in the G1 phase of the cell cycle, thus avoiding the killing of cell cycle-specific chemotherapy drugs. This is an open, single-arm, multicenter Phase II clinical study. Newly diagnosed TNBC patients with T1c N1-2 or T2-4 N0-2 will be screened according to the inclusion criteria. Fifty patients meeting the inclusion criteria will sign informed consent letters and receive neoadjuvant therapy with Trilaciclib + anti-PD-1 antibody + Paclitaxel-albumin + carboplatin. To evaluate the synergistic effect of Trilaciclib on bone marrow protection and anti-tumor therapy.