Perifosine in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia (lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, WM) remains incurable with limited therapeutic options and notably absent FDA approved therapy with any WM indication. Therefore, there is a need to identify new therapeutic agents for WM patients both in the upfront and relapsed/refractory setting. The purpose of this research study is to assess the efficacy of perifosine in patients with relapsed or refractory WM.
Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Perifosine
Overall Response (OR) Rate, OR rate is the percentage of patients achieving Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Minimal Response (MR) during treatment based on criteria from the 2nd International Workshop on WM. (Weber D, Treon S, et al. Seminars in Oncology 2003). CR: Disappearance of serum monoclonal IgM protein (IgM M-protein) by immunofixation; no histologic evidence of bone marrow (BM) involvement, resolution of any adenopathy/organomegaly (confirmed by CT scan); PR: At least 50% reduction of IgM M-protein and at least 50% decrease in adenopathy/organomegaly on physical examination or on CT scan; and MR: At least 25% but less than 50% reduction of IgM M-protein by protein electrophoresis. Patients must have no new symptoms or signs of active disease., Disease was assessed every cycle for the first 12 months and every 3 months thereafter. The median duration of treatment with perifosine was 5.6 months (range, 1.8- 21.5+).
Time to Progression (TTP), TTP estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from registration to disease progression (PD) based on criteria from the 2nd International Workshop on WM. (Weber D, Treon S, et al. Seminars in Oncology 2003) Patients without PD are censored at time of last disease assessment. PD: At least 25% increase in serum monoclonal IgM protein by electrophoresis confirmed with a second measurement at least 2 weeks apart, or progression of clinically significant findings due to disease (i.e., anemia, thrombocytopenia, leucopenia, bulky adenopathy/organomegaly) or symptoms (unexplained recurrent fever of at least 38.4oC, drenching night sweats, at least 10% body weight less, or hyperviscosity, neuropathy, symptomatic cryoglobulinemia, or amyloidosis) attributable to WM., Disease was assessed every cycle for the first 12 months and every 3 months thereafter. Median follow-up time was 19.5 months and range up to 24 months.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from registration to death from any cause or disease progression (PD) based on criteria from the 2nd International Workshop on WM. (Weber D, Treon S, et al. Seminars in Oncology 2003) Patients alive without PD are censored at time of last disease assessment. PD: At least 25% increase in serum monoclonal IgM protein by electrophoresis confirmed with a second measurement at least 2 weeks apart, or progression of clinically significant findings due to disease (i.e., anemia, thrombocytopenia, leucopenia, bulky adenopathy/organomegaly) or symptoms (unexplained recurrent fever of at least 38.4oC, drenching night sweats, at least 10% body weight less, or hyperviscosity, neuropathy, symptomatic cryoglobulinemia, or amyloidosis) attributable to WM., Disease was assessed every cycle for the first 12 months and every 3 months thereafter. Median follow-up time was 19.5 months and range up to 24 months.|Treatment-Related Grade 3-4 Adverse Event Rate, The percentage of patients experiencing treatment-related grade 3-4 adverse events based on CTCAEv3 as reported on case report forms., Adverse events were collected every cycle on treatment.The median treatment duration was 5.6 months (range, 1.8-21.5+).
Perifosine is a drug that in particular inhibits Akt thought to be important for initiation and progression of malignancies, specifically in lymphomas. In laboratory experiments of WM and lymphoma cell lines, perifosine has shown to have cytotoxic and anti-proliferative activity as a single agent. This drug has been used in clinical research studies of other types of cancers including soft tissue sarcomas, head and neck cancers and prostate cancer. This study uses a two-stage design to evaluate efficacy of perifosine based on overall response (OR). The null and alternative OR rates are 20% and 40%. If 4 or more patients enrolled in the stage one cohort (n=17 patients) achieve OR than accrual will proceed to stage two (n=20 patients). If fewer than 10 ORs are observed then the regimen will be considered ineffective.