Efficacy and Safety of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Plus Lenvatinib (E7080/MK-7902) Plus Chemotherapy in Participants With Metastatic Esophageal Carcinoma (MK-7902-014/E7080-G000-320/LEAP-014)
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab plus lenvatinib plus chemotherapy compared with pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy as first-line intervention in participants with metastatic esophageal carcinoma.

The primary hypotheses are that pembrolizumab plus lenvatinib plus chemotherapy is superior to pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy with respect to overall survival (OS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by blinded independent central review (BICR).
Metastatic Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Levoleucovorin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Part 1 (FP and TP Safety Run-in): Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Hematologic DLTs are defined as Grade 4 neutropenia lasting for ≥7 days, Grade 3 or Grade 4 febrile neutropenia, Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, or Grade 4 anemia. Other nonhematologic toxicities considered a DLT include any other Grade 4 or Grade 5 toxicity, Grade 3 toxicities lasting \>3 days (excluding nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea controlled by medical intervention within 72 hours, and Grade 3 rash in the absence of desquamation with no mucosal involvement), Grade 3 hypertension not able to be controlled by medication, ≥Grade 3 gastrointestinal perforation, ≥Grade 3 wound dehiscence requiring medical or surgical intervention, any grade thromboembolic event or any Grade 3 nonhematologic laboratory value requiring medical intervention or hospitalization. The number of participants in Part 1 with DLTs will be presented., Up to ~21 days|Part 1 (FP and TP Safety Run-in): Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants in Part 1 with AEs will be presented., Up to ~53 months|Part 1 (FP and TP Safety Run-in): Number of Participants who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants in Part 1 who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., Up to ~53 months|Part 2 (Main Study): Overall Survival (OS) in all Participants, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. OS in Part 2 for all randomized participants will be presented., Up to ~48 months
Part 2 (Main Study): Progression-free Survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) in all Participants, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per RECIST 1.1 by BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. RECIST 1.1 has been adjusted to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. PFS in Part 2 for all randomized participants will be presented., Up to ~42 months|Part 2 (Main Study): Objective Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in all Participants, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions), per RECIST 1.1 adjusted to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ, as assessed by BICR. ORR in Part 2 for all randomized participants will be presented., Up to ~42 months|Part 2 (Main Study): Duration of Response (DOR) per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in all Participants, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions), per RECIST 1.1 by BICR, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until PD or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. RECIST 1.1 has been adjusted to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. DOR in Part 2 for all randomized participants will be presented., Up to ~42 months|Part 2 (Main Study): OS in Participants With Programmed Cell Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Combined Positive Score (CPS) ≥10, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. OS in Part 2 for randomized participants with PD-L1 CPS ≥10 will be presented., Up to ~48 months|Part 2 (Main Study): PFS per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in Participants With PD-L1 CPS ≥10, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented PD per RECIST 1.1 by BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. RECIST 1.1 has been adjusted to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. PFS in Part 2 for randomized participants with PD-L1 CPS ≥10 will be presented., Up to ~42 months|Part 2 (Main Study): ORR per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in Participants With PD-L1 CPS ≥10, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions), per RECIST 1.1 adjusted to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ, as assessed by BICR. ORR in Part 2 for randomized participants with PD-L1 CPS ≥10 will be presented., Up to ~42 months|Part 2 (Main Study): DOR per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in Participants With PD-L1 CPS ≥10, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions), per RECIST 1.1 by BICR, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until PD or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. RECIST 1.1 has been adjusted to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. DOR in Part 2 for randomized participants with PD-L1 CPS ≥10 will be presented., Up to ~42 months|Part 2 (Main Study): Number of Participants With AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants in Part 2 with AEs will be presented., Up to ~53 months|Part 2 (Main Study): Number of Participants who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants in Part 2 who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., Up to ~53 months|Part 2 (Main Study): Change From Baseline in Health-related Quality of life (HRQoL) Score Using European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall HRQoL. Participant responses to the question " How would you rate your overall quality of life (QoL) during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall QoL. The change from baseline in HRQoL EORTC QLQ-C30 score in participants in Part 2 will be presented., Baseline and ~53 months|Part 2 (Main Study): Change From Baseline in HRQoL Score Using EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Oesophageal Module (QLQ-OES18), The EORTC QLQ-OES18 is a disease-specific questionnaire to assess measurements specific to esophageal cancer. It contains 18 items and is based on four subscales-dysphagia, eating, reflux and pain. All items are scored using a four-point scale that offers these response choices: 1=not at all, 2=a little, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much. Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates worse level of symptoms. The change from baseline in HRQoL QLQ-OES18 score in participants in Part 2 will be presented., Baseline and ~53 months|Part 2 (Main Study): Time to Deterioration (TTD) in HRQoL Score Using EORTC QLQ-C30, TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point change from baseline in the HRQoL EORTC QLQ-C30 score. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall HRQoL. Participant responses to the question " How would you rate your overall QoL during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). A higher score indicates a better overall QoL. Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. The TTD in HRQoL EORTC QLQ-C30 score in participants in Part 2 will be presented., Up to ~ 53 months|Part 2 (Main Study): TTD in HRQoL Score Using EORTC QLQ-OES18, TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point change from baseline in the HRQoL EORTC QLQ-OES18 score. The EORTC QLQ-OES18 is a disease-specific questionnaire to assess measurements specific to esophageal cancer. It contains 18 items and is based on four subscales-dysphagia, eating, reflux and pain. All items are scored using a four-point scale that offers these response choices: 1=not at all, 2=a little, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much. A higher score indicates worse level of symptoms. Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. The TTD in HRQoL QLQ-OES18 score in participants in Part 2 will be presented., Up to ~ 53 months
There will be 2 parts to the study: the cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (FP) and paclitaxel and cisplatin (TP) Safety Run-in (Part 1) and the Main Study (Part 2). In Part 1 (FP and TP Safety Run-in), participants will be treated with pembrolizumab plus lenvatinib plus FP or TP. Dose-limiting toxicities, safety, and tolerability will be assessed.

In Part 2 (Main Study), participants (not including those participating in Part 1) will be treated with pembrolizumab plus lenvatinib plus chemotherapy or pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy. Efficacy, safety, and tolerability will be assessed.