Fludarabine and Rituximab for the Treatment of Marginal Zone Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of six cycles of concurrent fludarabine and rituximab in patients with mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) or CD5-, CD10-, CD20+ low-grade B cell lymphomas.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin|MALT Lymphoma
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Rituximab
Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate is defined as the proportion of patients who achieve complete remission (CR), complete remission/unconfirmed (CRu) or partial remission (PR) based on Cheson criteria (1999)., Assessed after three- and six-cycles of therapy.
3.1-Year Progression-Free Survival, 3.1-year progression-free survival is the probability of patients remaining alive and progression-free at 3.1 years from study entry estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. Disease progression was assessed per Cheson criteria (1999)., Assessed after 3- and 6-cycles of therapy, every 6 months for 2 years and then annually up to 4 years|3.1-Year Overall Survival, 3.1-year overall survival is the probability of patients remaining alive 3.1 years from study entry., Assessed after 3- and 6-cycles of therapy, every 6 months for 2 years and then annually up to 4 years
Objectives:

Primary

- To estimate the objective response rate.

Secondary

* To assess the safety.
* To describe the progression-free survival at one year.
* To examine the association between clonal cytogenetic abnormalities identified by FISH, and the objective response rate as well as the progression-free survival at one year.

Target enrollment was 30 eligible patients. An 80% objective response rate at 1 month restaging after 6 cycles was considered as evidence of activity in this patient population while 60% was not considered activity. If at least 22 patients achieved objective response the treatment would be considered promising. With 30 eligible patients, the probability of observing this was 0.87 assuming a true rate of 80% and 0.09 assuming a true rate of 60%.