A Preliminary Clinical Study on the Pharmacokinetics and Safety of CDP1 in Patients With Advanced CRC or HNSCC
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common human malignant tumors. The incidence and mortality of colorectal cancer in our country are on the rise. Surgery-based, combined with chemotherapy, radiotherapy comprehensive treatment, is the main treatment of colorectal cancer. Surgical resection has been recognized as the primary treatment of colorectal cancer. However, due to the majority of patients already advanced at the time of diagnosis, some difficulties are brought to radical surgery. Therefore, the importance of chemotherapy for colorectal cancer gradually been clinically recognized, But rarely survive more than 18 months." In addition to chemotherapy, there is now a more ideal model of cancer treatment- molecular targeted therapies, including monoclonal antibody drugs such as cetuximab, as well as small molecule tyrosine kinases Inhibitors gefitinib and so on. Molecular targeted drugs make use of the difference in molecular biology between tumor cells and normal cells. Targeting drugs to tumor cells and inhibiting the growth and proliferation of the cells can achieve the therapeutic effect, which has the advantages of high specificity and low adverse reaction. The bio-targeted drug cetuximab is the first drug approved to marketed as an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-targeting immunoglobulin 1（IgG1）monoclonal antibody. Cetuximab, either monotherapy or combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy, can exert excellent anti-tumor activity in EGFR-positive malignant tumors and can significantly enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

Reference to cetuximab injection, guilin sanjin Co., Ltd. and dragonboat Co., Ltd. jointly developed a recombinant anti-EGFR human mouse chimeric monoclonal antibody (R \& D code: CDP1).The primary structure of CDP1 is exactly the same with cetuximab, the higher structure and Physical and chemical properties and cetuximab are highly similar. Pharmacodynamic activity in vivo and in vitro, pharmacokinetic characteristics and toxicological reactions are also similar to cetuximab. CDP1 selected with cetuximab consistent formulations, prescriptions, specifications.

CDP1 was approved by China Food and Drug Administration (No. 2016L06884) in August 2016 for clinical studies. According to the contents of the document and guidelines for biological analogs, the clinical pharmacokinetic and clinical effectiveness comparison tests of CDP1 and the safety and immunogenicity assessment are planned.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody|DRUG: Cetuximab injection
Pharmacokinetic Parameters: Area Under the Serum Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to the Last Sampling Time (AUC0-t) After First Infusion, Single-dose Phase: Pharmacokinetic parameters: AUC(0-t) for CDP1, Up to 59 Days
Pharmacokinetic parameters: Area Under the Serum Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to Infinity (AUC0-00) After First Infusion, Single-dose Phase: Pharmacokinetic parameters: AUC(0-00) for CDP1, Up to 59 Days|Pharmacokinetic parameters: Observed Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of CDP1 After First Infusion, Single-dose Phase: Pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax for CDP1, Up to 59 Days|Pharmacokinetic parameters: Mean Residence Time of Drug in the Body (MRT) of CDP1 After First Infusion, Single-dose Phase: Pharmacokinetic parameters MRT for CDP1, Up to 59 Days|Pharmacokinetic parameters: Apparent Terminal Half-life (t1/2) of CDP1 After First Infusion, Single-dose Phase: Pharmacokinetic parameters T1/2 for CDP1, Up to 59 Days|Pharmacokinetic parameters: Total Body Clearance of Drug From Serum (CL) After First Infusion, Single-dose Phase: Pharmacokinetic parameters CL for CDP1, Up to 59 Days|Vital signs: Blood pressure, Vital signs: Blood pressure, Up to 73 Days|Vital signs: Pulse rate, Vital signs: Pulse rate, Up to 73 Days|Vital signs: Respiratory rate, Vital signs: Respiratory rate, Up to 73 Days|Physical examination: height, Physical examination: height, Up to 73 Days|Physical examination: Weigh, Physical examination: Weigh, Up to 73 Days|Number of Subjects With Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance: Baseline Score vs. Worst Post-baseline Score, ECOG performance status measured to assess subject's performance status on a scale of 0 to 4, where 0=Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease activities without restriction; 1=Restricted in physically strenuous activity, ambulatory and able to carry out light or sedentary work; 2=Ambulatory (\>50% of waking hours), capable of all self-care, unable to carry out any work activities; 3=Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed/chair \>50% of waking hours; 4=Completely disabled, cannot carry on any self-care, totally confined to bed/chair. ECOG performance status was reported in terms of number of subjects with Baseline value vs. worst post-baseline value (i.e. highest score) combination., Up to 73 Days|Number of Subjects With Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance: Baseline Score vs. Best Post-baseline Score, ECOG performance status measured to assess subject's performance status on a scale of 0 to 4, where 0=Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease activities without restriction; 1=Restricted in physically strenuous activity, ambulatory and able to carry out light or sedentary work; 2=Ambulatory (\>50% of waking hours), capable of all self-care, unable to carry out any work activities; 3=Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed/chair \>50% of waking hours; 4=Completely disabled, cannot carry on any self-care, totally confined to bed/chair. ECOG performance status was reported in terms of number of subjects with Baseline value vs. best post-baseline value (i.e. lowest score) combination., Up to 73 Days|Frequency of adverse events (AE), Frequency of adverse events (AE), Up to 59 Days|Immunogenicity indicators: Anti-drug antibodies (ADA) ., Immunogenicity indicators: Anti-drug antibodies (ADA) ., Up to 73 Days|Immunogenicity indicators: neutralizing antibodies, Immunogenicity indicators: neutralizing antibodies (Titers and Nab analyzes will be performed when ADA screening is positive)., Up to 73 Days
OBJECTIVES:

Primary:

To compare the pharmacokinetic characteristics of a single dose between CDP1 and the original drug Erbitux In patients with advanced metastatic colorectal cancer.

Secondary :

1. To compare the safety and immunogenic characteristics of the single dose between CDP1 and the original drug Erbitux in patients with advanced metastatic colorectal cancer.
2. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics and safety of CDP1 multiple administrations."

OUTLINE

The study can be divided into 3 parts:

Part 1: Single-dose Phase:

single center, parallel, randomized, single-blind trial. The original drug Erbitux as a control, CDP1 and Erbitux single-dose pharmacokinetics of the initial comparison, and at the same time safety and immunogen preliminary comparison. CDP1 group received a single administration of CDP1 250mg/m2, Erbitux group received Erbitux 250mg/m2 single administration. Two groups of subjects after a single administration into the 4-week observation period, safety observations, pharmacokinetic blood samples and immunogenic blood samples were collected. The tumor was evaluated at the end of the 4 week observation period.If the subjects did not develop the disease, or did not appear the intolerant toxicity during the observation period, they entered the period of multiple drug delivery.

Part 2: Multi-dose Phase:

Single center, single arm, open trial, evaluation of pharmacokinetics and safety with multiple doses of CDP1. Multiple administrations of two groups of subjects were followed by continuous administration of CDP1. Dosing regimen is the first administration of 400mg/m2, followed by 250mg/m2, once a week for 6 weeks.

Part 3: Follow-up Phase:

CDP1, IV, once a week, 250mg/m2, until the patient's death or the withdrawal decision of the patient and/or investigator.