Financial Toxicity and Quality of Life in Patients With TGCT
This is a cross-sectional, observational study employing validated questionnaires to investigate financial toxicity in subjects with testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT). As background, TGCTs are the most common malignancies among men from age 15-35. Treatment is highly curative, but often consists of intensive multi-cycle chemotherapy with significant potential for physical toxicity. The treatment course itself is disruptive and long term physical and mental health consequences can increase risk for financial toxicity. Thus, we aim to study financial toxicity in both patients with TGCT actively receiving treatment and in TGCT survivors. There will be two separate cohorts: Cohort 1 will consist of subjects with recently diagnosed TGCT who will undergo multi-agent, multi-cycle chemotherapy and Cohort 2 will consist of subjects who have completed chemotherapy and are long-term survivors.
Testicular Neoplasm
OTHER: Comprehensive Score for financial toxicity (COST)|OTHER: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy: General (FACT-G)|OTHER: EORTC QLQ C-30|OTHER: EORTC QLQ-TC26.
Number of patients undergoing treatment for newly diagnosed GCT and GCT patients who are currently in surveillance whose levels of financial toxicity are high., 5 years
Number and type of financial risk factors impacting low levels of health-related quality of life for patients with GCT., 5 years
This is a cross-sectional, observational study employing validated questionnaires to investigate financial toxicity in subjects with testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT). As background, TGCTs are the most common malignancies among men from age 15-35. Treatment is highly curative, but often consists of intensive multi-cycle chemotherapy with significant potential for physical toxicity. The treatment course itself is disruptive and long term physical and mental health consequences can increase risk for financial toxicity. Thus, we aim to study financial toxicity in both patients with TGCT actively receiving treatment and in TGCT survivors. There will be two separate cohorts: Cohort 1 will consist of subjects with recently diagnosed TGCT who will undergo multi-agent, multi-cycle chemotherapy and Cohort 2 will consist of subjects who have completed chemotherapy and are long-term survivors.