Study to Compare Cardiovascular Side Effects of Teysuno Versus Capecitabine
Capecitabine is a chemotherapy drug used to treat many types of cancer including bowel and stomach cancer. Unfortunately a side effect of this drug is that it causes heart problems including heart attacks. An alternative drug, called teysuno is used extensively in other countries instead of capecitabine and appears to have less of a bad effect on the heart whilst still killing cancer cells. This study will investigate the effect of these two drugs on the heart and blood vessels and will be the first of its kind in humans.
Gastrointestinal Cancer|Cancer of Unknown Primary Site|Pancreatic Cancer|Bile Duct Neoplasms
DRUG: Teysuno|DRUG: Capecitabine
The primary endpoint of the study will be a difference in the duration of ST deviation pre-treatment and during treatment., This will be recorded using Del Mar Reynolds Lifecard CF/Lifecard 12 recorders, which will record 12 leads over 24 hours and continuously if the storage card is changed daily. Pre-treatment control ECGs will be recorded for 24 hours. Continuous 12-lead monitoring shall be recorded for three days between day 5 and 7 of treatment., Pre treatment and between day 5-7
Fluoropyrimidines (FPs) are widely used chemotherapy agents for the management of patients with colorectal, breast, upper gastrointestinal, head and neck cancers. Capecitabine is an oral prodrug of 5-fluorouracil (5FU) which is used extensively in the UK but is associated with clinically overt cardiotoxicity in up to 9% of patients. Cardiotoxicity occurs more commonly in patients with cardiovascular disease and manifests as chest pain, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, or sudden death with a mortality as high as 30%. In a study of continuous ECG Holter monitoring in patients receiving 5FU infusion, the majority (68%) of patients had ischaemic ECG changes and 2 patients died suddenly. We conducted a national survey of UK oncologists and 60% felt that 5FU/capecitabine cardiotoxicity was a significant problem in their clinical practice.

Hypotheses for this toxicity include ischaemia secondary to coronary artery spasm, direct endothelial cell toxicity, myocardial toxicity and interactions with the coagulation system. Studies implicate a catabolite of 5FU, in particular fluoro-alanine (FBAL). FBAL is further metabolized to fluoroacetate (FAC), a cardiac toxin that inhibits mitochondrial aconitase, resulting in cell death.

Teysuno is an oral fluoropyrimidine that has recently obtained a European licence. It is a combination of tegafur (5-FU prodrug), gimeracil (dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) inhibitor) and oteracil (phosphorylation inhibitor). There have been no reports of cardiac toxicity with teysuno. The incorporation of a DPD inhibitor should reduce FBAL concentrations which may prevent FP cardiotoxicity. However, this remains to be established.