A Phase 3 Study Comparing Oral Ixazomib Plus Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone Versus Placebo Plus Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in Adult Participants With Relapsed and/or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the addition of oral ixazomib to the background therapy of lenalidomide and dexamethasone improves progression free survival (PFS) in participants with relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM).
Relapsed Multiple Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Ixazomib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the Independent Review Committee (IRC), Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Response including PD was assessed by independent review committee (IRC) using the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria. PD requires 1 of the following: Increase of ≥ 25% from nadir in: Serum M-component (absolute increase ≥ 0.5 g/dl); Urine M-component (absolute increase ≥ 200 mg/24 hours); In patients without measurable serum and urine M-protein levels the difference between involved and uninvolved free light chain (FLC) levels (absolute increase \> 10 mg/dl); Development of new or increase in the size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas; Development of hypercalcemia (corrected serum calcium \> 11.5 mg/dl) attributed solely to plasma cell proliferative disease. Status evaluated every 4 weeks until disease progression (PD) was confirmed., From date of randomization until disease progression or death up to approximately 27 months (approximate median follow-up 15 months)
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death. Participants without documentation of death at the time of the analysis were censored at the date when they were last known to be alive., From date of randomization until death (up to approximately 97 months)|Overall Survival in High-Risk Participants Carrying Deletion 17 [Del(17)], Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death. The high-risk participants whose myeloma carried del(17) subgroup was defined as the cases reported as positive for del(17) by the central laboratory combined with those cases that lacked a central laboratory result but with known del (17) by local laboratory. Participants without documentation of death at the time of the analysis were censored at the date when they were last known to be alive. Data is only reported high-risk participants with Del(17)., From the time of screening until disease progression and thereafter every 12 weeks until death or study termination (up to approximately 97 months)|Overall Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed by the IRC, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR) including stringent complete response (sCR), very good partial response (VGPR) and Partial Response (PR) assessed by the IRC using IMWG criteria. Percentages are rounded off to single decimal., Day 1 of each cycle (every 4 weeks) until disease progression up to approximately 27 months(approximate median follow-up 15 months)|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) and Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) as Assessed by the IRC, Response was assessed by the IRC using International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Criteria. CR is defined as negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and; disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and; \< 5% plasma cells in bone marrow. VGPR is defined as Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or 90% or greater reduction in serum M-protein plus urine M-protein level \< 100 mg per 24 hours. Percentages are rounded off to single decimal., Day 1 of each cycle (every 4 weeks) until disease progression up to approximately 27 months (approximate median follow-up 15 months)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was measured as the time in months from the date of first documentation of a confirmed response of PR or better (CR \[including sCR\] + PR+ VGPR) to the date of the first documented disease progression (PD) among participants who responded to the treatment. Response was assessed by the investigator using International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Criteria., Day 1 of each cycle (every 4 weeks) until disease progression up to approximately 38 months|Time to Progression (TTP) as Assessed by the IRC, TTP was measured as the time in months from the first dose of study treatment to the date of the first documented progressive disease (PD) as assessed by the IRC using IMWG criteria., Day 1 of each cycle (every 4 weeks) until disease progression up to approximately 27 months (approximate median follow-up 15 months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance score, laboratory values, vital sign measurements and reported adverse events (AEs) were collected and assessed to evaluate the safety of therapy throughout the study. An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (example, a clinically significant abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a drug, whether or not it is considered related to the drug. A serious adverse event (SAE) is an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; or congenital anomaly; or a medically important event., From the date of signing of the informed consent form through 30 days after the last dose of study drug up to approximately 115 months|Number of Participants With Change From Baseline in Pain Response, Pain response was defined as 30% reduction from Baseline in Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) worst pain score over the last 24 hours without an increase in analgesic (oral morphine equivalents) use at 2 consecutive evaluations. The BPI-SF contains 15 items designed to capture the pain severity ("worst," "least," "average," and "now" \[current pain\]), pain location, medication to relieve the pain, and the interference of pain with various daily activities including general activity, mood, walking activity, normal work, relations with other people, sleep, and enjoyment of life. The pain severity items are rated on a 0 to 10 scale where: 0=no pain and 10=pain as bad as you can imagine and averaged for a total score of 0 (best) to 10 (Worst)., Baseline and end of treatment (EOT) (up to approximately 38 months)|Change From Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Core Quality of Life (QOL) Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-C30), The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-question tool used to assess the overall quality of life in cancer participants. It consists of 15 domains: 1 global health status (GHS) scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, Role, Cognitive, Emotional, Social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, Nausea and Vomiting, Pain, Dyspnea, Sleep Disturbance, Appetite Loss, Constipation, Diarrhea, Financial Impact).The EORTC-QLQ-C30 Global Health Status/QOL Scale is scored between 0 and 100, where higher scores indicate better Global Health Status/QOL. Negative changes from baseline indicate deterioration in QOL or functioning and positive changes indicate improvement. Scores are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale. High scores for the global and functional domains indicate higher quality of life or functioning. Higher scores on the symptom scales represent higher levels of symptomatology or problems., Baseline, EOT and follow-up (up to approximately 97 months)|Change From Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Multiple Myeloma Module (QLQ-MY-20), The EORTC-QLQ-MY-20 is a patient-completed, 20-question quality of life questionnaire that has 4 independent subscales, 2 functional subscales (body image, future perspective), and 2 symptoms scales (disease symptoms and side-effects of treatment). The participant answers questions about their health during the past week using a 4-point scale where 1=Not at All to 4=Very Much. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement. Scores are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale. Higher scores on the symptom scales (e.g. Disease Symptoms, Side Effects of Treatment) represent higher levels of symptomatology or problems. High scores for Body Image and Future Perspective represent better quality of life or functioning., Baseline, EOT and follow-up (up to approximately 97 months)|OS in High-Risk Participants, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death. High-risk participants are defined as participants carrying cytogenic abnormalities: del(17), translocation t(4;14), or t(14;16) as reported by the central laboratory combined with those cases that lacked a central laboratory result but with known del (17), t(4;14), or t(14;16) by local laboratory. Cytogenetic abnormalities of del(13) and +1q are not included in the analysis. Participants without documentation of death at the time of the analysis were censored at the date when they were last known to be alive. Data is only reported for high-risk participants., From the time of screening until disease progression and thereafter every 12 weeks until death or study termination (up to approximately 97 months)|PFS in High-Risk Participants, Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Response was assessed by independent review committee (IRC) using IMWG response criteria. High-risk participants are defined as participants carrying cytogenic abnormalities: del(17), translocation t(4;14), or t(14;16) as reported by the central laboratory combined with those cases that lacked a central laboratory result but with known del (17), t(4;14), or t(14;16) by local laboratory. Cytogenetic abnormalities of del(13) and +1q are not included in the analysis., From date of randomization until disease progression or death up to approximately 38 months (approximate median follow-up 15 months)|Plasma Concentration Over Time for Ixazomib, Pre-dose and post-dose at multiple timepoints up to Cycle 10 Day 1 (each cycle length = 28 days)|Overall Response Rate in Participants Defined by Polymorphism, Data is reported for percentage of participants defined by polymorphism defined by polymorphisms in proteasome genes, such as polymorphism P11A in PSMB1 gene. Percentages are rounded off to single decimal., Day 1 of each cycle (every 4 weeks) until disease progression up to approximately 27 months (approximate median follow-up 15 months)
The drug being tested in this study is called Ixazomib. Ixazomib is being tested to treat people who have relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). This study will look at progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and safety in participants who take ixazomib in addition to lenalidomide and dexamethasone compared to placebo in addition to lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

The study enrolled 722 patients. Participants were randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of the two treatment groups-which will remain undisclosed to the patient and study doctor during the study (unless there is an urgent medical need):

* Ixazomib 4 mg + lenalidomide + dexamethasone
* Placebo (dummy inactive pill) - this is a tablet that looks like the study drug but has no active ingredient + lenalidomide + dexamethasone

All participants will receive treatment in 28 day cycles until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

This multi-center trial will be conducted worldwide. The overall time to participate in this study is approximately 80 months. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic, and will be contacted every 4 weeks for PFS and every 12 weeks for OS.