Ridaforolimus in Treating Patients With Recurrent Metastatic and/or Locally Advanced Endometrial Cancer
RATIONALE: Ridaforolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects of ridaforolimus and to see how well it works in treating patients with recurrent metastatic and/or locally advanced endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: ridaforolimus|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective response measured by RECIST criteria, After every second cycle, every 8 weeks|Adverse events, Adverse events will be monitored and assessed from the time of the first dose with overall results being assessed at final analysis., 4 years|Time to progression, 4 years|Correlation between objective tumor response with PTEN expression and other potential markers, will be assessed overall at the time of completion of therapy and final analysis., 4 years
Response duration, After progression with overall results assessed at final analysis, 4 years
OBJECTIVES:

* To assess the efficacy, in terms of objective response rate, of ridaforolimus, in patients with recurrent metastatic and/or locally advanced endometrial cancer.
* To assess the adverse events, time to progression, and response duration of this drug in these patients.
* To correlate objective tumor response with PTEN expression and other potential markers in primary tumor tissue from these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral ridaforolimus once daily on days 1-5 for 4 weeks. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Archived tumor tissue samples (paraffin block or unstained slides) are analyzed for PTEN gene expression and other mTOR pathway elements to explore possible markers of response or non-progression by immunohistochemistry.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.