Tretinoin Plus Interferon Alfa in Treating Patients With Metastatic Kidney Cancer
RATIONALE: Tretinoin may help kidney cancer cells develop into normal cells. Interferon alfa may interfere with the growth of cancer cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of liposomal tretinoin plus interferon alfa in treating patients who have metastatic kidney cancer.
Kidney Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interferon alfa|DRUG: tretinoin liposome
Best Response as Measured by CT, Bone Scans, and Clinical Progression, After 8 weeks|Number of Subjects With Toxicity by Clinical Evaluation From First Dose to 30 Days After Last Dose, In 30 days after the last dose, an average of 1 year.
Change in Retinoic Acid Receptor Expression on Tissue as Measured by Number of Subjects With the Presence of Peripheral Blood Lymphocytes During the First and Fifth Dose, At baseline and 5th week|Duration of Response (Progression-free Survival) as Measured by CT, Bone Scans, and Clinical Progression From Initiation of Therapy Until an Increase of ≥ 25% From the Smallest Sum of All Tumor Measurements Obtained During the Best Response, At 6 months and 12 months
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the response in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma treated with tretinoin liposome and interferon alfa-2b.
* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Study retinoic acid receptor expression on tissue obtained from selected patients who have tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of tretinoin liposome with concurrent individual dose escalation of interferon alfa-2b. (Phase I closed to accrual as of 9/24/03.)

Patients receive tretinoin liposome IV over 30 minutes once weekly and interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously on five consecutive days (M-F) for 8 weeks. Courses repeat every 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tretinoin liposome until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined additional patients are accrued and treated at that dose. (Phase I closed to accrual as of 9/24/03.)

During the first 3 weeks of the study, patients receive interferon alfa-2b at weekly dose escalations. After week 3, patients continue at the highest acceptable dose level of interferon alfa-2b for the remainder of the study. (Phase I closed to accrual as of 9/24/03.)

Patients are followed at 30 days after the last treatment.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-18 patients will be accrued into the phase I portion of this study (Phase I closed to accrual as of 9/24/03). A total of 14-25 patients will be accrued into the phase II portion of this study.