Phase II Study of Combined Temozolomide and SGT-53 for Treatment of Recurrent Glioblastoma
This Phase II clinical trial is an open label, single arm, multicenter study of the combination of intravenously administered SGT-53 and oral temozolomide in patients with confirmed glioblastoma who have proven tumor recurrence or progression. The objective of this trial is to assess 6 month progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), anti-tumor activity, safety and possibly to evaluate, nanoparticle delivery to tumor site, and the induction of apoptosis in the tumor..
RECURRENT GLIOBLASTOMA
GENETIC: SGT-53|DRUG: Temozolomide
Tumor Response, The 6 month progression-free survival (PFS) was evaluated using RANO Response Criteria., 6 months
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, The safety of the combination of SGT-53 and Temozolomide was assessed by analysis of adverse experiences, clinical laboratory tests and physical examinations., Study drug initiation through 30 days after the last dose of study drug or EOS, whichever is later, approximately 90 days.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of disease progression, or death (any cause) on or prior to the clinical cutoff date, whichever occurs earlier. Subjects who do not have disease progression or have not died will be censored at the date of the last tumor assessment on or prior to the clinical cutoff., From date of registration until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of death from all causes., From date of registration until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 180 months.|Anti-tumor Activity, The anti-tumor activity of the combination of SGT-53 and Temozolomide was determined based upon the RANO criteria., From date of registration until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months.|Induction of Apoptosis, Flow cytometry or histological examination was used to determine the level of apoptosis induced by SGT-53 in tumors resected 3 days after the first SGT-53 infusion (optional procedure), 3 days|Nanoparticle Tumor Delivery, As an indicator of nanoparticle delivery to the tumors, DNA PCR was used to determine the presence of SGT-53 delivered exogenous wt p53 in the tumors. This analysis will be performed on any tumors resected 3 days after the first SGT-53 infusion (optional procedure), 3 days
The p53 is a vital human tumor suppressor gene. Loss of p53 suppressor function is present in the majority of human cancers. The p53 protein has a diverse range of functions including regulation of cell cycle checkpoints, cell death (apoptosis), senescence, DNA repair, maintenance of genomic integrity, and control of angiogenesis. Abnormalities of the p53 gene may impact the efficacy of standard anticancer treatments such as radiation and chemotherapy. P53 mutation and pathway dysfunction are associated with poor clinical outcomes and the presence of the p53 mutation correlates with resistance to chemotherapy and radiation. The development of somatic gene therapy has created the potential to restore wild type function of p53. SGT-53 is a complex of cationic liposome encapsulating a normal human wild type p53 DNA sequence in a plasmid backbone. This complex has been shown to efficiently and specifically deliver the p53 cDNA to the tumor cells and to cross the blood-brain barrier. Introduction of the p53 cDNA sequence is expected to restore wtp53 function in the apoptotic pathway. P53 restoration has been shown most effective in enhancing cytotoxicity in combination with an agent which results in DNA damage or initiates apoptosis. The primary mechanism of resistance to current standard chemotherapeutic agent Temozolomide (TMZ) is overexpression of O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyl transferase (MGMT), which repairs the TMZ-induced DNA lesion by removing the o6-guanine adducts. Thus, a means to down modulate MGMT activity would enhance the therapeutic effect of TMZ. A number of reports have indicated that increasing wtp53 expression can down-regulate expression of DNA repair genes such as MGMT and increases the sensitivity of tumor cells to alkylating agents. This is a Phase II clinical trial of the tumor-targeted SGT-53 nanocomplex in combination with chemotherapeutic agent, temozolomide which is the standard of care for Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) brain tumors. We propose to test the combination of SGT-53 and standard temozolomide to determine efficacy and safety in patients with confirmed glioblastoma who have proven tumor recurrence or progression.