Dietary Intervention and BRCA Penetrance
Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and other markers of insulin resistance (IRm) might modulate the penetrance of BRCA genes mutation.

The investigators have designed a demonstration project with BRCA mutation carriers (with or without a previous diagnosis of breast cancer) to test:

1. whether a lifestyle intervention significantly reduceIGF-I and the other IRm (randomized trial).
2. whether mutation carriers with a previous diagnosis of breast cancer have higher IRm than carriers without breast cancer (case-controlstudy).
3. whether IRm and their change over time affect subsequent breast cancer incidence and prognosis (cohort follow-up).

The investigators expect to significantly reduce IGF-I and IRm, to find that BRCA mutation carriers with a previous breast cancer have higher IRm levels, and, in the long term, that women with persistent higher IRm levels have higher penetrance and worst prognosis.

Confirming a significant reduction of IRm and the impact of their levels on prognosis would help to develop primary prevention recommendations for high risk families.
Dietary Modification|BRCA1 Mutation|BRCA2 Mutation|Breast Cancer
OTHER: Dietary intervention
Reduction of serum levels of IGF-I (ng/mL) (intervention trial)., Final analyses will be performed by intention to treat. By assuming that:

a) the planned lifestyle interventions may reduce IGF-I levels by 10%, b) alpha error = 0.05, the investigators shall have 96% power to compare 300 women included in the intervention group versus 300 in the control group., 6 months of dietary intervention|Case-control analysis: comparison of the affected versus the unaffected BRCA mutation carriers for the baseline IRm levels baseline serum levels of IGF-I and IRm., By classifying the exposure status according to the IGF-I median level and by assuming that :

1. the probability of exposure among controls is 50 %,
2. a case/control ratio of 2/1 (as in a pilot study): 400 women with a previous diagnosis of BC and 200 unaffected,
3. the true odds ratio for BC in exposed versus unexposed subjects ranging between 1.5 to 2 (the lower confidence interval of a pilot study), the investigators will be able to reject the null hypothesis ( that this odds ratio equals 1) with a power ranging from 64% to 97% at the alpha level of 0.05., 3 years
Survival analysis: evaluation of the association between IGF-I and IGF-I changes and subsequent BC incidence and BC prognosis (BC incidence for unaffected women and ipsilateral or contralateral BC and BC recurrences for affected women)., This secondary aim requires the follow-up of the BRCA mutation carriers cohort. By assuming : a) equal number of exposed (IGF-I level\>median) and unexposed subjects of 300, b) 85% probability of event-free after 48 months of follow-up c) the true hazard ratio of exposed subjects relative to unexposed subjects ranging between 1.5 to 2, the investigators will be able to reject the null hypothesis that exposed and unexposed survival curves are equal with a power ranging from 41% to 78% at the alpha level of 0.05. Further follow-up will increase the power., 3 years
Abdominal obesity and high body weight are associated with a greater risk of breast cancer (BC) in women belonging to high risk families than in women without family history of BC. A case-control study showed that high energy intake, usually associated with higher bio-availability of growth factors, is associated with BC risk in BRCA mutation carriers. A multinational case-only study on 3000 young BC women suggested that patients with BRCA mutation had higher consumption of milk. Milk directly stimulates insulin production and release, and is associated with higher plasma levels of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I).

In a case-control analysis on 308 high genetic risk women, investigators showed that high serum levels of IGF-I are associated with a significantly increased penetrance.

Consistently, mechanistic studies hypothesized a functional interaction between the BRCA genes and the IGF-I system.

The lifetime cumulative risk (penetrance) of BC associated with BRCA mutations is of the order of 50%, and a sizeable proportion of mutation carriers does not develop the disease. Therefore, the penetrance of the genetic trait may be regulated trough other genetic or environmental factors, including dietary, metabolic, and growth factors. The investigators hypothesized that markers of insulin resistance (IRm), such as plasma level of glucose, insulin, IGF-I and the presence of metabolic syndrome, which affect risk and prognosis of sporadic BC, are relevant also for hereditary BC.

The investigators have designed a demonstration project with BRCA mutation carriers (with or without a previous diagnosis of BC) to test:

1. whether a lifestyle intervention significantly reduce IRm (randomized trial).
2. whether mutation carriers with a previous diagnosis of BC have higher IRm than carriers without BC (case-control study).
3. whether IRm and their change over time affect subsequent BC incidence and prognosis (cohort follow-up).

In a pilot phase the investigators have randomized 150 BRCA mutated women to a dietary intervention and a control group for a short term (6 months) trial to test the reduction of IRm levels. In the present study the investigators to recruit 600 BRCA mutation carriers to test if blood levels of IRm and their change over time influence the risk of BC and of BC relapse. All participants will receive the WCRF Decalogue for the prevention of cancer. Participants will be then randomized in an active lifestyle intervention group (6 full days of life-style intervention activities along the subsequent 6 months) and in a control group that will remain with the baseline recommendation. After 6 months also the control group will be invited to an active intervention.

The investigators expect to significantly reduce IRm, to find that BRCA mutation carriers with a previous BC have higher IRm levels, and, in the long term, that women with persistent higher IRm levels have higher penetrance and worst prognosis.