A Study of Coformulated Favezelimab/Pembrolizumab (MK-4280A) Versus Standard of Care in Subjects With Previously Treated Metastatic PD-L1 Positive Colorectal Cancer (MK-4280A-007)-China Extension Study
The purpose of this China extension study is to assess the safety and efficacy of coformulated favezelimab/pembrolizumab (MK-4280A) in adult Chinese participants with metastatic colorectal cancer. The study will also compare MK-4280A with the standard of care treatment of regorafenib and TAS-102 (trifluridine and tipiracil).

The primary study hypothesis is that coformulated favezelimab/pembrolizumab (MK-4280A) is superior to standard of care with respect to overall survival.
Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: favezelimab/pembrolizumab|DRUG: regorafenib|DRUG: TAS-102
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 26 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) according per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 by BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 19 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, The ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR., Up to approximately 19 months|Duration of Response (DOR) per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, For participants who demonstrate confirmed CR or PR, duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 19 months|Number of Participants Who Experience at least One Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be reported., Up to approximately 24 months|Change from Baseline in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status (Item 29) and Quality of Life (Item 30) Combined Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to the questions regarding Global Health Status (GHS; "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?") and Quality of Life (QoL; "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. The change from baseline in GHS (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 29) and QoL (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 30) combined score will be presented. A higher score indicates a better outcome., Baseline and up to approximately 25 months|Change from Baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning (Items 1-5) are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores meant a better level of function., Baseline and up to approximately 25 months|Change from Baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Appetite Loss (Item 13) Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire, including a single-item scale score for appetite loss (QLQ-C30 Item 13). For this item, individual responses to the question "Have you lacked appetite?" are given on a 4-point scale (1=Not at all; 4=Very much). Scores are transformed to a range from 0-100, with a lower score indicating a better outcome. The change from baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 appetite loss (Item 13) scale score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 25 months|Change from Baseline in EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Colorectal Cancer-Specific 29 Items (QLQ-CR29) Bloating (Item 37) Score, The EORTC QLQ-CR29 is a health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire specific for colorectal cancer, including a single-item scale score for bloating (QLQ-CR29 Item 37). For this item, individual responses to the question "Did you have a bloated feeling in your abdomen?" are given on a 4-point scale (1=Not at all; 4=Very much). Scores are transformed to a range from 0-100, with a lower score indicating a better outcome. The change from baseline in the EORTC QLQ-CR29 bloating (Item 37) scale score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 25 months|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 GHS (Item 29) and QoL (Item 30) Combined Score, TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point deterioration (decrease) from baseline in GHS (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 29) \& QoL combined score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 30). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. The TTD, as assessed based on a ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in GHS and QoL combined score, will be presented. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Baseline and up to approximately 25 months|TTD in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score, TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point deterioration (decrease) from baseline in physical functioning score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. The TTD, as assessed based on a ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in GHS and QoL combined score, will be presented. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Baseline and up to approximately 25 months|TTD in in EORTC QLQ-C30 Appetite Loss (Item 13) Score, TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point deterioration (decrease) from baseline in appetite loss score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 13). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. The TTD, as assessed based on a ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in physical functioning score, will be presented. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Baseline and up to approximately 25 months|TTD in EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Colorectal Cancer-Specific 29 Items (QLQ-CR29) Bloating (Item 37) Score, TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point deterioration (decrease) from baseline in bloating score (QLQ-CR29 Item 37). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. The TTD, as assessed based on a ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in appetite loss score, will be presented. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Baseline and up to approximately 25 months
The China extension study will include participants previously enrolled in China in the global study for MK-4280A-007 (NCT05064059) plus those enrolled during the China extension enrollment period. A total of approximately 94 Chinese participants will be enrolled.

As of Amendment 3 of the supplemental statistical analysis plan, patient reported outcomes will no longer be secondary outcome measures of the study.