A Clinical Study on Evaluating Intravenous Administration of IDOV-SAFE
Subjects were Chinese patients with histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced malignant solid tumors (mainly focused on MSS type colon and rectal cancer) who had failed standard systemic therapy and were inoperable.

The first stage was the dose escalation stage, which was divided into 4 dose groups according to the "3+3" dose escalation principle. One patient was enrolled in the first dose group, and 3-6 patients were enrolled in each of the latter three dose groups, with a total of 10-19 patients enrolled.

The second stage is the security extension stage, which is selected by SMC 1-2 dose cohorts were expanded for safety and divided into three cohorts in total(IIA, IIB, IIC) to explore the safety of sequential or combined administration modes with immune targeted therapy. Each cohort included 6-12 subjects at different dose levels, and three cohorts could be carried out at the same time.

The third stage is the dose expansion stage. According to the safety, PK and clinical data of the three cohorts in the second stage, 1-2 cohorts were selected by SMC for dose expansion. The sample size of each cohort was expanded to 20 cases on the original basis. The estimated ORR of the trial drug was 24%, and the ORR of the standard treatment was 5%. When the type I error was one-sided 0.025, and the power was 80%, the sample size was estimated by the normal approximation method. So each dose expansion phase A minimum of 20 subjects were required to be enrolled in the cohort.
Advanced Malignant Solid Tumor of Digestive System
BIOLOGICAL: IDOV-SAFE
Occurrence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Occurrence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), 21 days after the administration, up to 2 months|Incidence of adverse events (AE), Incidence of adverse events (AE), After the subject completed the study, about 1 year
The level of (non-essential) viral DNA in tumor tissue, At least one patient in each dose group was biopsied, with their informed consent, 14 to 21 days after dosing, and pathological slides were compared with baseline., screening and 14 to 21 days after dosing, up to 2 months|Tumor markers, Tumor marker test was performed every 6 weeks during screening and continued treatment, Every 6 weeks during screening and continued treatment, about 1 year|Anti-vaccinia virus neutralizing antibody test(VV-Nab), Peripheral blood was collected at 0h (-60min) before D1 administration, 24h±4h, 72h±4h after D5 administration, D7±1d, D14±1d, D21±1d after D5 administration for anti-vaccinia virus neutralizing antibody detection (VV-Nab)., 0h (-60min) before D1 administration, 24h±4h, 72h±4h after D5 administration, D7±1d, D14±1d, D21±1d after D5 administration ,up to 54 days|Levels of viral DNA in blood, Peripheral blood was collected for viral DNA and live viral load measurement, 2 hours before each injection of D1, D3 and D5, 30min±5min, 2h±15min, 4h±30min, 8h±1h, 12h±1h, 24h±1h, 36h±2h, and 48h±2h after D5 administration, up to 36 days|Levels of viral DNA in saliva, Saliva was collected before and 2±1 h after administration for comparison, Before and 2±1 h after administration, up to 31 days|T cell subsets, T cell subsets were evaluated four times during the screening period and 24 hours ±4 hours after the first administration, D4±1d, D7±1d, and every 6 weeks during the continuous treatment period, Screening period and 24 hours ±4 hours after the first administration, D4±1d, D7±1d, and every 6 weeks during the continuous treatment period, about 1 year|Cytokines, Cytokines were evaluated at the screening stage and D7±1d after the first dose, and every 6 weeks during the continuous treatment period, Screening stage and D7±1d after the first dose, and every 6 weeks during the continuous treatment period, about 1 year|ORR, The sum of the proportion of subjects with CR or PR, Every 6 weeks (±7 days) after initial administration, about 1 year|DCR, The sum of the proportion of subjects with CR 、PR or SD, Every 6 weeks (±7 days) after initial administration, about 1 year|DOR, The time between the start of the first assessment of the tumor as CR or PR and the second assessment as PD(Progressive Disease) or death from any cause, Every 6 weeks (±7 days) after initial administration, about 1 year|PFS, The time, measured in days, from the date of first treatment to disease progression or death from any cause. Disease progression and death were measured in terms of preoccurrence. Progression included radiographic progression or clinical progression as assessed by the investigator., Every 6 weeks (±7 days) after initial administration, about 1 year|OS, The time from the date of first treatment to death from any cause, measured in days, Every 6 weeks (±7 days) after initial administration, about 5 years|PFS2, Progression-free survival until second disease progression or death, Every 6 weeks (±7 days) after initial administration, about 1 year
Overview of clinical trial The therapeutic dose in mice was 1x108 PFU, and the maximum starting dose in humans was 2.67x10\^9 PFU according to the "Guidelines for the estimation of the maximum recommended starting dose of drugs in the First clinical trial of Healthy Adult Volunteers".

Phase 1: Dose escalation phase:

We plan to enroll 10 to 19 patients in China with histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced solid tumors who have failed to respond to standard treatment or have no standard treatment options for IDOV-SAFETM intravenous administration. Patients with MSS colorectal cancer were included in this stage.

This phase included four dose groups of 1x10\^9 PFU, 3x10\^9 PFU, 1x10\^10 PFU and 3x10\^10 PFU. One subject was enrolled in the first dose group, and the other dose groups were increased by a "3+3" method, with 3-6 subjects in each group. All participants in each dose arm could not be escalated to the next dose arm until they had completed the 21-day safety assessment.

Dose escalation or Settings may be adjusted at the discretion of the Safety Committee (SMC).

Phase 2: Security Extension Phase:

One or two dose levels determined by MTD or SMC were selected for expansion. This phase was divided into three cohorts, the first cohort included 18 cases, and the latter two cohorts included 6-12 patients in each group:

Cohort IIA: Patients with MSS colorectal cancer who progressed after IDOV-SAFETM monotherapy were treated with IDOV-SAFETM+ toripalimab-furoquininib combination therapy

IIA1: Approximately 6 subjects were included in the first dose group. IIA2: About 12 subjects were included in the second dose group;

Cohort IIB: Patients with cholangiocarcinoma, gastric cancer, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, liver cancer and other digestive system tumors were enrolled.

Enroll 6-12 subjects in the second dose group;

Cohort IIC: patients with MSS colorectal cancer were enrolled. After 2 cycles of IDOV-SAFETM treatment, the subjects were treated with IDOV-SAFETM, toripalimab and fuquinitinib combination therapy.

Enroll 6-12 subjects in the second dose arm.

Phase III: Dose expansion phase:

According to the safety, PK and clinical data of the three cohorts in the second phase, one or two cohorts were selected by SMC for dose expansion, and the sample size of each cohort was expanded to 20 cases.

After completing the first cycle of dosing, all subjects received subsequent cycles of dosing after 21 days of safety assessment. The course of treatment, related examinations and tumor efficacy evaluation were consistent between the monotherapy phase and the combination phase. The patients were treated with intravenous injection on D1, 3 and 5 of each course of treatment according to every 3 weeks (21 days) as a course of treatment. Safety checks were performed for each cycle. Tumor efficacy was evaluated every 2 cycles (every 6 weeks) according to RECIST1.1 and iRECIST standards. Pharmacodynamic tests (including tumor markers, T cell subsets, cytokines, viral load in tumor tissue, etc.), viral distribution detection, and TCR-Seq detection were performed regularly.

When the subject met the 9.1 criteria for the end of treatment for the subject, the treatment period ended and the subject entered the long-term safety and survival follow-up period.

Long-term SAFETY AND SURVIVAL FOLLOW-UP:

Adverse events that occurred in each subject from the first dose of the study were collected throughout the course of the study, and long-term safety and survival follow-up was to continue for 2 years after the last dose (visits were performed every 8 weeks until death or loss to follow-up or the end of survival follow-up). Before the subjects started a new antineoplastic therapy, they were examined accordingly according to the "6.9 Clinical Trial Schedule". Survival was confirmed by telephone visits after the initiation of a new antineoplastic therapy.

Other medications:

If, according to the investigator's judgment during the trial, the patient is considered to be safe but not effective at the current dose, the subject needs to withdraw from the trial, and the trial SMC meeting has decided and the next (higher) dose group has been initiated. At the discretion of the investigator, the higher dose of the trial drug could be administered to the subject who was withdrawing from the trial.

In order to ensure the interests of the subjects to the greatest extent, after the end of the treatment, if the subjects are evaluated by the investigators and the subjects agree, this clinical trial can provide "compensatory medication", and provide IDOV-SAFETM to the subjects for free. At the same time, the patients need to sign the informed consent for the use of "compensatory medication".