A Study of the Drugs Selumetinib vs. Carboplatin and Vincristine in Patients With Low-Grade Glioma
This phase III trial compares the effect of selumetinib versus the standard of care treatment with carboplatin and vincristine (CV) in treating patients with newly diagnosed or previously untreated low-grade glioma (LGG) that does not have a genetic abnormality called BRAFV600E mutation and is not associated with systemic neurofibromatosis type 1. Selumetinib works by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and may kill tumor cells. Carboplatin and vincristine are chemotherapy drugs that work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. The overall goal of this study is to see if selumetinib works just as well as the standard treatment of CV for patients with LGG. Another goal of this study is to compare the effects of selumetinib versus CV in subjects with LGG to find out which is better. Additionally, this trial will also examine if treatment with selumetinib improves the quality of life for subjects who take it.
Low Grade Astrocytoma|Low Grade Glioma|Metastatic Low Grade Astrocytoma|Metastatic Low Grade Glioma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Selumetinib Sulfate|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Event-free survival (EFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate EFS which is defined as the interval from randomization to first occurrence of clinical or radiographic disease progression, disease recurrence, second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause, or to the date of last follow-up. Estimates with 95% confidence intervals will be reported by treatment arm. The hazard ratio with a confidence interval will also be reported to compare treatment arms based on a Cox proportional hazards model stratified by BRAF status, tumor location and size of residual tumor. Will also provide outcome estimates and their associated confidence intervals by sex, race and ethnicity, as descriptive summaries of outcome., Up to 10 years from date of randomization
Radiographic tumor response rate, Percentages of patients with responses (complete or partial response) will be reported by treatment arm with 95% confidence intervals. The result of an exact binomial test to test for the difference in response rates between treatment arm will also be reported. Will also provide outcome estimates and their associated confidence intervals by sex, race and ethnicity, as descriptive summaries of outcome., Up to 10 years|Overall survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate OS by treatment arm, defined as the interval from randomization to death from any cause, or to the date of last follow-up. Estimates with confidence intervals will be reported by treatment arm. Will also provide outcome estimates and their associated confidence intervals by sex, race and ethnicity, as descriptive summaries of outcome., Up to 10 years from date of randomization|Number of patients who experience an improvement in visual acuity (VA), Numbers of patients that show improvement in VA after 12 months of treatment will be reported by treatment arm. Patients with at least 1 impaired eye are evaluable. In a patient with a unilateral optic nerve glioma, only the affected eye is considered. In patients with bilateral visual impairment, if VA improves in 1 eye but worsens in the other, the patient will be coded as a treatment failure, whereas if 1 eye improves and the other is at least stable, the patient will be coded as a success., After the first 12 months of treatment|Change in motor function, Motor function is measured using the Vineland-3 Motor Scale. Only patients with motor function deficits at baseline are included. Magnitudes of change for each patient after 48 weeks of therapy from baseline will be calculated and medians (with ranges) by treatment arm will be reported., After 48 weeks of therapy|Change in quality of life (QOL), QOL will be measured using the PedsQL Total Scale Score as measured from the validated PedsQL Generic Module (for children 2-21 years old). Mean differences in the total scale score between 9 months and baseline will be reported by treatment arm. The results of 2-sample t-test comparing differences in the QOL scores between the 2 arms will also be reported. If change scores do not follow normal distributions, non-parametric alternatives may be employed for analysis., Baseline and 9 months after treatment initiation|Processing speed function, Measured by Wechsler Processing Speed Index (standard score). Scores at 9 months will be summarized by treatment arm and reported as means (with standard deviations) or medians (with ranges) depending on the data distribution., Up to 9 months post-treatment initiation|Change in executive function, Executive function will be measured by the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function, Second Edition BRIEF Cognitive Regulation Index (CRI). Summary statistics for the differences in scores from baseline to 9 months will be reported by treatment arm., Baseline and 9-months
Change in QOL scores over time, QOL scores for each domain of the PedsQL Generic module will be summarized by timepoint (4 timepoints) and treatment arm. Mean QOL scores will be reported with standard deviations. If scores do not follow normal distributions, medians and ranges will be reported instead., At baseline, 9 months, 30 months, and 60 months after treatment initiation|Change in neurocognitive functioning scores over time, Neurocognitive functioning scores for each index/scale of the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function, Second Edition/Preschool Version/Adult will be summarized by timepoint (4 timepoints) and treatment arm. Mean scores will be reported with standard deviations. If scores do not follow normal distributions, medians and ranges will be reported instead., At baseline, 9 months, 30 months, and 60 months after treatment initiation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To demonstrate that the efficacy of treatment with selumetinib as measured by event-free survival (EFS) is non-inferior compared to treatment with carboplatin/vincristine (CV) in previously-untreated low-grade glioma (LGG) not associated with BRAFV600E mutations or systemic neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate tumor response rates to each regimen of chemotherapy. II. To evaluate visual acuity (VA) outcomes utilizing Teller Acuity Cards (TAC) and HOTV letter acuity testing in previously-untreated optic pathway gliomas (OPGs).

III. To describe the improvement in motor function as measured by the Vineland Scale in children with previously-untreated LGG that have motor deficits at enrollment.

IV. To estimate the difference in EFS and tumor response rate between BRAF rearranged and non-BRAF rearranged patients treated on each chemotherapy regimen.

V. To prospectively evaluate the quality of life of children with LGG not associated with BRAFV600E or systemic NF1 treated with either CV or selumetinib.

VI. To prospectively evaluate the cognitive, social, emotional, and behavioral functioning of children with LGG not associated with BRAFV600E or systemic NF1 treated with either CV or selumetinib.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To obtain paired blood and tumor specimens for future biology studies as well as data from Molecular Characterization Initiative (MCI) testing, to correlate genomic drivers to efficacy outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I:

INDUCTION: Patients receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50, 57, and 64, and carboplatin IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 43, 50, 57, and 64 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline and end of induction.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood and undergo MRI at baseline, throughout the trial, and during follow up.

ARM II: Patients receive selumetinib sulfate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 27 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood and undergo MRI at baseline, throughout the trial, and during follow up.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for year 1, every 6 months for years 2-3, and then annually for years 4-10.