Zometa on Bone Mineral Density in Prostate Cancer Patients Undergoing Androgen Ablation Therapy
The purpose of this research is to determine the effect of timing of Zometa® administration on bone mineral density of the lumbar spine and femoral neck in men undergoing androgen deprivation therapy for prostate adenocarcinoma. In addition, the researchers will also determine the effects of treatment with Zometa® on peripheral blood markers of bone turnover, on peripheral blood gd T-cell frequencies and function, and to determine if the above treatments elicit prostate antigen-specific IgG immune responses. The effects of the above treatments on serial serum PSA measurements will also be examined.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Zometa|DRUG: zometa|DRUG: Zometa
The Number of Subjects Who Had Either an Increase or Decrease on Bone Mineral Density of the Lumbar Spine and Femoral Neck in Men Undergoing Androgen Deprivation Therapy for Prostate Adenocarcinoma., Effects on bone mineral density were measured at four locations at six month intervals for 24 months., 2 years
The Number of Subjects Who Had a Significant Increase of Peripheral Blood Markers of Bone Turnover., Serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase was collected as the blood marker of bone turnover., 2 years|Number of Subjects Had a Significant Change in Immune Markers., Immune markers were measured by isolating gamma-delta T cells one month after treatment with zoledronic acid., 2 Years|Number of Subjects With Decreases in Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) After Zoledronic Acid Prior to Beginning Androgen Deprivation Therapy, PSA response was measured by observing the serum PSA one week after beginning zoledronic acid and prior to beginning androgen deprivation therapy.

Arm 2 and Arm 3 were not able to be assessed for this endpoint as all subjects were on androgen deprivation prior to receiving zoledronic acid., 2 Years
Castration by GnRH agonist therapy with or without androgen antagonists has been a mainstay for advanced prostate cancer. One of the most significant side effects of the use of androgen ablative therapies has been a decrease in bone mineral density, potentially placing patients at greater risk of osteoporosis and bone fractures. It is prudent to anticipate this adverse effect of therapy and to minimize its severity with appropriate and timely pharmacologic intervention. Zometa is a bisphosphonates and bisphosphonates are effective inhibitors of osteoclastic bone resorption. Recent studies have shown that other bisphosphonates were able to reduce the bone loss observed after 24 and 48 weeks of treatment with a GnRH analogue. An unanswered question remains, however, in how frequently these agents should be employed in clinical practice.

This is a three-arm randomized trial of Zometa® on bone mineral density in subjects with stage D prostate cancer undergoing androgen ablation therapy. If subjects are enrolled in Arm 1, the GnRH analogue would be administered every 3 months for 1 year. Four milligrams of Zometa® would be administered IV over 15 minutes 7 days prior to beginning androgen deprivation therapy. If subjects are enrolled in Arm 2, the GnRH analogue would be administered every 3 months for one year, and 4 mg of Zometa® would be administered IV over 15 minutes at month 6. If subjects are enrolled in Arm 3, the GnRH analogue is administered every 3 months for 1 year, with 4 mg of Zometa® administered IV over 15 minutes monthly for 6 months, beginning at month 6.