Subcutaneous Atezolizumab for the Treatment of Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial tests whether subcutaneous atezolizumab can be effectively given at home with medical care provided primarily using telemedicine in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. This study may help determine if a telemedicine based approach that gives atezolizumab at home using a version of the drug designed for subcutaneous injection under the skin is safe and feasible.
Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab and Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase|OTHER: Survey Administration
Incidence of adverse events (AEs) of home administration by a healthcare provider (HCP) of subcutaneous atezolizumab, Determined by rates of grade 3 or greater non-hematologic AE assessment by clinical assessment. Grading will be based on the NCI CTCAE v5.0 ., Up to 30 days after last dose|Successful completion of home drug administration visits within the specified window, The number of successfully completed home visits per patient and the number of patients who successfully completed all home administrations will be calculated and reported., Up to 2 years
Patient satisfaction with home administration of atezolizumab, Patients will be surveyed at the end of cycle 3 and cycle 6 on satisfaction with the treatment process., At end of cycle 3 and cycle 6 (each cycle is 21 days)|Healthcare provider and mobile nurse satisfaction with home administration of atezolizumab, Pharmacists and treating nurses will be surveyed at the end of cycle 3 and cycle 6 on time spent in drug preparation and administration as well as satisfaction with treatment administration., At end of cycle 3 and cycle 6 (each cycle is 21 days)
Overall response rate, Overall response rate (confirmed partial and complete responses) will be assessed. All responses must be confirmed on subsequent scan to be considered a true response. Tumor response will be assessed using RECIST 1.1., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival rate, Defined as from date of start of study to the first documented disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of home administration by a healthcare provider (HCP) of atezolizumab and recombinant human hyaluronidase (subcutaneous atezolizumab) at a dose of 1875 mg every 3 weeks (Q3W).

II. To determine the feasibility of home administration, by mobile nursing, of subcutaneous atezolizumab at a dose of 1875 mg Q3W.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine patient satisfaction with home administration of atezolizumab. II. To determine healthcare provider and mobile nurse satisfaction with home administration of atezolizumab.

III. To determine the feasibility of a cancer clinical trial conducted under a decentralized model with telehealth assessments.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the patient enrollment and retention rate for a decentralized clinical trial.

II. To determine the relationship between patient physical activity and toxicity.

III. To compare patient, infusion nurse, and pharmacist time spent in care during in office and home administration cycles.

IV. To compare efficacy of subcutaneous (SC) atezolizumab with known efficacy of intravenous (IV) atezolizumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive atezolizumab and recombinant human hyaluronidase SC over 3-8 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for 1 year (early-stage lung cancer) or up to 2 years (late-stage lung cancer) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.