Phase II Study of Regorafenib and Toripalimab Combined With RFA in Patients With CRCLM
The incidence of colorectal cancer liver metastasis is high and the prognosis is poor. Improving the treatment effect of colorectal cancer liver metastasis is the key to improving the prognosis of colorectal cancer patients. Rigofenib is one of the standard third-line treatments for advanced colorectal cancer, but has limited efficacy. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (PD-L1 monoclonal antibody, PD-1 monoclonal antibody) have achieved good results in the treatment of various malignant tumors. In a mouse transplant tumor model of colorectal cancer, regorafenib combined with PD-1 monoclonal antibody treatment significantly improved the antitumor activity, but the efficacy rate in clinical studies was not very high, especially for liver metastases. Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is one of the common methods for the treatment of liver metastases. RFA may improve the immune microenvironment and the efficacy of immunotherapy,and the purpose of this trial is to explore the efficacy and safety of rigofenib and terepliumab combined with RFA in patients with refractory colorectal cancer liver metastasis.
Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases
OTHER: Radiofrequency ablation|DRUG: Regorafenib and Toripalimab Combination
Objective response rate (ORR), The ratio of patients who are evaluated as CR or PR, 2 years
Progression free survival (PFS), Time from first dose to first documented disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time (days) from randomization to death due to any cause., 2 years|Disease control rate (DCR), Defined as the proportion of patients whose tumors shrink or remain stable for a certain period of time, including CR, PR and SD, 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), defined as the time between the first assessment of a tumor as PR or CR and the first assessment as PD or any cause of death, 2 years.|Time to disease progression (TTP), Time from first dose to first documented disease progression, 2 years
The incidence of colorectal cancer liver metastasis is high and the prognosis is poor. Improving the treatment effect of colorectal cancer liver metastasis is the key to improving the prognosis of colorectal cancer patients. Rigofenib is one of the standard third-line treatments for advanced colorectal cancer, but has limited efficacy. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (PD-L1 monoclonal antibody, PD-1 monoclonal antibody) have achieved good results in the treatment of various malignant tumors. In a mouse transplant tumor model of colorectal cancer, regorafenib combined with PD-1 monoclonal antibody treatment significantly improved the antitumor activity, but the efficacy rate in clinical studies was not very high, especially for liver metastases. Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is one of the common methods for the treatment of liver metastases. RFA may improve the immune microenvironment and the efficacy of immunotherapy,and the purpose of this trial is to explore the efficacy and safety of rigofenib and terepliumab combined with RFA in patients with refractory colorectal cancer liver metastasis.