Sunitinib in Treating Patients With Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial is studying how well sunitinib works in treating patients with relapsed multiple myeloma. Sunitinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the cancer
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Stage I Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: sunitinib malate
The Number of Confirmed Responses (Complete Response [CR], Very Good Partial Response [VGPR], or Partial Response [PR]), A confirmed response is defined as a patient who has achieved response and maintained it on two consecutive evaluations at least 2 weeks apart.

A Complete Response (CR) is defined as the complete disappearance of an M-protein and fewer than 5% bone marrow plasmacytosis.

A Hematologic Very good partial response (VGPR) is defined as having a ≥ 90% reduction of M-protein from serum, a Urine M-spike to be ≤ 100 mg/24 hours, and a disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas.

A Partial Response (PR) is defined as having a 50-89% reduction in the level of the serum monoclonal protein, a reduction in 24-hour urinary light chain excretion either by ≥90% or to \<200 mg, and a ≥ 50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytoma., Every 6 weeks from the first initiation of therapy up to 72 weeks
Event-free Survival, The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Duration of Response, The distribution of duration of response will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From the documentation of response until the date of progression|Toxicity, Assessed per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. Included are the toxicities at least possibly related to the study drug., From the time of first treatment to up to 30 days after the last day of study drug treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the number of responses in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma treated with sunitinib (sunitinib malate).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the toxicity of sunitinib malate in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma.

II. To assess time to progression after initial response to sunitinib malate.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-42. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3-6 months for up to 3 years.