Capecitabine and Lenvatinib With External Radiation in Rectal Adenocarcinoma
This research study is designed to see if Capecitabine and Lenvatinib in combination with external radiation therapy are effective in treating locally advanced rectal adenocarcinoma in patients who have not yet had surgery, and what the best dosage is.
Rectal Cancer|Rectal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: External Radiation Therapy (XRT)
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), MTD of lenvatinib used in combination with capecitabine and external beam radiation as neoadjuvant therapy for patients with locally advanced rectal carcinoma. The MTD of lenvatinib will be defined as the highest dose level at which no more than 1 out of 6 participants experiences dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). DLT: Any of the hematology or non-hematologic toxicities noted in Table 3 of the protocol, considered to be at least possibly related to lenvatinib and/or capecitabine., Up to 6 months
Rate of Pathologic Response, Pathologic response rate after pre-operative therapy and surgery. Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) will be defined as pathologic proof of a complete response based on histologic evaluation of the resected specimen., Up to 36 months|Occurrence of Treatment Related Adverse Events, To further define safety profile of the combination. Adverse events will be graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.0., Up to 36 months
Rate of Potential Biomarkers for Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF), Investigators will identify potential biomarkers for VEGF pathway and attempt to correlate with pCR. The associations of the potential biomarkers and radiosensitivity index (RSI) with pCR will be examined using logistic regression. A two-sided p-value of \<0.05 will be considered statistically significant., Up to 36 months|Radiosensitivity Index (RSI), To determine if low radiosensitivity index (RSI) will correlate with pathologic complete response (pCR). pCR will be examined using logistic regression. A two-sided p-value of \<0.05 will be considered statistically significant., Up to 36 months
This research study is designed to see if Capecitabine and Lenvatinib in combination with external radiation therapy are effective in treating locally advanced rectal adenocarcinoma in patients who have not yet had surgery, and what the best dosage is.