Long Acting Neuraxial Peri-prostatic Block in Cancer
Disease progression after definitive therapy for prostate cancer is a major source of morbidity and mortality. Adrenergic/sympathetic innervation of the prostate is essential for prostate cancer progression, and abrogation of these signals by blocking adrenergic innervation halts disease progression. Long-acting neuraxial block of the sympathetic nerves that innervate the pelvis with dehydrated alcohol (\>98% Ethanol) is a safe and effective tool in the treatment of chronic pelvic pain and cancer- induced pelvic pain. Furthermore, ultrasound guided periprostatic neuraxial block at the time of prostate biopsy with short-acting lidocaine is standard of care. Herein the research team proposes to administer a long-acting periprostatic neuraxial block with dehydrated alcohol and lidocaine under trans rectal ultrasound guidance in patients with high-risk clinical features for prostate cancer at the time of prostate biopsy.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Dehydrated alcohol|DRUG: Lidocaine IV
Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), The DLT will be measured in the two week post administration period. The target toxicity rate is assumed as 25% considering immediate post-administration toxicity. This rate will not account for the delayed onset toxicities., At week 2|Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD will be defined as the dose at which the isotonic estimate of the toxicity rate is closest to the target toxicity rate of 25%. The MTD will be used as a recommended dose for prospective Phase II study in future, At week 2
Time to biochemical recurrence, Absence or presence of any evidence of biochemical recurrence at two years after definitive treatment for prostate cancer., at month 6 and at year 2|Response Rate, Evidence of response supported by either histologic markers of treatment response, evidence based on difference in molecular proliferation markers between PBx and prostatectomy specimen., at week 8|Tumor immunogenicity, Evidence based on tumor immunogenicity as measured by PD1/PDL-1 expression by immunohistochemistry on final pathology., at week 8|Degree of neural inhibition, Histological quantification of adrenergic nerve density by tyrosine hydroxylase positive nerve staining, at week 8
Disease progression after definitive therapy for prostate cancer is a major source of morbidity and mortality. Adrenergic/sympathetic innervation of the prostate is essential for prostate cancer progression, and abrogation of these signals by blocking adrenergic innervation halts disease progression. Long-acting neuraxial block of the sympathetic nerves that innervate the pelvis with dehydrated alcohol (\>98% Ethanol) is a safe and effective tool in the treatment of chronic pelvic pain and cancer- induced pelvic pain. Furthermore, ultrasound guided periprostatic neuraxial block at the time of prostate biopsy with short-acting lidocaine is standard of care. Herein the research team proposes to administer a long-acting periprostatic neuraxial block with dehydrated alcohol and lidocaine under trans rectal ultrasound guidance in patients with high-risk clinical features for prostate cancer at the time of prostate biopsy.