Comparing Sentinel Lymph Node (SLN) Biopsy With Standard Neck Dissection for Patients With Early-Stage Oral Cavity Cancer
This phase II/III trial studies how well sentinel lymph node biopsy works and compares sentinel lymph node biopsy surgery to standard neck dissection as part of the treatment for early-stage oral cavity cancer. Sentinel lymph node biopsy surgery is a procedure that removes a smaller number of lymph nodes from your neck because it uses an imaging agent to see which lymph nodes are most likely to have cancer. Standard neck dissection, such as elective neck dissection, removes many of the lymph nodes in your neck. Using sentinel lymph node biopsy surgery may work better in treating patients with early-stage oral cavity cancer compared to standard elective neck dissection.
Buccal Mucosa Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Floor of Mouth Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Gingival Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Hard Palate Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Lip Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Lower Alveolar Ridge Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Retromolar Trigone Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Tongue Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Upper Alveolar Ridge Squamous Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|DRUG: Imaging Agent|PROCEDURE: Neck Dissection|PROCEDURE: Planar Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography
Patient-reported neck and shoulder function (Phase II/III), Will be evaluated and compared using the Neck Dissection Impairment Index (NDII), a 10-item tool between the two treatment arms. It is assumed that a 7.5-point between arm difference in the 6-month post-surgery NDII scores is clinically meaningful., Before surgery (Baseline), 3 weeks after surgery, 3, 6, 12 months after surgery|Patient reported quality of life (QOL) (Phase II), Will be measured using 3 questionnaires over 12-15 minutes., Before surgery (Baseline), 3 weeks after surgery, 3, 6, 12 months after surgery|Disease-free survival (DFS) (phase III), Measured using Cox proportional hazards model and the Kaplan-Meier method. Failure includes local/regional recurrence, distant metastasis, or death due to any cause., From randomization to local/regional recurrence, distant metastasis, or death due to any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 11 years
Overall survival rate, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and between-arm differences compared using the log-rank test., From randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 11 years|Loco-regional failure, The cumulative incidence estimator will be used to estimate time to event distributions with between arm differences using cause-specific log-rank test., From the time of randomization to the date of failure, date of precluding event, or last known follow-up date, assessed up to 11 years|Distant metastasis, The cumulative incidence estimator will be used to estimate event distributions with between arm differences tested using cause-specific log-rank test., From the time of randomization to the date of distant metastasis, date of precluding event, or last known follow-up date, assessed up to 11 years|Toxicity, Measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The proportion of patients with at least 1 grade 3 or higher adverse event will be compared between treatment arms., Time of primary endpoint analysis|Patient-reported shoulder-related QOL, function impairment and disability, Patient reported using Abbreviated Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (QuickDASH) with scores of 0-100. A higher score indicates greater disability., Baseline, 3 weeks, 3, 6, 12 months post-surgery|General quality of life, Will be measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head and Neck to measure Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head and Neck-Trial Outcome Index scores on a scale from 0-96. A higher score indicates better quality of life., Baseline, 3 weeks, 3, 6, 12 months post-surgery|Nodal metastasis detection rate, Defined as the proportion of patients with pathologic positive nodes using the pathology results., At time of surgery|Pathologic false omission rate, Measured within the sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLN) arm only. Defined as the proportion of patients with false negative results among negative SLN patients., At time of surgery|Length of hospital stay, Length of hospital stay due to surgical procedure will be compared between arms using the Mann-Whitney test., Prior to surgery, at time of discharge from surgery|Post-surgery patient-reported outcome, Measured by NDII in low-risk oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma patients using analysis of covariance comparison model., At 6 months post-surgery|Diagnostic performance (Phase II only), Descriptive statistics (minimum, maximum, mean, standard deviation, and coefficient of variation) of the number of detected SLNs will be calculated by modality and neck sublevel. The difference of the number of SLNs between single photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography plus planar and planar only will be computed and summarized by neck sublevel, reader, and overall. Pairwise absolute differences of the number of detected SLNs among readers will be computed and summarized by modality and neck sublevel., Up to 11 years
Quality of life, Measured by European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire., Baseline, 3 weeks, and 3, 6, 12 months post-surgery|DFS for low-risk patients, Exploratory analyses will be done using the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate the DFS distribution in both arms. Cox proportional hazards models with the treatment arm only and with treatment arms and relevant patient and tumor characteristics will be fitted. 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the treatment effect from both models will be also reported., From randomization to local/regional recurrence, distant metastasis, or death due to any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 11 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if patient-reported neck and shoulder function and related quality of life (QOL) at 6 months after surgery using the Neck Dissection Impairment Index (NDII) is superior with sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy compared to elective neck dissection (END) for treatment of early-stage oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OCSCC) (cT1-2N0). (Phase II) II. To determine if disease-free survival (DFS) is non-inferior with SLN biopsy compared to END for treatment of early-stage OCSCC (cT1-2N0). (Phase III) III. To determine if patient-reported neck and shoulder function and related QOL at 6 months after surgery using NDII is superior with SLN biopsy compared to END for treatment of early-stage OCSCC (cT1-2N0). (Phase III)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare patterns of failure (local-regional relapse and distant metastasis) between surgical arms.

II. To measure and compare overall survival (OS) between surgical arms. III. To measure and compare the toxicity of the two surgical arms.

IV. To measure longitudinal patient-reported neck and shoulder function and related QOL between surgical arms using the following instruments:

IVa. Neck Dissection Impairment Index (NDII); IVb. Abbreviated Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (QuickDASH); IVc. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head and Neck (FACT-H\&N). V. To assess the length of hospitalization, post-operative drain placement, and operative morbidity between arms.

VI. To estimate the negative predictive rate of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) for N0 neck in patients with T1 and T1-2 oral cavity squamous cell cancer (OCSCC) patients in the END arm.

VII. To assess nodal metastases rates between arms. VIII. To assess the pathologic false omission rate (FOR) in the SLN biopsy arm. IX. To determine if patient-reported neck and shoulder function using the NDII and related QOL at 6 months after surgery with SLN biopsy is superior to the END in low-risk patients.

X. To compare the diagnostic performance of planar only versus (vs.) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/CT plus planar for SLN mapping (phase II only).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare changes in patient-reported outcomes (European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire \[EQ-5D-5L\]) between surgical arms.

II. To collect biospecimens for future translational science studies. III. To assess the DFS between arms in low-risk patients.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive an imaging agent via injection and undergo planar imaging and SPECT/CT over 1-2 hours. Patients then undergo SLN biopsy. Patients also undergo FDG PET/CT, CT, and/or chest x-ray at screening and during follow up.

GROUP II: Patients undergo standard END. Patients also undergo FDG PET/CT, CT, and/or chest x-ray at screening and during follow up.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 3 weeks after surgery, every 3 months for year 1, every 4 months for year 2, every 6 months for year 3, then yearly thereafter.