Trametinib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well trametinib works in treating patients with juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Neurofibromatosis Type 1
PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|DRUG: Trametinib
Objective Response, Response rates will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients who are responders, and confidence intervals will be constructed accounting for the two-stage design. A responder is defined as a patient who achieves a best response of PR or CR on the study prior to having an overall response of PD; all others will be considered non-responders. The definitions of response are based on a publication (PMID: 25552679) entitled "Criteria for evaluating response and outcome in clinical trials for children with juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia". Patients can be categorized as having experienced complete remission, partial remission, stable disease, or progressive disease based on a combination of clinical and molecular variables., 12 cycles (1 cycle = 28 days)
Incidence of Adverse Events, Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Will report the percentage of patients within each disease stratum who experienced a grade 3 or higher toxicity with attribution of possible, probable, or definite while on protocol therapy or within 30 days of the last dose of therapy., Up to cycle 12 (1 cycle = 28 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters of Trametinib, A descriptive analysis of pharmacokinetic parameters of trametinib will be performed to define systemic exposure, drug clearance, Trametinib concentrations, and other pharmacokinetic parameters. The PK parameters will be summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit)., Up to cycle 12 (1 cycle = 28 days)|Trametinib Concentrations, Will be measured by mass spectrometry. Will be analyzed descriptively. Values will be summarized with means and standard deviations., Up to cycle 12 (1 cycle = 28 days)|Mutant Allele Burden, Will be measured by next-generation sequencing. The percent change in mutant allele burden will be analyzed descriptively. Values will be summarized with means and standard deviations., Up to cycle 12 (1 cycle = 28 days)|Complete Response, Complete Response rates will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients who had an overall best response of Complete Response, and confidence intervals will be constructed accounting for the two-stage design., 12 cycles (1 cycle = 28 days)|Duration of Response, Duration of response (Aim 1.2.5) will be defined as the time from first occurrence of PR or CR until the first occurrence of PD, death, or going off study. Patients who progress will be considered to have had an event, patients who die prior to progressing will be considered to have a competing event, and patients who go off study prior to progressing will be censored at time of last contact. The analysis will be done using the method of Gray., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate to trametinib in children with recurrent or refractory juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To further define and describe the toxicities of single agent trametinib in children with recurrent or refractory JMML.

II. To further characterize the pharmacokinetics of trametinib in children with recurrent or refractory JMML.

III. To prospectively evaluate mutant allele burden as a marker of disease activity in JMML.

IV. To measure the rate of complete responses in children with recurrent or refractory JMML.

V. To measure the duration of response among responders.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe the distribution of JMML diagnostic criteria in children with recurrent or refractory JMML.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo a bone marrow aspiration or biopsy at baseline, on day 28 of cycles 1 and 2, at all subsequent odd numbered cycles, and at end of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually for up to 5 years.