Reduced Dose Radiotherapy for the Treatment of Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial compares the safety, side effects and effectiveness of reduced dose radiation therapy to standard of care dose radiation in treating patients with indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Standard of care radiation treatment for indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma is usually delivered in 12 treatments. Studies have shown indolent lymphoma to be sensitive to radiation treatment, however, larger doses have higher rates of toxicities. A reduced radiation dose may be safe, tolerable and/or effective compared to standard of care radiation dose in treating patients with indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Indolent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Indolent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Indolent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Procedure|RADIATION: Involved-site Radiation Therapy (3 Fractions)|RADIATION: Involved-site Radiation Therapy (12 Fractions)|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of grade 2 or higher acute adverse events (AEs), AEs will be graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Acute toxicity will be reported as a proportion calculated as the number of patients with acute toxicity divided by the total number of treatment patients. Treatment cycles are 5 days ±2 days (Arm 1) and 16 days ±2 days (Arm 2)., Up to 14 days after radiation treatment
Response rate, Response rate will be defined as the proportion of patients displaying response (complete response or partial response) at 3 months post treatment. Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all signs of cancer in response to treatment. Partial response is defined decrease in the size of target lesions by ≥ 50%, with no increase in the size of any lesion and no appearance of new lesions. Treated patients who do not have a 3-month evaluation will be classified as a non-response. Treatment cycles are 5 days ±2 days (Arm 1) and 16 days ±2 days (Arm 2)., Up to 3 months after radiation treatment|Time to progression rate, Local control will be defined as the number of days from end of radiation treatment until first local recurrence within 24 months post radiation treatment. Treatment cycles are 5 days ±2 days (Arm 1) and 16 days ±2 days (Arm 2)., Up to 24 months after radiation treatment|Patient reported quality of life, Patient reported quality of life will be measured using Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) scale, a 13-item questionnaire answered on a scale of 1-5 where 1=Not at all and 5=Very much. Treatment cycles are 5 days ±2 days (Arm 1) and 16 days ±2 days (Arm 2)., Up to 3 months after radiation treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To show that the experimental arm (9 Gy in 3 fractions, 8 Gy in 2 fractions, or 10 Gy in 5 fractions) has significantly reduced acute toxicity (grade ≥ 2 adverse events at least possibly related to radiation treatment within 14 days after the end of radiation treatment (according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] version \[v\]5.0) compared to 24 Gy in 12 fractions.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate patient reported quality of life. II. To evaluate response rate. III. To evaluate local control rate. IV. To evaluate relapse-free survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Financial toxicity will be assessed at the end of radiation treatment. II. Financial health care expenditure will be assessed at the end of radiation treatment III. Late toxicity.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. Biopsies of enrolled patients will be evaluated for pathological assessment of cellular and genetic mutations to correlate them with disease local relapse and radiation resistance.

II. Patients will have their baseline positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan undergo auto-segmentation to calculate the functional imaging 18-fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) metabolic tumor volume (MTV), total lesions glycolysis (TLG) and maximum standardized uptake volume (SUVmax) of the sites to be treated with involved-site radiation therapy (ISRT) using MIMvista platform to correlate it with disease local relapse and treatment response.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo reduced dose ISRT once daily (QD) over 3, 2, or 5 treatment fractions. Patients also undergo CT or PET/CT throughout the study. Patients may additionally undergo endoscopy during screening and during follow up.

ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care (SOC) radiation therapy QD over 12 treatment fractions. Patients also undergo CT or PET/CT throughout the study. Patients may additionally undergo endoscopy during screening and during follow up.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 7 and 14, 3 months then every 6 months for up to 2 years.