Combination Therapy in Cancers With Mutations in DNA Repair Genes
The purpose of this phase 1 clinical trials is to determine whether niraparib (a Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor (PARPi)) can be safely combined with irinotecan with manageable toxicity and reasonable efficacy. Emerging evidence suggest that PARPi is an effective therapeutic strategy in a wider subset of solid tumors that may have defective homologous recombination (HR) or DNA repair gene mutations. BReast CAncer gene (BRCA), partner and localizer of BRCA2 (PALB2), and various other DNA repair germline mutations predispose carriers to cancers of the breast, ovaries, pancreas, prostate and melanoma. A number of preclinical studies have demonstrated that PARP inhibitors can work as chemopotentiators. There is significant interest in this combination, and the recommended phase II dose will be used in the upcoming NCI ComboMatch trial.
Metastatic Solid Tumor|BRCA1 Mutation|BRCA2 Mutation|ATM Gene Mutation|PALB2 Gene Mutation
DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Irinotecan
Percentage of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events, The percentage of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events as classified and graded by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 will be reported, 30 days after the last dose|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD is defined as the highest dose studied for which the observed incidence of DLT is less than 33% or occurs within at most one out of six patients treated at any given dose level., 30 days after the last dose|Percentage of participants with Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), The percentage of participants with documented dose-limiting toxicities will be reported by dose level., 30 days after the last dose|Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), The RP2D will be selected based on the evaluation of dose-limiting toxicities and adverse events measured using CTCAE v5.0., Up to 2 years
Overall response rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of participants who achieve a Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 best overall response of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR), Up to 2 years|Duration of overall response (DOR), Defined as the duration of time from when measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the date that recurrent/ progressive disease (PD) is objectively documented (taking as reference for PD the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Up to 2 years|Median duration of stable disease (SD), Defined as the duration of time from measurement criteria are met for SD or better until the date that recurrent/ progressive disease (PD) is objectively documented (taking as reference for PD the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Up to 2 years|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of disease recurrence/ progression (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years
This is an open label, non-randomized phase Ib dose finding study of niraparib and irinotecan combination therapy. For this study, individuals with metastatic solid tumor malignancies and BRCA1/2, ataxia telangiectasia mutated gene (ATM), or PALB2 mutations will be enrolled with specific tumors of interest including gastrointestinal cancers (e.g. colon, pancreas, gastric, cholangiocarcinoma), ovarian cancer, and breast cancer.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety and tolerability of niraparib and irinotecan combination therapy in patients with metastatic solid tumor malignancies and BRCA1/2, ATM, or PALB2 mutations.

II. To determine the MTD and recommended phase II dose of niraparib with irinotecan combination therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the preliminary efficacy of niraparib and irinotecan combination therapy in patients with metastatic solid tumor malignancies and BRCA1/2, ATM, or PALB2 mutations.

OVERVIEW:

Participants will be treated in cohorts of size three to six, and the dosage will be escalated if the clinical toxicity is acceptable. Participants may continue treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, start of new anti-cancer therapy, or death. Participants will be followed for 30 days after study drug discontinuation for safety and every 12 weeks (+/- 2 weeks) for up to 2 years after start of therapy until disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first).