CGT9486 (Formerly Known as PLX9486) as a Single Agent and in Combination With PLX3397 (Pexidartinib) or Sunitinib in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn how CGT9486 (fka PLX9486) may affect cancer cells with certain mutations in the KIT gene, specifically in participants with types of advanced solid tumors including gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).

CGT9486 (fka PLX9486) is designed to block KIT gene mutations. These mutations can cause cancer and cancer cell growth. By blocking these mutations, the drug may kill the cancer cells with the mutation and/or stop the tumor from growing. By combining CGT9486 (fka PLX9486) with PLX3397 and CGT9486 (fka PLX9486) with sunitinib, the investigators hope to block most KIT gene mutations that drive cancer growth.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
DRUG: CGT9486|DRUG: Pexidartinib|DRUG: Sunitinib
Part 1: Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of CGT9486, RP2D was determined by incidence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V4.03. DLTs: AEs that occurred during Cycle 1, possibly/probably related to study drug, and met 1 of the following criteria: Hematologic Toxicities: Grade 4 neutropenia for \>7 days, Grade ≥3 neutropenia with fever, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, Grade ≥3 thrombocytopenia for \>7 days, Grade 4 anemia; Other Toxicities: Any Grade ≥3 (AE or laboratory) toxicity despite adequate supportive care except for following: Grade ≥3 nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea that resolved to Grade ≤2 within 72 hours; Grade 3 fatigue that resolved to Grade ≤2 within 14 days; Grade ≥3 asymptomatic changes in alkaline phosphatase, hypomagnesemia, hyperglycemia, or hypophosphatemia; Grade 3 increases in transaminases for ≤5 days; Any other Grade ≥3 toxicity for which further dose escalation deemed inappropriate., Cycle 1 of Part 1 (Cycle length = 28 days)|Part 1: Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered study drug, which did not necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment. An AE could be any unfavorable and unintended sign (for example, including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not it was considered to be study drug related. This included any newly occurring event or previous condition that had increased in severity or frequency since the administration of study drug. A treatment-emergent AE (TEAE) was an AE that started or worsened in severity on or after the date of the initial dose of study drug. A summary of serious and all other non-serious adverse events regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., From the date of first dose of study drug up to 30 days after last dose of study drug (maximum exposure: 670 days)|Part 1: Area Under The Concentration Time Curve From Time Zero to 24 Hours After Dosing (AUC0-24) of CGT9486, AUC0-24 was determined by the linear trapezoidal rule for the ascending portion and by the log trapezoidal rule for the descending portion of the plasma profile. For BID dosing, Cycle 1 Day 15 AUC0-24 was calculated as 2 x area under the concentration time curve from time zero to 12 hours after dosing (AUC0-12). Missing concentration data were excluded from Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis., Predose, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 24 hours postdose at Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 1 Day 15|Part 1: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of CGT9486, Cmax was taken directly from bioanalytical data., Predose, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 24 hours postdose at Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 1 Day 15|Part 1: Time to Reach Cmax (Tmax) of CGT9486, Tmax was taken directly from merged clinical and bioanalytical data, with time presented as nominal time relative to dose., Predose, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 24 hours postdose at Cycle 1 Day 1 (Day -10 for 350 mg QD cohort) and Cycle 1 Day 15|Part 1: Half Life (T1/2) of PLX9486, Participants in a selected Part 1 cohort (350 mg QD) participated in a PK substudy to obtain more complete information on the PK profile of PLX9486. Participants received a single dose of 350 mg of PLX9486 10 days prior to the start of repeated QD dosing and plasma concentrations were followed 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 9 hours postdose, and then once daily for 9 additional days prior to Cycle 1 Day 1., Predose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 9, 24, 49, 72, 96, 120, 144, 168, 192, 216 hours postdose on Day -10|Part 2e: RP2D of CGT9486 in Combination With Sunitinib, RP2D was determined by incidence of DLT using CTCAE version 4.03 for severity grade. DLTs were defined as AEs that occurred during Cycle 1, classified as possibly/probably related to study drug, and met 1 of the following criteria: Hematologic Toxicities: Grade 4 neutropenia for \>7 days, Grade ≥3 neutropenia with fever, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, Grade ≥3 thrombocytopenia for \>7 days or with bleeding, Grade 4 anemia; Other Toxicities: Any Grade ≥3 (AE or laboratory) toxicity despite adequate supportive care except for the following: Grade ≥3 nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea that resolved to Grade ≤2 within 72 hours; Grade 3 fatigue that resolved to Grade ≤2 within 14 days; Grade ≥3 asymptomatic changes in alkaline phosphatase, hypomagnesemia, hyperglycemia, or hypophosphatemia; Grade 3 increases in transaminases for ≤5 days; Any other Grade ≥3 toxicity for which further dose escalation deemed inappropriate., Cycle 1 of Part 2e (Cycle length = 28 days)|Part 2b: RP2D of PLX9486 in Combination With Pexidartinib, RP2D was determined by incidence of DLT using CTCAE version 4.03 for severity grade. DLTs were defined as AEs that occurred during Cycle 1, classified as possibly/probably related to study drug, and met 1 of the following criteria: Hematologic Toxicities: Grade 4 neutropenia for \>7 days, Grade ≥3 neutropenia with fever, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, Grade ≥3 thrombocytopenia for \>7 days or with bleeding, Grade 4 anemia; Other Toxicities: Any Grade ≥3 (AE or laboratory) toxicity despite adequate supportive care except for the following: Grade ≥3 nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea that resolved to Grade ≤2 within 72 hours; Grade 3 fatigue that resolved to Grade ≤2 within 14 days; Grade ≥3 asymptomatic changes in alkaline phosphatase, hypomagnesemia, hyperglycemia, or hypophosphatemia; Grade 3 increases in transaminases for ≤5 days; Any other Grade ≥3 toxicity for which further dose escalation deemed inappropriate., Cycle 1 of Part 2 b (Cycle length = 28 days)|Part 2b: Number of Participants With Any TEAEs and Treatment-Related TEAEs, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered study drug, which did not necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment. An AE could be any unfavorable and unintended sign (for example, including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not it was considered to be study drug related. This included any newly occurring event or previous condition that had increased in severity or frequency since the administration of study drug. A TEAE was an AE that started or worsened in severity on or after the date of the initial dose of study drug. Treatment-related TEAEs included all events reported as "possibly related" or "probably related" to any of study treatment. A summary of serious and all other non-serious adverse events regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., From the date of first dose of study drug up to 30 days after last dose of study drug (maximum exposure: 868 days)|Part 2e: Number of Participants With Any TEAEs and Treatment-Related TEAEs, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered study drug, which did not necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment. An AE could be any unfavorable and unintended sign (for example, including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not it was considered to be study drug related. This included any newly occurring event or previous condition that had increased in severity or frequency since the administration of study drug. A TEAE was an AE that started or worsened in severity on or after the date of the initial dose of study drug. Treatment-related TEAEs included all events reported as "possibly related" or "probably related" to any of study treatment. A summary of serious and all other non-serious adverse events regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., From the date of first dose of study drug up to 30 days after last dose of study drug (maximum exposure: 825 days)
Part 1: Overall Response Rate (ORR): Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), as Assessed Using RECIST V1.1, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a best overall response of confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must had reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the date of first dose of study drug until the first appearance of CR or PR (maximum exposure: 670 days)|Part 1: Progression-Free Survival (PFS), as Assessed Using RECIST V1.1, PFS was defined as the number of days from the first day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) to the date of the first documented disease progression or date of death, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. Median was calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimate., From the first date of treatment until the first documented disease progression or date of death (maximum exposure: 670 days)|Part 1: Duration of Response (DOR), as Assessed Using RECIST V1.1, DOR was defined as the number of days from the date of first response (PR or CR confirmed at least 28 days later) to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurred first. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) must had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. Median was calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimate., From the date of first response (PR or CR) to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurred first (maximum exposure: 670 days)|Part 2: Overall Response Rate (ORR): Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), as Assessed Using RECIST V1.1, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a best overall response of confirmed CR or PR. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the date of first dose of study drug until the first appearance of CR or PR (maximum exposure: 868 days)|Part 2: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR): Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit, as Assessed Using RECIST V1.1, Participants were considered to experience clinical benefit if they had a best overall response of stable disease (SD) that lasted for at least 16 weeks, or confirmed best overall response of PR or CR. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters. CR: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) must had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression., From the date of first dose of study drug until the first appearance of CR, PR, or SD (maximum exposure: 868 days)|Part 2: Progression-Free Survival (PFS), as Assessed Using RECIST V1.1, PFS was defined as the number of days from the first day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) to the date of the first documented disease progression or date of death, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. Median was calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimate., From the first date of treatment until the first documented disease progression or date of death (maximum exposure: 868 days)|Part 2: Overall Survival, Overall Survival was defined as the number of days from the first day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) until the date of death. If a participant was lost to follow-up, overall survival was censored at the date of last contact. Median was calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimate., From the first day of treatment until the date of death (maximum exposure: 868 days)|Part 2: Overall Survival at Month 12, Percentage of participants who survived at Month 12 have been reported., Month 12|Part 2: PFS at Month 6, PFS was defined as the number of days from the first day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) to the date of the first documented disease progression or date of death, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. Percentage of participants with PFS at Month 6 are reported., Month 6|Part 2: Duration of Response (DOR), as Assessed Using RECIST V1.1, DOR was defined as the number of days from the date of first response (PR or CR confirmed at least 28 days later) to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurred first. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) must had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. Median was calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimate., From the date of first response (PR or CR) to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurred first (maximum exposure: 868 days)|Part 2: AUC0-24 of CGT9486 in Combination With Pexidartinib or Sunitinib, AUC0-24 was determined by the linear trapezoidal rule for the ascending portion and by the log trapezoidal rule for the descending portion of the plasma profile. Missing concentration data were excluded from PK analysis., Predose, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 24 hours postdose at Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 1 Day 15|Part 2: Cmax of CGT9486 in Combination With Pexidartinib or Sunitinib, Cmax was taken directly from bioanalytical data., Predose, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 24 hours postdose at Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 1 Day 15|Part 2: Tmax of CGT9486 in Combination With Pexidartinib or Sunitinib, Tmax was taken directly from merged clinical and bioanalytical data, with time presented as nominal time relative to dose., Predose, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 24 hours postdose at Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 1 Day 15
This study includes a dose escalation portion (Part 1) in which the safety profile and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of CGT9486 as a single oral agent will be evaluated in participants with solid tumors (including GIST), followed by signal-seeking extension cohorts (Part 2). Enrollment in the combination treatment portions of the study (dose-finding for the CGT9486 + pexidartinib combination \[Part 2b\] and the CGT9486 + sunitinib combination \[Part 2e\]) is planned to be accrued using standard 3+3 study designs.

Parts 2a, 2c, 2d, and 2f are not conducted due to business decisions.