Donafenib Combined With Immunotherapy and Local Therapy for Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma That Has Failed in Previous Therapy
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if donafenib combined with or without immunotherapy and local therapy works to treat unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma that has failed in previous therapy.

It will also learn about the safety of donafenib combined with immunotherapy and local therapy.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

The Objective Response Rate (mRecist） and Progression-Free Survival of the participants treated by donafenib combined with immunotherapy and local therapy.

The disease control rate and overall survival of the participants treated by donafenib combined with immunotherapy and local therapy.

The safety of donafenib combined with immunotherapy and local therapy in the participants.

Participants will:

Replace the original targeted drug with donafenib (0.2g bid), while continuing immunotherapy and local therapy as previous therapy (if have).

The observation period was 1 year.
Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Donafenib|PROCEDURE: transhepatic arterial embolization chemotherapy or hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy|DRUG: PD-1,PD-L1
Objective Response Rate (mRecist）(ORR), According to mRECIST to evaluate the proportion of patients with CR and PR in the total number of patients., an average of 1 year|Progression-free survival, Patients' progression-free survival after switching to the new treatment regimen is the time between the start of the change and tumor recurrence or death, whichever occurs first, an average of 1 year
Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR), an average of 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), The time from the date of initiation of the drug donafenib until the date of death from any cause, an average of 1.5 year|Incidence of adverse events and serious adverse events, Incidence of adverse events and serious adverse events., an average of 1.5 year
This is a single-arm, prospective clinical study. 32 patients who had previously received a targeted drug in combination with or without immunotherapy, local therapy (transhepatic arterial embolization chemotherapy (TACE), hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC)) and had not received donafenib will be enrolled. The specific experimental protocol was to replace the original targeted drug with donafenib (0.2g bid), while continuing immunotherapy and local therapy as previous therapy(if have).The observation period was 1 year.