Vorinostat,Lenalinomide and Dexamethasone in Multiple Myeloma Refractory to Previous Lenalinomide Containing Regimens
Phase IIb clinical trial to determine if resistance to a lenalidomide containing regimen can be overcome by the addition of vorinostat, in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Vorinostat, Lenalinomide and Dexamethasone
Overall Response Rate (PR or Better) of Vorinostat in Combination With Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory MM Refractory to a Previous Lenalidomide Containing Regimen, Defined as:

1. Progression on therapy OR within 60 days after the last dose of a lenalidomide containing regimen OR
2. No clinical response (\<MR) on a lenalidomide containing regimen An overall response rate of 25% or more will be acceptable, while an overall response of less than or equal to 16% will be considered unacceptable. Response will be assessed according to a modified International Working Group Uniform Response Criteria (Durie et al., 2006)

   * Complete Response: Negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and Disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ⩽5% plasma cells in bone marrow
   * Very Good Partial Response- Serum and urine M-component detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or 90 or greater reduction in serum M-component plus urine M-component \<100 mg per 24 h
   * Partial Response- ⩾50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-h urinary M-protein by ⩾90% or to \<200 mg per 24 h., On treatment portion of study is completed after 12 cycles (each cycle is 28 days in duration) and one month of follow up. Patients may be followed for up to two years after last dose of lenalidomide and vorinostat for disease status and survival.
lenalidomide has been investigated in combination with both lenalidomide and bortezomib regimens. "Investigational" means that the drug is still being studied and that the study doctors are trying to find out more about it; such as the safest dose to use, the side effects it may cause, and if the drug is effective for treating relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma.

Lenalidomide is a drug that alters the immune system and it may also interfere with the development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. Therefore, in theory, it may reduce or prevent the growth of cancer cells. Lenalidomide is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of specific types of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and in combination with dexamethasone for patients with multiple myeloma (MM) who have received at least 1 prior therapy. MDS and MM are cancers of the blood. It is currently being tested in a variety of cancer conditions. In this case it is considered experimental because the FDA has not approved this combination. Participants will receive 25mg of lenalidomide on days 1-21 every 28 days.

Vorinostat is a drug that interferes with the life sustaining functions of the tumor cells. It has already received regulatory approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of T-cell non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma in the United States. The usage of vorinostat in Multiple Myeloma is experimental (investigational) and has not been approved by the FDA, but studies in combination with proteasome inhibitors (bortezomib) and immunomodulatory (lenalidomide) agents are ongoing. Participants will receive either 400mg of vorinostat on days 1-7 and 15-21 every 28 days.

Dexamethasone is a steroid that is known to cause cell death in multiple myeloma. Dexamethasone is FDA approved for the treatment of multiple myeloma and many other disease states. Participants will receive either Dexamethasone 40mg for those less than 75 years of age or 20mg for those aged 75 years and above on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 every 28 days In this research study the investigators are looking to evaluate the safety and efficacy of vorinostat when combined with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in treating relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma, refractory to lenalidomide.