Safety and Effectiveness of Blood-Brain Barrier Disruption (BBBD) in Subjects With Suspected Infiltrating Glioma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of using the Exablate Type 2 system using microbubble resonators (Exablate Test Arm) to disrupt the Blood-Brain Barrier for the purpose of temporarily transforming, and thereby 'marking', regions of infiltrating gliomas prior to planned surgical resection, for the purpose of improving tumor visualization during the surgery to achieve a greater proportion of subjects who receive a Gross Total Resection (GTR) per plan compared to those not undergoing a BBBD procedure prior to resection (Control Arm).
Glioma
DEVICE: Exablate BBBD
Overall safety of the Exablate BBBD procedure itself as measured through the collection of adverse events, Safety of the Exablate BBBD procedure will be evaluated by patient examination and post-procedure MRI exams assessing changes in the treated region. Adverse events will be reported by the Investigator and monitored in both treatment arms., Approximately 2 months|Effectiveness of BBBD as determined by the proportion of subjects in whom a GTR is acheived, The proportion of subjects in whom a gross total resection (actual versus planned) is achieved as measured on post-operative imaging compared to pre-resection imaging, MRI 72 hours post resection
Confirmation of accuracy of Exablate BBBD targeting, Confirmation that new BBBD by contrast enhancement in a previously non-enhancing area overlies the intended target for BBBD. (ExAblate arm only), MRI immediately after the ExAblate procedure|Return Rate for Second Surgery for Completion of Resection, Comparison of the Return Rate between the two treatment arms., Approximately 2 months
Evaluation of circulating tumor biomarkers, Collection of blood for evaluation of circulating tumor biomarkers (e.g. circulating tumor DNA \[ctDNA\]), pre- and post-BBBD procedure
After being informed about the study and potential risks, all patients giving written informed consent will undergo screening to determine eligibility for study entry. Patients who meet the eligibility requirements will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to Exablate Test Arm and to Control Arm, respectively. The following assessments will occur:

1. Pre-surgical planning and Post-surgical visit MRI exams with and without contrast will be collected for evaluation by the study core lab; Any return to surgery for additional resection will be captured
2. All subjects will be seen at \~Week 2, and \~4-Weeks post resection for physical and neurological exams and to assess for complications or adverse events. These visits should coincide with standard (Neuro-oncology) care following resection.
3. Long-term outcomes will be collected during standard of care Neuro-oncology care follow-up visits for up to 2 years post resection; standard of care MRIs and RANO assessments will be collected.