CD3/CD19 Depleted or CD3 Depleted/CD56 Selected Haploid Donor Natural Killer Cell Treatment in Older AML in First Complete Remission
This is a phase II trial designed to test the safety and efficacy (disease free survival \[DFS\]) of related donor HLA-haploidentical NK-cell based therapy for the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). The natural killer (NK) cell product will be given to patients 60 years and older who are in a first complete remission after 1 or 2 courses of standard AML induction. After a preparative regimen of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, patients will receive a single infusion of either CD3-/CD19- NK cells or CD3-/CD56+ NK cells followed by a short course of Interleukin-2 (IL-2) to facilitate NK cell survival and expansion.
Acute Myelogenous Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: CD3-/CD19- natural killer cells|BIOLOGICAL: CD3-CD56+ natural killer cells|DEVICE: CliniMACS® CD3 and CD19 Reagent System|DEVICE: CliniMACS® CD56 Reagent System|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Aldesleukin
Disease-Free Survival, the length of time after treatment ends that a patient survives without any signs or symptoms of that cancer or any other type of cancer. In a clinical trial, measuring the disease-free survival is one way to see how well a new treatment works., 1 Year
Incidence of Infusional Toxicities, Patients will be monitored for adverse effects of the NK cell infusion such as rash, acute allergic reaction, bronchospasm, respiratory distress, and acute vascular leak syndrome., Day 100|Incidence of Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD), Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease is a severe long-term complication created by infusion of donor cells into a foreign host., 1 Year|Incidence of Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD), Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease is a severe short-term complication created by infusion of donor cells into a foreign host., Day 100|Treatment-Related Mortality, In the field of transplantation, toxicity is high and all deaths without previous relapse or progression are usually considered as related to transplantation., Day 100, 1 Year and 2 Years|Overall Survival, The percentage of people in a study or treatment group who are alive for a certain period of time after they were diagnosed with or treated for a disease, such as cancer. Also called survival rate., 1 Year and 2 Years|Disease-Free Survival, the length of time after treatment ends that a patient survives without any signs or symptoms of that cancer or any other type of cancer. In a clinical trial, measuring the disease-free survival is one way to see how well a new treatment works., 2 Years
The trial will use a single-stage design and will take place in two parts. The first part will support the selection of the better NK cell product as measured by in vivo NK cell expansion. Successful in vivo NK cell expansion is defined as 40% donor DNA and 40% of lymphocytes are NK cells at day 7 post infusion OR 20% donor DNA and 20% of lymphocytes are NK cells at day 14 post infusion.

Part 1: 1:1 randomization with 10 patients per cohort to either:

1. CD3-/CD19- NK cell product or
2. CD3-/CD56+ purified NK cell product The product with better NK cell expansion will be used for the rest of the trial. If the results and safety profile are equivalent, the CD56+ selection approach will be used. If neither approach results in successful NK cell expansion, the trial will be stopped and the platform redesigned.

Part 2: complete the trial by enrolling an additional 26 patients using the product deemed successful during part 1 to estimate the primary endpoint (DFS at 12 months)