Camrelizumab Combined With Chemotherapy for Recurrent or Advanced Cervical Neuroendocrine Carcinomas
Recurrent or advanced cervical neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC) is refractory to multimodal treatment, even to extensive therapy. Chemotherapy, consisting of platinum and etoposide, remains the main therapy for recurrent or advanced cervical NEC. In addition, bevacizumab has shown progression-free benefits in recurrent or advanced cervical cancer. Case report suggested anti-PD-1 antibody may have antitumor activities in NEC. Based on these evidences, a phase 2, single arm trial is conducted to explore the objective response rate (ORR) of platinum/etoposide/bevacizumab/anti-PD-1 antibody (camrelizumab) for the treatment of recurrent or advanced cervical NEC. This trial is to enroll 20 patients, who would accept 6 courses of platinum/etoposide/bevacizumab/camrelizumab. If the patient achieved complete or partial remission, a total period of 12 months bevacizumab/camrelizumab will be given as maintain therapy. The primary endpoint is ORR. The second endpoints are severe adverse events according to criteria of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and iRECIST Guideline, and critical changes of laboratory testing.
Chemotherapy|Anti-pd-1 Antibody|Cervical Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Adverse Drug Event|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Advanced Cervical Carcinoma|Objective Response Rate
DRUG: Drug therapy
objective response rate, proportion of partial or complete remission after intervention, 1 years
severe adverse events, grade 3/4 adverse events and mortality according to criteria of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and iRECIST Guideline, 1 year|a composite changes of important laboratory testing, these changes include liver/kidney/myocardiac functions, insulin resistance, functions of adrenal gland, 1 year
Recurrent or advanced cervical neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC) is refractory to multimodal treatment, even to extensive therapy. Chemotherapy, consisting of platinum and etoposide, remains the main therapy for recurrent or advanced cervical NEC. In addition, bevacizumab has shown progression-free benefits in recurrent or advanced cervical cancer. Case report suggested anti-PD-1 antibody may have antitumor activities in NEC. Based on these evidences, a phase 2, single arm trial is conducted to explore the objective response rate (ORR) of platinum/etoposide/bevacizumab/anti-PD-1 antibody (camrelizumab) for the treatment of recurrent or advanced cervical NEC. This trial is to enroll 20 patients, who would accept 6 courses of platinum/etoposide/bevacizumab/camrelizumab. If the patient achieved complete or partial remission, a total period of 12 months bevacizumab/camrelizumab will be given as maintain therapy. The primary endpoint is ORR. The second endpoints are severe adverse events according to criteria of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and iRECIST Guideline, and critical changes of laboratory testing.