Energy Metabolism in Thyroidectomized Patients
The purpose of this research study is to measure the changes in energy metabolism (how the body burns energy), cardiovascular function (heart function), and lipid metabolism (cholesterol break down and building) before and after thyroidectomy (surgical removal of thyroid gland) in response to two approved therapies for hypothyroidism: levothyroxine (LT4) or Liothyronine/levothyroxine (LT3/LT4) combination therapy.
Thyroid Goiter|Hypothyroidism|Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: Levothyroxine|DRUG: Liothyronine|DRUG: Placebo
Short Term Change in Weight, Weight will be measured in kilograms using a stadiometer, Baseline to 6 months post surgery|Energy Expenditure (EE), 24-hour EE will be measured using the whole room indirect calorimeter (WRIC) technique, Baseline to 6 months|Change in Cholesterol, Cholesterol will be measured using a standard lipid panel., Baseline to 6 months post surgery
Change in Quality of Life, ThyPRO-39, a thyroid specific quality of life instrument, was used to assess a participant's quality of life. ThyPRO-39 interrogates 12 individual domains and a composite on the 0 to 100 scale (0 best). A difference of 5 points corresponds to a small to moderate effect between two treatment arms. This outcome represents the change in score between when taken at baseline and then again at 6 months post surgery. The larger the increase in score, the better the improvement in the participant's quality of life. Each domain and the composite are being reported separately., Baseline to 6 months post surgery
In this study, Levothyroxine (LT4) and placebo (a look-alike inactive substance, a "sugar pill") will be compared to Liothyronine/ Levothyroxine (LT3/LT4) combination therapy.

Levothyroxine LT4 and Liothyronine (LT3) are drugs approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

All participants will be required follow VCU Health COVID-19 standard of Care screening procedures.

This study requires approximately five study visits The five-study visits required will be a Screening Visit (outpatient), one Baseline Visit, (inpatient) one Six Week Visit, (outpatient), one Three Month Visit and one Six Month Visit (both inpatient). A COVID-19 test will be done 48 hours (2 days) before each of the three-inpatient visit, Baseline Visit, Three Month and Six Month Visit.

Participants will be asked to:

1. Give permission for the researchers to collect information about their medical history from participants and their medical records five times during the study visits and for 5 years after the study visits.
2. Have a Physical exam done 5 times
3. 24-hour energy expenditure recording in the Whole room indirect calorimeter studies 3 times (inpatient overnight stays: Baseline, Three months, and Six months visits)
4. Study drug will be dispensed three times
5. Have study drug dose adjustments two times
6. Genomic blood draw for DNA one time
7. Have blood drawn five times
8. Have an DXA Scan two times
9. Have an Echocardiogram three times
10. Complete questionnaire three times
11. Have Accelerometers sensors laced 3 times (inpatient overnight stays: Baseline, Three months, and Six months visits)
12. ClearSight (blood pressure monitoring) procedure three times
13. Be randomized to take either Levothyroxine LT4 + placebo group or LevothyroxineLT3/Liothyronine LT4 group from baseline through 6 months

Participation in this study will last up to 6 months after surgery. Approximately 30 total individuals will participate in this study