Safety and Efficacy Study of MAGE-A3 + AS-15 in Patients With Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer After Cystectomy
The purpose of this clinical trial was to demonstrate the benefit of the immunotherapeutic product recMAGE-A3 + AS-15 given to patients with bladder cancer after removal of the bladder. A course of 13 injections was administered over 27 months.
Urinary Bladder Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: recMAGE-A3 + AS15 ASCI|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo
Disease Free Survival, To evaluate of the clinical efficacy in terms of Disease Free Survival of treatment versus placebo in the overall population of patients with bladder cancer with MAGE-A3 expression after cystectomy. Disease Free Survival is the time from randomization to either the date of first recurrence of the disease or the date of death (whatever the cause), whichever occurred first. Types of recurrence considered as an event included loco-regional and distant metastases. In addition, any death occurring without prior documentation of tumor recurrence was considered as an event (and was not censored in the statistical analysis) as this approach is less prone to introduce bias., 5 years
Overall Survival, To evaluate overall survival in the overall study population. Overall Survival was defined as the interval from randomization to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death; patients still alive were censored at the date of the last assessment., 5 years|Disease-free Specific Survival, To evaluate Disease-free specific survival in the overall population.Disease-free specific survival was defined as the interval from randomization to the date of first recurrence of disease or date of death due to bladder carcinoma, whichever occurred first. Patients without recurrence or death were censored at the date of last assessment. Patients without recurrence who died from another cause were censored at the date of death., 5 years|Distant Metastasis-free Survival, To evaluate Distant metastasis-free survival in the overall study population. Distant metastasis-free survival was defined as the interval from randomization to the date of first distant metastasis or date of death, whichever occurred first. Patients alive and without distant metastasis were censored at the date of last assessment., 5 years
This study assessed an investigational treatment for patients with Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer in whom the urinary bladder had been surgically removed. The investigational treatment aimed to increase the body's immune response to a specific antigen expressed by the cancer. The tumour tissue was first tested whether it expressed the MAGE-A3 antigen.

The MAGNOLIA study was open to male and female patients with pathologically confirmed muscle invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder with expression of the antigen MAGE-A3 with or without limited lymph node involvement who had no evidence of disease after surgery confirmed with imaging procedures (scans CT/MRI).