E7080 in Combination With Carboplatin + Gemcitabine Versus Carboplatin + Gemcitabine Alone as Second Line Therapy in Patients With Platinum-Sensitive Recurrent Ovarian Cancer by CA125
The purpose of this study was to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended Phase II dose of lenvatinib administered in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine (Phase IB) and to evaluate the safety and tolerability of E7080 administered in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine compared to carboplatin and gemcitabine alone (Phase II) in participants with platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), DLTs were defined as clinically significant adverse events occurring less than or equal to 21 days after commencing study treatment and considered to be possibly or probably related to study treatment by the Investigator. If 1 DLT occurred at any dose level, the cohort was to be expanded to include a maximum of six evaluable subjects. If 2 DLTs occurred at any dose level, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was to be either defined as the preceding dose, or an intermediate dose. To evaluate an intermediate dose, an additional dose cohort could be added to more accurately define the MTD., Cycle 1 (21 days)
Biomarker CA125-based Overall Response Rate (B-ORR), Within Treatment Group, Due to the limited enrollment despite significant diligence to boost enrollment and the complex study design required to manage hematologic toxicity, the study was terminated before the initiation of Phase 2. Hence the analysis was not conducted., Day 1 of every cycle, at end of treatment visit and every 2 months during follow-up period for patients who complete study without progressive disease.|Biomarker-based Proportion of Biomarker-Progression-Free Survival (B-PFS) at Week 12, Within Treatment Group, Due to the limited enrollment despite significant diligence to boost enrollment and the complex study design required to manage hematologic toxicity, the study was terminated before the initiation of Phase 2. Hence the analysis was not conducted., Week 12
This open-label, multicenter, randomized study was to consist of a Phase 1b portion: a safety run-in period with 3 doses of lenvatinib administered in combination with carboplatin + gemcitabine; and a Phase II portion: a randomized 2-arm period. Approximately 100 participants with ovarian cancer were to be enrolled in the study (10 to 20 participants in the Phase 1b portion and 80 participants in the Phase II portion). Participants were to participate in either the Phase 1b or the Phase II portion. Participants were to receive study treatment (lenvatinib plus carboplatin + gemcitabine or carboplatin + gemcitabine) for six 21-day cycles (18 weeks). Participants who receive E7080 and experience evidence of clinical benefit (CR, PR, or SD) may continue single agent E7080 beyond 18 weeks, until the occurrence of progressive disease (PD), unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or withdrawal by investigator, whichever occurs first.

Initially, an ascending dose schedule starting at lenvatinib 16 mg once daily on Day 1 to Day 21 was chosen for the Phase 1b portion to determine the MTD of lenvatinib administered once daily in combination with carboplatin + gemcitabine; however, due to hematologic toxicity observed in the first cohort, the lenvatinib administration schedule was changed to Days 2 to 21 in Protocol Amendment 2. Continued hematologic toxicity prompted a third protocol amendment, designed to evaluate a lower range of doses starting at lenvatinib 8 mg once daily in Protocol Amendment 3.

After three protocol amendments, recruitment into the Phase 1b portion of the study was very limited, with only one evaluable participant enrolled during the last 5 months of recruitment. Due to the limited enrollment despite significant diligence to boost enrollment and the complex study design required to manage hematologic toxicity, the study was terminated before the initiation of Phase II.

Safety was assessed by the monitoring and recording of all adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs); vital signs; Gynecological Oncology Group performance status; clinical laboratory evaluations; physical examinations; and 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs).