Breast Cancer Locator Guided vs. Wire Localized Partial Mastectomy for Breast Cancer
This prospective, multicenter, 1:1 randomized, controlled trial is designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the Breast Cancer Locator (BCL) in subjects with non-palpable invasive breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). Subjects will be randomized to breast conserving surgery (BCS) utilizing either the BCL or wire localization (WL) to guide surgery.
Breast Cancer Female
DEVICE: Breast Cancer Locator (BCL) guided partial mastectomy|DEVICE: Wire Localized (WL) partial mastectomy
Positive margin rate, To provide evidence that the positive margin rate following BCS using the BCL is not inferior to the standard of care (WL) for surgical guidance, At completion of study recruitment, approximately 18 months after first subject enrolled
Specimen volumes, To compare specimen volumes for women randomized to BCL vs. WL-guided BCS, At completion of study recruitment, approximately 18 months after first subject enrolled|Re-excision rate, To compare re-excision rate for women randomized to BCL vs. WL-guided BCS, At completion of study recruitment, approximately 18 months after first subject enrolled|Cancer localization rate, To compare cancer localization rate for women randomized to BCL vs. WL-guided BCS, At completion of study recruitment, approximately 18 months after first subject enrolled|Operative times, To compare operative times for women randomized to BCL vs. WL-guided BCS, At completion of study recruitment, approximately 18 months after first subject enrolled|Adverse event rate, To compare adverse event rate for women randomized to BCL vs. WL-guided BCS, At completion of study recruitment, approximately 18 months after first subject enrolled|Rate of additional shave biopsies, To compare rate of additional shave biopsies for women randomized to BCL vs. WL-guided BCS, At completion of study recruitment, approximately 18 months after first subject enrolled|Costs of care, To compare costs of care for women randomized to BCL vs. WL-guided BCS, At completion of study recruitment, approximately 18 months after first subject enrolled
The BCL System is intended to be used to guide a surgeon when performing partial mastectomy for breast cancer and to minimize positive margins. The purpose of this study is to provide evidence that the BCL is safe, effective, and non-inferior to the standard of care (WL) in the removal of non-palpable invasive breast cancer and DCIS.

Investigators in the intervention group will be provided with a three dimensional (3D) image of the cancer in the breast which allows them to visualize the closest distance from the tumor to the skin and the chest wall and quantifies those distances. Investigators will also use a BCL, which is a patient specific, plastic, bra-like form that is transiently placed on the breast prior to surgery and allows the Investigator to mark the projected edges of the tumor on the breast skin and to place bracketing wires inside the breast which define the center of the cancer and distances 1 cm from the tumor edges defined by pre-operative supine MRI.