SD-101, Nivolumab, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Chemotherapy-Refractory Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects of SD-101 when given together with nivolumab and radiation therapy in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that does not respond to treatment with chemotherapy (chemotherapy refractory) and has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as SD-101, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving SD-101, nivolumab, and radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with pancreatic cancer compared to nivolumab or radiation therapy alone.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Refractory Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: TLR9 Agonist SD-101
Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events, serious adverse events, and clinical laboratory values outside normal limits will be listed for each patient and summarized by body system and dose level in frequency tables. Severity will be graded by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days
Disease control rate, Up to 1 year|Duration of response, Up to 1 year|Progression free survival, Up to 1 year|Overall survival, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of intratumoral cytidine-phospho-guanosine oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG) in combination with nivolumab and radiotherapy (RT) in chemotherapy-refractory metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0 criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain preliminary data on disease control rate (DCR), duration of response (DOR), progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) of intratumoral CpG in combination with nivolumab and RT in chemotherapy refractory pancreatic adenocarcinoma.