sEphB4-HSA in Treating Patients With Kaposi Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein (EphB4-HSA) in treating patients with Kaposi sarcoma. Recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein may block the growth of blood vessels that provide blood to the cancer, and may also prevent cancer cells from growing.
Skin Kaposi Sarcoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|BEHAVIORAL: Quality-of-Life Assessment|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant EphB4-HSA Fusion Protein
Proportion of participants experiencing clinical response, The observed proportions of participants experiencing clinical response and unacceptable toxicity will be calculated with 95% confidence intervals. For clinical response, the Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the distribution for time to death assessed for up to 1 month after treatment completion; for time to progression assessed from chemotherapy initiation to first documented progression up to 1 month after treatment completion; and for time to response assessed from the first dose until first documented response up to 1 month after completion of treatment. The Kaplan-Meier method will then be used to estimate the distribution of time to response, time to relapse, and time to death. Time to response is the time from the first dose until documented first response. Time to progression is the time from first dose to first documented progression. Response duration is the time from first documented response to first documented progression., 4 weeks (after 2 courses) and up to 12 months (end of follow-up)|Proportion of participants experiencing unacceptable toxicity, Adverse events will be tabulated according to type and severity., Up to 12 months (end of follow-up)
Pharmacodynamic parameters of recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein, Descriptive statistics and graphical displays will be used to evaluate correlation between response and pharmacodynamics of EphB4-HSA. Depending on the number enrolled, the association between clinical response and changes in trough levels, pharmacodynamic endpoints, viral copy number, protein expression and activation status, and finally immune cell counts and activation status will be investigated using the nonparametric Wilcoxon rank sum test., Days 1 and 15 of courses 1 and 2; days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of 1st 2 courses at escalated dose|Trough levels of recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein, Descriptive statistics and graphical displays will be used to evaluate correlation between response and trough levels of EphB4-HSA. Depending on the number enrolled, the association between clinical response and changes in trough levels, pharmacodynamic endpoints, viral copy number, protein expression and activation status, and finally immune cell counts and activation status will be investigated using the nonparametric Wilcoxon rank sum test., Days 1 and 15 of courses 1 and 2; days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of 1st 2 courses at escalated dose
Overall quality of life, assessed using the KS Functional Assessment of HIV questionnaire, Five measures of overall quality of life will be scored: physical well-being, emotional well-being, functional and global well-being, social well-being, and cognitive functioning. For KS-specific symptoms, responses may be dichotomized to reflect positive or negative impact of these symptoms. General estimating equations using a log-binomial model will be used to assess changes in these symptoms over time., Baseline, day 1, day 1 of course 4, 12 months (end of study)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the clinical response and toxicity of recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein (sEphB4-HSA) (at initial dosing of 15 mg/kg every 2 weeks) in participants with Kaposi sarcoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of sEphB4-HSA in participants with Kaposi sarcoma (KS). II. To determine trough level exposure of sEphB4-HSA and correlate with tumor response.

III. To characterize the pharmacodynamics of sEphB4-HSA and correlate these effects with clinical response.

IV. Effects on viral replication and gene expression of human herpes virus-8 (HHV-8).

V. Changes in vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-Notch-EphrinB2 angiogenic pathway.

VI. Effects on immune response and modulation. VII. Effects on tumor cell apoptosis and proliferation. VIII. Effects on sEphB4-HSA on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) plasma viral loads in participants with HIV.

IX. To archive peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and tissue samples to be used in conjunction with samples collected in subsequent trials of sEphB4-HSA for future studies including identification of biomarkers predictive of response.

X. To evaluate the clinical response and toxicity of sEphB4-HSA (at increased dosing of 10 mg/kg every week) in participants with KS.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe baseline quality of life (QOL) scores, using the functional assessment of HIV Infection (FAHI) + Kaposi sarcoma (KS) questionnaire, in participants with KS, and explore changes in QOL of participants on treatment with sEphB4-HSA.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Patients with disease progression after 2 or more courses who have not experienced toxicity may receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of further disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 month; patients with partial response or better are followed up every 3 months for up to 1 year.