Smoking Tobacco Cessation Integrated Program of Patients Treated for the Head and the Neck Cancer
Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs) arise in the mucosa of the upper aero-digestive tract. They are the 6th most prevalent type of cancer worldwide. The risk related to tobacco is particularly high in the case of HNSCC, as the prevalence of heavy smoking for long periods is high in this population. The investigators' aim is to compare two models: one is a specific model of tobacco cessation intervention designed for health care teams treating patients with HNSCC; the other is the current standard of care for these patients, namely referral to external care after general advice on tobacco cessation. The investigators will evaluate the efficacy of this intervention 12 months after randomization. This intervention will be implemented into otolaryngology (ENT) care by training ENT nurses with a specific program for tobacco cessation delivered to patients diagnosed with HNSCC.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell of Head and Neck|Tobacco Use Disorder
BEHAVIORAL: Experimental arm|OTHER: Control arm
Smoking abstinence, Proportion of patients with continuous abstinence during the last 6 months of the study, defined as having negative cotinine urine test at the last three visits., at 12 months after randomization
Reduction of Tobacco consumption, Proportion of patients with a 50% reduction or more of tobacco consumption between endpoint and baseline, 12 months|Reduction of Nicotine dependance, Proportion of patients with a 50% reduction or more at the Heaviness of Smoking Index (HSI) score between endpoint and Baseline. The Heavy smoking index (HSI) is the combination of two items (each scored between 0 and 3). The score range from 0 to 6. The cut-off point is 4. A high HSI score defined by a score of 4 or higher indicated high nicotinine dependance., 12 months|Proportion of patients with at least one visit with negative cotinine urine test, 12 months|Tolerance of cancer treatments, Proportion of reduction of adverse events reported, at 2 months|Tolerance of cancer treatments, Proportion of reduction of adverse events reported, at 4 months|Tolerance of cancer treatments, Proportion of reduction of adverse events reported, at 6 months|Tolerance of cancer treatments, Proportion of reduction of adverse events reported, at 8 months|Tolerance of cancer treatments, Proportion of reduction of advrese events reported, at 10 months|Tolerance of cancer treatments, Proportion of reduction of adverse events reported, at 12 months|Satisfaction evaluated on a custom questionnaire, Good satisfaction, feasibility and transferability of the intervention felt reported nurses on a custom questionnaire., at 12 months|Psychological state, Decrease in Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (HAD) mean scores over time.

The HAD scale is a self-assessment scale for detecting states of depression and anxiety in the setting of an hospital medical outpatient clinic.

HADS is a self-administered scale of 14 items which assessed levels of depression and anxiety, divided into 2 subscales of 7 items (Anxiety or HADS-A, Depression or HADS-D). Each item is scored on a scale of 0 to 3. A score is generated for each of the two sub-scales (sum of the 7 items, ranging from 0 to 21). Limit scores, for each of the scores, distinguish: non-cases or asymptomatic ones (score ≤ 7); probable or borderline cases (score 8-10); clearly or clinically symptomatic cases (score ≥ 11)., at 12 months|Quality of life evaluated using the Euro-Quality of life - 5 Dimensions (EQ5D) scale, The EQ-5D-5L is composed of - the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ Visual Analogue scale (EQ VAS). The descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions (mobility, self care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression). Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. Each level corresponds to 1-digit number expressing the level selected for that dimension.

The EQ VAS corresponds to a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale raging from 'the best health you can imagine' to 'the worst health you can imagine'., at 2 months|Quality of life evaluated using the Euro-Quality of life - 5 Dimensions (EQ5D) scale, The EQ-5D-5L is composed of - the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ Visual Analogue scale (EQ VAS). The descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions (mobility, self care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression). Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. Each level corresponds to 1-digit number expressing the level selected for that dimension.

The EQ VAS corresponds to a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale raging from 'the best health you can imagine' to 'the worst health you can imagine'., at 4 months|Quality of life evaluated using the Euro-Quality of life - 5 Dimensions (EQ5D) scale, The EQ-5D-5L is composed of - the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ Visual Analogue scale (EQ VAS). The descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions (mobility, self care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression). Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. Each level corresponds to 1-digit number expressing the level selected for that dimension.

The EQ VAS corresponds to a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale raging from 'the best health you can imagine' to 'the worst health you can imagine'., at 6 months|Quality of life evaluated using the Euro-Quality of life - 5 Dimensions (EQ5D) scale, The EQ-5D-5L is composed of - the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ Visual Analogue scale (EQ VAS). The descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions (mobility, self care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression). Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. Each level corresponds to 1-digit number expressing the level selected for that dimension.

The EQ VAS corresponds to a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale raging from 'the best health you can imagine' to 'the worst health you can imagine'., at 8 months|Quality of life evaluated using the Euro-Quality of life - 5 Dimensions (EQ5D) scale, The EQ-5D-5L is composed of - the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ Visual Analogue scale (EQ VAS). The descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions (mobility, self care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression). Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. Each level corresponds to 1-digit number expressing the level selected for that dimension.

The EQ VAS corresponds to a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale raging from 'the best health you can imagine' to 'the worst health you can imagine'., at 10 months|Quality of life evaluated using the Euro-Quality of life - 5 Dimensions (EQ5D) scale, The EQ-5D-5L is composed of - the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ Visual Analogue scale (EQ VAS). The descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions (mobility, self care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression). Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. Each level corresponds to 1-digit number expressing the level selected for that dimension.

The EQ VAS corresponds to a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale raging from 'the best health you can imagine' to 'the worst health you can imagine'., at 12 months|Pain assessed by pain-killer consumption, Decreased cumulated pain-killer consumption at each visit (morphine-equivalent), at 2 months|Pain assessed by pain-killer consumption, Decreased cumulated pain-killer consumption at each visit (morphine-equivalent), at 4 months|Pain assessed by pain-killer consumption, Decreased cumulated pain-killer consumption at each visit (morphine-equivalent), at 6 months|Pain assessed by pain-killer consumption, Decreased cumulated pain-killer consumption at each visit (morphine-equivalent), at 8 months|Pain assessed by pain-killer consumption, Decreased cumulated pain-killer consumption at each visit (morphine-equivalent), at 10 months|Pain assessed by pain-killer consumption, Decreased cumulated pain-killer consumption at each visit (morphine-equivalent), at 12 months|Treatment response, at 2 months|Treatment response, at 4 months|Treatment response, at 6 months|Treatment response, at 8 months|Treatment response, at 10 months|Treatment response, at 12 months
Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs) arise in the mucosa of the upper aero-digestive tract. They are the 6th most prevalent type of cancer worldwide, with approximately 600 000 new cases every year. The investigators hypothesize that a specifically-designed tobacco cessation intervention initiated and driven by trained nurses of the health care team, either in the otolaryngology (ENT) department or in the radiotherapy department, is more efficient than a classic intervention based on the same pharmacological support during the hospital stay (NRT) followed by an orientation in an external smoking cessation center, while remaining feasible for both patients and caregivers.The health care setting represents an ideal place to initiate cessation interventions with smokers who are newly diagnosed with a malignancy. The investigators' aim is to compare two models: one is a specific model of tobacco cessation intervention designed for health care teams treating patients with HNSCC; the other is the current standard of care for these patients, namely referral to external care after general advice on tobacco cessation. The investigators will evaluate the efficacy of this intervention 12 months after randomization. This intervention will be implemented into otolaryngology (ENT) care by training ENT nurses with a specific program for tobacco cessation delivered to patients diagnosed with HNSCC.