Floxuridine and Dexamethasone as a Hepatic Arterial Infusion and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Primary Liver Cancer That Cannot be Removed by Surgery
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as floxuridine and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving chemotherapy directly into the arteries around the tumor together with bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving floxuridine and dexamethasone as a hepatic arterial infusion together with bevacizumab works in treating patients with unresectable primary liver cancer.
Liver Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: floxuridine|GENETIC: protein expression analysis|OTHER: flow cytometry|OTHER: immunoenzyme technique|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|OTHER: immunologic technique|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging
Median Overall Survival, Overall median survival from time of initiation of HAI + Bev, Up to 36 months|Median Hepatic Progression Free Survival, Median Hepatic Progression Free Survival. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Up to 36 months|Median Progression Free Survival, Median Progression Free Survival. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Up to 36 months|Antitumor Efficacy (Complete and Partial Response, Stable and Progressive Disease), Antitumor efficacy (complete and partial response, stable and progressive disease). Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 36 months
Number of Participants Evaluated for Toxicity as Measured by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria, Toxicity as measured by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria, 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the median time to progression in patients with unresectable primary hepatic malignancy treated with hepatic arterial infusion comprising floxuridine and dexamethasone in combination with systemic bevacizumab.

Secondary

* Determine the utility of dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) for assessing changes in tumor perfusion before and during treatment.
* Correlate DCE-MRI findings with radiographic tumor response.

Tertiary

* Correlate the expression patterns of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor (VEGFR)-1, VEGFR-2, and VEGFR-3 and their cognate ligands (including VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, and placenta growth factor \[PlGF\]) with disease progression and survival after therapy.
* Assess the pro-angiogenic activity of peripheral blood before and during treatment.
* Assess tumors for immunohistochemical markers of hypoxia (e.g., hypoxia-inducible factor \[HIF-1α\], carbonic anhydrase IX \[CA IX\], and glucose transporters \[Glut-1 and Glut-3\]) for correlation with initial and treatment-related changes in perfusion and permeability, as determined by DCE-MRI.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized study.

Patients undergo placement of the hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) pump and a cholecystectomy. Approximately 2 weeks later, patients receive floxuridine and dexamethasone by HAI continuously on days 1-14 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 15 of course 1 and on days 1 and 15 of all subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) on days 1 and 15 of course 1 and then every 8 weeks thereafter.

Tumor and nontumor tissue is collected at the time of the HAI pump placement. Tissue is examined for the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A, -B, -C, and -D, placenta growth factor (PlGF), and VEGF receptor (VEGFR)-1, -2, and -3 by immunohistochemistry. Peripheral blood is collected at baseline and on day 1 of each course. Plasma levels of VEGF-A, -B, -C, and -D are measured by immunoenzyme techniques. Blood is also examined by flow cytometry and immunological methods and by protein extraction and analysis of VEGF and VEGFR expression (by western blot). Immunohistochemical markers of hypoxia in tissue, including hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1α), carbonic anhydrase IX (CA IX), glucose transporters (Glut-1 and Glut-3), and Ki-67 are assessed.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 55 patients will be accrued for this study.