Everolimus, Bicalutamide, and Leuprolide Acetate in Treating Patients Undergoing Radiation Therapy For High-Risk Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Everolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Androgens can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Antihormone therapy, such as bicalutamide and leuprolide acetate may lessen the amount of androgens made by the body. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving everolimus together with bicalutamide, leuprolide acetate, and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of everolimus when given together with bicalutamide and leuprolide acetate in treating patients with high-risk locally advanced prostate cancer undergoing radiation therapy.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: bicalutamide|DRUG: everolimus|DRUG: leuprolide acetate|RADIATION: external beam radiation therapy
Acute and late toxicities, 1 year
Biochemical-free survival, 1 year|Metastasis-free survival, 1 year|Overall survival, 1 year|Pre-treatment molecular characteristics of the tumor and its correlation with outcomes, 1 year
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To assess acute and late toxicities in patients with high-risk, locally advanced prostate cancer.

Secondary

* To assess the biochemical-free survival of these patients.
* To assess metastasis-free survival of these patients.
* To assess the overall survival of these patients.
* To assess the molecular characteristics of the tumor before treatment and correlate with outcomes.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of everolimus.

Patients undergo radiotherapy to the prostate and seminal vesicles once daily, 5 days a week, for 7.5 weeks.

Beginning the week before radiotherapy, patients receive oral bicalutamide once daily for 1 month and oral everolimus twice daily for 8.5 weeks. Beginning on the first week of radiotherapy, patients receive leuprolide acetate subcutaneously every 3 months for 2 years.