A Study of CRLX101(NLG207) in Combination With Weekly Paclitaxel in Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Epithelial Ovarian, Fallopian Tube or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to estimate the maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of CRLX101 when administered in combination with weekly paclitaxel in women with recurrent or persistent, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer.

Determine through pharmacokinetic evaluation(sometimes described as what the body does to a drug, refers to the movement of drug into, through and out of the body-the time and course of its absorption, bioavailability, distribution, metabolism, and excretion) whether or not the disposition of paclitaxel is affected by the concurrent administration of CRLX101.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: CRLX101|DRUG: Paclitaxel
1. To estimate the maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of CRLX101 when administered in combination with weekly paclitaxel in women with recurrent or persistent, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer., The highest dose with \<2 patients with DLTs out of 6 DLT-evaluable patients, 6 months
Comparison of pharmacokinetic perimeters including max concentration (Cmax), time to maximum concentration (Tmax), AUC, elimination half-life for CRLX101 and paclitaxel, PK, 6 months
2. To assess the overall safety and tolerability of CRLX101 in combination with weekly paclitaxel., AEs, changes in clinical status, vital signs, and laboratory data, 6 months|To assess the anti-tumor activity of CRLX101 when administered concomitantly with weekly paclitaxel in patients with recurrent or persistent epithelial ovarian fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer., PFS per RECIST 1.1 with scans every 2 cycles, 6 months
Recurrent ovarian cancer represents a therapeutic challenge. Patients with resistant disease, showing progression within six months of platinum-containing therapy, have a poor prognosis, with median overall survival (OS) approximately 12 months.Ultimately most patients with recurrent disease ultimately develop platinum resistance, and novel strategies are needed.

In this setting the most active agents are pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD), paclitaxel and topotecan. Multiple trials have demonstrated that combination therapy produces increased toxicity without improved efficacy.

This study proposes to examine the combination of CRLX101 in combination with weekly paclitaxel. Preclinical studies show synergistic activity in the SKOV3 human ovarian cancer xenograft ovarian cancer cell lines (14), as well as in vivo (15,16), perhaps via an antiangiogenic mechanism.