Carfilzomib and Hyper-CVAD in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia or Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of carfilzomib when given together with the hyperfractionated (hyper)-cyclophosphamide, vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and dexamethasone (CVAD) chemotherapy regimen in treating patients with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia or lymphoma. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving carfilzomib with combination chemotherapy may kill more cancer cells.
Contiguous Stage II Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Noncontiguous Stage II Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Stage I Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Stage III Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Stage IV Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Untreated Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: carfilzomib|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: methotrexate|DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: methylprednisolone|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose of carfilzomib with hyper-CVAD, defined as the dose that produces dose limiting toxicity in 17% or fewer (1/6) of patients, graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4, The toxicities observed at each dose level will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity (by NCI CTCAE version 4.0) and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures, time of onset (i.e. course number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by course., Up to 56 days (after second course)
Rate of remission, All responses will be reported. Response rate among patients with measurable disease will be summarized by exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 56 days (after second course)|Rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) in bone marrow aspirate samples, MRD will be defined an aberrant expression of at least 2 antigens in comparison with the known patterns of antigen expression by normal maturing CD19 positive B-cells. A distinct cluster of at least 20 cells showing altered antigen expression will be characterized as an aberrant cell population., Up to 56 days (after second course)|Rate of MRD in bone marrow aspirate samples, MRD will be defined an aberrant expression of at least 2 antigens in comparison with the known patterns of antigen expression by normal maturing CD19 positive B-cells. A distinct cluster of at least 20 cells showing altered antigen expression will be characterized as an aberrant cell population., Up to 112 days (after 4th course)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Safety and tolerability of administering carfilzomib in combination with hyper-CVAD chemotherapy.

II. Recommended dose of carfilzomib in combination with hyper-CVAD chemotherapy for the future phase II trial.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Rate of remission after 2nd and 4th cycles. II. Incidence of minimal residual disease by flow cytometry at 4th cycle.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of carfilzomib.

Patients receive carfilzomib intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 0, 1, 7, and 8. Patients also receive hyper-CVAD comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours every 12 hours for 6 doses beginning on day 1, vincristine sulfate IV on days 4 and 11, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 2-24 hours on day 4, and dexamethasone orally (PO) on days 1-4 and 11-14 (courses 1 and 3) and methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 1, cytarabine IV over 2 hours every 12 hours for 4 doses starting on day 2, leucovorin calcium IV or PO every 6 hours beginning 36 hours after the start of methotrexate infusion, and methylprednisolone IV every 12 hours for 6 doses beginning on day 1 (courses 2 and 4). Patients with cluster of differentiation (CD)20 positive disease also receive rituximab twice daily on days 1 and 11 of courses 1 and 3 and days 1 and 8 of courses 2 and 4. Treatment repeats every 3-4 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.