Virtual Bronchoscopy (VB) vs. Endobronchial Ultrasound (EBUS) Guided Mediastinal Sampling
The study has been designed to evaluate the clinical application of the new virtual bronchoscopy (VB) -based system for transbronchial sampling of the mediastinal masses or enlarged lymph nodes. The software uses data from thorax CT scan and enables airway segmentation and reconstruction simultaneously with predefined mediastinal targets. The most suitable sites for transbronchial needle aspiration are displayed on the internal surface of the airways showed in VB mode.

The diagnostic yield of the new system-assisted TBNA will be compared to the reference method (EBUS-TBNA). The study group includes patients with mediastinal mass or lymph node enlargement in whom diagnostic bronchoscopy and TBNA can be applied as diagnostic methods. Both, virtual bronchoscopy guided transbronchial needle aspiration (VB-TBNA) and EBUS-TBNA of the mediastinal targets are performed during the same diagnostic bronchoscopy. Cytologic material from VB-TBNA and EBUS-TBNA is evaluated by two independent pathologists blinded to the method used to obtain the sample. Diagnostic yield and adequacy of aspirates obtained with the two methods will be assessed and compared.
Lung Cancer,|Mediastinal Tumors,|Lymphomas,|Sarcoidosis,
PROCEDURE: virtual bronchoscopy guided transbronchial needle aspiration|PROCEDURE: endobronchial ultrasound guided transbronchial needle aspiration
Adequacy of cytologic specimens collected by VB-TBNA vs. EBUS-TBNA, Comparison of the quality and adequacy of the cytologic specimens (in terms of lymphocyte percentage, the presence of neoplastic cells and dust-laden macrophages) collected by VB-TBNA vs. EBUS-TBNA in patients with mediastinal mass or mediastinal lymph node enlargement, Approximately five days after the procedure, when the results of the cytological examination will be available
Diagnostic accuracy of VB-TBNA vs. EBUS-TBNA - the number (and percentage) of cytologic specimens containing diagnostic material (neoplastic cells, granulomas), Comparison of the diagnostic accuracy of VB-TBNA vs. EBUS-TBNA (in terms of number of cytologic specimens containing diagnostic material e.g. neoplastic cells, granulomas) in patients with mediastinal mass or mediastinal lymph node enlargement. Also the number of patients in whom the specific diagnosis could be established by VB-TBNA vs EBUS-TBNA., up to 8 months
Number of patients with local complications of VB-TBNA, Number of patients in whom large mediastinal vessels would be injured when performing VB-TBNA will be compared with respective number of patients with EBUS-TBNA associated large vessel injury., During VB-TBNA and EBUS-TBNA procedure
The study has been designed to evaluate the clinical application of the new virtual bronchoscopy (VB) -based system for transbronchial sampling of the mediastinal masses or enlarged lymph nodes. The software uses data from thorax CT scan and enables airway segmentation and reconstruction simultaneously with predefined mediastinal targets. The most suitable sites for transbronchial needle aspiration are displayed on the internal surface of the airways showed in VB mode.

The diagnostic yield of the new system-assisted TBNA will be compared to the reference method (EBUS-TBNA). The study group includes patients with mediastinal mass or lymph node enlargement in whom diagnostic bronchoscopy and TBNA can be applied as diagnostic methods. Both, virtual bronchoscopy guided transbronchial needle aspiration (VB-TBNA) and EBUS-TBNA of the mediastinal targets are performed during the same diagnostic bronchoscopy. Cytologic material from VB-TBNA and EBUS-TBNA is evaluated by two independent pathologists blinded to the method used to obtain the sample. Diagnostic yield and adequacy of aspirates obtained with the two methods will be assessed and compared.