An Evaluation of Tailored Messages to Address Parental Questions About HPV Vaccination
The purpose of this study is to investigate mother's attitudes about vaccinating their 11-14 year old children against the human papillomavirus (HPV). Among mothers who do not plan to vaccinate their child, the investigators will assess the influence of brief videos tailored to mothers' questions and concerns. Mothers will be randomized to one of three arms: 1. General video message about vaccination; 2. General message plus a brief video addressing the mother's primary concern; or 3. General message plus videos address all of mother-indicated concerns. The outcome of interest is intention to vaccinate. Our hypothesis is that the tailored videos will lead to increased intention to vaccinate.
Human Papilloma Virus Vaccines|Attitude to Health
BEHAVIORAL: Top Concern Tailored Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: All Concerns Tailored Intervention
Intention to Vaccinate Against HPV in the Next 12 Months, Each parent will be asked to respond to this question. The response will be scaled from 1-10 in terms of parental intent regarding vaccination, with higher scores meaning greater parental intent to vaccinate children., Immediately after video intervention has been administered
Attitudes will be assessed through a Web-based survey administered by Survey Sampling International (SSI). The projected sample size is approximately 3,500, comprising mothers or female guardians of at least one child aged 11-14 who live in the United States. The survey will take no more than 20 minutes to complete. Mothers who indicate that they do not plan to vaccinate their children in the next year will be randomized to view brief videos tailored to their questions or concerns about HPV vaccination. The outcome of interest is intention to vaccinate. Mothers who have vaccinated their child or intend to vaccinate their child will be asked a separate set of questions relevant to this information.

Mothers who indicate that they do not intend to vaccinate their child against HPV will be asked about their questions or concerns regarding HPV vaccination (from a pre-populated list of common concerns). Mothers will be randomized to one of three arms: 1. A general information video; 2. The general video plus a video addressing their top concern; or 3. The general video plus one or more videos addressing all of their concerns. Each video is less than 50 seconds in length.