Safety and Efficacy Study of Icotinib With Intensity-modulated Radiotherapy in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a prevalent disease in southeast of China. Radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy is a standard therapy for nasopharyngeal cancer. Cytotoxic chemotherapy plays an important role in the curative treatment of advanced NPC. However, concurrent chemoradiotherapy increased significantly local and systemic toxic effects, which may preclude many patients from proceeding with combined therapy. The epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR) gene is amplified in 40% and EGFR protein is overexpressed in over 80% of NPC. EGFR overexpression is also associated with shorter survival following chemoradiotherapy in locoregionally advanced NPC. And some basic researches have proved that EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors(TKIs) could increase the radiosensitivity and reduce the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in NPC cell line. Moreover, distant metastases has been the major cause of treatment failure in NPC. Icotinib hydrochloride is a novel oral EGFR TKIs with low mammalian toxicity(made in China). But base on toxic effects of Icotinib, it may increase toxic effects about skin and mucosa in combination therapy with Icotinib and Intensity-modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT). The prospective study will assess the tolerability and efficacy of Icotinib combined with IMRT in patients with NPC. This regimen is of great interest and it has potential to alleviate the adverse effects, improve patient compliance and better therapeutic ratio.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Icotinib|RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiotherapy|DRUG: Paclitaxel and Cisplatin|OTHER: Quality of life|GENETIC: Epidermal growth factor receptor status
Phase I: the maximum tolerated dose of Icotinib in combination with IMRT for NPC, 30 days|Phase II: 2 years locoregional control rate, Two years
The overall response rate (complete and partial response), 1 month following treatment and then every 3 months|The acute and late toxicity profile associated with the study regimen, 1 month following treatment and then every 3 months|The duration of control of locoregional disease, 1 month following treatment and then every 3 months|Overall survival, disease-free survival, and distant relapse rates, At time of locoregional disease progression|EGFR status in tissue and blood before treatment, 2 week of pretreatment
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a prevalent disease in southeast of China. Radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy is a standard therapy for nasopharyngeal cancer. Cytotoxic chemotherapy plays an important role in the curative treatment of advanced NPC. However, concurrent chemoradiotherapy increased significantly local and systemic toxic effects, which may preclude many patients from proceeding with combined therapy. The epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR) gene is amplified in 40% and EGFR protein is overexpressed in over 80% of NPC. EGFR overexpression is also associated with shorter survival following chemoradiotherapy in locoregionally advanced NPC. And some basic researches have proved that EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors(TKIs) could increase the radiosensitivity and reduce the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in NPC cell line. Moreover, distant metastases has been the major cause of treatment failure in NPC. Icotinib hydrochloride is a novel oral EGFR TKIs with low mammalian toxicity(made in China). But base on toxic effects of Icotinib, it may increase toxic effects about skin and mucosa in combination therapy with Icotinib and Intensity-modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT). The prospective study will assess the tolerability and efficacy of Icotinib combined with IMRT in patients with NPC. This regimen is of great interest and it has potential to alleviate the adverse effects, improve patient compliance and better therapeutic ratio.