Immunization Strategy With Intra-tumoral Injections of Pexa-Vec With Ipilimumab in Metastatic / Advanced Solid Tumors.
The success of anti-CTLA4 therapy has inaugurated a paradigm shift in oncology where drugs target the immune system rather than cancer cells in order to stimulate the anti-tumor immune response. In situ immunization is a strategy where immunomodulatory products such as pathogens are injected into one tumor site in order to trigger a systemic anti-tumor immune response. Of importance, pre-clinical rationale has demonstrated that combination of anti-CTLA4 therapy together with intra-tumoral (IT) oncolytic virus can overcome primary resistance to systemic anti-CTLA4 therapy. Pexastimogene Devacirepvec (Pexa-Vec) is one of the new vaccinia oncolytic viruses genetically modified to express GM-CSF. This new and innovative oncolytic virotherapy should therefore synergize with anti-CTLA4 therapy via virus-induced tumor cell death \& tumor-antigen release, GM-CSF-induced recruitment/maturation/activation of antigen presenting cells, and anti-CTLA4-induced Treg blockade/depletion. Intra-tumoral delivery of immunostimulating agents should, therefore, provide lower toxicity of mAb targeting immune checkpoints. Of note, IT injections of GM-CSF-encoding oncolytic viruses have already been shown to induce immune-mediated tumor responses on local (injected) and distant (not injected) tumor sites. In solid injectable refractory/relapsing metastatic tumors, we make the hypothesis that the addition of Pexa-Vec to IT ipilimumab (anti-CTLA4 Ab) will overcome primary/secondary resistance to standard therapy and/or immunotherapy with a better in situ tumor antigen specific T-cell priming. Our proposal is to conduct a 2-part Phase I clinical trial in order to define the feasibility, the safety and the anti-tumor effects of intra-tumoral injections of ipilimumab in combination with the oncolytic virus Pexa-Vec. Dose escalation step will define the MTD and RP2D of that in situ immunization strategy. Expansion part will assess the anti-tumor effect of the combination.
Metastatic Tumor|Advanced Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: Pexa-Vec|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Part A (dose selection part): Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLT is defined as the occurrence of any of the following events evaluated as related to study drugs and occurring during the first 5 weeks (Part A) of investigative treatment(s): any Grade ≥ 4 treatment related toxicity, any Grade≥ 3 treatment related toxicity lasting more than 7 days (except for flu-like symptoms that respond to standard therapies.), any Grade ≥ 3 treatment related acute immune related AE involving major end organs, Grade ≥ 3 injection site reaction, Any other study drug related toxicity considered significant enough to be qualified as DLT in the opinion of the investigators after discussion with the sponsor. Indeed, as a principle in this Phase I study, any toxicity that the investigator or the sponsor determines to be dose-limiting, regardless of the grade, may be considered as a DLT., during the DLT assessment window (i.e. during the first 5 weeks of treatment)|Part B (expansion cohort): The 3-month objective response rate (ORR), The 3-month objective response rate is defined by the percentage of patients having complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to immune related Response Criteria (irRC)., 3 months of treatment
3-month objective response rate (ORR), defined by the percentage of patients having complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to irRC (immune related Response Criteria) and to RECIST 1.1 criteria., 3 months of treatment|Best objective response rate, defined by the percentage of patients having complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as best response at any time point according to irRC and to RECIST 1.1 criteria., from the date of inclusion up to 12 months|Disease Control Rate, defined by the rate of patients having complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) according to irRC and to RECIST 1.1 criteria., from the date of inclusion up to 12 months|Duration of response, from the time of first documented objective response (PR or CR according to irRC and to RECIST 1.1 criteria) until the first documented disease progression or death due to underlying cancer, assessed up to 12 months|ORR of injected and non injected lesions, OR defined as at least 50% decrease of tumor size, from the date of inclusion up to 12 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using Kaplan Meier method., from the date of inclusion until the date of first documented event (progression, according to irRC and to RECIST 1.1 criteria, or death due to any cause),up to 12 months|Time To progression (TTP), TTP does not include deaths, from the date of inclusion until the date of first documented radiographic tumor progression, according to irRC and to RECIST 1.1 criteria, up to 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), from the time of inclusion, until the date of death due to any cause, up to 12 months|Adverse Events reporting, All AEs will be graded according to NCI-CTCAE, Version 4, from the treatment start (Week1 Day 1), up to 12 months
The study is a proof of concept, open label, multicentric, 2-parts, Phase I dose escalation trial. In dose selection part (any histological types except HCC), patients will be treated with an IT boost injection with Pexa-Vec (fixed dose of 1x109 pfu / injection ) alone at Week 1 followed by IT injections of Pexa-Vec + ipilimumab (up to 4 dose levels) at Weeks 3, 5 and 9. The dose escalation part will follow a classical 3+3 design. 3 to 6 patients will be enrolled at each DL (Dose Level) depending of the number of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) observed. At the end of each DL cohort, a teleconference (Dose escalation meeting) will be organized with the sponsor, in order to select the dose for the next cohort. In Expansion cohorts ( up to 3 cohorts) patients will be treated with an IT boost injection with Pexa-Vec alone (fixed dose of 1x109 pfu / injection) at Week 1 followed by IT injections of Pexa-Vec + ipilimumab (RP2D) at Weeks 3, 5 and 9. In both parts, the treatment with both IMPs should be continued as per protocol until Withdrawal of consent, Disease progression as per irRC (immune related response criteria), General or specific changes in the patient's condition that render the patient unacceptable for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator, Pregnancy or Unacceptable adverse events(s) including DLTs.