A Real World Study of Regogfinib in HCC
This is a non-interventional observational study with the primary objective of assessing the efficacy of regorafenib in patients with immediate or advanced stage HCC.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Regorafenib 40 MG
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of death from any cause or last follow-up, Time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of death from any cause or last follow-up，whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of the first documentation of disease progression or death from any cause., Time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of the first documentation of disease progression or death from any cause，whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.|Time to progression (TTP), Time to progression was defined as the time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of the first documentation of disease progression., Time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of the first documentation of disease progression，whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate was defined as the proportion of patients with CR or PR in the overall population, Time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of the first documentation of objective response，assessed up to 60 months.|Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate was defined as the proportion of patients with CR or PR or stable disease (SD) in the overall population, Time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of the first documentation of CR or PR or stable，assessed up to 60 months.|Adverse events (AEs), adverse events (AEs) (including type and grade according to CTCAE 5.0), Time from the start of regorafenib treatment to the date of death or last follow up，whichever came first,assessed up to 60 months.
1. Study Objectives Primary Objective: To assess the efficacy of regorafenib in patients with immediate or advanced stage HCC Secondary objective: To assess the safety of regorafenib in patients with immediate or advanced stage HCC
2. Study Design This is a multicenter, retrospective, real-world study that will collect data from patients treated with regorafenib at medical centers in China.
3. Data Collection 3.1 Screening Period

The study procedures to be performed at screening include:

1. . Determine eligible subjects according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria and document the results.
2. . Collect demographic characteristics (eg, age, sex, weight, BMI, and ECOG score);
3. . Collect past medical history;
4. . Collect primary tumor site;
5. . Collect information on prior treatments: all treatments received since diagnosis of advanced HCC, including each treatment regimen (including first-line therapy), start and end date, duration, best response;
6. . Collect information on liver function and ECOG score prior to the first dose of regorafenib;
7. . Collect results of laboratory tests performed prior to and after the first dose of regorafenib, including haematology, biochemistry and genetic testing (if any);
8. . Collect imaging data: the last imaging procedure performed prior to the first dose of regorafenib, such as CT, PET-CT, MRI, and whole-body bone scan (with at least 1 measurable lesion); and information related to metastases (such as metastases to lymph node, bone and/or lung).

3.2 Data Review Period of Regorafenib Treatment

The following information obtained during each cycle of regorafenib will be collected retrospectively:

1. . Liver function and ECOG score obtained prior to each dose (ie., the first day of each cycle) of regorafenib;
2. . Initial dose of regorafenib;
3. . Timing and method of dose adjustment, and adjusted doses;
4. . Final daily dose of regorafenib;
5. . Best response, time to best response, and number of treatment cycles;
6. . Imaging findings (including metastatic sites) related to response evaluation;
7. . Hematology laboratory tests (related to the underlying disease, tumor progression, and ADR);
8. . Any adverse reaction and corresponding CTCAE grade;
9. . Interrupted or discontinued treatment;
10. . The most recent laboratory tests (or alternative doctor's advice and tests) performed prior to the first day of each treatment cycle, including but not limit to hematology and biochemistry.

3.3 Progression and Survival Data Collection Period

The following information obtained during each cycle of regorafenib will be collected retrospectively:

1. . Time to progression
2. . Pattern of progression
3. . Subsequent treatment regimen, dose, number of cycles, efficacy;
4. . Survival status, time of death or last follow-up.

4. Study Drug Generic name: Regorafenib Tablets Trade name: Stivarga® English name: Regorafenib Tablets

Dosage strength: 40 mg tablet Dosage form: Tablets Description: Oval tablets with pale-pink film coat Label dose and mode of administration: Recommended dosage is 160 mg, once daily for the first 21 days of each 28-day cycle. A minimum dose of 80 mg/day and a maximum dose of 160 mg/day are recommended.