Camrelizumab in Patients With Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Primary liver cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in China, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents more than 80% of liver cancer cases. The majority of HCC cases present at an advanced stage, and are thus not amenable to surgery. Immunotherapies, including PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors, alone or combined with other regimens, have shown encouraging clinical activity in unresectable HCC. Camrelizumab, a humanised monoclonal antibody against PD-1, has been shown to block the binding of PD-1 to PD-L1 and consequently inhibit the immune escape of tumour cells， which has been approved for the second-line treatment of advanced HCC. This observational study aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of camrelizumab in Chinese unresectable HCC in the real world.
Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Camrelizumab
The incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE), The incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE), Up to ~2 years
Overall survival, Overall survival, Up to ~2 years|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival, Up to ~2 years|Time to progression, Time to progression, Up to ~2 years
Primary liver cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in China, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents more than 80% of liver cancer cases. The majority of HCC cases present at an advanced stage, and are thus not amenable to surgery. Immunotherapies, including PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors, alone or combined with other regimens, have shown encouraging clinical activity in unresectable HCC. Camrelizumab, a humanised monoclonal antibody against PD-1, has been shown to block the binding of PD-1 to PD-L1 and consequently inhibit the immune escape of tumour cells，which has been approved for the second-line treatment of advanced HCC. This multi-center, open-label, observational study aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of camrelizumab in Chinese unresectable HCC in the real world. This study also aims to evaluate the treatment of camrelizumab in subgroups, to provide information of treatment regimens and efficacy in clinical practice. The anticipated sample size is 1000, and the camrelizumab-based treatment will be determined by the investigator.