Chemotherapy Followed by Pelvic Reirradiation Versus Chemotherapy Alone as Pre-operative Treatment for Locally Recurrent Rectal Cancer
GRECCAR 15 is focused on Locally Recurrent Rectal Cancer (LRRC) for patients with previous pelvic radiotherapy for the primary rectal cancer. This situation leads to a 20% higher risk of non-curative resection for the LRRC management (R1 status) impacting significantly the overall survival. The widespread use of neoadjuvant radiotherapy for primary rectal cancer introduces this new problem: the treatment of LRRC in previously irradiated area.

The objective of GRECCAR 15 is to assess the efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by pelvic reirradiation versus neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone on the rate of curative surgery (R0) in previously irradiated patients with LRRC.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Chemotherapy FOLFIRINOX, 6 cycles|RADIATION: Radiochemotherapy|PROCEDURE: Surgery
Proportion of curative surgery, To determine the rate of R0 resection, At surgery, expected average 6 to 8 weeks after neoadjuvant treatment
Disease Free Survival, Rate of disease-free survival at 3 years, From surgery until 3 years of follow-up|Overall Survival, Rate of overall survival at 3 years, From surgery until 3 years of follow-up|Surgical morbidity, To analyse surgical morbidity (Dindo classification) during first 30 days after the surgery, From surgery until 30 days after surgery|Surgical mortality, To analyse surgical mortality (Dindo classification) during first 30 days after the surgery, From surgery until 30 days after surgery|Compliance to treatment, Proportion of patients receiving full allocated neoadjuvant treatment, From beginning of neoadjuvant treatment until surgery, expected average 20 weeks after neoadjuvant treatment|Proportion of good tumor response, Rate of tumor with a decreasing size of 50% at least after preoperative treatment at MRI, At 6 weeks (Arm A) and 4 weeks (Arm B) after neoadjuvant treatment|Quality of life (QLQ CR-30), The scores of questionnaire QLQ C-30 will be examined The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a patients self-rating questionnaire that measures physical, role, social, emotional, and cognitive functions as well as overall QoL. Scores can be linearly transformed to provide a score from 0 to 100. Higher scores represent better functioning on the functional scales and a higher level of symptoms of the symptom scales., Before neoadjuvant treatment, before surgery, 4 months, one year and two years after surgery|Quality of life (QLQ CR-29), The scores of questionnaire QLQ CR-29 will be examined. The EORTC QLQ-CR29 has five functional and 18 symptom scales. Scores can be linearly transformed to provide a score from 0 to 100. Higher scores represent better functioning on the functional scales and a higher level of symptoms of the symptom scales., Before neoadjuvant treatment, before surgery, 4 months, one year and two years after surgery|Tolerance to treatment, Number of patients with adverse events, From beginning of neoadjuvant treatment until 1 year after surgery
The incidence of rectal cancer in the European Union is 15-25/100 000 per year. There is a 5-10% rate of locally recurrent rectal cancer (LRRC), with an overall survival rate of 40% at 5 years after complete resection. Curative surgery of LRRC requires multi-visceral resections which are associated with significant post-operative morbidity of 60%. Despite the combination of a potential curability and the high post-operative morbidity, there are currently neither good data from prospective randomized studies regarding optimum preoperative treatments for LRRC nor is there data assessing the efﬁcacy of response to any such treatments. Moreover, the widespread use of neoadjuvant radiotherapy for primary cancer introduced a new problem: the treatment of LRRC in previously irradiated area. Some studies investigated various modalities of reirradiation and showed acceptable late toxicity and encouraging outcome. GRECCAR 15 would be the first prospective randomized trial so far to evaluate the interest of pelvic reirradiation for LRRC, in previously irradiated patients.

The objective is to assess the efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by pelvic reirradiation versus neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone on the rate of curative surgery (R0) in previously irradiated patients with LRRC.

Patients will be followed every 4 months during 2 years, and every 6 months the last year with chest, abdominal and pelvic scan and tumour markers.