Impact of Shared Decision-Making With Decision Aids on Acoustic Neuroma Treatment Choice: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Patients with acoustic neuroma had several treatment options. One of standard treatment is to receive the Gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery, other options included suboccipital craniotomy and conservative treatment. Thus, shared decision making (SDM) is necessary to aid patients to choose an appropriate treatment that suits their needs.

The investigators have developed a decision aids (DAs) and plan to conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate its impact on acoustic neuroma patients. The measurements include a battery of interview-based questionnaires and evaluations of decision regret and post-treatment depression. The investigators expect the DAs would benefit the intervention group in the aspects of knowledge, communication and anxiety status during and after their treatment sessions.
Neuroma, Acoustic
OTHER: Decision aids
Decisional conflict, Total score of decisional conflict scale, 4 weeks after discussion of treatment choice|Knowledge, Total score on knowledge scale, 4 weeks after discussion of treatment choice
Decision regret, Total score of decision regret, The dependent variable for this study was decision regret, assessed using the Decision Regret Scale (DRS). The DRS consists of five statements: (1) It was the right decision; (2) I regret the choice that was made; (3) I would go for the same choice if I had to do it over again; (4) the choice did me a lot of harm, and (5) the decision was a wise one. Agreement with each statement is measured on a five-point Likert scale (1 = strongly agree to 5 = strongly disagree). Score of each item is converted to a 0-100 scale by subtracting 1 from each item and multiplying by 25. Scores from items 2 and 4 are reversed. To obtain a global score, all items are summed and the total is divided by 5. Scores range from 0 (no regret) to 100 (high regret), increasing by increments of 5.

Ref. Brehaut JC, O'Connor AM, Wood TJ, Hack TF, Siminoff L, Gordon E, Feldman-Stewart D Med Decis Making. 2003 Jul-Aug; 23(4):281-92., 4 weeks after treatment|Post-treatment depression, Total score of Hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS), 4 weeks after treatment
Patients with acoustic neuroma had several treatment options. One of standard treatment is to receive the Gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery, other options included suboccipital craniotomy and conservative treatment. Thus, shared decision making (SDM) is necessary to aid patients to choose an appropriate treatment that suits their needs.

The investigators have developed a decision aids (DAs) and plan to conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate its impact on acoustic neuroma patients. The measurements include a battery of interview-based questionnaires and evaluations of decision regret and post-treatment depression. The investigators expect the DAs would benefit the intervention group in the aspects of knowledge, communication and anxiety status during and after their treatment sessions.