Focal Laser Ablation of Prostate Cancer: A Feasibility Study Using MRI/US Image Fusion for Guidance
This is an open-label feasibility/pilot study to evaluate the safety and feasibility of the FocalPoint System with UnfoldAI. In this study, the investigators intend to use the UnfoldAI software to identify cancer margins and create ablation treatment plans and use the FocalPoint System to deploy and monitor thermal energy in cancerous regions of the prostate. Subjects will be assessed at 1 week, 1 month, and every 3 months until one-year post-FLA treatment(s) to be monitored for adverse events and complete quality-of-life questionnaires.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Focal Laser Ablation
Adverse event monitoring, adverse event data will be monitored and tabulated. The primary study endpoint will be achieved by the absence of any Grade 3 or higher adverse events., up to 12 months post treatment
The Avenda Health FocalPoint System (K201687) is a laser-based interstitial irradiation/thermal soft-tissue ablation system that is FDA 510(k) cleared for surgical applications requiring the vaporization, incision, excision, ablation, cutting and hemostasis, or coagulation of soft tissue in conjunction with endoscopic equipment for various medical specialties. The Avenda Health Unfold-AI Software (K221624) is an Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based decision support software, indicated as an adjunct to the review of magnetic resonance (MR) prostate images and biopsy findings in the prostate oncological workflow that is also FDA 510(k) cleared. The Unfold-AI Software will be utilized along with the FocalPoint System and is designed to support the prostate oncological workflow by helping the user with the segmentation of MR image features, including the prostate; in the evaluation, quantification, and documentation of lesions; and in pre-planning for diagnostic and interventional procedures such as biopsy and/or soft tissue ablation. This feasibility investigation will determine whether the FocalPoint System used with Unfold-AI can be used to ablate prostate tissue in men with prostate cancer while leaving critical structures (urethra, rectal wall) undamaged.

This is an open-label feasibility/pilot study to evaluate the safety and feasibility of the FocalPoint System with Unfold-AI. In this study, the investigators intend to use the Unfold-AI software to identify cancer margins and create ablation treatment plans and use the FocalPoint System to deploy and monitor thermal energy in cancerous regions of the prostate. MRI guidance will be achieved by MRI/ultrasound fusion, overlaying stored MRI images upon real-time ultrasound images. Interstitial laser treatments would be achieved by inserting the fiber into the cancerous regions guided by the Artemis image-fusion device. Applications of laser energy up to 15 watts of power will be used to treat the target region. Subjects will be assessed at 1 week, 1 month, and every 3 months until one-year post-FLA treatment(s) to be monitored for adverse events and complete HRQOL questionnaires. Post-treatment MRI findings, fusion biopsy results and biomarker (PSA) kinetics will also be monitored. Subjects eligible for repeat FLA (re-ablation) are those who still continue to meet Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria at Months 6 or 12 post-FLA treatment (See Sections 3.0 Inclusion Criteria, 4.0 Exclusion Criteria, and 6.4.7 Repeat FLA (re-ablation)). Subjects may undergo only one re-ablation on the study.

This study will cover pre-treatment through 12 months following FLA treatment or repeat FLA (re-ablation) treatment. The study also has a long-term follow-up data collection period of up to 10 years following a subject's last study visit.

The primary endpoint will be safety. Safety will be determined by the number, type, and severity of adverse events incurred by subjects.