Safety Study of Adoptive Transfer of Autologous IKDC-like Cells
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety of adoptive transferring autologous IKDC-like cells
Neoplasm Metastasis
BIOLOGICAL: autologous IKDC-like cells
Evaluation of subject with Grade 3 or above adverse events that received autologous IKDC-like cells, graded according to NCI-CTCAE v4.03, I. Safety is evaluated by assessment of does-limiting toxicity (DLT) according to National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) v4.03 or above.

II. DLT is defined as follows:

* Any Grade 3 or above toxicity regarding general disorders or immune disorders defined by NCI-CTCAE is determined by the investigator to be possibly related in causality to the treatment.
* Fever, chillness, flu-like symptoms, or infusion-related reactions of grade 3 or more are to be counted as DLT only if they remain at grade 3 or more for more than three days despite of adequate symptomatic medications..

III. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of autologous IKDC-like cell will be determined via a 3+3 traditional design., Through study complete, an average about 1.5 years
Cancer immunosurveillance in mice and human protects the host from outgrowth of tumor cells. This may establish a sufficient rationale for cancer immunotherapy that aims to control or eradicate tumor by an induction of effective anti-tumor immunity. The interest in developing cancer immunotherapy has intensified by the recent trials results showing durable responses in approximately 20% of patients who received various kinds of immunotherapy including adoptive transfer of tumor-specific T cells, cancer vaccines, and T cell response checkpoint blockade inhibition. Discoveries to date, natural killer (NK) cell function positively associates with reduction of cancer risk and with better survival of gastrointestinal stromal tumor patients. Interferon-producing killer dendritic cells (IKDCs) are a subpopulation of NK cells discovered in the mouse spleen, which can lyse tumor cells and acquire antigen presentation cell (APC) activity. We found putative IKDCs in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs); meanwhile, we also developed a method to expand IKDC-like cells from murine bone marrow and human PBMC ex vivo. The expanded human IKDC-like cells are cytotoxic toward several human leukemia cell lines and are capable to activate allogeneic T cells. For the in vivo anti-tumor activity, we found that two transfers of syngeneic murine IKDC-like cells reduced tumor burden in B16/OVA and B16/F10 melanoma and Lewis lung carcinoma models, and enhanced interferon (IFN)-γ production by the splenocytes of the tumor-bearing mice. Moreover, six transfers of IKDC-like cell significantly prolonged the survival of mice bearing B16/F10 melanoma. Based on these preclinical results, we hypothesize anti-tumor activity of human IKDC-like cells. We thus propose a phase 1 clinical trial to assess the safety of autologous IKDC-like cell therapy in metastatic cancer patients for determination of the maximum tolerated dose, and to monitor the immune parameters in patients before and after the IKDC-like cell transfer to investigate the therapeutic mechanism and biomarkers.