Anamorelin Hydrochloride, Physical Activity, and Nutritional Counseling in Decreasing Cancer-Related Fatigue in Patients With Incurable Metastatic or Recurrent Solid Tumors
This phase II trial studies how well anamorelin hydrochloride, physical activity, and nutritional counseling work in decreasing cancer-related fatigue in patients with incurable solid tumors that have spread to other parts of the body or have come back. Anamorelin hydrochloride, physical activity, and nutritional counseling may help to decrease cancer-related fatigue in patients with solid tumors.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|C-Reactive Protein Measurement|Cancer Fatigue|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Weight Loss
DRUG: Anamorelin Hydrochloride|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Nutritional Assessment|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F), FACIT Fatigue Subscale is a short, 13-item, easy to administer tool that measures an individual's level of fatigue during their usual daily activities over the past week. The level of fatigue is measured on a four point Likert scale (4 = not at all fatigued to 0 = very much fatigued). The total score range is from 0-52. The higher the score, the lower the fatigue level. We calculated the mean change in FACIT-F fatigue subscale from baseline to Day 43., Baseline up to day 43
The Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS)-Fatigue, The Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS) is used to rate the intensity of ten common symptoms including fatigue experienced by cancer patients. The ESAS allows patients to rate the intensity of their fatigue using a 0-10 scale (0 = not at all, 10 = worst possible). The total ESAS score range from 0-100. The lower the score, the lower the fatigue level. We calculated the mean change in ESAS fatigue score from baseline to Day 43., Baseline up to day 43|Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form [MFSI-SF], General Fatigue, The MFSI-SF is a 30-item multidimensional tool used to measure cancer related fatigue experienced in the past week. It consists of 5 empirically derived subscales: general, physical, emotional, mental and vigor. For each item, patients indicated their response on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 ("not at all") to 4 ("extremely fatigue"). Each of the 5 sub-scale score ranges from 0 to 24. The lower the score, the lower the fatigue level. We calculated the mean change in MFSI-SF general fatigue score from baseline to Day 43., Baseline up to day 43|Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form [MFSI-SF], Physical Fatigue, The MFSI-SF is a 30-item multidimensional tool used to measure cancer related fatigue experienced in the past week. It consists of 5 empirically derived subscales: general, physical, emotional, mental and vigor. For each item, patients indicated their response on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 ("not at all") to 4 ("extremely fatigue"). Each of the 5 sub-scale score ranges from 0 to 24. The lower the score, the lower the fatigue level. We calculated the mean change in MFSI-SF physical fatigue score from baseline to Day 43., Baseline up to day 43
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) subscale score at day 43 +/- 3 days compared to baseline in patients with advanced cancer receiving oral anamorelin hydrochloride (anamorelin) 100 mg daily and standardized physical activity and nutritional counseling.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the effects of anamorelin and standardized physical activity and nutritional counseling on health-related quality of life and patient reported outcomes as measured by the Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form (MFSI-SF), Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Fatigue, Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS), Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G) and its Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Treatment (FAACT) subscale in these patients.

II. To examine the side effects and tolerability of anamorelin in these patients.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the effects of anamorelin and standardized physical activity and nutritional counseling on muscle function (as measured by the 30 second chair stand test, 6 minute walk test, day time activity \[accelerometer\], body composition \[as measured by INBODY\], and resting energy expenditure \[measured by indirect calorimetry\]).

II. To characterize the effects of anamorelin on potential inflammatory biomarkers of cancer-related fatigue (CRF) (C-Reactive Protein \[CRP\], monocyte IL-6\&R, TNF-a\&R, IL-10, IL-8, IL-1\&RA; IGF-1).

III. To explore the effects of anamorelin on sleep as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI).

IV. To determine the association between change in FACIT-F scores and changes in muscle function, day time activity, and body composition, in patients with advanced cancer receiving oral anamorelin 100 mg daily and standardized physical activity and nutritional counseling.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive anamorelin hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) and undergo physical activity consisting of resistance exercises and a home walking program. Treatment continues for up to 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo nutritional counseling on day 21.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up on day 71.