A Study of Olverembatinib Combined With Inotuzumab Ozogamicin in the Treatment ph+ ALL With MRD Persistent Positive
Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the effective and even the only cure treatment option for ph+ acute lymphocyte leukemia (ph+ALL). However, the outcome has been insufficient and relapse remains the major cause of treatment failure and poor survival, especially for patients with persistent minimal residual disease (MRD). It is believed that clearance of MRD pre-HSCT could significantly reduce the incidence of relapse post-HSCT. Olverembatinib has been documented as a promising third generation of TKIs. Meanwhile, Inotuzumab ozogamicin (InO) , an antibody-drug conjugate approved in the US and the European Union, has been applied in relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (R/R ALL) and achieved good treatment outcome. This prospective, single arm and multicenter study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of combination of Olverembatinib and Ino for MRD clearance before bridging to HSCT.
Ph+ ALL|Bone Marrow Transplant|Minimal Residual Disease
DRUG: the usage of Olverembatinib combined with Inotuzumab Ozogamicin
MRD clearance rate, The ratio of patients achieved MRD remission. The MRD remission was defined as the fusion gene BCR-ABL quantification in bone marrow samples was lower than the detection limit of RT-PCR ( \< 0.01 %, the residual number of leukemia cells detected in our hospital was 0.0032 % ) ; at the same time, flow cytometry ( FACS ) was used to monitor the MRD of the cells, and the proportion of abnormal cells \< 0.1 % was MRD-, 2 weeks after the treatment with Olverembatinib and Inotuzumab Ozogamicin
One year OS after HSCT, For patients achived MRD remission, HSCT will be performed. The one year overall survival after HSCT will be the seconday outcom., One year after HSCT|One year RFS after HSCT, For patients achived MRD remission, HSCT will be performed. The one year relaspe free survival after HSCT will be the seconday outcom., One year after HSCT|One year NRM after HSCT, For patients achived MRD remission, HSCT will be performed. The one year non-relaspe mortality after HSCT will be the seconday outcom., One year after HSCT
Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the effective and even the only cure treatment option for ph+ acute lymphocyte leukemia (ph+ALL). However, the outcome has been insufficient and relapse remains the major cause of treatment failure and poor survival, especially for patients with persistent minimal residual disease (MRD). It is believed that clearance of MRD pre-HSCT could significantly reduce the incidence of relapse post-HSCT. Olverembatinib has been documented as a promising third generation of TKIs. Meanwhile, Inotuzumab ozogamicin (InO) , an antibody-drug conjugate approved in the US and the European Union, has been applied in relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (R/R ALL) and achieved good treatment outcome. This prospective, single arm and multicenter study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of combination of Olverembatinib and Ino for MRD clearance before bridging to HSCT.