Oncological and Functional Outcomes After Radical Prostatectomy for Prostate Cancer: Comparing Open With Robot-assisted Surgery
For primary surgical treatment of prostate cancer the investigators compare the classic open surgery (radical retropubic prostatectomy, RRP) versus robot-assisted laparoscopic surgery (RALP). Oncological results are obtained at standard follow-up consultations through Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) measurement to detect biochemical recurrence. Functional results (continence, potency, quality of life) are obtained through standardised questionnaires. Currently the investigators perform all of their prostatectomies in a robot-assisted manner. For results of the open surgery the investigators send questionnaires to patients who had the operation in the past.
Prostate Cancer
Biochemical recurrence at follow-up., PSA measurement in the serum should not be \> or = 0,20 ng/ml., 3 months after prostatectomy|Biochemical recurrence at follow-up, PSA measurement in the serum should not be \> or = 0,20 ng/ml., 6 months after prostatectomy|Biochemical recurrence at follow-up., PSA measurement in the serum should not be \> or = 0,20 ng/ml., 9 months after prostatectomy|Biochemical recurrence at follow-up., PSA measurement in the serum should not be \> or = 0,20 ng/ml., 1 year after prostatectomy|Biochemical recurrence at follow-up., PSA measurement in the serum should not be \> or = 0,20 ng/ml., 6-monthly follow up between 1 and 5 years after prostatectomy.
Functional assessment concerning continence., Patients need to fill out questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30, QLQ-PR25, ICIQ mLUTS and UI SF and IIEF). The patients in the radical retropubic prostatectomy group only fill out the questionnaires once., after 1, 3, 12 and 24 months|Functional assessment concerning potency., Patients need to fill out questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30, QLQ-PR25, ICIQ mLUTS and UI SF and IIEF). The patients in the radical retropubic prostatectomy group only fill out the questionnaires once., after 1, 3, 12 and 24 months|Functional assessment concerning quality of life., Patients need to fill out questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30, QLQ-PR25, ICIQ mLUTS and UI SF and IIEF). The patients in the radical retropubic prostatectomy group only fill out the questionnaires once., after 1, 3, 12 and 24 months
For primary surgical treatment of prostate cancer the investigators compare the classic open surgery (radical retropubic prostatectomy, RRP) versus robot-assisted laparoscopic surgery (RALP). Oncological results are obtained at standard follow-up consultations through Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) measurement to detect biochemical recurrence. Functional results (continence, potency, quality of life) are obtained through standardised questionnaires. Currently the investigators perform all of their prostatectomies in a robot-assisted manner. For results of the open surgery the investigators send questionnaires to patients who had the operation in the past.