Clinical Study of CAR-BCMA T in Patients With Refractory or Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
A single arm, open-label pilot study is designed to determine the safety, efficacy and cytokinetics of CAR-BCMA T cells in patients with BCMA-positive refractory or relapsed multiple myeloma.
Refractory or Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
GENETIC: CAR-BCMA T cells|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Safety and effectivity - Incidence of study related adverse events, Incidence of study related adverse events which are defined as laboratory toxicities and clinical events that are possible, likely or definitely related to study treatment at any time from the infusion until week 24, including infusion related toxicity and any toxicity possibly related to CAR-BCMA T cells., 24 weeks|Engraftment, Duration of in vivo survival of CAR-BCMA T cells is defined as "engraftment". After 24 hours of infusion, the CAR-BCMA DNA sequence was detected by PCR according to the follow-up time point, until the result of any two consecutive tests was negative and recorded as the "engraftment endpoint" of CAR-BCMA T cells., 2 years
Statistical parameter of efficacy assessment：PFS, Statistical parameter：Progression-free Survival (PFS), 5 years|Statistical parameter of efficacy assessment：DCR, Statistical parameter:Disease Control Rate (DCR), 2 years|Statistical parameter of efficacy assessment：ORR, Statistical parameter:Objective Remission Rate (ORR), 2 years|Statistical parameter of efficacy assessment：OS, Statistical parameter:Overall survival (OS), 5 years
Number of DNA copies of CAR-BCMA T cells in tissue samples, Number of DNA copies of CAR-BCMA T cells in lymph node samples or bone marrow samples at regular intervals from 24 hours after the initial infusion., 2 years|Positive incidence of anti-drug antibody, Positive incidence of anti-BCMA anti-drug antibody (ADA)., 2 years|Change of T cell subsets from baseline counts, Change of T cell subsets from baseline counts after infusion(Tcm, central memory T lymphocytes; Tem, effector memory T lymphocytes; Treg, regulatory T lymphocytes)., 2 years
This study is designed to determine the safety, tolerability and engraftment potential of anti-BCMA lentivirus-transduced autologous T cells in patients with refractory or relapsed multiple myeloma.

Primary objectives:

1. Determine the safety and tolerability of CAR-BCMA T cells (autologous T cells transduced with chimeric antigen receptors recognizing BCMA) in patients with refractory or relapsed multiple myeloma.
2. Observe the cytokinetics of CAR-BCMA T cells.

Secondary objectives:

1. Observe the anti-tumor response of CAR-BCMA T cells to refractory or relapsed multiple myeloma (evaluated by diagnostic criteria International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG2014 version) as CR, sCR, ICR, MCR or VGPR).
2. Make an evaluation on the distribution and in vivo survival of CAR-BCMA T cells in peripheral blood, lymph node, and bone marrow.
3. Observe the immunogenicity of CAR-BCMA T cells, and determine if there is anti-BCMA scFv cellular immune response and anti-BCMA scFv humoral immune response.
4. Observe the change of T cell subsets relative to CAR-BCMA T。 (Tcm, central memory T lymphocytes; Tem, effector memory T lymphocytes; Treg, regulatory T lymphocytes).