Secukinumab in Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) - Inadequate Response (IR) Psoriasis Participants.
This study was designed to prove and quantify the hypothesis that secukinumab is effective, safe and well tolerated in the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque-type psoriasis in patients who are inadequate responders to anti-TNFα therapy in a United Kingdom (UK) and Republic of Ireland) specific population.
Psoriasis
BIOLOGICAL: Secukinumab (AIN457)
Percentage of Secukinumab 300 mg Participants Achieving PASI 75 at 16 Weeks, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 75 is defined as participants achieving ≥ 75% improvement from baseline., 16 weeks
Percentage of Secukinumab 150 mg Participants Achieving PASI 75 at 16 Weeks, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 75 is defined as participants achieving ≥ 75% improvement from baseline., 16 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieving PASI 75 According to 3 Key Participant Subgroups (Primary Inadequate Response (IR), Secondary IR and IR After More Than One Anti-TNFalpha Therapies) at 16 Weeks, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 75 is defined as participants achieving ≥ 75% improvement from baseline., 16 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieiving PASI 75 - Initiation Period, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 75 is defined as participants achieving ≥ 75% improvement from baseline., 2 ,4, 8, 12 and 16 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieiving PASI 75 - Maintenance 1 Period, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 75 is defined as participants achieving ≥ 75% improvement from baseline., 16, 24 and 48 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieiving PASI 75 - Maintenance 2 Period, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 75 is defined as participants achieving ≥ 75% improvement from baseline., 48 and 72 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieving PASI 50 and PASI 90 - Initiation Period, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 50 and PASI 90 are defined as participants achieving ≥ 50% and ≥ 90% improvement from baseline, respectively., 2, 4, 8, 12, 16 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieving PASI 50 and PASI 90 - Maintenance 1 Period, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 50 and PASI 90 are defined as participants achieving ≥ 50% and ≥ 90% improvement from baseline, respectively., 16, 24 and 48 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieving PASI 50 and PASI 90 - Maintenance 2 Period, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 50 and PASI 90 are defined as participants achieving ≥ 50% and ≥ 90% improvement from baseline, respectively., 48 and 72 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Who Have Failed on One Anti-TNFα Achieving PASI 75 (Subgroups 1 and 2 Combined) at 16 Weeks, PASI is a combined assessment of lesion severity and affected area into a single score: 0 (no disease) to 72 (maximal disease). Body is divided into 4 areas for scoring (head, arms, trunk, legs); each area is scored by itself and scores are combined for final PASI. For each area, percent of skin involved is estimated: 0 (0%) to 6 (90-100%), and severity is estimated by clinical signs, erythema, induration and desquamation; scale 0 (none) to 4 (maximum). Final PASI = sum of severity parameters for each area\* area score weight of section (head: 0.1, arms: 0.2 body: 0.3 legs: 0.4). PASI 75 is defined as participants achieving ≥ 75% improvement from baseline., 16 Weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieving NICE Continuation Criteria (PASI 75 or PASI 50 Plus a 5 Point Improvement in DLQI) at 16 Weeks, PASI 75 is defined as participants achieving ≥ 75% improvement from baseline. The DLQI is a ten item general dermatology disability index designed to assess health-related quality of life in adult participants with skin diseases. The measure is widely used: it has been tested across 32 different skin conditions and is available in 55 languages. The DLQI total score is a sum of all 10 responses. Scores range from 0 to 30 with higher scores indicating greater health-related quality of life impairment., 16 Weeks|Mean Change From Baseline in Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) Total Scores - Initiation Period, The DLQI is a ten item general dermatology disability index designed to assess health-related quality of life in adult participants with skin diseases. The measure is widely used: it has been tested across 32 different skin conditions and is available in 55 languages. It is a self-administered questionnaire which includes domains of daily activity, leisure, personal relationships, symptoms and feelings, treatment and school/work activities. Each domain has 4 response categories ranging from 0 (not at all) to 3 (very much). "Not relevant" is a valid score also and is scored as 0. The DLQI total score is a sum of all 10 responses. Scores range from 0 to 30 with higher scores indicating greater health-related quality of life impairment. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline, week 12, and week 16|Mean Change From Baseline in Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI)Total Scores - Maintenance 1 Period, The DLQI is a ten item general dermatology disability index designed to assess health-related quality of life in adult participants with skin diseases. The measure is widely used: it has been tested across 32 different skin conditions and is available in 55 languages. It is a self-administered questionnaire which includes domains of daily activity, leisure, personal relationships, symptoms and feelings, treatment and school/work activities. Each domain has 4 response categories ranging from 0 (not at all) to 3 (very much). "Not relevant" is a valid score also and is scored as 0. The DLQI total score is a sum of all 10 responses. Scores range from 0 to 30 with higher scores indicating greater health-related quality of life impairment. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline, 16, 24 and 48 weeks|Mean Change From Baseline in Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI)Total Scores - Maintenance 2 Period, The DLQI is a ten item general dermatology disability index designed to assess health-related quality of life in adult participants with skin diseases. The measure is widely used: it has been tested across 32 different skin conditions and is available in 55 languages. It is a self-administered questionnaire which includes domains of daily activity, leisure, personal relationships, symptoms and feelings, treatment and school/work activities. Each domain has 4 response categories ranging from 0 (not at all) to 3 (very much). "Not relevant" is a valid score also and is scored as 0. The DLQI total score is a sum of all 10 responses. Scores range from 0 to 30 with higher scores indicating greater health-related quality of life impairment. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline, 48 and 72 weeks|Mean Percent Change in EuroQOL 5-Dimension Health Status Questionnaire (EQ-5D) Health State Assessment Scores (From 0 to 100) - Initiation Period, The EQ-5D is an instrument used to assess a participant's health status. The instrument includes a descriptive profile and a visual analog scale (VAS). The descriptive profile includes 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension had 3 response levels: no problems, some problems and severe problems. The VAS is a vertical scale that assesses the health status from 0 (worst possible health state) to 100 (best possible health state). This outcome measures the percent change in VAS score., Baseline, 12 and 16 weeks|Mean Percent Change in EuroQOL 5-Dimension Health Status Questionnaire (EQ-5D) Health State Assessment Scores (From 0 to 100) - Maintenance 1 Period, The EQ-5D is an instrument used to assess a participant's health status. The instrument includes a descriptive profile and a visual analog scale (VAS). The descriptive profile includes 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension had 3 response levels: no problems, some problems and severe problems. The VAS is a vertical scale that assesses the health status from 0 (worst possible health state) to 100 (best possible health state). This outcome measures the percent change in VAS score., Baseline, 16, 24 and 48 weeks|Mean Percent Change in EuroQOL 5-Dimension Health Status Questionnaire (EQ-5D) Health State Assessment Scores (From 0 to 100) - Maintenance 2 Period, The EQ-5D is an instrument used to assess a participant's health status. The instrument includes a descriptive profile and a visual analog scale (VAS). The descriptive profile includes 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension had 3 response levels: no problems, some problems and severe problems. The VAS is a vertical scale that assesses the health status from 0 (worst possible health state) to 100 (best possible health state). This outcome measures the percent change in VAS score., Baseline, 48 and 72 weeks
There is no clear evidence or guidelines on appropriate treatment once a patient with moderate/severe psoriasis has failed to respond to anti-TNFα therapy, whether a single anti-TNFα therapy failure or multiple anti-TNFα therapy failures.

Numerous double-blind, double-dummy, randomised, parallel-group, active and placebo controlled studies have already been designed and run for the Phase III secukinumab clinical development program, in accordance with Health Authorities guidelines and feedback, including Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA). None of these specifically studied patients who have failed to respond to anti-TNFα therapy as defined by National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines.

Therefore, this study utilises a pragmatic, open-label, non-comparator design, which has been shown to be appropriate in similar studies looking at anti-TNFα therapy in patients failing on other therapies (Papp et al. 2012; Strober et al. 2011), to answer the question of whether secukinumab is an appropriate choice in patients who have failed to respond to anti-TNFα therapy (TNF-IR) per NICE definitions, whether a single anti-TNFα therapy failure or multiple anti-TNFα therapy failures.