Resting-State Functional MRI in Glioma Patients Before and After Surgery
This clinical trial studies how well resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) MRI performed before and after surgery works in measuring the effects on language in patients with glioma. Mapping language function before brain tumor resection is crucial for preventing post-surgical deficits and maximizing restoration of language function following surgery. Additional imaging, such as resting-state functional MRI and CVR MRI, may help measure the language network in the brain before surgery and any effects on language function after surgery.
Brain Mass|Glioma
PROCEDURE: Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Resting State Functional Connectivity Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Detectability of language networks, Will be performed using resting-state-functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis will be carried out to compare the difference between the diagnostic performance of the proposed method and that of the data-driven rs-fMRI method. The study will evaluate the performance of rs-fMRI by comparing with the standard of care intraoperative direct cortical stimulation., Up to 6 weeks
Changes in resting-state functional connectivity and neuropsychological outcomes, Graph theoretical analysis and large-scale network analysis will be applied to analyze pre- and post- surgical rs-fMRI data, to explore how the functional reorganization is correlated to the changes of neuropsychological scores. Correlational analyses will be conducted to determine the associations between changes in rs-fMRI network features and neuropsychological functioning from the pre- to postoperative period., Up to 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To develop a reliable platform for preoperative mapping of language networks using resting-state-functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs)-fMRI in glioma patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the reorganizations of resting-state functional connectivity (FC) and their relation to neuropsychological outcomes in glioma patients after surgery.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo standard of care functional (f)MRI, CVR MRI over 3 minutes, and rs-fMRI over 6 minutes 1 month before and within 6 weeks after standard of care surgery.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks.