S-1 and Oxaliplatin (SOX) Plus Sintilimab in the Locally Advanced Esophagogastric Junction Adenocarcinoma
For locally advanced adenocarcinoma of esophagogastric junction(AEG) (cT3-4aN+M0), neoadjuvant chemotherapy was improved to downstage T and N stage, increase the resectability of tumor, and finally improve the long-term survival. Combination of perioperative PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy for locally advanced AEG could be a novel therapy to increase response rate and resectability and reduce recurrence rate. Sintilimab in this study is an anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody for injection which has been approved for several malignant tumors. This study is a multi-center, open-label, randomized phase II clinical trial to evaluate tolerability, safety and efficacy of sintilimab in combination with perioperative chemotherapy in locally advanced AEG.
Locally Advanced Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Chemotherapy Effect
DRUG: Oxaliplatin+S-1|DRUG: Sinitilimab+oxaliplatin+S-1
pCR, pathological complete response rate, From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of operation, an average of 12 weeks.
TRG0/1, Pathological tumor regression grade 0/1, From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of operation, an average of 12 weeks.|R0 resection rate, Rate of microscopically margin-negative resection, rom the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of operation, an average of 12 weeks.|DFS, the length of time after primary treatment for a cancer ends that the patient survives without any signs or symptoms of that cancer., From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of first documented symptoms of cancer, assessed up to 3 years|RFS, The Kaplan-Meier survival from the initiation date of first cycle until the date of first documented recurrence, From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 3 years|OS, The Kaplan-Meier survival from the initiation date of first cycle until death from any cause or the last follow-up date., From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years
Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignancies in China with incidence and mortality both ranking the 2nd among malignancies in China. Unfortunately, over 70% of gastric cancer patients in China were diagnosed in advanced stage, and more than 80% of adenocarcinoma of esophagogastric junction(AEG) were advanced stage. Locally advanced AEG (cT3-4aN+M0) could be cured by multi-disciplinary therapies including surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. As proved, Neoadjuvant chemotherapy can downstage T and N stage, increase the resectability of tumor, and finally improve the long-term survival in AEG patients. However, the therapeutic effects remain unsatisfactory. PD-1 antibody has demonstrated its efficacy in metastatic AEG and has been proved to be effective in neoadjuvant setting in lung cancer and melanoma. Combination of perioperative PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy for locally advanced could be a novel therapy to increase response rate and resectability and reduce recurrence rate. Sinitilimab in this study is an anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody for injection which has been approved for lymphoma. This study is a multi-center, open-label, randomized phase II clinical trial to evaluate tolerability, safety and efficacy of sinitilimab in combination with perioperative chemotherapy（SOX: oxaliplatin plus S-1） in locally advanced AEG.