Rituximab and Liposomal Doxorubicin in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as liposomal doxorubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving rituximab together with liposomal doxorubicin may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects of giving rituximab together with liposomal doxorubicin and to see how well they work in treating patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride
Complete Response Rate at 20 Weeks, Complete Response (CR): During observation no disease is apparent, including measurable and non-measurable disease, for at least 28 days, as confirmed by a second assessment following the original observation of no disease. All nodes visualized on imaging studies or palpable on exams must have regressed to normal size their greatest transverse diameter for nodes \> 1.5 em before therapy). Previously involved nodes that were 1.1 to 1.5 in their greatest transverse diameter before treatment must have decreased to 1 cm in their greatest transverse diameter after treatment or by more than 75% in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters (SPD). The patient must also be free from symptoms related to lymphoma, if present before therapy with no worsening in performance status from baseline. Bone marrow, if initially positive at baseline, must be histologically negative for lymphoma and the liver and spleen, if enlarged due to lymphoma at baseline, should be normalized., 20 weeks
Partial Response Rate at 20 Weeks, Partial Response (PR): A 50% or greater decrease from baseline in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all the measured lesions is noted for at least 28 days as confirmed by a second assessment following the observation of the \> or = to 50% decrease. Additionally, no appearance of new lesions is noted., 20 weeks|Overall Response Rate (Complete and Partial Responses) at 20 Weeks, Complete Response (CR): During observation no disease is apparent, including measurable and non-measurable disease, for at least 28 days, as confirmed by a second assessment following the original observation of no disease. All nodes visualized on imaging studies or palpable on exams must have regressed to normal size their greatest transverse diameter for nodes \> 1.5 before therapy. Partial Response (PR): A 50% or greater decrease from baseline in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all the measured lesions is noted for at least 28 days as confirmed by a second assessment following the observation of the \> or = to 50% decrease. Additionally, no appearance of new lesions is noted., 20 weeks|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate at 2 Years, Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions or the appearance of new lesions., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) Rate at 2 Years, Overall survival was defined as time from date of treatment initiation until date of death due to any cause., 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the safety, including qualitative and quantitative toxic effects and their duration and reversibility, of rituximab and doxorubicin HCl liposome in patients with relapsed or refractory, indolent or aggressive CD20-positive B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Secondary

* Determine the efficacy, including overall response rate and durability of objective response, of this regimen in these patients.
* Correlate pretreatment functional, phenotypic, and genotypic characteristics of host immune effector cells with response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, pilot study.

Patients receive rituximab IV over 3-8 hours on day 1 and doxorubicin HCl liposome IV over 1-3 hours on day 3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 4 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42 patients will be accrued for this study.