Veliparib With Carboplatin and Paclitaxel and as Continuation Maintenance Therapy in Adults With Newly Diagnosed Stage III or IV, High-grade Serous, Epithelial Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate whether progression-free survival (PFS) was prolonged with the addition of veliparib to standard platinum-based chemotherapy (carboplatin/paclitaxel \[C/P\]) and continued as maintenance therapy compared with chemotherapy alone.
Ovarian Cancer|Ovarian Neoplasm
DRUG: Veliparib|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|OTHER: Placebo to Veliparib
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in the BRCA-deficient Population (Arm 3 vs Arm 1), PFS was defined as the time from the date that the participant was randomized to the date the participant experienced an event of disease progression, according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 (as determined by the investigator) or to the date of death if disease progression was not reached. If the participant did not have an event of disease progression or death prior to the analysis cut-off date, the participant's data were censored at the date of their last evaluable disease assessment. PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The analysis of PFS occurred when the protocol-specified number of PFS events was reached.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions, compared with the smallest size recorded since the treatment started, and an absolute increase of ≥ 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of new lesions., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 03 May 2019, the median duration of follow-up was 28 months.|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in the Homologous Recombination Deficiency Cohort (Arm 3 vs Arm 1), PFS was defined as the time from the date that the participant was randomized to the date the participant experienced an event of disease progression, according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 (as determined by the investigator) or to the date of death if disease progression was not reached. If the participant did not have an event of disease progression or death, the participant's data were censored at the date of their last evaluable disease assessment. PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The primary analysis of PFS occurred when the protocol-specified number of PFS events was reached and was performed in 3 sequentially inclusive populations.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions, compared with the smallest size recorded since the treatment started, and an absolute increase of ≥ 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of new lesions.

., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 03 May 2019, the median duration of follow-up was 28 months.|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in the Intention-to-treat Population (Arm 3 vs Arm 1), PFS was defined as the time from the date that the participant was randomized to the date the participant experienced an event of disease progression, according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 (as determined by the investigator) or to the date of death (all causes of mortality) if disease progression was not reached. If the participant did not have an event of disease progression according to RECIST criteria (as or death, the participant's data were censored at the date of their last evaluable disease assessment. PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions, compared with the smallest size recorded since the treatment started, and an absolute increase of ≥ 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of new lesions.

The primary analysis of PFS occurred when the protocol-specified number of PFS events was reached., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 03 May 2019, the median duration of follow-up was 28 months.
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in the BRCA-deficient Population (Arm 2 vs Arm 1), PFS was defined as the time from the date that the participant was randomized to the date the participant experienced an event of disease progression, according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 (as determined by the investigator) or to the date of death if disease progression was not reached. If the participant did not have an event of disease progression or death prior to the analysis cut-off date, the participant's data were censored at the date of their last evaluable disease assessment. PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The analysis of PFS occurred when the protocol-specified number of PFS events was reached.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions, compared with the smallest size recorded since the treatment started, and an absolute increase of ≥ 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of new lesions., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 03 May 2019, the median duration of follow-up was 28 months.|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in the Homologous Recombination Deficiency Cohort (Arm 2 vs Arm 1), PFS was defined as the time from the date that the participant was randomized to the date the participant experienced an event of disease progression, according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 (as determined by the investigator) or to the date of death if disease progression was not reached. If the participant did not have an event of disease progression or death, the participant's data were censored at the date of their last evaluable disease assessment. PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The primary analysis of PFS occurred when the protocol-specified number of PFS events was reached and was performed in 3 sequentially inclusive populations.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions, compared with the smallest size recorded since the treatment started, and an absolute increase of ≥ 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of new lesions.

., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 03 May 2019, the median duration of follow-up was 28 months.|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in the Intention-to-treat Population (Arm 2 vs Arm 1), PFS was defined as the time from the date that the participant was randomized to the date the participant experienced an event of disease progression, according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 (as determined by the investigator) or to the date of death (all causes of mortality) if disease progression was not reached. If the participant did not have an event of disease progression according to RECIST criteria (as or death, the participant's data were censored at the date of their last evaluable disease assessment. PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions, compared with the smallest size recorded since the treatment started, and an absolute increase of ≥ 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of new lesions.

The primary analysis of PFS occurred when the protocol-specified number of PFS events was reached., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 03 May 2019, the median duration of follow-up was 28 months.|Overall Survival (OS) in the BRCA-deficient Population, OS is defined as the time from the day the participant was randomized to the date of death, and was calculated using Kaplan-Meier methods. All events of death will be included, regardless of whether the event occurs while the participant is still taking study drug, or after discontinuation of study drug. If a participant has not died, then the data will be censored at the date the participant is last known to be alive., From the time of randomization to the end of the study, up to 98 months|Overall Survival (OS) in the Homologous Recombination Deficiency Population, OS is defined as the time from the day the participant was randomized to the date of death, and was calculated using Kaplan-Meier methods. All events of death will be included, regardless of whether the event occurs while the participant is still taking study drug, or after discontinuation of study drug. If a participant has not died, then the data will be censored at the date the participant is last known to be alive., From the time of randomization to the end of the study, up to 98 months|Overall Survival (OS) in the Whole Population, OS is defined as the time from the day the participant was randomized to the date of death, and was calculated using Kaplan-Meier methods. All events of death will be included, regardless of whether the event occurs while the participant is still taking study drug, or after discontinuation of study drug. If a participant has not died, then the data will be censored at the date the participant is last known to be alive., From the time of randomization to the end of the study, up to 98 months|Change From Baseline in Disease Related Symptom (DRS) Score in the BRCA-mutation Population, The Disease Related Symptom score is a subset of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Ovarian Symptom Index-18 (NFOSI-18), which evaluates nine symptoms related to ovarian cancer. The NFOSI-18 DRS score ranges from 0 to 36, with higher scores indicating a lower burden of symptoms and a score of 0 being severely symptomatic. A 3-point difference was defined as clinically meaningful. A positive change from Baseline indicates improvement.

Change from Baseline was calculated using a used a mixed-model for repeated measures (MMRM) with treatment, stratification factors of residual disease and stage of disease, time point and treatment-by-time point interaction as fixed effect factors, and Baseline DRS score as a covariate.

DRS was not included in the fixed-sequence testing procedure., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, and 35|Change From Baseline in Disease Related Symptom (DRS) Score in the HRD Population, The Disease Related Symptom score is a subset of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Ovarian Symptom Index-18 (NFOSI-18), which evaluates nine symptoms related to ovarian cancer. The NFOSI-18 DRS score ranges from 0 to 36, with higher scores indicating a lower burden of symptoms and a score of 0 being severely symptomatic. A 3-point difference was defined as clinically meaningful. A positive change from Baseline indicates improvement.

Change from Baseline was calculated using a used a mixed-model for repeated measures (MMRM) with treatment, stratification factors of residual disease and stage of disease, time point and treatment-by-time point interaction as fixed effect factors, and Baseline DRS score as a covariate.

DRS was not included in the fixed-sequence testing procedure., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, and 35|Change From Baseline in Disease Related Symptom (DRS) Score in the Whole Population, The Disease Related Symptom score is a subset of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Ovarian Symptom Index-18 (NFOSI-18), which evaluates nine symptoms related to ovarian cancer. The NFOSI-18 DRS score ranges from 0 to 36, with higher scores indicating a lower burden of symptoms and a score of 0 being severely symptomatic. A 3-point difference was defined as clinically meaningful. A positive change from Baseline indicates improvement.

Change from Baseline was calculated using a used a mixed-model for repeated measures (MMRM) with treatment, stratification factors of residual disease, stage of disease, choice of paclitaxel dosing regimen and BRCA-deficient status, time point and treatment-by-time point interaction as fixed effect factors, and Baseline DRS score as a covariate.

DRS was not included in the fixed-sequence testing procedure., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, and 35
Participants were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of three arms. Randomization in the entire population was stratified according to the timing of surgery and residual disease status (any residual disease after primary surgery vs. no residual disease after primary surgery vs. interval surgery) and the paclitaxel schedule (weekly vs. every 3 -weeks), stage of disease (III vs. IV), geographic region (Japan vs. North America and rest of world \[ROW\]), and germline breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) mutation status (positive versus negative or Unknown).

Cytoreductive surgery could be performed before randomization and the initiation of study treatment (primary) or after 3 cycles of study treatment (interval). The weekly or every-3-week paclitaxel schedule and the choice of primary or interval cytoreductive surgery were determined at the discretion of the investigator.

The primary objective was evaluated in the BRCA-deficient cohort, participants with homologous recombination deficiency (HRD), and the intention-to-treat (ITT) population. These populations were sequentially inclusive, with the HRD population including the BRCA-deficient population, and the ITT population including the HRD and BRCA-deficient populations. The BRCA-deficient population was defined as participants with either a germline (gBRCA) and/or tissue-based (tBRCA) deleterious or suspected deleterious mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2 confirmed by centralized testing. The HRD population was defined as participants with HRD tumors based on HRD score or presence of a deleterious or suspected deleterious mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2 as determined by centralized testing.