Chemo-radiotherapy Versus Radiotherapy in the Treatment of Salivary Glands and Nasal Tumors (IMRT or Protontherapy)
A phase III, multicenter, randomized, open-label, french study comparing:

* Arm A : Radiotherapy alone (66 to 70 Gy; 5 fractions/week; 1fraction/day; 2 Gy/fraction) (IMRT or protontherapy)
* Arm B: Radiotherapy (66 to 70 Gy; 5 fractions/week; 1fraction/day; 2 Gy/fraction; IMRT or protontherapy) + concomitant cisplatin 100 mg/m2 IV on day 1 - J22 - 43 (3 cycles)
HNSCC
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: radiotherapy
Progression-free survival, Compare progression-free survival between the 2 treatment arms: radiation therapy alone versus radiochimiotherapy in adjuvant patients treatment operated., From date of randomization to date of disease progression or death, which occur first, assessed during 62 months
Overall Survival, Compare the 2 arms of treatment in operated patients in terms of overall survival, From date of randomization to date of death, assessed during 62 months
Assessment of quality of Life: QLQC30 overall score, Compare quality of life (QLQC30 overall score) between arms, From date of randomization to end of study or death or progression (the first occurred), assessed during 62 months
Carcinomas of the sinuses and the salivary glands are rare. They are heterogeneous in terms of anatomical sites and histology subtypes. For this reason and in the absence of prospective study, their treatment is still largely extrapolated from data of frequent carcinomas of the upper digestive tract. These tumors are most often diagnosed lately. Their treatment is based on a multimodal management of care, with a central place for the surgery and radiotherapy (Proof level Grade C). Despite the advances in surgical techniques, and the addition of radiation therapy, the 5-year overall survival probability does not exceed 65% mainly due to a loco regional development.

In this context, a chemotherapy administered concomitantly to radiotherapy, could increase the efficacy of the locoregional treatment by a radiosensibilization process and regardless of the histology. This point is regularly discussed in multidisciplinary concertation meeting, including bi-monthly national REFCOR meeting (network of French Expertise on rare Cancers of the head and neck). At present, the lack of data brings even to discuss the addition of cisplatin to exclusive irradiation of unresectable or not operable tumors.

No randomized study has been published in this context. The first comparative prospective study addressing the addition of weekly cisplatin to the adjuvant irradiation of salivary, is a phase II randomized study (Radiation Therapy Oncology Group - RTOG 1008) currently enrolling patients in the United States of America.

The Sponsor propose to conduct a phase III randomized study evaluating the impact of the addition of cisplatin to a treatment by radiotherapy in adjuvant setting (≥ 65 Gy) in case of a high risk of recurrence: case of radioresistant histologies (e.g. cystic fibrosis adenoids carcinomas), or case of unfavourable histo-prognostic criteria (incomplete resection, presence of emboli, etc.) in this population.