A Study of Brentuximab Vedotin in Adults With Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The main aim is to check how effective BV is for treating adults with HL.

Study medication will be prescribed according to the clinic's standard practice.

Participants will visit the study clinic 5 times, once every 12 weeks. When study treatment has completed, a follow-up visit will be scheduled every 3 months during the first year and every 4-6 months during the next year.
Hodgkin Lymphoma
OTHER: No Intervention
Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Investigator, PFS will be assessed by investigator and defined as the time from the first dose of BV post ASCT until the first occurrence of disease progression or relapse, or death for any reason. Disease progression is at least a 50 percent (%) increase in the size of lesions, or the occurrence of new lesions. It will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method., From initiation of BV treatment post-ASCT until disease progression or relapse, or death (up to 36 months)
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from initiation of therapy to death from any cause. It will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method., From initiation of BV treatment until death from any cause (up to 36 months)
This is a prospective, observational study in participants with HL who underwent or are candidates for ASCT and receiving or will receive the standard treatment of BV. This study will assess the safety profile and effectiveness of BV in pre and post-ASCT in the real-world clinical practice.

The study will enroll approximately 70 participants.

The data will be collected and recorded in electronic case report forms (e-CRFs) in scope of National Drug Program (NDP). All the participants will be assigned to two observational cohorts:

* HL Participants: BV Salvage Pre-ASCT
* HL Participants: BV Consolidation Treatment Post-ASCT

This multi-center trial will be conducted in Poland. All participants will be followed up for 24 months. The overall duration of the study will be approximately 4.5 years.