Reduction of Pre-operative Anxiety Using a Specially Designed Educational Program for Breast Cancer Patients Undergoing Surgery: a Randomized Controlled Trial
This study aims to find out that if a specially designed educational program can help in reduction of pre-operative anxiety in breast cancer patients undergoing surgery as a part of their treatment.
Patient Satisfaction|Preoperative Anxiety|Anxiety
OTHER: comprehensive educational program for reduction of Pre-Operative Anxiety
Patient Pre-Operative Anxiety, This will be measured by using The Perioperative Anxiety Scale-7 (PAS-7), PAS 7 is a validated tool which includes seven items. This tool was developed by Zhang, C., Liu, X., Hu, T. et al. at Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Permissions were obtained and granted for use of PAS 7 in this project and its translation into Urdu. The process of translation involved forward translation by two independent translators, formation of a reconciled version by third translator, Back translation, independent review and finalization., 6 months
Patient Satisfaction., This will be measured using Patient satisfaction questionnaire Short Form (PSQ-18). The short-form instrument, the PSQ-18, contains 18 items comprising of General satisfaction, technical quality, interpersonal manner, communication, financial aspects, time spent with doctor, accessibility and convenience. PSQ-18 is a free to use validated tool developed by RAND Corporation. The translation of the tool is allowed by the RAND Corporation with precise instructions regarding the translation process. These instructions were followed while translating the tool. The process of translation involved forward translation by two independent translators, formation of a reconciled version by third translator, Back translation, independent review and finalization., 6 Months
Anxiety can be defined as an unpleasant subjective experience associated with the perception of real threat; therefore, it is a common symptom in connection with cancer. Breast Cancer patients undergo surgery at some stage of their treatment, Surgery details can be overwhelming and might lead to low retention of information and greater levels of anxiety which is the most prevalent psychological symptoms perceived by cancer patients.

Studies have shown women with a diagnosis of cancer correlate with higher levels of preoperative anxiety. Increased anxiety elicits physiologic stress responses that may impede healing and alter responses to postoperative pain.It can also lead to delayed recovery, prolonged hospital stay and increased need of postoperative pain medications.

Pre-Operative Anxiety may also cause delayed recovery from Anesthesia and can also compromise the effectiveness of anesthesia .Furthermore, it can lead to other post-operative complications such as nausea, vomiting, and delayed wound healing. Various Pharmacological and non-pharmacological methods have been used for reduction of pre-operative anxiety and one such non-pharmacological method is educating the patients about the experience of surgery pre-operatively which we aim to study in our population.