Epidural Anesthesia-analgesia and Long-term Survival After Lung Cancer Surgery
Available studies suggest that regional anesthesia-analgesia may decrease the occurrence of recurrence/metastasis in patients after cancer surgery. However, evidences from prospective studies are still lacking. The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to investigate the effect of epidural anesthesia-analgesia on recurrence-free survival in patients undergoing lung cancer surgery.
Lung Cancer|Thoracic Surgery|Anesthesia, Epidural|Neoplasm Recurrence, Local|Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: General anesthesia alone|DRUG: Combined epidural-general anesthesia
Recurrence-free survival after surgery., Time from surgery to the earliest date of recurrence/metastasis or death from any cause, whichever came first., Up to 4 years after surgery.
Rate of intensive care unit admission after surgery., Rate of intensive care unit admission after surgery., Up to 30 days after surgery.|Incidence of postoperative complications during hospital stay., Postoperative complications are defined as new-onset conditions that are harmful to patients' recovery and required therapeutic intervention, i.e., class II or higher on the Clavien-Dindo classification., Up to 30 days after surgery.|Duration of chest tube placement., Duration of chest tube placement., Up to 30 days after surgery.|Length of stay in hospital after surgery., Length of stay in hospital after surgery., Up to 30 days after surgery.|Rate of all-cause mortality during hospital stay after surgery., Rate of all-cause mortality during hospital stay after surgery., Up to 30 days after surgery.|Overall survival rate after surgery., Time from surgery to all-cause death., Up to 4 year after surgery.|Cancer-specific survival after surgery., Time from surgery to cancer-specific death; deaths from other causes are censored at the time of death., Up to 4 years after surgery.|Activity engagement in 1-year survivors., Activity engagement is assessed by estimating metabolic equivalents (METs; 1 MET = 3·5 ml/min/kg resting oxygen consumption) for activity in daily life., At the end of the first year after surgery.
Pain intensity after surgery., Assessed with the numeric rating score, an 11-point scale where 0 = no pain and 10 = the most severe pain., During the first 3 days after surgery.|Recurrence-free survival in cancer patients., Time from surgery to the earliest date of recurrence/metastasis or death from any cause, whichever came first., Up to 4 years after surgery.|Overall survival in cancer patients., Time from surgery to all-cause death., Up to 4 years after surgery.|Cancer-specific survival in cancer patients., Time from surgery to cancer-specific death; deaths from other causes are censored at the time of death., Up to 4 years after surgery.|Number of CD8+ and FOXP3+ T cells per mm2 tumor area (sub-study)., Immunohistochemical staining of CD8 and FOXP3 molecules in excised lung adenocarcinoma specimens. Performed in part of enrolled patients., After resection of lung adenocarcinoma specimens|Percentage of NK-cells and T-cell subgroups in peripheral blood (sub-study)., Measured by flow cytometry. Performed in part of enrolled patients., Peripheral blood samples collected before induction, at the end of surgery and at 24 hours after surgery.|Rate of chronic pain at 3 month and 6 month after surgery (sub-study)., Chronic pain is measured with the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), neuropathic pain screening questionnaire (ID pain), and McGill Pain Questionnair (MPQ). Performed in part of enrolled patients., At 3 months and 6 months after surgery.
Lung cancer is increasing and is the leading cause of cancer death. Surgical resection is the mainstay of treatment for early stage non-small cell lung cancer. However, long-term survival after lung cancer surgery is far from optimal, and cancer recurrence or metastasis is the main reason leading to cancer death in these patients.

The development of cancer recurrence/metastasis largely depends on the balance between tumor-promoting factors and immune function of the body. Studies showed that surgical manipulation releases cancer cells into circulation; and stress response induced by surgery inhibits the cell-mediated immunity. In addition, volatile anesthetics and opioids may also aggravate immunosuppression and potentially worsen long-term outcome. On the other hand, regional anesthesia can blunt surgical stress and reduce anesthetic consumption. These effects may help to preserve immune function and reduce recurrence/metastasis. However, existing evidences are insufficient to draw conclusion in this topic.

The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to test the hypothesize that regional anesthesia-analgesia may reduce recurrence/metastasis and improve long-term survival in patients after lung cancer surgery.