Letrozole for Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
The hypothesis in this study is that estrogen suppression by an aromatase inhibitor in postmenopausal women with lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) will prevent or delay progression of lung disease and result in a decrease in the rate of decline in FEV1
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Placebo
Rate of Change in Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 Second in ml/Month, FEV1 values reported are in liters or milliliters. There are no definite minimum and maximum values of FEV1 as it is a physiological measure of lung function and varies from individual to individual. Higher FEV1 scores indicate better lung function., 12 months
Post-bronchodilator FVC, Post-bronchodilator FVC in milliliters, twelve months|St George Respiratory Questionnaire, Quality of Life scale for respiratory symptoms. This is a disease-specific instrument designed to measure impact on overall health, daily life, and perceived well-being in patients with obstructive airways disease. Scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating worse quality of life., twelve months|Serum VEGF-D, VEGF-D values represent serum VEGF-D levels in pg/ml. Higher levels of VEGF-D are associated with Lymphangioleiomyomatosis. A serum VEGF-D greater than 400 pg/ml is a diagnostic biomarker for LAM., twelve months
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis, or LAM, is an uncommon, progressive, cystic lung disease that predominantly affects young women. Pulmonary parenchymal changes consistent with LAM are found in about one third of women with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), an autosomal dominant tumor suppressor syndrome. LAM also occurs in a sporadic form that is not associated with germline mutations in TSC genes. Recent evidence that recurrent LAM after lung transplantation results from seeding of the graft from a remote source and suggests a metastatic mechanism for the disease.

Since LAM occurs almost exclusively in women, and is exacerbated by pregnancy, menses and hormonal therapies suggest that estrogen suppression might be expected to prevent or delay progression of disease.

In postmenopausal women, estrogens are mainly derived from the action of the aromatase enzyme, which converts adrenal androgens (primarily androstenedione and testosterone) to estrone and estradiol. The suppression of estrogen biosynthesis in peripheral tissues can therefore be achieved by specifically inhibiting the aromatase enzyme. Letrozole is a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor (inhibitor of estrogen synthesis) that has been shown to be effective in other neoplasms that affect women, such as breast cancer.