T- XELOX in HER2-positive Stage III Gastric Cancer After D2 Gastrectomy
The objective of this study is to assess the clinical efficacy and safety of trastuzumab plus XELOX for treatment of HER2-positive Stage III Gastric Cancer After D2 Gastrectomy.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
3-year disease-free survival (DFS), Defined as the time from study treatment to the time of recurrence of the original gastric cancer, development of a new gastric cancer, or death from any cause., Measure at every 6 weeks (every 2 cycles)
Overall survival, Measure of time from study treatment to patient's death or lost to follow-up., up to 3 years|Safety and tolerability, Percentage of patients who experience adverse events during this study., up to 18 month|Prognostic value of biomarkers, assessment of the relationship between biomarker status and prognosis, up to 3 years
Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Highest incidence rate is observed in Eastern Asia.

D2 gastrectomy has been established as a standard surgical procedure. While recurrence rate after resection is still high.

The CLASSIC study showed that Xelox regimen after D2 gastrectomy improves 3-year disease-free survival compared with surgery only. But patients with late stage still have poor prognosis according to subgroup analysis and our retrospective study.

HER2 is an important biomarker and key driver of tumorigenesis in 7-34% gastric cancers. The ToGA study showed that trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody that targets HER2, plus chemotherapy improved overall survival(16.0m vs 11.8m) in patients with HER2-positive advanced gastric or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer.

Based on previous experiences of trastuzumab in adjunctive therapy of breast cancer and ACTS/CLASSIC/ToGA studies, we suppose that trastuzumab plus XELOX as adjunctive treatment may benefit patients with HER2-positive Stage III gastric cancer after D2 Gastrectomy.

According to the above, we do this single-arm research to assess the clinical efficacy and safety of trastuzumab plus XELOX for treatment of HER2-positive Stage III Gastric Cancer After D2 Gastrectomy.