Panitumumab, Combination Chemotherapy, & Radiation Therapy in Esophageal or Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving panitumumab, combination chemotherapy, and radiation therapy together before surgery works in treating patients with advanced esophageal or gastroesophageal (GE) junction cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as panitumumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving monoclonal antibody therapy together with chemotherapy and radiation therapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.
Adenocarcinoma of the Gastroesophageal Junction|Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Esophageal Cancer|Stage IIB Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Fluorouracil|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Complete Pathological Response (pCR) Rate, Based on the proportion who achieve pCR based on the first 4 courses of protocol treatment. Evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 guidelines. Means (with associated standard errors), medians (with ranges), percentages and 95% confidence intervals will be reported as appropriate., Up to 8 weeks
Number of Patients Who Can Undergo Resection, Restaging with repeat imaging studies will be performed. If no contraindication for surgical resection is identified, resection will be performed. Means (with associated standard errors), medians (with ranges), percentages and 95% confidence intervals will be reported as appropriate., 4 weeks after completion of the radiation
Progression-free Survival, Descriptively summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Response and disease progression were assessed using RECIST criteria version 1.1, Patients were followed from time of consent until the date of first documented progession or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|Overall Survival, Descriptively summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From the first date of therapy until the date the patient dies, assessed up to 100 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pathologic complete response rate of a modified FOLFOX-6 regimen (leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin) given with panitumumab at two-week intervals x 4 cycles in combination with external beam radiation therapy for patients with locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicities and ability to complete the planned treatment. II. To determine the achieved steady-state plasma concentrations of 5-FU (fluorouracil) and correlate these with clinical toxicity.

III. To assess the potential importance of polymorphic variations in genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of pertinent genes whose protein products are the targets of the anti-neoplastic drugs used in the clinical protocol on response and toxicity to therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Patients also receive oxaliplatin IV and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on day 1 (FOLFOX chemotherapy). Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 24 hours of the start of chemotherapy, patients undergo radiation therapy 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks. Patients then undergo surgery within 6-8 weeks after completion of radiation therapy. Patients with residual disease receive 4 additional courses of FOLFOX chemotherapy on days 1, 15, 29, and 42.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter.