BLP25 Liposome Vaccine and Bevacizumab After Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Stage IIIA or Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
RATIONALE: Vaccines may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving vaccine therapy together with bevacizumab after chemotherapy and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects of giving BLP25 liposome vaccine together with bevacizumab after chemotherapy and radiation therapy in treating patients with newly diagnosed stage IIIA or stage IIIB non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Tecemotide|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: paclitaxel|RADIATION: radiotherapy
Proportion of Patients With Target Adverse Events for the Step 2 Treatment, The study is to evaluate the safety of the combination of tecemotide immunotherapy with bevacizumab. The target adverse events for the combined treatment are as follows: grade 4-5 hemorrhage, esophagitis, fistula, platelet count decrease (thrombocytopenia), encephalitis infection, or hepatic failure episodes., Assessed every 3 weeks while on treatment and up to 5 years
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the study registration until death from any cause. Patients who were alive or lost to follow-up at the time of analysis were censored at date last known alive., Every 3 months for patients < 2 years from study entry, and every 6 months if patient is 2-5 years from study entry; up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from study registration to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever came first. If date of death was greater than 3 months after date of last disease assessment that showed progression-free, the patient was censored at the time of last disease assessment. Patients alive and without documented progression were censored at the date last known progression-free.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria (version 1.1), as at least 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, the appearance of new lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every 3 months for patients < 2 years from study entry, and every 6 months if patient is 2-5 years from study entry; up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the safety of BLP25 liposome vaccine (tecemotide) and bevacizumab after definitive chemoradiotherapy and consolidation chemotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed, unresectable stage IIIA or IIIB nonsquamous cell non-small cell lung cancer.

Secondary

* To evaluate the overall survival and progression-free in patients treated with this regimen.
* To evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Step 1:

* Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 15-30 minutes once a week for 6 weeks. Patients also undergo concurrent definitive radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6½ weeks. Patients with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) proceed to consolidation chemotherapy.
* Consolidation chemotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 15-30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with CR, PR, or SD proceed to maintenance therapy.

Step 2:

* Maintenance therapy: Patients receive a single dose of cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes 3 days before the first dose of bevacizumab and BLP25 liposome vaccine. Patients then receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and BLP25 liposome vaccine subcutaneously on days 1, 8, and 15 of courses 1 and 2 and on day 1 of every other course beginning in course 4. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 34 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.