Losartan and Hypofractionated Rx After Chemo for Tx of Borderline Resectable or Locally Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer (SHAPER)
This phase I trial studies the side effects of losartan and hypofractionated radiation therapy after chemotherapy in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that may or may not be removed by surgery (borderline resectable) or has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes and is not amenable to surgical resection (locally advanced unresectable). Losartan may improve blood flow and allows for better tissue oxygenation. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Giving losartan and hypofractionated radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with pancreatic cancer compared to hypofractionated radiation therapy alone.
Borderline Resectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Locally Advanced Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Locally Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Losartan|DRUG: Losartan Potassium|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Grade 3 or higher gastrointestinal toxicity rate, Will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version (v) 5.0. The proportion of subjects that experience this endpoint will be tabulated along with an exact 90% binomial confidence interval (Clopper-Pearson)., Up to 3 months (84 days) after completion of radiation therapy
Frequency of adverse events, Will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version (v) 5.0., Up to 3 months (84 days) after completion of radiation therapy|Response rate (clinical and/or pathologic partial response [PR] and complete response [CR]), Will be described using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors v1.1. The proportion of subjects with a PR and CR will be reported along with exact binomial confidence intervals (Clopper-Pearson)., Up to 36 months post-treatment|Progressive free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to report PFS., From the time of enrollment until disease progression or death (any cause), assessed up to 36 months post-treatment|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to report OS., From the patient?s first dose of study drug to death due to any cause, assessed up to 36 months post-treatment|Number patients that require a medical intervention or hospitalization due to hypotension, Will be analyzed descriptively., Up to 36 months post-treatment
Patient reported quality of life assessment- review of symptoms and how they interfere in life, Will be assessed using MD Anderson Symptom Inventory-Gastrointestinal (MDASI-GI)., At study entry, during the final week of radiation therapy, and at each follow up visit
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the safety of losartan potassium (losartan) in combination with hypofractionated radiation treatment for patients with stable or locally progressive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) after induction chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of losartan in combination with HRT for patients with stable or locally progressive PDAC after induction chemotherapy.

II. To assess the efficacy of losartan in combination with HRT for patients with stable or locally progressive PDAC after induction chemotherapy.

III. To assess the rate of hypotensive adverse events grade \>= 3.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess patient reported quality of life.

OUTLINE:

Beginning day 1, patients receive losartan potassium orally (PO) once daily (QD). Beginning day 14, patients also undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy over 15 fractions 5 days a week for up to 3 weeks. Patients continue to receive losartan potassium PO QD during radiation therapy and for 28 days after completion of radiation therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 and 84 days, every 3 months for 12 months, and then every 6 months for up to 36 months.