Prevalence of Depression and Anxiety Among Breast Cancer Patients
Depression and anxiety in patients with breast cancer is serious comorbidity that affects the quality of life for patients, and their survival rates as they have poorer health outcomes. Furthermore, patients' high psychological burden is linked to higher healthcare costs. The investigation of the depression and anxiety symptoms prevalence among newly diagnosed breast cancer patients will help to navigate the health policy adjustment and psycho-social support system requirements. This study aims to investigate the prevalence of depression and anxiety symptoms among newly diagnosed breast cancer patients in Almaty, Kazakhstan, and associated risk factors.
Depression|Anxiety|Breast Cancer
Prevalence of Depression Symptoms, Prevalence of depression symptoms among newly diagnosed breast cancer patients according to the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II). The 21-item self-administered survey is scored on a scale of 0-3 in a list of four statements arranged in increasing severity about a particular symptom of depression. Each of the 21 items corresponding to a symptom of depression is summed to give a single score for the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II). There is a four-point scale for each item ranging from 0 to 3. p. On two items (16 and 18) there are seven options to indicate either an increase or decrease of appetite and sleep. Cut-off score guidelines for the BDI-II are given with the recommendation that thresholds be adjusted based on the characteristics of the sample, and the purpose for use of the BDI-II. Total score of 0-13 is considered minimal range, 14-19 is mild, 20-28 is moderate, and 29-63 is severe., within 6 months of diagnosis|Prevalence of Anxiety Symptoms, Prevalence of anxiety symptoms among newly diagnosed breast cancer patients according to the Beck Anxiety Inventory. The Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) consists of 21 self-reported items (four-point scale ranging from 0 to 3. p.) used to assess the intensity of physical and cognitive anxiety symptoms during the past week. Scores may range from 0 to 63: minimal anxiety levels (0-7), mild anxiety (8-15), moderate anxiety (16-25), and severe anxiety (26-63)., within 6 months of diagnosis
Depression and anxiety in patients with breast cancer is serious comorbidity that affects the quality of life for patients, and their survival rates as they have poorer health outcomes. Furthermore, patients' high psychological burden is linked to higher healthcare costs. The investigation of the depression and anxiety symptoms prevalence among newly diagnosed breast cancer patients will help to navigate the health policy adjustment and psycho-social support system requirements. This study aims to investigate the prevalence of depression and anxiety symptoms among newly diagnosed breast cancer patients in Almaty, Kazakhstan, and associated risk factors.