Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Pancreatic Cancer and Peritoneal Metastasis
This phase II trial studies the effects of hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has spread to the internal abdominal area (peritoneal metastasis). Chemotherapy drugs, such as nab-paclitaxel and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. HIPEC involves "heated" chemotherapy that is placed directly in the abdomen through laparoscopic instruments, instead of through an intravenous injection. This study may help doctors determine how safe and effective HIPEC work in treating patient with pancreatic cancer.
Metastatic Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC V8|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Peritoneum
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Overall survival, Overall survival will be assessed from the date of cytoreduction and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) to death by any cause, regardless of disease recurrence. Patterns of tumor recurrence and survival will be assessed by reviewing routine surveillance imaging. Patient may be contacted by telephone and/or videoconferencing., Up to 4 years|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival is will be assessed from the date of cytoreduction and HIPEC to recurrence of tumor or death. Patterns of tumor recurrence and survival will be assessed by reviewing routine surveillance imaging. Patient may be contacted by telephone and/or videoconferencing., Up to 4 years
Morbidity, Morbidity is the state of having a specific illness or condition. Morbidity will be measured based on hospital length of stay, readmission rate, reoperation rate, and 30-day mortality (death)., 30 days; up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate overall survival and disease-free survival outcomes for patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma with limited low volume peritoneal metastasis or positive peritoneal cytology undergoing hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess morbidity for patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma with limited low volume peritoneal metastasis or positive peritoneal cytology undergoing hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo HIPEC with nab-paclitaxel and cisplatin over 90 minutes in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may undergo additional HIPEC with paclitaxel and cisplatin up to 5 times. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET) during screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.