Performance of Spectral CT-scan in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer: a Prospective Multicentre Study
Spectral CT is a rapidly expanding imaging modality that allows a reduction in iodine dose and irradiation compared to conventional scanning. It uses the difference in attenuation of the material according to the two different energy levels of the incident x-ray beams. The dual-energy scanner has a wide range of clinical applications, particularly in abdominal imaging.
Colo-rectal Cancer
OTHER: CT Images
Comparison of peritoneal lesion mapping between spectral scanning and conventional scanning, Comparison of peritoneal lesion mapping between spectral scanning (monoenergetic acquisitions, iodine mapping, etc.) and conventional scanning (acquisition obtained during spectral acquisition)., Year : 1|Comparison of hepatic lesion mapping between spectral scanning and conventional scanning, Comparison of hepatic lesion mapping between spectral scanning (monoenergetic acquisitions, iodine mapping, etc.) and conventional scanning (acquisition obtained during spectral acquisition)., Year : 1
Evaluation of response to chemotherapy in RECIST 1.1, Collection of demographic, biological and surgical data., Year : 1|Evaluation of response to chemotherapy in Radiomics, Collection of demographic, biological and surgical data., Year : 1
First of all, the virtual creation of mono-energy images between 40 and 140 keV has shown subjective and objective improvement of tumor detection of hypovascular lesions using low energies (40keV). It has been shown to be of interest in vascular and cardiac imaging, and to reduce artefacts in bone imaging. However, its performance in oncology analysis has been little studied. The selection of patients for peritoneal and hepatic carcinosis surgery is fundamental, as surgery allows a prolongation of survival, but are associated with a non-negligible morbi-mortality rate.

Spectral CT provides improved detection of peritoneal carcinosis and liver metastases of colorectal cancer compared to conventional CT acquisition.