CIETAI and Sequential Radiotherapy in Squamous Lung Cancer
Central-type lung cancer refers to lung malignancies originating from the segmental bronchi and above. The most common tissue type is squamous cell carcinoma. Patients often present with cough, hemoptysis, hoarseness and also some critical conditions including superior vena caval obstruction syndrome. Therefore, effective treatment should be implemented as early as possible to rapidly reduce tumor burden and control the progression of the disease. Most of the central-type NSCLC are classified into T3-4, N1-2 stage and are non-resectable. The PACIFIC study changed the standard treatment model for inoperable locally advanced lung cancer with synchronous chemoradiotherapy and sequential PD-L1 immunotherapy. In clinical practice, Chinese patients often failed to finish concurrent chemoradiotherapy for high toxicity. In addition, combination with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors increased the risk of immune related pneumonia.

Bronchial artery infusion (BAI), that directly infused drugs (chemo and PD-1 inhibitor) through tumor-nourishing arteries, has potential advantages in the treatment of central-type lung cancer. The drug concentration in tumor region increased to potentiate the antitumoral effect and also reduced the systemic adverse reactions.

In this study, bronchial artery interventional therapy is conducted with precedence. The protocol for bronchial artery intervention includes infusion of chemo and PD-1 inhibitor followed by bronchial artery embolism (Chemo-Immulo-embolization via Tumor arterial, CIETAI). Followed CIETAI, two cycles of chemo/PD-1 therapy are planned to carried out before radiotherapy. After radiotherapy, maintenance PD-1 inhibitor are initiated for 1 year or until progression.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
PROCEDURE: bronchial artery interventional therapy|DRUG: Chemotherapy drug|RADIATION: IMRT|DRUG: Immunotherapy
Objective Response Rate 2 (ORR2), complete response(CR)+partial response(PR) according to RECIST 1.1, 2 year
Objective Response Rate 1 (ORR1), complete response(CR)+partial response(PR) according to RECIST 1.1, 1 year|Improvements of main symptoms after CITAI, NSCLC related symptoms evaluated by NSCLC-SAQ v1.0, 1 year|Progression-free Survival(PFS), progression-free survival is defined as the time from enrollment to the date of first document disease progression or death from any cause, approximately 10 months|Overall Survival（OS), overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, approximately 18 months|Toxicity, Summary of the adverse events experienced by study participants as evaluated by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, the first date of treatment to 30 days after the last dose of study drug|EORTC QLQ-C30, according to EORTC QLQ-C30, the first date of treatment to 30 days after the last dose of study drug|EORTC QLQ-LC13, according to EORTC QLQ-LC13, the first date of treatment to 30 days after the last dose of study drug
Tumor proportion score (TPS) of PD-L1, IHC by 22C3 antibody, Baseline|ctDNA MRD, ctDNA MRD detection by liquid biopsy change during treatment, Baseline and 30 days after the last dose of study drug|Surgery rate, MDT to discuss surgery after phase I treatment and phase II treatment, 2 year
PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI), which has been introduced in the treatment of lung cancer, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer and other solid tumors, changed the strategy of cancer treatment. The more widely biomarkers for its efficacy include tumor PD-L1 proportional score (TPS), tumor mutation burden (TMB), DNA mismatch repair defect (dMMR), genomic instability (MSI-H) which were used to assess PD-L1 expression in tumor cells and the presence and density of T cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the overall efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 remain unsatisfactory. To increase the concentration of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor in tumor and TME is a potential strategy to increase the efficacy. In this study, perfusion of PD-1/PD-L1 via bronchial arterial was harnessed to maximize the concentration of drugs in the tumor. We proposed a surgical procedure called Chemo-Immuno-embolization via Tumor Arterial Intervention (CIETAI). This study mainly included inoperable patients with central-type lung squamous cell carcinoma who received CIETAI at the initial treatment, followed by radiotherapy and PD-1/PD-L1 maintenance.