Mobile Devices as Educational Skin History Tools
Part I of this study surveys patients in the Penn Dermatologic Surgery Clinic to evaluate if a need exists for increased patient understanding of their skin history and which factors, if any, related to the patient or their skin history are associated with this need. In part II, the study aim is to evaluate mobile technology as a way of improving patient understanding of diagnoses, treatments, and procedures. In this part of the study, eligible patients from part I will be randomized either to a control group that receives the current standard of care regarding in-clinic counseling, informational handouts, and access to their medical records, or to an intervention group that in addition to the current standard of care, is setup with a mobile app, allowing patients to view a skin history summary report and a reference on their skin ﬁndings and procedures. Patients then complete a survey to establish their baseline understanding of their clinic visit. Three weeks later the patient is emailed a follow-up survey to assess their understanding of their in-clinic visit. Differences in understanding between the two study groups will be assessed by comparing the number of correctly answered survey items regarding their in-clinic visit, both at baseline (immediately following their surgery) and three weeks later. Qualitative information regarding satisfaction and areas of improvement will also be collected via survey. Patients who have an appointment during the study period at the Penn Dermatologic Surgery clinic for a skin excision will be eligible for inclusion.
Skin Cancer
OTHER: Mobile app
Understanding of recent skin excision - 3 weeks later, After study enrollment, patients have one or more skin areas excised. They complete an in-clinic survey immediately after the excision and another survey 3 weeks later where they are asked questions regarding the clinic visit and the related excised skin areas and diagnoses. Understanding is assessed by comparing against the medical record to calculate the number/percent of correct responses., 3 weeks
Part I of this study surveys patients in the Penn Dermatologic Surgery Clinic to evaluate if a need exists for increased patient understanding of their skin history and which factors, if any, related to the patient or their skin history are associated with this need. In part II, the study aim is to evaluate mobile technology as a way of improving patient understanding of diagnoses, treatments, and procedures. In this part of the study, eligible patients from part I will be randomized either to a control group that receives the current standard of care regarding in-clinic counseling, informational handouts, and access to their medical records, or to an intervention group that in addition to the current standard of care, is setup with a mobile app, allowing patients to view a skin history summary report and a reference on their skin ﬁndings and procedures. Patients then complete a survey to establish their baseline understanding of their clinic visit. Three weeks later the patient is emailed a follow-up survey to assess their understanding of their in-clinic visit. Differences in understanding between the two study groups will be assessed by comparing the number of correctly answered survey items regarding their in-clinic visit, both at baseline (immediately following their surgery) and three weeks later. Qualitative information regarding satisfaction and areas of improvement will also be collected via survey. Patients who have an appointment during the study period at the Penn Dermatologic Surgery clinic for a skin excision will be eligible for inclusion.