Inguinal Node Sparing Radiotherapy For Patients With Early Stage Anal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see whether avoiding preventative radiation to the groin in patients with normal sentinel node biopsy and PET-CT, is at least as effective treating cancer as giving preventative radiation to the groin for patients with anal canal cancer.

The investigators also want to know if avoiding radiation to the groin will cause fewer side effects and better quality of life
Anal Canal Cancer
RADIATION: chemo-radiation treatment
Incidence of inguinal lymph node recurrence, The primary end point is measured by PET/CT imaging at 3 months post treatment and, then CT scan of chest, abdomen and pelvis every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for another year., Total duration of follow up is 36 months|Disease free survival (DFS), Time between enrollment and date of relapse (radiographic or clinical progression) leading to change in therapy for recurrent disease or death due to any cause., 36 months
Health related Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ-C30), Evaluation will be done using EORTC QLQ-C30 (European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30). Assessed at baseline (before starting CRT) and, at 3 months, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months after completion of treatment., 36 months|Health related Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ-AN27), Evaluation will be done using EORTC QLQ-AN27, the supplementary module specific for anal cancer. Assessed at baseline (before starting CRT) and, at 3 months, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months after completion of treatment., 36 months|Health related Quality of Life (IIEF), Evaluation will be done using International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) for Men. Assessed at baseline (before starting CRT) and, at 3 months, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months after completion of treatment., 36 months|Health related Quality of Life (FSFI), Evaluation will be done using Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI). Assessed at baseline (before starting CRT) and, at 3 months, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months after completion of treatment., 36 months|Health related Quality of Life (Vaizey Score), Evaluation will be done using Vaizey Score to analyse severity of anal incontinence. Assessed at baseline (before starting CRT) and, at 3 months, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months after completion of treatment., 36 months|Health related Quality of Life (Fecal Incontinence Severity Index), Evaluation will be done using Fecal Incontinence Severity Index. Assessed at baseline (before starting CRT) and, at 3 months, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months after completion of treatment., 36 months|Treatment-related acute toxicities, Treatment-related acute toxicity will be assessed based on the acute morbidity criteria by NCI CTCAE v.5.0. Acute treatment related morbidity will be assessed weekly during treatment. Then 3 months after completion of treatment., Up to 3 months|Treatment-related late toxicities., Late morbidity is defined as morbidity occurring 90 days after completion of treatment. Treatment-related late toxicities will be assessed every 3 months for 2 years and every 6 months for another year., 36 months|Exercise Behavior and Physical Fitness, Self-reported exercise behavior will be measured before treatment, after treatment, and at 4 months, 8 months, 1-year, 2-year, and 3-year follow-up using the Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire \[36\]. Objective physical fitness will be measured before treatment, after treatment, and at 4 months and 1-year follow-up using the Senior's Fitness Test (SFT) \[37, 38\]. The SFT consists of: (a) 30-second chair stand, (b) 30-second arm curl, (c) chair sit-and-reach, (d) back scratch, (e) 8-foot up-and-go, and (f) 6-minute walk. These tests, respectively, assess lower and upper body strength, lower and upper body flexibility, agility/dynamic balance, and aerobic endurance., 36 months
Relationship between radiotherapy treatment planning variables and acute toxicity., We will be collecting information related to treatment plans for each patient such as total irradiated volume, dose to OARs, integral dose and will evaluate any association between these factors and toxicity., 36 months
Radiotherapy (RT) with concurrent 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin-C (5FU/MMC) combination is the treatment of choice for non-metastatic locally advanced anal squamous cell carcinoma (ASCC). While, locally advanced AC treatment involves elective inguinal lymph node irradiation along with concurrent chemotherapy with significant improvement of locoregional control and colostomy free survival, many oncologists believe that routine, elective irradiation of bilateral inguinal areas of patients with limited disease (T1-T3) without lymph node involvement may be overtreatment and the larger radiation target that includes entire pelvis and bilateral inguinal region causes significant acute and late toxicities.

SLNB is the standard procedure currently used for breast cancer staging. The most significant observation was that when the SLN is negative, no further ALND or adjuvant axillary radiation is need for those patients. The SLNB had shown a better diagnostic accuracy (31% vs.25%) and higher sensitivity (85% vs.75%) than FDG-PET imaging to detect inguinal lymph node metastasis. Given better diagnostic accuracy and high sensitivity of SLNB, this technique could be used precisely to define target population who could be spared of prophylactic inguinal irradiation.

The investigators hypothesize that patients with early clinical stage node negative anal cancer (T1-T3N0) have low risk of subclinical inguinal lymph node involvement that can be detected by a combination of PET imaging and SLNB. Hence, any early stage AC patients with node negative disease confirmed by PET imaging and SLNB have relatively low risk of nodal failure and so inguinal radiation could be avoided. This approach would limit over treatment of early stage patients, reduce acute and late toxicities. This will be tested in a phase II study with close follow up of study patients so that inguinal relapse if any occur will be salvaged successfully. If this treatment approach is successful, it could be practice changing with improvement of H-QOL of patient.