A Study of TAS-116 in Patients With Solid Tumors
A First-in-Human (FIH) study of TAS-116 in patients with advanced solid tumors was first initiated in Japan in April 2014 and has been ongoing since then. The study consists of a dose escalation phase and a dose expansion phase. Three dosing regimens of TAS-116, once daily (QD), every other day (QOD) and 5 days on/2 days off regimens in 21-day cycles, are being evaluated. This phase I study is also planned to enroll patients with advanced solid tumors in UK to confirm the MTD, safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of TAS-116 in a Western patient population in the dose expansion phase. In addition, patients with HER2+ MBC, NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations or NSCLC harbouring ALK translocations will be further evaluated for safety, tolerability, and efficacy in 3 separate cohorts at recommended dose of TAS-116 on the 5 days on/2 days off regimen.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: TAS-116
Number of patients experiencing Dose Limiting Toxicity graded according to CTCAE Version 4.03, observed in the Cycle 1 in order to meet the objective of assessment of the MTD of TAS-116 (Part A), 21 days in Cycle 1|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability] (Parts A, B and C), Safety monitoring will begin at the informed consent obtained and continue up to 28 days after the last dose of TAS-116 or until new anti-tumor therapy, whichever is earlier.|Objective Response Rate using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST) (Part C), Up to 2 Years
Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) after administration of TAS-116 (Parts A and B), 21 days in Cycle 1|Area under the plasma drug concentration-time curve (AUC) after administration of TAS-116 (Parts A and B), 21 days in Cycle 1|Disease Control Rate using RECIST 1.1 (Parts A, B, and C), Up to last participant completes at least 6 months|Duration of Response (Part C), Up to last participant completes at least 6 months|Progression Free Survival (Part C), Up to last participant completes at least 6 months|Overall Survival, Up to last participant completes at least 6 months
A First-in-Human (FIH) study of TAS-116 in patients with advanced solid tumors was first initiated in Japan in April 2014 and has been ongoing since then. The study consists of a dose escalation phase and a dose expansion phase. Three dosing regimens of TAS-116, once daily (QD), every other day (QOD) and 5 days on/2 days off regimens in 21-day cycles, are being evaluated. This phase I study is also planned to enroll patients with advanced solid tumors in UK to confirm the MTD, safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of TAS-116 in a Western patient population in the dose expansion phase. In addition, patients with HER2+ MBC, NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations or NSCLC harbouring ALK translocations will be further evaluated for safety, tolerability, and efficacy in 3 separate cohorts at recommended dose of TAS-116 on the 5 days on/2 days off regimen.