Pharmacokinetics of Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir in Hepatitis C Virus-Infected Children With Hematological Malignancy
This is a prospective, controlled, open-label, pharmacokinetic study. This study aims at studying the PK of ledipasvir, sofosbuvir, and GS-331007 metabolite in HCV infected children with hematological malignancy.

In this study, patients in both treatment groups will receive 12 weeks of treatment with a ﬁxed-dose combination tablet containing 45 mg of ledipasvir and 200 mg of sofosbuvir (LDV/SOF) orally, once daily with food.
Hepatitis C, Chronic|Hematologic Malignancy
DRUG: Ledipasvir / Sofosbuvir Oral Product
Measurement of the pharmacokinetics of LDV\SOF, After 10 days of treatment, the steady state for LDV/SOF will be reached. Serial blood samples (2 mL/sample) will be collected at this time for the determination of LDV/SOF and GS-331007 concentrations from patients using an eight-point plasma schedule.

Blood sampling schedule will be as follows (Predose, 0.5,1, 2, 3, 4, 8, and 12h post dose; with predose also serving as t = 24).

Any deviations from nominal sampling times will be accurately recorded., Blood samples will be collected after 10 days of treatment
Measurement of the number of participants with sustained virological response (SVR12), 12 weeks after discontinuation of therapy with ledipasvir-sofosbuvir (LDV-SOF)., Number of Participants with sustained virological response at 12 Weeks after end of study drug treatment (SVR12) will be recorded.

Participant will be considered to have achieved SVR12 if HCV RNA is less than the lower limit of quantification of \<15 IU/ml) at 12 weeks after the end of treatment., 12 weeks after discontinuation of therapy with ledipasvir-sofosbuvir (LDV\SOF)
In this study, patients in both treatment groups will receive 12 weeks of treatment with a ﬁxed-dose combination tablet containing 45 mg of ledipasvir and 200 mg of sofosbuvir (LDV/SOF) orally, once daily with food, as prescribed by the attending physician.

Twelve eligible HCV-infected patients with hematological malignancy and 12 matching HCV control patients without haematological malignancy or co-morbidities will be enrolled in the study.

At baseline, careful history of the recruited patients including demographic characteristics (age, height, weight, and gender), comorbidities, medication history, familial history, social history, blood transfusion history, time on maintenance chemotherapy, and baseline laboratory tests will be documented. The baseline laboratory tests will include renal function tests (serum creatinine), liver function tests (bilirubin, albumin, AST, and ALT), international normalized ratio (INR), alpha fetoprotein (AFP), complete blood count (CBC), degree of liver fibrosis by Fibroscan, and viral load by PCR.

Followup will be done for all participants at baseline, after 12 weeks of treatment, and after 12 weeks from the end of treatment. A Forth visit will be done after 10 days of treatment for the evaluation of the steady state PK parameters of LDV\\SOF in those patients.