A Clinical Study Based on FAPI-PET/CT Technology to Predict Pathological Complete Response After Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy for MSS Rectal Cancer
The combination of short course radiotherapy and immunotherapy helps to increase the proportion of pathological complete response after neoadjuvant therapy, providing more patients with the opportunity for organ preservation. However, there is no accurate and unified cCR diagnostic standard in the world. As a new radiotracer, 68Ga-FAPI has been developed and used to target fibroblast activating protein and tumor matrix visualization, which has the advantages of low background uptake, high contrast, few preparation requirements, short post-injection interval, and no influence on blood glucose. Therefore, we will invite you to participate in a clinical study to explore whether the PET parameters of 18F-FDG and 68Ga-FAPI-42 PET/CT can be used to predict pathological responses after neoadjuvant therapy for locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC). The findings will help improve future treatment stratification of LARC, help patients preserve organs and improve quality of life.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: neoadjuvant SCRT followed by Sintilimab plus CAPOX
Pathological complete response (pCR) prediction accuracy, PCR prediction accuracy was defined as the ratio at which 68Ga-FAPI-42 combined with 18F-FDG PET/CT predicted results in agreement with post-operative pathologic diagnoses., 3 months
Prediction accuracy of non-pathological complete response (npCR), The prediction accuracy of nPCR was defined as the ratio at which 68Ga-FAPI-42 combined with 18F-FDG PET/CT predicted nPCR to be consistent with post-operative pathological diagnosis, 3 months
The combination of short course radiotherapy and immunotherapy helps to increase the proportion of pathological complete response after neoadjuvant therapy, providing more patients with the opportunity for organ preservation. However, there is no accurate and unified cCR diagnostic standard in the world. As a new radiotracer, 68Ga-FAPI has been developed and used to target fibroblast activating protein and tumor matrix visualization, which has the advantages of low background uptake, high contrast, few preparation requirements, short post-injection interval, and no influence on blood glucose. Therefore, we will invite you to participate in a clinical study to explore whether the PET parameters of 18F-FDG and 68Ga-FAPI-42 PET/CT can be used to predict pathological responses after neoadjuvant therapy for locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC). The findings will help improve future treatment stratification of LARC, help patients preserve organs and improve quality of life.