Avecure Flexible Microwave Ablation Probe For Lung Nodules
This research study to determine the effectiveness of the AveCure Flexible Microwave Ablation Probe to destroy cancerous lung nodules up to 3 c m in size.

This research study involves microwave ablation (MWA)
Stage I - II Primary Lung Cancer|Stage I Lung Cancer|Stage II Lung Cancer|Lung Cancer Stage I|Lung Cancer Stage II|Lung Cancer
DEVICE: AveCure 16 Gauge Flexible Microwave Ablation Probe
Rate of Planned Ablations., Feasibility of performing the procedure as planned in the enrolled patients. At least 9/10 of the planned ablations (90%) can be performed bronchoscopically according to the established protocol., Day 1|Pathological changes in the tumor tissue., Pathological evaluation of the acute thermal effect produced by the AveCUre 16G-FMAP on targeted malignant solitary lung nodules will be described. The % necrosis, % viable tumor, and % stroma/inflammation present in the targeted nodules after ablation will be described., 4 weeks
Histological changes in lung tissue outside the zone of predicted ablation., A secondary analysis of the tissue surrounding the treated area will be performed. The % necrosis and of % stroma/inflammation will be described., 4 weeks|Immune-histochemical changes in the tumor tissue., Immune-histochemical evaluation including TTF-1, Napsin-A, p40, or other immune-histochemical assessments will be performed if needed on a per case basis., 4 weeks
This will be a single arm, prospective cohort study.

The names of the study intervention involved in this study is:

* Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT)-guided electromagnetic navigational bronchoscopy (ENB) microwave ablation (MWA)
* A rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE) will be performed before the MWA to confirm that the lesion is malignant, this can lead to longer procedure time and time under anesthesia.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

* Participants will receive the study intervention and will be followed for 30 days.
* It is expected that about 10 people will take part in this research study.

This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first-time investigators are examining this intervention using a bronchoscopic approach for microwave ablation of solitary pulmonary nodules.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved this intervention as a treatment option for this disease.