Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, Cisplatin, and Nab-Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Biliary Cancers
This phase II trial studies how well gemcitabine hydrochloride, cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) work in treating patients with biliary cancers (which includes the gallbladder and bile ducts inside and outside the liver) that have spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride, cisplatin, and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.
Stage III Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v7|Unresectable Extrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma|Unresectable Gallbladder Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, up to 3 years
Median Overall Survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate OS, with surviving patients censored at the time of surgery or at last known follow-up., up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Treatment Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria(RECIST v1.1.14) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR),Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the progression-free survival (PFS) of gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine), cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel in advanced, untreated biliary cancers (intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas, extrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas, and gallbladder cancers).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate (RR) and disease control rate (partial response + complete response + stable disease) of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel in advanced biliary cancers.

II. Determine overall survival (OS) of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel in advanced biliary cancers.

III. Evaluate the toxicity of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel in advanced biliary cancers.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Correlate the carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9 response (defined as \>50% decrease from baseline) with tumor response, PFS and OS.

II. Assess ribonucleotide reductase subunit MI (RRMI), excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) pre-treatment status and correlate with tumor response, PFS and OS on an exploratory basis.

III. Collect optional blood and tissue at the start of treatment and at progression to explore mechanisms of resistance.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes, cisplatin IV over 60 minutes, and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months thereafter.