Selumetinib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
This phase II clinical trial is studying how well selumetinib works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Selumetinib
Response Rate (Complete Response [CR] and Partial Response [PR]) in Patients Treated With Selumetinib, Estimates of the response rate based on best response (CR and PR) with the exact two-sided 95% confidence intervals. Response for this lymphoma clinical study was measured utilizing "Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma Response Criteria". These criteria are based upon the criteria from the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma, (Cheson et al.), Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2007, Vol. 25:579-586., Up to 3 years|Disease Control Rate (Complete Response [CR], Partial Response [PR], and Stable Disease [SD]) in Patients Treated With Selumetinib, Estimates of the disease control rate with the exact two-sided 95% confidence intervals. Response was measured utilizing "Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma Response Criteria". These criteria are based upon the criteria from the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma, (Cheson et al.), Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2007, Vol. 25:579-586. Using these criteria, 'disease control rate' encompassed patients who had either a CR, PR, and SD., Up to 3 years
Duration of Response, The Kaplan-Meier procedure will be used to characterize the duration of response. Median time-to-event and the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be provided., From the documented beginning of response (CR or PR) to the time of relapse, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of Adverse Events Graded Using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, Percentage of patients experiencing any grade 3 or higher adverse event at least possibly attributed to the study drug. (Additional adverse event reporting will appear in the AE outcomes module.), Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, The Kaplan-Meier procedure will be used to characterize the survivorship function. Median time-to-death and the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Date of study entry to the date of death, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival, The Kaplan-Meier procedure will be used to characterize the survivorship function. Median time-to-event and the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Time from entry onto study until lymphoma progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Time to Treatment Failure, The Kaplan-Meier procedure will be used to characterize the survivorship function. Median time-to-event and the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Time from study entry to treatment failure, defined as lymphoma progression or withdrawal from treatment due to adverse events, assessed up to 3 years. Patients who die without progression while still on therapy will be censored as of the time of death.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall response rate (combined complete remission \[CR\] and partial remission \[PR\]) of AZD6244 hyd-sulfate anti-MEK (selumetinib) therapy for patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of MEK inhibitor therapy. II. To determine the progression-free survival, time to treatment failure, duration of response, and overall survival with AZD6244 hyd-sulfate therapy.

III. To examine biomarkers through down-regulation of phosphorylated extracellular signal-related kinase (pERK) and several relevant target substrates (e.g., monocarboxylate transporter-1 \[MCT-1\], Menkes disease-associated protein \[MNK\], ELK, c-v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog \[c-MYC\], and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha \[HIF-1a\]) in peripheral blood studies.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood sample and tumor tissue collection at baseline and at day 15 of course 1 for biomarker studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.