Study Of Sunitinib In Patients With Recurrent Paraganglioma/Pheochromocytoma
This is an open-label phase II study of an investigational drug, sunitinib malate in patients with advanced malignant paraganglioma or phaeochromocytoma cancer. Paragangliomas (PGs) are tumours that arise from the para-sympathetic system in the head and neck and sympathetic system in the thorax and abdomen. Paragangliomas that secrete hormones (catecholamines) from the adrenal glands are called pheochromocytomas (PCs). In this study, patients whose disease has advanced or spread despite prior standard therapy, will receive sunitinib for 4-weeks followed by a 2-week rest period, for up to 12 months, in the absence of disease progression. Sunitinib is an investigational drug, which has been shown to shrink tumours in several tumour models. The study will evaluate the efficacy as well as the toxicity profile of sunitinib when used as an alternative treatment for patients with PG/PC tumours.
Paraganglioma|Pheochromocytoma
DRUG: Sunitinib
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) Which is Defined as Either a Partial Response (PR) Complete Response (CR) or Stable Disease (SD) for ≥ 12 Weeks Measured Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria., The primary endpoint of this study was disease control rate (DCR) defined as a partial response (PR), complete response (CR), or stable disease maintained for ≥12 weeks from the initiation of treatment. Tumour response to sunitinib was assessed as per RECIST 1.1 using CT-imaging. Clinically apparent lesions needed to be \>10mm by calliper measurement to be included as targets. The primary endpoint was met despite closing to accrual early., Every 12 weeks (2 cycles) up to disease progression or study discontinuation (an average of 13.5 6-week cycles or about 1.5 years).
Biochemical Response (BCR) of > 20% Drop in 24-hour Urinary Metanephrines, Catecholamines or Serum Chromogranin A, Sustained for > 12-week Period, Biochemical and symptom changes: timed urinary catecholamine collection over 24 h included measurements of norepinephrine, epinephrine, dopamine and total metanephrines., Within 7 days of study registration and every 12 weeks (2 cycles) up to treatment discontinuation (an average of 13.5 6-week cycles or about 1.5 years).|Overall Survival, The median overall survival, From time of enrollment until loss to follow-up or death (approximately 125 months for longest patient on treatment).|Time to Progression, Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Every 12 weeks (2 cycles) up to disease progression or study discontinuation (an average of 13.5 6-week cycles or about 1.5 years).|Overall Response Rate (PR) + (CR), Overall response rate (PR) + (CR) of participants, Every 12 weeks (2 cycles) up to disease progression or study discontinuation (an average of 13.5 6-week cycles or about 1.5 years).
This study will be a single arm, open-label, phase II trial of sunitinib in patients with metastatic or locally advanced malignant paraganglioma or phaeochromocytoma. Oral sunitinib (50 mg) will be administered to all patients daily for the first four weeks of a six week study cycle, followed by a 2-week rest. Patients will be assessed for response to study treatment using MRI/CT scans as well as bio-chemical tests, and will receive the study treatment for up to 12 months or until disease progression.

Primary study outcomes include:

To assess the efficacy (response rate) of sunitinib given orally daily for 4 out of every 6 weeks in patients with advanced or metastatic paraganglioma/ pheochromocytoma.

To assess the toxicity of sunitinib in patients with advanced or metastatic paraganglioma/ pheochromocytoma.

To document effects of sunitinib on markers of biochemical activity of advanced or metastatic paraganglioma/ pheochromocytoma.