De-Escalation Therapy for Human Papillomavirus Negative Disease
This study is looking to see if nivolumab, an immunotherapy drug, given with carboplatin and paclitaxel (2 chemotherapy agents) during induction therapy in advanced stage HPV negative patients can significantly shrink the subject's cancer.
Human Papilloma Virus|Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|HPV-Related Squamous Cell Carcinoma|HNSCC
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nivolumab|RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Hydroxyurea Pill|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Filgrastim Injection|DRUG: Cisplatin
Deep Response Rate (DRR), DRR is 50% or greater response to induction therapy based on RECIST criteria. The objective is to intensify induction chemotherapy with the addition of an immune checkpoint inhibitor aimed at increasing the proportion of patients achieving a deep tumor response in order to subsequently allow risk-adapted definitive chemoradiotherapy in advanced stage HPV negative head and neck squamous cell cancer patients., 2 years
Progression Free Survival Rate (PFS), Progression free survival at 24 months after completing chemoradiation. PFS will be defined as the time from registration to the date of the first documented disease progression, clinical progression, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 26 months|Overall Survival Rate (OS), Overall survival will be defined as the time between the date of registration and the date of death., 26 months|Locoregional Control After Completing Chemoradiation, Assess disease control in all patients receiving induction chemoimmunotherapy and compare disease control between radiation arms., 26 months|Distant Control After Completing Chemoradiation, Distant control will be defined as the percent of patients with disease progression below the clavicles. Comparison between the two radiation arms will be made., 26 months
Acute and Late Toxicity During Treatment, Assess long term and late toxicities in all patients receiving induction therapy and risk-adapted chemoradiotherapy after deep response to induction therapy. Acute and late toxicities will be defined using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. Comparisons will be made using Fisher's exact test. Acute and late toxicity during treatment and at 1 month, 3 months and 1 year post chemoradiation, 1 year|Enteral Tube Dependency, Enteral tube dependency will be defined as continued necessity of any nutrition through enteral tube to maintain weight. The rate of enteral tube dependency will be described within the safety population and among each radiation treatment. Comparisons will be made using Fisher's exact test., 1 year
This study is looking to see if nivolumab, an immunotherapy drug, given with carboplatin and paclitaxel (2 chemotherapy agents) during induction therapy in advanced stage HPV negative patients can significantly shrink the subject's cancer.