Diet and Physical Activity Intervention for the Prevention of ADT-Induced Metabolic Changes in Patients With Prostate Cancer, TRIPLE-A PILOT Study
This clinical trial studies the effects of a diet and physical activity intervention on blood measures of lipids and insulin resistance in patients with prostate cancer undergoing radiation therapy (RT) and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). ADT effectively slows the growth of prostate cancer cells, thereby enhancing the therapeutic effectiveness of RT. Despite the clinical gains, ADT leads to an array of side effects including insulin resistance, abnormal lipid levels, weight gain, increased visceral fat mass coupled with increased muscle wasting, and quality of life deterioration. A diet and physical activity intervention may intercept or prevent the abrupt metabolic and physiologic changes caused by androgen deprivation therapy in prostate cancer patients receiving ADT and RT.
Localized Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Dietary Intervention|OTHER: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Effects of the intervention on androgen deprivation therapy (ADT)-induced changes in Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance, Homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) will be computed from glucose and insulin concentrations. Compare change in HOMA-IR levels relative to baseline between intervention and control participants. Will be evaluated using linear regression models., Up to 6 months|Effects of the intervention on ADT-induced changes in body weight, Weight will be measured at baseline and 6 months. Will be evaluated using linear regression models., Up to 6 months|Effects of the intervention on ADT-induced changes in waist circumference, Waist (1" above umbilicus) circumferences will be measured at baseline and 6 months. Will be evaluated using linear regression models., Up to 6 months|Effects of the intervention on ADT-induced changes in lean mass, Lean mass will be measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at baseline and 6 months. Will be evaluated using linear regression models., Up to 6 months|Effects of the intervention on ADT-induced changes in fat mass, Fat mass will be measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at baseline and 6 months. Will be evaluated using linear regression models., Up to 6 months
OUTLINE:

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I (DIET AND PHYSICAL ACTIVITY): Patients attend 10 in-person or virtual sessions with a registered dietitian over 6 months to receive instructions on a modified DASH diet. Patients also attend 2 one-on-one sessions with an exercise psychologist to receive instruction to complete aerobic physical activity and strength/resistance training. Patients may also complete up to 21 additional supervised exercise sessions.

GROUP II (CONTROL): Patients attend a single in-person or virtual session with a registered dietitian to receive standard lifestyle recommendations based on the United States (US) dietary guidelines, activity goal of 30 minutes of physical activity 5 days/week; and discussion of the health benefits of weight maintenance.