GD2/PSMA Bi-specific CAR-T Cell Therapy
The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of anti-GD2/PSMA bi-specific CAR-T cell therapy in patients with GD2 and PSMA positive tumor. Another goal of the study is to learn more about the function of the anti-GD2/PSMA bi-specific CAR-T cells and their persistency in patients.
Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: bi-4SCAR GD2/PSMA T cells
Number of patients with adverse events., Determine the toxicity profile the bi-4SCAR GD2/PSMA cells with Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects version 4.0, 6 months
Anti-tumor effects, Objective complete response (CR) are assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., 1 year|Anti-tumor effects, Objective partial response (PR)) are assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., 1 year|The persistence of bi-4SCAR GD2/PSMA T cells, Scale of tumor burden, 1 year|The expansion bi-4SCAR GD2/PSMA T cells, Scale of CAR copies, 1 year|Survival time of the patients, The progression free survival (PFS) time of the patients treated with the bi-4SCAR GD2/PSMA T cells will be evaluated, 3 years|Survival time of the patients, The overall survival (OS) time of the patients treated with the bi-4SCAR GD2/PSMA T cells will be evaluated, 3 years
Patients with refractory and/or recurrent solid tumors have poor prognosis despite complex multimodal therapy; therefore, novel curative approaches are needed. The investigators are attempting to use T cells obtained directly from the patient, which can be genetically modified to express a 4th generation anti-GD2/PSMA bi-specific chimeric antigen receptor (bi-4SCAR-GD2/PSMA). The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) molecules enable the T cells to recognize and kill tumor cells through the recognition of a surface antigen, GD2 or PSMA, which is expressed at high levels on tumor cells but not at significant levels on normal tissues.

Disialoganglioside (GD2) is a well-studied tumor associated antigen which is expressed uniformly in nervous system-related tumors but at low levels in normal tissues. Over the past few years, CAR-T therapy against GD2 in tumor has achieved encouraging but modest outcomes. Only a fraction of patients achieved measurable responses. In solid tumors, GD2 CAR-T therapy alone may not as effective as CAR-T cell therapy in hematological malignancies.

Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is expressed in normal prostate and upregulated in prostate tumor. Therefore, PSMA is a promising target for immunotherapy of prostate cancer. However, PSMA is not restricted to prostate cancer and it is known that PSMA is enriched in the tumor stromal environment. Based on immunostaining, it is confirmed that PSMA is expressed in a variety of solid tumors, including brain tumor, neuroblastoma and some lymphomas.

To overcome tumor escape of single target antigen and enhance in vivo CAR-T efficacy, a novel bi-specific GD2/PSMA CAR-T therapy regimen is developed to include booster and consolidation CAR-T applications to target highly-refractory cancer. The aim is to evaluate safety and long term efficacy of the bi-CAR-T therapy strategy in GD2 and/or PSMA positive cancer patients.