Neoadjuvant Therapy With Toripalimab and JS004 Combined With Etoposide and Platinum Chemotherapy for Limited-stage Small Cell Lung Cancer : A Phase 2 Trial
For limited-stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC), neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus PD-1 antibody is recommended. However, most patients cannot achieve a complete pathological response (CPR). A new immunotherapeutic strategy is needed to achieve a higher CPR rate. JS004 is a new antibody targeting B and T lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA), which restrains immune cells\&#39; function and leads to immune escape of tumor cells. The combination of PD-1 and BTLA antibodies has shown a good therapeutic effect in solid tumors. This trial aims to investigate the efficacy and safety of the therapeutic regimen of toripalimab and JS004 plus etoposide and platinum Chemotherapy in limited-stage SCLC.
Limited Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: JS004|DRUG: Toripalimab|PROCEDURE: surgery|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Platinum
Pathologic complete response (PCR) rate, PCR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved pathologic complete response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, no tumor cell can be found in tumor bed or lymph node) in all participants., Up to 30 months
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria., up to 30 months|Major pathologic response (MPR) rate, MPR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved major pathologic response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, tumors with no more than 10% viable tumor cells) in all participants., Up to 30 months|Treatment-related adverse event (TRAE), TRAE is defined and classified according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0 in all participants., Up to 30 months|Event-free survival (EFS), Event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the length of time (months) from randomization to any of the following events: any progression of disease precluding surgery, progression or recurrence disease based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1 after surgery, or death due to any cause. Participants who don't undergo surgery for reason other than progression will be considered to have an event at progression or death. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., up to 60 months|Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time (months) from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., up to 60 months|EORTC-QLQ-C30 scale, The assessment is made according to the Quality of Life Scale for Lung Cancer Patients (EORTC-QLQ-C30, Version 3). EORTC's QLQ-C30 (V3.0) is a core scale for lung cancer patients, with a total of 30 items. Among them, Item 29 and 30 are divided into seven grades, which are assigned with 1 to 7 scores according to the answer options. The other items are divided into 4 grades: Not at All, A Little, Quite a Bit, and Very Much, assigned with 1 to 4 scores respectively. The higher score, the worse quality., up to 5 months
For limited-stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC), neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus PD-1 antibody is recommended. However, most patients cannot achieve a complete pathological response (CPR). A new immunotherapeutic strategy is needed to achieve a higher CPR rate. JS004 is a new antibody targeting B and T lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA), which restrains immune cells\&#39; function and leads to immune escape of tumor cells. The combination of PD-1 and BTLA antibodies has shown a good therapeutic effect in solid tumors. This trial aims to investigate the efficacy and safety of the therapeutic regimen of toripalimab and JS004 plus etoposide and platinum Chemotherapy in limited-stage SCLC.