Trametinib and Akt Inhibitor GSK2141795 in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well trametinib and protein kinase B (Akt) inhibitor GSK2141795 work in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Trametinib and Akt inhibitor GSK2141795 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Akt Inhibitor GSK2141795|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Trametinib
Complete Response Rate (CRR, Defined as CR+CRp) Assessed by AML 2003 Response Criteria, Proportion of participants achieving complete remission (CR) or CR with incomplete recovery of platelets (CRp) as best response within 4 cycles of therapy. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance all clinical \&/or radiologic evidence of disease. Neutrophil count ≥ 1.0x10\^9/L; Platelet count ≥ 100x109/L; Normal bone marrow differential (≤ 5% blasts); No extra-medullary leukemia. Complete Remission without Platelet Recovery (CRp): Peripheral blood \& bone marrow results as for CR, but platelet counts of \< 100x10\^9/L. Partial Remission (PR): Blood count recovery as for CR, but decrease of at least 50% in % marrow blasts to \>5% to 25% in bone marrow aspirate. Morphologic leukemia-free state: Normal marrow differential (\<5% blasts); neutrophil \& platelet counts not considered.95% confidence interval will be estimated for the combination regimen., First four cycles (16 weeks) of therapy, with evaluation after one full cycle of therapy (28 days) and up to 16 weeks for response
Most Frequently Reported Adverse Events (AE), National Cancer Institute (NCI) published standardized definitions for adverse events (AEs), known as Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), to describe the severity of organ toxicity for those receiving cancer therapy. Toxicity data is summarized by number of incidents experienced while participants were on study using most frequently reported AEs regardless of grade or relatedness as assessed by CTCAE version 4.0. Toxicity is graded as mild (Grade 1), moderate (Grade 2), severe (Grade 3), or life-threatening (Grade 4), with specific parameters according to the organ system involved. Death (Grade 5) is used for some of the criteria to denote a fatality. For full adverse event reporting see Adverse Event Section. Data collection over first four cycles (16 weeks) of therapy, with evaluation after full cycle of therapy (28 days), continuing AE collection until 28 days following last study drug dose., AE collected continuously over 28-day cycles and up to 28 days after last dose of study drug.|Overall Survival of Participants Achieving CR/CRp, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. Cox proportional hazards model will be used to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis., Up to 12 weeks|Progression Free Survival of Participants Achieving CR/CRp, Estimated disease-free survival period using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. Cox proportional hazards model will be used to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis., Up to 12 weeks|Time to Progression for Participants Achieving CR/CRp, Time to Progression (TTP) is defined as the length of time from the start of treatment to disease progression as measured in days for participants with complete response., Up to 12 weeks
Maximum Percentage Change in Total and Phospho-proteins, Change in total and phospho-proteins assessed by densitometric quantitative data by western blot analysis, or mean fluorescent intensities by flow cytometry and will be assessed for each patient for all time points and graphically plotted for each dose level., Baseline to 12 weeks post therapy|Percentage Change in Cellular Proteins, The 95% confidence interval will be assessed., Baseline to day 28 post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients achieving complete remission (CR) or CR with incomplete recovery of platelets (CRp) as best response within 4 cycles of therapy of trametinib in combination with GSK2141795 (Akt inhibitor GSK2141795) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients with rat sarcoma (RAS) mutations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the disease-free survival of patients achieving CR/CRp. II. To determine the duration of response of patients achieving CR/CRp. III. To determine the toxicity profile of trametinib in combination with GSK2141795 in this patient population.

IV. To determine the biologic effects of trametinib in combination with GSK2141795 on leukemia cells.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and Akt inhibitor GSK2141795 PO QD on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 weeks.