Safety and Tolerability of SYNB1891 Injection Alone or in Combination With Atezolizumab in Adult Participants
This Phase 1, open-label, multicenter, 2-arm study was designed to evaluate SYNB1891 when administered either as monotherapy (Arm 1) or in combination with atezolizumab (Arm 2) in participants with advanced/metastatic solid tumors or lymphoma. The primary objective was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of study treatment, with a secondary objective of assessing preliminary tumor response to treatment and exploratory objectives of evaluating the pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics (PK/PD) of study treatment.
Metastatic Solid Neoplasm|Lymphoma
DRUG: SYNB1891|DRUG: Atezolizumab
Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicity, The following adverse events (AEs) were DLTs if they occurred in Cycle 1 and were assessed by the Investigator as related to treatment:

1. Grade (Gr) 4 nonhematologic toxicity (not laboratory)
2. Gr 4 hematologic toxicity ≥ 7 days, any Gr 4 thrombocytopenia, or Gr 3 thrombocytopenia with significant bleeding
3. Gr ≥ 3 nonhematologic toxicity (exceptions: Gr 3 fatigue ≤ 3 days; Gr 3 diarrhea, nausea, or vomiting without treatment; Gr 3 rash without treatment)
4. Gr 3/4 nonhematologic laboratory value for \> 1 week or resulting in significant medical intervention, hospitalization, or drug-induced liver injury (exceptions: clinically nonsignificant, treatable, or reversible laboratory abnormalities)
5. Gr 3/4 febrile neutropenia
6. Sepsis, severe abscesses and/or ulcerations requiring surgical management
7. Toxicity delaying Cycle 2 initiation \>2 weeks
8. Toxicity causing treatment discontinuation
9. Gr 3 toxicity causing omission of \> 33% of study doses
10. Gr 5 toxicity, 21 days (1 cycle)
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Toxicity was graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0, as follows: Grade 1 (mild/asymptomatic; no intervention); Grade 2 (moderate; minimal intervention); Grade 3 (severe/medically significant; hospitalization indicated; disabling); Grade 4 (life-threatening; urgent intervention required); or Grade 5 (fatal). Adverse events (AEs) were reported from clinical laboratory tests, vital sign and weight measurements, physical examinations, and any other medically indicated assessments, including participant interviews, from the time informed consent was signed through the end of the safety follow-up period. AEs were considered to be treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) if they occurred or worsened in severity after the first dose of study treatment. TEAEs were considered treatment-related if the relationship to study drug was possibly, probably, or definitely related., Up to 13 months|Number of Participants With Best Tumor Response as Measured by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1), Appropriate imaging of the SYNB1891-injected tumor(s) and up to 5 target (noninjected) lesions was performed at baseline and every 2 cycles during the treatment period. Tumor response was assessed by the local investigator using RECIST 1.1 (Eisenhauer et al 2009). Per RECIST 1.1, target lesions are categorized as follows: complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions (no evaluable disease); partial response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; progressive disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; stable disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria., Up to 13 months
Arm 1 comprised intratumoral (IT) injections of SYNB1891 monotherapy to determine the single-agent maximum tolerated dose (MTD). The starting dose of SYNB1891 in the first cohort was 1 × 10\^6 live cells and was increased in approximately 3-fold increments in subsequent cohorts until MTD determination in accordance with the modified toxicity probability interval (mTPI) algorithm (Ji et al 2013). Dose escalation was to proceed until the target dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) range (approximately 30%) for SYNB1891 monotherapy was determined based on DLTs observed in Cycle 1. The dose selected as achieving the target DLT range was to be considered the MTD. DLTs were defined in the protocol as certain treatment-related Grade 3/4 laboratory values, sepsis, toxicity resulting in death, discontinuation of Cycle 1, or delay of Cycle 2.

Arm 2 comprised IT injections of SYNB1891 combined with standard dose atezolizumab (1200 mg intravenously \[IV\] every 3 weeks \[Q3W\]). Arm 2 dosing began after all participants in Arm 1 Cohort 4 completed their Cycle 1 DLT safety evaluation. The starting dose of IT SYNB1891 in the first cohort of Arm 2 was at the SYNB1891 Arm 1 Cohort 3 dose level. SYNB1891 dosing in the Arm 2 cohorts increased in approximately 3-fold increments in subsequent cohorts until recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) determination. SYNB1891 combination dosing in Arm 2 was always at least 1 dose level below the SYNB1891 monotherapy dose being evaluated in Arm 1, with combination doses not escalated above the SYNB1891 single-agent MTD established in Arm 1.

In both arms, after an initial 4 cycles (21 days per cycle) of study treatment, participants who did not have progressive disease may have received additional cycles of their assigned study treatment for up to 24 months (i.e., Cycles 5 to 35) after the initial dose.

The maximum time of study participation for a participant may have been up to 26 months, including the screening period (up to 28 days), treatment administration period (up to 24 months), and Safety Follow-up period (30 ± 5 days after the last dose).