Neoadjuvant Intravesical Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Bladder Carcinoma Who Are Undergoing Cystectomy
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of vaccine therapy given directly into the bladder in treating patients who are undergoing surgery to remove all or part of the bladder. Vaccines made from a gene-modified virus may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Giving a vaccine directly into the bladder before surgery may cause a stronger immune response and keep tumor cells from coming back after surgery.
Bladder Adenocarcinoma|Bladder Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Recurrent Bladder Carcinoma|Stage I Bladder Cancer|Stage II Bladder Cancer|Stage III Bladder Cancer|Stage IV Bladder Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Fowlpox-TRICOM Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Fowlpox GM-CSF Vaccine Adjuvant|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC), Up to 39 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of intravesical administration of recombinant fowlpox virus encoding three different costimulatory molecules (B7.1, ICAM-1,LFA-3) called TRICOM (-rF-TRICOM) (recombinant fowlpox-TRICOM vaccine) and/or recombinant fowlpox encoding sargramostim (GM-CSF) (rF-GM-CSF) (recombinant fowlpox GM-CSF vaccine adjuvant) in the treatment of patients with carcinoma of the bladder scheduled for cystectomy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the kinetics of viral infection and gene function as well as host response to intravesical recombinant fowlpox virus in the treatment of bladder cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are alternately assigned to Arms A and B. Once Arms A and B have finished accrual, patients are assigned to Arm C.

ARM A (closed to accrual 10/2004): Patients receive recombinant fowlpox GM-CSF vaccine adjuvant intravesically over 2 hours for 4 weekly doses (on days 1, 8, 15, and 22) with the last dose given 4-6 days prior to cystectomy.

ARM B (closed to accrual 10/2004): Patients receive recombinant fowlpox-TRICOM vaccine intravesically over 2 hours for 4 weekly doses (on days 1, 8, 15, and 22) with the last dose given 4-6 days prior to cystectomy.

ARM C: Patients receive recombinant fowlpox-TRICOM vaccine combined with recombinant fowlpox GM-CSF vaccine adjuvant intravesically over 2 hours for 4 weekly doses (on days 1, 8, 15, and 22) with the last dose given 4-6 days prior to cystectomy.

In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients undergo cystectomy 4-6 days following the last intravesical instillation.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for 3 years.