Thromboprophylaxis With Rivaroxaban In Patients With Malignancy and Central Venous Lines
Purpose of the Pilot Trial:

To determine the feasibility of conducting a multicentre randomized open label controlled trial evaluating the use of prophylactic dose rivaroxaban to prevent central venous catheter (CVC) associated venous thromboembolism (VTE) among cancer patients.

Hypothesis: treatment with low dose rivaroxaban (10mg) will reduce the incidence of upper extremity venous thrombosis in a high risk population with cancer and CVC.
Upper Extremity Deep Vein Thrombosis|Central Venous Catheter Thrombosis|Cancer
DRUG: Rivaroxaban 10 MG
Primary Feasibility Outcome - Number of Participants Recruited Per Month, A convenience sample size of 100 patients was chosen to allow reporting of the average monthly recruitment., 12 months
Secondary Feasibility Outcomes - Percentage of Participants With Good Adherence to Therapy, Good adherence defined as 80% or greater study medication taken in patients randomized to receive Rivaroxaban thromboprophylaxis., 90 days
Number of Participants With Thrombotic Complication, Thrombotic complication was defined as a combination of major venous thromboembolism (VTE); any symptomatic or incidentally detected proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) of the lower or upper limbs, any nonfatal symptomatic or incidental pulmonary embolism (PE), and pulmonary embolism-related death) and any other deep (ie, distal, splanchnic, or cerebral) or superficial venous thrombosis., 90 days|Number of Participants With CVC-Related Complication, Central venous catheter (CVC) occlusion was defined as an obstruction of the CVC lumen that prevents or limits the ability to flush, withdraw blood, and/or administer solutions or medications, 90 days|Number of Participants With Major Bleeding, Defined by the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) as overt bleeding associated with a decrease in the hemoglobin level of ≥2 g/dL, which led to transfusion of two or more units of packed red blood cells, occurred in a critical site, or contributed to death., 90 days|Number of Participants With Clinically Relevant Non-Major Bleed, Clinically relevant non-major bleeding, as per the standardized definition by the ISTH, is any signs or symptoms of hemorrhage not meeting criteria for major bleeding but associated with medical intervention, unscheduled in-person contact with a healthcare professional or need for hospitalization or increased level of care., 90 days
Design:

This is a pilot interventional study to be conducted at 2 Canadian Centres. The Ottawa Hospital and Juravinski Hospital. It is an open label randomized controlled trial.

Consenting participants, meeting eligibility criteria will be randomized at the time of enrollment to one of two groups.

Rivaroxaban 10mg by mouth daily x 90 (+/- 3) days OR Standard of Care

Participants in the treatment arm will have study drug dispensed at Day 1 and take medication for 90 days or until CVC is removed. Follow up visits (in person or phone) will occur at Day 30 (+/- 3 days) and Day 90 (+/- 3 days). Overall, participants will be followed for 3 months. Adverse events will be collected for the first 90 days.

Outcomes The primary feasibility outcome for the pilot study is the number of participants recruited per centre per month. We will obtain baseline details of the patient's type, location and treatment of cancer, comorbidities and medications. Secondary feasibility outcomes of the pilot study will include, consent rates, loss to follow up, adherence to therapy defining 80% or greater medication taken as having good adherence to study drug, proportion of screened patients who meet eligibility criteria.