Biomarker-Driven Radiation Therapy Dose Reduction After Transoral Robotic Surgery for the Treatment of HPV-Positive Oropharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial tests whether reduced dose radiation therapy after transoral robotic surgery works in treating patients with human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive oropharyngeal cancer. HPV positive oropharyngeal cancer has a better prognosis than oropharyngeal cancer not caused by HPV. A standard of care treatment for HPV positive oropharyngeal cancer is transoral robotic surgery followed by radiation therapy. However, this treatment is associated with many long-term side effects including difficulty swallowing. Radiation therapy uses high energy rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving reduced dose radiation therapy after transoral robotic surgery may improve swallowing outcomes and quality of life compared to standard of care dose radiation therapy after transoral robotic surgery.
Clinical Stage I HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Oropharyngeal HPV-Positive Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Swallowing Function Mean, Will be assessed by the MD Anderson Dysphagia Index (MDADI) composite score (range 20 - 100, higher is better). Mean MDADI composite score will be reported at one year, along with a 95% confidence interval for the mean., At 1 year post surgery|Swallowing Function T-Test, A one-sample t-test will be conducted to compare the 1-year MDADI composite score with the null value of 79.1., At 1 year post surgery
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. A two-year PFS is of particular interest to compare to historical data (ECOG 3311), this specific estimate and its 95% confidence interval will be estimated from the Kaplan-Meier curve and compared descriptively to the same estimate from ECOG 3311 Arm B., From study entry to the earliest disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), A two-year OS is of particular interest to compare to aforementioned historical controls; this specific estimate and its 95% confidence interval will be obtained from the Kaplan-Meier curve and compared descriptively to the same estimate from ECOG 3311 Arm B., From study entry to death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Locoregional Control (LRC)- Six Month, LRC will be defined as the percentage of patients at a given timepoint that have not experienced recurrence of their disease at the primary site of their tumor in the oropharynx or in their neck. This will be analyzed in a similar manner to OS and PFS and compared to historical controls from ECOG 3311 Arm B., At 6 months|Locoregional Control (LRC)- Two Year, LRC will be defined as the percentage of patients at a given timepoint that have not experienced recurrence of their disease at the primary site of their tumor in the oropharynx or in their neck. This will be analyzed in a similar manner to OS and PFS and compared to historical controls from ECOG 3311 Arm B., At 2 years|Quality of Life (QoL) - MD Anderson Symptom Inventory, Quality of Life endpoints that are routinely collected and will continue to be collected on participants on this trial - MD Anderson Symptom Inventory - Head and Neck (MDASI-HN), Michigan Xerostomia, European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L)., At 2 years|Quality of Life (QoL) - Michigan Xerostomia, Quality of Life endpoints that are routinely collected and will continue to be collected on participants on this trial - Michigan Xerostomia, At 2 years|Quality of Life (QoL) - European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), Quality of Life endpoints that are routinely collected and will continue to be collected on participants on this trial - European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), At 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate swallow function among post-operative circulating tumor HPV deoxyribonucleic acid (ctHPVDNA)-negative patients treated with reduced intensity adjuvant radiation therapy (RT) doses as compared to historical controls from ECOG 3311.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and locoreginal control (LRC) among post-operative ctHPVDNA-negative patients treated with reduced adjuvant RT doses.

II. Evaluate PFS among post-operative ctHPVDNA-positive patients treated with standard of care adjuvant therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients who are ctHPVDNA negative after surgery undergo reduced dose radiation therapy for 3 weeks (15 treatments). Patients who are ctHPVDNA positive after surgery undergo standard of care radiation therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.