Carboplatin Chemotherapy Before Surgery for People With High-Risk Prostate Cancer and an Inherited BRCA1 or BRCA2 Gene Mutation
This phase II trial tests how well carboplatin before surgery works in treating patients with high-risk prostate cancer and an inherited BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation. Carboplatin is in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. It works in a way similar to the anticancer drug cisplatin, but may be better tolerated than cisplatin. Carboplatin works by killing, stopping, or slowing the growth of tumor cells. Giving carboplatin before surgery may shrink tumors in patients with high-risk prostate cancer with BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: PSMA PET Scan|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure
Pathologic complete response after neoadjuvant carboplatin, A two-stage design will be used., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the pathologic complete response rate at prostatectomy in patients with localized high-risk prostate cancer with germline BRCA2 or BRCA1 mutations who are treated with neoadjuvant carboplatin by central review of source documents.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate prostate specific antigen (PSA) progression-free survival post-prostatectomy over the duration of follow-up and specifically, at the 3-year landmark.

II. To evaluate metastases free survival and overall survival. III. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities of neoadjuvant carboplatin followed by radical prostatectomy.

BANKING OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) on study. Patients then undergo surgery on study. Patients who experience PSA progression after surgery undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the abdomen and pelvis, CT of the chest or chest X-ray, or prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-positron emission tomography (PET) throughout the trial. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples throughout the trial.