Dietary Fat Levels and Abiraterone Acetate Uptake in Patients With Metastatic Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer
This randomized pilot phase I trial studies the side effects of dietary fat levels and abiraterone acetate uptake in patients with metastatic hormone-resistant prostate cancer. Abiraterone acetate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Eating a low or high fat diet may increase the uptake of abiraterone acetate.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Hormone-resistant Prostate Cancer|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: abiraterone acetate|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: dietary intervention|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: dietary intervention|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Area under the curve (AUC)0-24 measurement, The cross-over difference (log\[AUC0-24(low fat)\] - log\[AUC0-24(high fat)\]) of each patient will be computed and graphically illustrated. The cross-over difference will be estimated and reported with 95% confidence interval. Hills-Armitage approach will be used to adjust for the period effect for the estimation. In addition, a bioequivalence range will be computed for the log(AUC0-24\[1000 mg with fasting food\]), allowing for 20% differences in each side., Up to 24 hours (day 1)
Accuracy of patient-collected DBS sampling technique, The first three patients enrolled will have duplicate venous blood samples obtained in clinic 2 hours post-dose for in vivo confirmation of the DBS methodology., Day 3|Patient adherence to pre-defined sampling schedule, Patients will document the date/time of drug administration and the date/time of sample collection using a drug and DBS sample diary. Deviations greater than 10% of the shorter of the two time intervals surrounding the pre-defined time point will be considered non-adherent. Adherence rates will be compared for different time points., Up to day 14|Patient satisfaction of DBS method, measured using the Patient Questionnaire of DBS Sampling Method, Paired t-test will be conducted to compare the DBC (or transformed DBC) for the evaluation of carry-over effect., Day 14
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the dietary effects of a low fat and high fat diet at a low abiraterone acetate dose (250 mg) on drug levels compared to standard dose administered in a fasting condition.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To potentially guide decisions in the future to use low dose abiraterone in a fed state and decrease overall cost.

II. To evaluate the potential relationship between esterase activity and abiraterone metabolism in an exploratory analysis.

III. To determine the feasibility of using patient-collected dried blood spot (DBS) samples for pharmacokinetic monitoring.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive standard dose abiraterone acetate orally (PO) once daily (QD) (held on days 2, 3, 9, and 10), and low-dose abiraterone acetate PO QD on days 3 and 10. Patients eat a low fat breakfast on day 3 and a high fat breakfast on day 10.

ARM II: Patients receive abiraterone acetate as in Arm I. Patients eat a high fat breakfast on day 3, and a low fat breakfast on day 10.