Pilot Study of a Decision Aid Intervention for Family-building After Cancer
This study tests a web-based decision aid and planning too to help young female cancer survivors manage fertility and family-building issues in post treatment survivorship.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Web based decision aid intervention
Measure Decision Conflict Scale, The Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) is a validated survey that assesses personal uncertainty in making healthcare decisions; modifiable factors contributing to uncertainty; and the quality of the decision made. It is reliable and responsive to change, and the most widely used measure of decision-making quality. The survey has 16 questions, with responses on a 5-point scale ranging from "strongly agree" (1) to "strongly disagree" (5). Total scores range from 16 to 80, with higher scores indicating greater uncertainty (worse outcome)., Baseline, 1 month, 3 months
Fertility Information Needs, This investigator-designed survey assesses perceived information needs about fertility topics such as the risk of infertility; risk of early menopause; options to assess fertility status; options to preserve fertility; and options for alternative family-building. The survey has 5 questions, each answered by a Yes / No response. Yes is scored as 1, and no is scored as 0. Total scores range from 0 to 5, with higher scores indicating greater perceived knowledge., Baseline, 1 month, 3 months|Measure Illness Perceptions Questionnaire-Revised (IPQ-R), The Illness Perceptions Questionnaire-Revised (IPQ-R) is a survey that assesses cognitive and emotional representations of illness, and is validated in cancer populations. The survey has 28 questions, answered on a 5-point scale ranging from "strongly disagree" (1) to "strongly agree" (5). Mean scores range from 28 to 140, with higher scores indicating worse outcomes. The outcome will be reported as the mean difference from baseline to 1 and 3 months, with standard deviation., Baseline, 1 month, 3 month|Measure Reproductive Concerns After Cancer (RCAC) Scale, The Reproductive Concerns After Cancer (RCAC) Scale is a validated survey of cancer survivors' fertility and health concerns. The survey has 18 questions, answered on a 5-point scale ranging from "strongly disagree" (1) to "strongly agree" (5). Total scores range from 18 to 90, with higher scores indicating greater distress (worse outcome)., Baseline, 1 month, 3 months|Measure Impact of Events Scale-Revised (IES-R), Impact of Events Scale-Revised (IES-R) is a validated measure of distress in reaction to negative life events that has been adapted to measure current subjective distress related to infertility risk. The survey has 15 questions, intended to collect the participant's assessment of intrusive thoughts (7 questions) and effortful avoidance of reminders about a distressing event (8 questions). The questions are answered on a 5-point scale ranging from "not at all" (1) to "extremely" (5). Mean scores range from 15 to 75, with higher scores indicating greater distress (worse outcome)., Baseline, 1 month, 3 month|Measure PROMIS Self-Efficacy (PROMIS-SE) - General Self-Efficacy Subscale, The PROMIS Self-Efficacy - General Self Efficacy subscale measures the degree to which people feel confident in managing various situations, problems, and events. The survey has 4 questions intended to collect the participant's assessment of general self-efficacy The questions are answered on a 5 point scale ranging from "I am not at all confident" (1) to "I am very confident" (5)., Baseline, 1 month, 3 months|Measure PROMIS Self-Efficacy (PROMIS-SE) - Managing Fertility/Family-Building Issues Subscale, The PROMIS Self-Efficacy - General Self-Efficacy subscale measures the degree to which people feel confident in managing various situations, problems, and events and confidence in managing difficult emotions. Questions were adapted to assess self-efficacy in managing fertility and family-building issues. The survey has 4 questions, intended to collect the participant's assessment of self-efficacy for managing fertility/family-building issues. The questions are answered on a 5 point scale ranging from "I am not at all confident" (1) to "I am very confident" (5)., Baseline, 1 month, 3 months|Measure PROMIS Self-Efficacy (PROMIS-SE) - Managing Difficult Emotions Subscale, The PROMIS Self-Efficacy - Managing Difficult Emotions subscale measures the degree to which people feel confident in managing difficult emotions. The survey has 4 questions, intended to collect the participant's assessment of self-efficacy for managing difficult emotions. The questions are answered on a 5 point scale ranging from "I am not at all confident" (1) to "I am very confident" (5)., Baseline, 1 month, 3 months|Measure PROMIS Self-Efficacy (PROMIS-SE) - Managing Difficult Emotions Related to Fertility/Family-Building Subscale, The PROMIS Self-Efficacy - Managing Difficult Emotions subscale measures the degree to which people feel confident in managing difficult emotions. Questions were adapted to assess self-efficacy in managing emotions related to fertility and family-building. The survey has 4 questions, intended to collect the participant's assessment of self-efficacy for managing difficult emotions related to fertility/family-building. The questions are answered on a 5 point scale ranging from "I am not at all confident" (1) to "I am very confident" (5)., Baseline, 1 month, 3 months
The overall goal of this work is to pilot test a single-arm intervention of a decision aid and planning tool (website) to assist young adult female cancer survivors in making decisions and preparing for family-building after cancer.

Primary Objective: Examine feasibility and acceptability of a decision aid intervention in a single-arm pilot trial.

Secondary Objective: Obtain preliminary effect sizes of the decision aid intervention using a pre-post study design.