Geriatric Determinants of General Repercussion of Radiotherapy for Patient Over 75 Years With Prostate Cancer
The investigators propose to carry out a prospective analysis of physical impact, psychological, cognitive and social of radiotherapy in all patients over 75 years bearer of localized prostate cancer with an indication of curative radiotherapy. This standardized geriatric assessment will collect social information, functional, sensory, cognitive, emotional, motor, nutritional, and medical related to comorbidities . The quality of life of patients will be evaluated by the QLQ C30 (Quality of Life Questionnaire) European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) before starting treatment, at the end of radiotherapy (2 months) and at 6 months. This short follow-up period seems appropriate in this elderly population and will allow an answer within 2 years to the problem raised in clinical practice.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: geriatric assessment and quality of life|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
General tolerance of the radiotherapy evaluated by the QLQ-C30 questionnaire, Tolerance will be called bad for the loss of 20 or more points (out of 100) between the initial assessment and evaluations at 2 and 6 months. Tolerance will be called correct in other cases. This threshold of 20 points was selected according to the work of Osoba., 2 months|Complete geriatric assessment, This standardized geriatric assessment will collect social information, functional, sensory, cognitive, emotional, motor, nutritional, and medical related to comorbidities ., 6 months|General tolerance of the radiotherapy evaluated by the QLQ-C30 questionnaire, Tolerance will be called bad for the loss of 20 or more points (out of 100) between the initial assessment and evaluations at 2 and 6 months. Tolerance will be called correct in other cases. This threshold of 20 points was selected according to the work of Osoba., 6 months
The investigators propose to carry out a prospective analysis of physical impact, psychological, cognitive and social of radiotherapy in all patients over 75 years bearer of localized prostate cancer with an indication of curative radiotherapy. This standardized geriatric assessment will collect social information, functional, sensory, cognitive, emotional, motor, nutritional, and medical related to comorbidities . The quality of life of patients will be evaluated by the QLQ C30 (Quality of Life Questionnaire) European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) before starting treatment, at the end of radiotherapy (2 months) and at 6 months. This short follow-up period seems appropriate in this elderly population and will allow an answer within 2 years to the problem raised in clinical practice.