Study of Telotristat Etiprate (LX1606) in Participants With Symptomatic Carcinoid Syndrome
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of orally administered telotristat etiprate (LX1606) in participants with symptomatic carcinoid syndrome.
Carcinoid Syndrome
DRUG: Telotristat etiprate
Number of Participants With Any Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Drug-Related TEAEs in the Core Phase, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug-related. Treatment-emergent AEs were defined as any AEs reported after the first dose of treatment on Day 1., Baseline up to Week 12 in the Core Phase|Number of Participants With Any Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Drug-Related TEAEs in the Extension Period, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug-related. Treatment-emergent AEs were defined as any AEs reported after the first dose of treatment on Day 1., Up to 124 Weeks in the Extension Period
Change From Baseline in Number of Bowel Movements (BMs), Participants recorded the number of bowel movements in a daily diary. The change from baseline value was calculated as the difference between mean numbers of BMs of the post-baseline interval (Weeks 9 to 12) and baseline. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement. Baseline for the Extension Period was defined as non-missing assessment in Run-in period prior to the first dose of study drug., Core Phase: Baseline to Weeks 9-12; Extension Period: Baseline to Week 24|Change From Baseline in Stool Form/Consistency, Participants assessed stool form/consistency in a daily diary using a 6-point scale (0-none, 1-hard, 2-firm, 3-soft, 4-loose, 5-watery). The change from the baseline value was calculated as the difference between a mean score of the post-baseline interval (Weeks 9 to 12) and baseline. 0 indicates the best score and 5 indicates the worst score. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement. Baseline for the Extension Period was defined as non-missing assessment in Run-in period prior to the first dose of study drug., Core Phase: Baseline to Weeks 9-12; Extension Period: Baseline to Week 24|Change From Baseline in Percentage of Days With Sensation of Urgency to Defecate, Participants assessed the urgency to defecate using a daily diary response to the following question, "Have you felt or experienced a sense of urgency to pass stool today?". The change from the baseline value was calculated as the difference between the mean score (percentage of days) of the post-baseline interval (Weeks 9 to 12) and baseline. Baseline for the Extension Period was defined as non-missing assessment in Run-in period prior to the first dose of study drug., Core Phase: Baseline to Weeks 9-12; Extension Period: Baseline to Week 24|Change From Baseline in Sensation/Severity of Nausea Using 100 mm Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Sensation/severity of nausea was measured using a 100 mm VAS. Participants rated their perception of the sensation/severity of nausea experienced by marking a single vertical line on a VAS scale from 0 to 100 mm, where 0 = No vomiting and 100 = vomiting. The change from the baseline value was calculated as the difference between the mean score of the post-baseline interval (Weeks 9 to 12) and baseline. 0 indicates the best score, 100 indicates the worst score. Baseline for the Extension Period was defined as non-missing assessment in Run-in period prior to the first dose of study drug., Core Phase: Baseline to Weeks 9-12; Extension Period: Baseline to Week 24|Number of Participants With an Improvement in Global Assessment of Symptoms Associated With Carcinoid Syndrome, Participants assessed their symptoms using a weekly subjective response to the following question, "In the past 7 days, have you had adequate relief of your carcinoid syndrome bowel complaints such as diarrhea, urgent need to have a bowel movement, abdominal pain, or discomfort?". The values for improvement in global assessment of symptoms associated with carcinoid syndrome in the Core Phase were averaged from Weeks 9 to 12., Core Phase: Weeks 9-12; Extension Period: Week 24|Change From Baseline in Daily Severity of Abdominal Pain or Discomfort Using 100 mm Visual Analog Scale (VAS), The severity of abdominal pain was measured using a 100 mm VAS. Participants rated their perception of the sensation/severity of abdominal pain or experienced by marking a single vertical line on a VAS scale from 0 to 100 mm, where 0 = No vomiting and 100 = vomiting. The change from the baseline value was calculated as the difference between the mean score of the post-baseline interval (Weeks 9 to 12) and baseline. 0 indicate the best score, 100 indicates the worst score. Baseline for the Extension Period was defined as non-missing assessment in Run-in period prior to the first dose of study drug., Core Phase: Baseline to Weeks 9-12; Extension Period: Baseline to Week 24|Change From Baseline in Daily Number of Cutaneous Flushing Episodes, Participants recorded the number of daily cutaneous flushing episodes experienced in the daily diary. The change from baseline value was calculated as the difference between the mean numbers of cutaneous flushing episodes of the post-baseline interval (Weeks 9 to 12) and baseline. Baseline for the Extension Period was defined as non-missing assessment in Run-in period prior to the first dose of study drug., Core Phase: Baseline to Weeks 9-12; Extension Period: Baseline to Week 24|Number of Participants Achieving Clinically Meaningful Symptom Reduction in the Core Phase, Clinically meaningful symptom reduction was defined as either: a) an average of \< 4 bowel movements per day over 15 consecutive days, b) a 50% reduction from baseline in the number of bowel movements, c) a positive response to the question regarding adequate relief, or d) a 50% reduction from baseline in the number of daily flushing episodes., Baseline to Week 12|Change From Baseline in Urinary 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic Acid (HIAA) Levels, Urinary 5-HIAA (u5-HIAA) is a standard test used in clinical practice to assess the neuroendocrine tumor (NET) activity and is collected as a 24-hour urine specimen. The change from baseline value for the Extension Period was calculated as the difference between mean change in 5-HIAA of the post-baseline interval (Weeks 20 to 21) and baseline. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement. Baseline for the Extension Period was defined as non-missing assessment in Run-in period prior to the first dose of study drug., Core Phase: Baseline to Week 12; Extension Period: Baseline to Weeks 20-21
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of orally administered telotristat etiprate (LX1606) in participants with symptomatic carcinoid syndrome.