Study of Olaparib/Trabectedin vs. Doctor's Choice in Solid Tumors
Evaluation of the efficacy of the combination of olaparib and trabectedin in adult patients with locally advanced/metastatic solid tumors that failed standard treatment and whose molecular sequencing tumor profiles show homologous recombination repair (HRR) defects. The primary objective is to show superior disease control rate in patients with HRR-deficient tumors treated with olaparib and trabectedin compared to treatment according to current guidelines (physician's choice). This trial aims to establish whether the PARP-dependency of HRR-deficient tumors across entities can be exploited for therapeutic benefit.
Cancers With DNA Repair-Deficiency
DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Physician's choice|DRUG: Trabectedin
Disease Control Rate, Randomized, open-label, multicenter phase-II study comparing olaparib in combination with trabectedin versus physician's choice. Primary efficacy endpoint is the disease control rate after 5 cycles., At week 16 (after 5 cycles of study medication)
Overall survival, defined as the time from first administration of the IMP to time of death from any cause, Time from first administration of the IMP to time death from any cause until end of study (2.5 years)|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, This endpoint includes all AEs, their severity, SAEs, the relation of AEs to the study treatment, dose modifications for toxicity and discontinuation of study treatment during the trial phase. Toxic effects will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria., Time from first administration of the IMP to subjects end of trial (approximately month 6)|Patient reported outcomes, Patient reported outcomes (PROs) including health-related quality of life (QoL) are calculated as the new European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). QLQ-C30 summary score recommended by teh EORTC Quality of Life Group. In addition, the EORTC QLQ function and symptom scores are calculated according to the actual EORTC Scoring Manual., Before the first (week 0), at the third (week 8), and after the fifth treatment cycle (week 16)|Tumor response rate, Defined as the sum of complete remission (CR) and partial remission (PR) according to RECIST version 1.1 after 5 cycles of study medication, At week 16 (after 5 cycles of study medication)
Evaluation of the efficacy of the combination of olaparib and trabectedin in adult patients with locally advanced/metastatic solid tumors that failed standard treatment and whose molecular sequencing tumor profiles show homologous recombination repair (HRR) defects. The primary objective is to show superior disease control rate in patients with HRR-deficient tumors treated with olaparib and trabectedin compared to treatment according to current guidelines (physician's choice). This trial aims to establish whether the PARP-dependency of HRR-deficient tumors across entities can be exploited for therapeutic benefit.