Trigger Point Injections for Post-Mastectomy Pain Syndrome
Post-Mastectomy Pain Syndrome (PMPS) is a chronic pain that persists for more than three months after a surgical breast procedure. It has 11-70% incidence in patients that underwent a breast surgery. It consists of mixed pain, frequently associated with myofascial pain, an specific type of muscular pain. Trigger point injections (TPI) are classically used for the treatment of myofascial pain in other painful conditions. However, there are no controlled trials assessing the efficacy of TPI in the treatment of PMPS. The intervention objective is to assess the efficacy of TPI in patients with PMPS, when associated with a comprehensive rehabilitation program and pain management.
Post-mastectomy Pain Syndrome|Myofascial Pain Syndrome|Trigger Point Pain, Myofascial|Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Trigger point injection|PROCEDURE: Subcutaneous saline injection|OTHER: Comprehensive Rehabilitation program
Visual Numeric Scale (VNS) for pain in 3 months, Mean difference of Pain between groups from baseline to 3 months(T3m), assessed by the Visual Numeric Scale (VNS, 0-10), in which higher scores represent higher pain intensity., 3 months|Trigger-points, Number of active trigger-points in the assessed muscles (latissimus dorsi, levator scapulae, trapezius superior, infraspinatus, pectoralis major, serratus anterior). Mean difference between groups., 1 month|Trigger-points, Number of active trigger-points in the assessed muscles (latissimus dorsi, levator scapulae, trapezius superior, infraspinatus, pectoralis major, serratus anterior). Mean difference between groups., 3 months|Pressure Pain Threshold (PPT), Pressure Pain Threshold (PPT) at bilateral latissimus dorsi, levator scapulae, trapezius superior, infraspinatus, pectoralis major, serratus anterior. Difference from baseline, 1 month|Pressure Pain Threshold, Pressure Pain Threshold (PPT) at bilateral latissimus dorsi, levator scapulae, trapezius superior, infraspinatus, pectoralis major, serratus anterior. Difference from baseline, 3 months
Visual Numeric Scale (VNS) for pain in 1 month, Mean difference of Pain between groups from baseline,assessed by the Visual Numeric Scale (VNS, 0-10), in which higher scores represent higher pain intensity., 1 month|Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) - total score, sensorial and affective scale, Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire - total score, sensorial and affective scale. Mean difference between groups from baseline. Higher values represent higher pain intensity, 1 month|Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) - total score, sensorial and affective scale, Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire - total score, sensorial and affective scale. Mean difference between groups from baseline. Higher values represent higher pain intensity, 3 months|Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI), Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory . Mean difference between groups from baseline. Higher values represent more symptoms of neuropathic pain., 1 month.|Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI), Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory . Mean difference between groups from baseline. Higher values represent more symptoms of neuropathic pain., 3 months|Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire (DASH), Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire (DASH). Mean difference between groups from baseline. Higher values represent lower functionality., 1 month|Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire (DASH), Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire (DASH). Mean difference between groups from baseline. Higher values represent lower functionality., 3 months|Shoulder range of motion (ROM), Range of motion (ROM) of affected shoulder, for abduction and external rotation. Mean difference between groups from baseline., 1 month|Shoulder range of motion (ROM), Range of motion (ROM) of affected shoulder, for abduction and external rotation. Mean difference between groups from baseline., 3 months|Percentage of patients with at least 30% improvement of pain as per VNS scores (VNS30%), Percentage of patients with at least 30% improvement of pain as per VAS scores (VAS30%). Mean difference between groups., 1 month|Percentage of patients with at least 30% improvement of pain as per VNS scores (VNS30%), Percentage of patients with at least 30% improvement of pain as per VAS scores (VAS30%). Mean difference between groups., 3 months|Percentage of patients with at least 50% improvement of pain as per VNS scores (VNS50%), Percentage of patients with at least 50% improvement of pain as per VAS scores (VAS30%). Mean difference between groups., 1 month|Percentage of patients with at least 50% improvement of pain as per VNS scores (VNS50%), Percentage of patients with at least 50% improvement of pain as per VAS scores (VAS30%). Mean difference between groups., 3 months|Adverse events, Number of participants with adverse events. Mean difference between groups., 1 month|Adverse events, Number of participants with adverse events. Mean difference between groups., 3 months|Pain medication, Use of pain medication. Classified as "Increased", "Decreased", "Stable" or "Non-applicable" . Mean difference between groups., 1 months|Pain medication, Use of pain medication. Classified as "Increased", "Decreased", "Stable" or "Non-applicable" . Mean difference between groups., 3 months
INTRODUCTION: Post-Mastectomy Pain Syndrome (PMPS) is a chronic pain that persists for more than three months after a surgical breast procedure. It has 11-70% incidence in patients that underwent a breast surgery. It consists of mixed pain, frequently associated with myofascial pain. Trigger point injections (TPI) are classically used for the treatment of myofascial pain in other etiologies. However, there are no controlled trials assessing the efficacy of TPI in the treatment of PMPS

OBJECTIVE: Assess the efficacy of TPI in patients with PMPS, when associated with a comprehensive rehabilitation program and pain management.

METHODS: Double-blind randomized controlled trial with intention-to-treat analysis. Both groups will undergo standard of care delivered by Physiatrist blinded to group allocation. Active group will undergo TPI with 1% lidocaine in each identified trigger-point, weekly, for three consecutive weeks. Control group will undergo subcutaneous saline injection superficial to the same trigger points, with the same frequency and number of sessions. Primary outcome is the mean difference between groups for pain levels, as assessed by Visual Numeric Scale (VNS), from baseline to 3 months after the procedure.

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Difference between groups at baseline, one and three months after injection, using Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) for the following outcomes: VNS; Presence of active trigger points, Pressure pain threshold (PPT); Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ); Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI); Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire (DASH); Range of motion (ROM) of affected shoulder, for abduction and external rotation; adverse events; use of pain medication.

Total sample size is 120. Alpha=5%, power=80%.