Study of Combination of Sirolimus and Sutent in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors Non-Curable With Standard Therapy
There are two drugs involved in this study. Sunitinib (Sutent(R)) is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of advanced renal cell (kidney) cancer and gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Sunitinib is thought to work by blocking the growth of blood vessels into tumors; reducing the blood supply to tumors can slow their growth and sometimes causes the tumors to shrink. Sirolimus has been approved by the FDA to prevent the body from rejecting organ transplants. Sirolimus is being tested for its effects against cancer because it can slow the growth of some tumors in animal models. Sirolimus is thought to slow cancer growth in these animal models both by direct effects on the tumor cells, and also by blocking production of growth factors that stimulate production of blood vessels. We hope that the combined use of these two drugs will have better anti-cancer effects than either agent alone. This study is designed to find out if different doses of Sirolimus combined with a standard dose of Sutent are safe and well tolerated. Additionally, it is hoped to gain knowledge about the way that Sutent(R) in combination with sirolimus affects the blood vessels produced by cancer.
Tumors
DRUG: Sunitinib malate|DRUG: Rapamycin
To determine the maximum tolerated dose of sirolimus when combined with a standard dose and schedule of Sutent(R), upon completion of dose escalation
To obtain preliminary experience with dynamic MR imaging of tumor blood flow using the combination of Sutent(R) and sirolimus, upon completion of study|To provide preliminary data on dose effects of the combination on serum levels of VEGF and circulating endothelial cells, upon completion of study|To obtain preliminary information on the efficacy of Sutent(R)in combination with sirolimus in treating malignancies using RECIST criteria, upon completion of study
There are two drugs involved in this study. Sunitinib (Sutent(R)) is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of advanced renal cell (kidney) cancer and gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Sunitinib is thought to work by blocking the growth of blood vessels into tumors; reducing the blood supply to tumors can slow their growth and sometimes causes the tumors to shrink. Sirolimus has been approved by the FDA to prevent the body from rejecting organ transplants. Sirolimus is being tested for its effects against cancer because it can slow the growth of some tumors in animal models. Sirolimus is thought to slow cancer growth in these animal models both by direct effects on the tumor cells, and also by blocking production of growth factors that stimulate production of blood vessels. We hope that the combined use of these two drugs will have better anti-cancer effects than either agent alone. This study is designed to find out if different doses of Sirolimus combined with a standard dose of Sutent are safe and well tolerated. Additionally, it is hoped to gain knowledge about the way that Sutent(R) in combination with sirolimus affects the blood vessels produced by cancer.