Vismodegib and Gemcitabine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies vismodegib and gemcitabine hydrochloride in treating patients with advanced pancreatic cancer. Vismodegib may stop the growth of pancreatic cancer by blocking blow flow to the tumor. Gemcitabine hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving vismodegib and gemcitabine hydrochloride may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Vismodegib
Median Percent at Baseline and 3 Weeks in CD44+/ CD24+/ ESA+ Cells From Needle Biopsy Calculated Using FACS, The median percentage of CD44+CD24+ESA+ cells from needle biopsy were calculated at baseline and at 3 weeks using FACS. The difference between the two time points was calculated., 3 weeks
The Number of Participants With an Objective Best Response (CR + PR), The number of participants with either a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) will be calculated. A CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. A PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions., Up to 4 weeks|Median Progression Free Survival, Median progression free survival was calculated for all treated patients. Assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The 95% confidence interval for this estimate will be computed using the Greenwood's formula., Up to 24 months|Percentage of Treated Patients Experiencing Grade 3+ Toxicity Per National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) Version 3.0, Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain tumor biopsies before and after therapy with GDC-0449 (vismodegib) to evaluate the effect of inhibition of hedgehog signaling on pancreatic cancer stem cells by: evaluating the tumor for number and percentage of pancreatic cancer stem cells before and after treatment with GDC-0449.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess progression free survival (PFS) at 3 months following treatment with GDC-0449 and gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride).

II. To assess response rate to treatment and overall survival in patients with advanced pancreas cancer treated with GDC-0449 alone and in combination with gemcitabine.

III. To evaluate the toxicity of GDC-0449 alone and in combination with gemcitabine.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive vismodegib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 (beginning in course 2). Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.