The Impact of Transanal Decompression Tube Placement After Colorectal Anastomosis: A Randomized Trial
There is currently no standardization in the use of the transanal decompressive tube during the postoperative after a colorectal surgery. The available evidence is based on studies with methodological differences. Most of the studies exclude patients with a diverting ileostomy, which are those patients who have a higher risk of anastomotic leak, so the real effect of transanal decompressive tube could have been masked. For this reason we believe that to assess the true effect of rectal decompression, patients with diverting stoma should be included.
Colorectal Cancer|Postoperative Complications|Anastomotic Leak|Anastomotic Complication
PROCEDURE: Intraoperative transanal decompression tube placement
Anastomotic leakage rate between treatment arms, Anastomotic leakage (No/Yes), degree of anastomotic leakage (A, B or C), days of anastomotic leak diagnosis after colorectal surgery, Within 30 days after surgery
Reintervention rate, Reintervention due to any cause within 30 days after surgery, Within 30 days after surgery|Postoperative complication rate, Rate of medical and surgical complications within 30 days after surgery using the Dindo-Clavien classification, described as:

Grade I = Any deviation from the normal postoperative course. Grade 2 = Requiring pharmacological treatment with drugs other than such allowed for grade I complications.

Grade III = Requiring surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention, not under (Grade IIIa) or under general anesthesia (Grade IIIb) Grade IV = Life-threatening complication with single organ (Grade IVa) or Multiorgan dysfunction (Grade IVb) Grade V = Death of a patient., Within 30 days after surgery|Definitive and / or temporary stoma rate after anastomotic leakage, Stoma formation due to anastomotic leak (No/Yes), Within 30 days after surgery
One of the complications of performing the colorectal anastomosis is the anastomotic leak, which sometimes entails the need for reinterventions and stoma formation (provisional or definitive). In recent decades, the improvement in surgical techniques together with the knowledge of the causes that predispose to the anastomotic failure have allowed to reduced the rates.

The placement of a tube probe through the anus in the postoperative period that decompresses the contents of the interior of the intestine (liquid or air) has been proposed as a factor that could influence the healing between intestines.

In studies carried out in other centers, with the same characteristics as the present one, differences have been shown in the probability of anastomotic leakage, but these results are not conclusive and do not allow us to know the effectiveness of this procedure.