Clinical Trial Comparing Two Non-Surgical Treatments for Severe Blepharoptosis
This clinical trial will evaluate two non-surgical devices designed to improve eye lid opening for patients with severe Blepharoptosis (incomplete opening of the eyelids).
Blepharoptosis|Ptosis, Eyelid|Myasthenia Gravis|Stroke|Traumatic Brain Injury|Chronic Progressive External Ophthalmoplegia
DEVICE: Magnetic Levator Prosthesis (MLP)|DEVICE: Kinesiotape Frontalis Sling (KTFS)
Interpalpebral Fissure (IPF) During Spontaneous Blink, The primary outcome was objective measurement of the IPF midpoint height during maximum closing in five spontaneous blinks, captured with a Nikon mirrorless SLR video recording system (Z7II; Nikon USA, Melville, NY, USA), with a visible light source mounted just above the lens, measured manually with ImageJ (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA). Spontaneous blinks are normally incomplete, a behavior that is dependent upon age, gender, task, and environmental demands. Maximum closing was defined as the three points at the base of the blink. Participants were instructed to look at the camera lens and try to relax and behave normally. Recording was stopped after 1 minute or after five spontaneous blinks, whichever came first. Recording always occurred in the same windowless clinical research room with consistent lighting, temperature, humidity, and air flow. The IPF midpoint height during maximum closing in five spontaneous blinks is averaged and reported below., 2 weeks
Interpalpebral Fissure During Resting Open, Resting open IPF was the median between blink-event IPF, measured automatically by a deep learning model for eyelid landmark detection. the IPF midpoint height during resting open was averaged and reported below., 2 weeks|Proportion of Non-closure During Volitional Blinks, At the end of recording, participants were instructed to close their eyes completely and open completely three times, representing volitional blink trials. These were evaluated manually with ImageJ. Blinks were classified by a human rater as having complete closure, or not, and then the proportion of non-closure blinks across all subjects was calculated for each condition and reported below., 2 weeks|Proportion of Subjects Selecting Each Device, Proportion of subjects selecting either the MLP, the KTFS or neither, 6 weeks
Two non-surgical devices for patients with Blepharoptosis will be evaluated. The Magnetic Levator Prosthesis (MLP), is an external device that makes use of a newer class of permanent magnets (made of alloys of neodymium (Nd), iron (Fe) and boron (B)) to restore eyelid movement. The Kinesiotape Frontalis Sling (KTFS), involves the use of tape to help facilitate levator muscle contraction to open the eyelid. Video recordings of spontaneous and volitional blinks will be used to evaluate the effects of each device on eyelid reanimation.

The clinical trial will employ a crossover design in which participants will try each device at home in counterbalanced order with a washout period between. In each period of the crossover, participants will receive training (during study visits at Massachusetts Eye and Ear) in how to apply the device and will then try the device at home for one week with daily follow up by video calls. At the end of the one-week period of home use there will be a study visit at Massachusetts Eye and Ear when the device will be returned and additional video recordings of eye blinks will be made.

At the end of the crossover period, participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire comparing the two devices and to select their preferred device.