Metformin Hydrochloride in Preventing Oral Cancer in Patients With an Oral Premalignant Lesion
This phase IIa trial studies how well metformin hydrochloride works in preventing oral cancer in patients with an oral premalignant lesion (oral leukoplakia or erythroplakia). Oral premalignant lesions look like red or whitish plaques or lesions in the mouth that do not rub off and can be associated with a higher risk of cancer. Metformin hydrochloride may help prevent oral cancer from forming in patients with an oral premalignant lesion.
Erythroplakia|Hyperplasia|Oral Cavity Carcinoma|Oral Leukoplakia
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Metformin Hydrochloride
Clinical Response to Metformin Intervention, Number of participants with complete and partial clinical response to metformin intervention.

Criteria for complete and partial clinical response are:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all evidence of lesion(s). Partial Response (PR): Greater than or equal to 50% reduction in the sum of the products of diameters of lesion(s) measurable at baseline. Non-measurable lesion(s) may not increase greater than or equal to 25% in size and no new lesion may appear., Baseline to up to 14 weeks
Histologic Response to Metformin Intervention, Number of participants with complete and partial histologic response to metformin intervention.

Criteria for complete and partial histologic response are:

Complete Response (CR): Complete reversal of dysplasia or hyperplasia to normal epithelium in the target lesion.

Partial Response (PR): Improvement of the degree of dysplasia or hyperplasia in the target lesion., Baseline to up to 14 weeks|Changes in Cell Proliferation and Its Molecular Targets, Nonparametric methods, e.g. signed rank test, will be performed to evaluate each of the changes in tissue, serum, and saliva markers., Baseline to up to 14 weeks|Changes in Frequent Dysregulated Molecular Mechanisms and OCT Expression, Nonparametric methods, e.g. signed rank test, will be performed to evaluate each of the changes in tissue, serum, and saliva markers. A univariate logistic regression model with the clinical response as the outcome variable will be fitted to explore if any of the expression of frequent dysregulated mechanisms and OCT3 level are associated with the clinical response to metformin hydrochloride., Baseline to up to 14 weeks|Impact of Genomic Alterations on the Biological and Biochemical Consequences and Clinical Response to Metformin Hydrochloride, Nonparametric methods, e.g. signed rank test, will be performed to evaluate each of the changes in tissue, serum, and saliva markers. A univariate logistic regression model with the clinical response as the outcome variable will be fitted to explore if any genomic alterations are associated with the clinical response to metformin hydrochloride., Up to 14 weeks|Change in Measurements of Metformin Hydrochloride Concentrations in Serum and Saliva, Nonparametric methods, e.g. signed rank test, will be performed to evaluate each of the changes in tissue, serum, and saliva markers., Baseline to up to 14 weeks|Change in Serum Metabolic Markers, Nonparametric methods, e.g. signed rank test, will be performed to evaluate each of the changes in tissue, serum, and saliva markers., Baseline to up to 14 weeks|Change in Serum and Saliva Inflammatory and Angiogenic Cytokines, Nonparametric methods, e.g. signed rank test, will be performed to evaluate each of the changes in tissue, serum, and saliva markers., Baseline to up to 14 weeks
Change in Saliva Microbiome Analyzed Using Flow Cytometry, This will characterize changes in the saliva microbiome before and after metformin intervention, including both the absolute microbial load and taxonomic composition. Will first evaluate changes in alpha diversity among matched pairs using non-parametric analogous Wilcoxon rank-sum test (Mann-Whitney test). To test for significant differences in beta diversity (e.g. if pretreatment and post-treatment samples cluster in principle coordinates analysis space), permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) will be used., Baseline to up to 14 weeks|Microbiome Signatures Correlated With Treatment Response, Will first evaluate changes in alpha diversity among matched pairs using non-parametric analogous Wilcoxon rank-sum test (Mann-Whitney test). To test for significant differences in beta diversity (e.g. if pretreatment and post-treatment samples cluster in principle coordinates analysis space), PERMANOVA will be used., Baseline to up to 14 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the clinical response of oral premalignant lesions to 12-14 weeks of metformin (metformin hydrochloride) intervention.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Histologic response to metformin intervention in the target lesion. II. Tissue-based biomarkers: metformin effect on cell proliferation and its molecular targets in the target lesion and in the normal tissue (marker of cell proliferation, Ki67, molecular targets of metformin, including, in order of priority, phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6 kinase \[pS6\], phosphorylated v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 \[pAKT\]S473, phosphorylated eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 \[p4EBP\], phosphorylated acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha \[pACC\]).

III. Tissue-based biomarkers: expression of dysregulated molecular mechanisms and organic cation transporter 3 (OCT 3) in the target lesion and in the normal tissue, including, in order of priority, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), phosphorylated (p)EGFR, tumor protein 53 (p53), phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (pERK), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (p16), and OCT3.

IV. Tissue-based biomarkers: targeted analysis of cancer-associated genes in the target lesion and blood deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

V. Serum and saliva based biomarkers: metformin effect on serum metabolic markers (C-peptide, glycosylated hemoglobin \[HbA1c\]).

VI. Serum and saliva based biomarkers: metformin concentrations in serum and saliva.

VII Serum and saliva based biomarkers: metformin effect on serum and saliva inflammatory and angiogenic cytokines, including interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, growth-related oncogene-1 (GRO-1), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize changes in the saliva microbiome before and after metformin intervention, including both the absolute microbial load and taxonomic composition.

II. To evaluate the potential microbiome signatures that are correlated with treatment response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive extended-release metformin hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 2 weeks and then twice daily (BID) for 10-12 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2-4 weeks.