Pharyngocise Dose Response Study
In this study supported by an American Cancer Society grant, the investigators are evaluating two levels of swallowing exercise intensity on the maintenance of swallowing muscles and their function in Head/Neck cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy. Patients in this study are randomly placed into different exercise groups and provided with exercises to perform daily during their radiation treatment. Their progress, diet management and swallowing ability are monitored throughout the treatment period and followed up until 3 months after radiation treatment. In addition to the daily treatment details, the patients perception of their swallowing ability and concerns about their health and treatment are also measured. This clinical trial will help to refine a previously investigated simple exercise package and provide a program of intervention that can help prevent medically related complications of swallowing difficulty (e.g. pneumonia, dehydration, prolonged tube feeding), and improve the ability to eat for patients with head / neck cancer. Ultimately it is hoped that this form of exercise therapy will help reduce the costs (personal and financial) to the patient, caregivers and community.
Dysphagia
BEHAVIORAL: Pharyngocise
Change in T2 Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging, T2 Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) to quantify baseline muscle parameters in the oral cavity and pharynx. The regions of interest will be identified on images using axial and coronal planes. Information regarding the muscle volume, composition (fat Vs muscle Vs edema) as reflected by the signal intensity., at 3 months after treatment|Clinical swallowing Ability, Swallowing ability and method/ type of dietary intake, e.g. Functional Oral Intake Scale score \[F.O.I.S\] over the study period, baseline, 3 weeks, 6 weeks and 3 months post treatment
Weight, Weight and Body Mass Index will be calculated., baseline, 3 weeks, 6 weeks and 3 months post treatment|Psychosocial functioning, Domain assessments for, quality of life, pain,and fatigue using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-H/N), Pain Disability Index (PDI), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Anemia (FACT-An) scale, Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory (MFSI), Profiles of Mood Scale (POMS) and Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale(CESD)., baseline and 3 months post treatment|Instrumental swallowing evaluation, Range of swallowing biomechanics measured from endoscopic and fluorographic evaluations., baseline and 3 months post treatment|Swallowing Quality of Life, Patient perception of effect of swallowing disability - Swallowing Quality of Life (SWAL QOL) score during the study period., baseline and 3 months post treatment
In an earlier pilot study, a regime of simple swallowing exercises was identified as useful in maintaining oropharyngeal muscle characteristics as measured by T2 weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and produced a trend toward improved function for swallowing in patients undergoing radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. The purpose of this current study is to evaluate the dose response of two levels of swallowing exercise intensity on the maintenance of muscle composition and function for swallowing in Head/Neck cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy.

HYPOTHESIS: A program of intensive swallowing exercise (Pharyngocise) will maintain muscle function in the oral cavity and pharynx during radiotherapy, preserving or supporting swallowing function in Head/Neck cancer patients.

STUDY DESIGN: 130 patients with Head/Neck cancer, confirmed by clinical history and exam, will be recruited over a 4 year period. All subjects will undergo an initial baseline work up, including a standardized clinical and instrumental swallowing evaluation, psychosocial scales, nutritional exam, and T2 weighted MRI prior to the first radiation therapy. Subjects will be randomized into 1 of 3 groups:

Group A: Usual care (control) group - patients will receive swallowing and prescribed dietary intervention during the radiotherapy period prescribed by the attending physician.

Group B: High intensity pharyngocise treatment group - patients will receive twice daily swallowing intervention by a speech language pathologist, consisting of the battery of isometric/isotonic exercises.

Group C: Low intensity pharyngocise treatment group - patients will receive a single instructional exercise session on the isometric/isotonic exercises from a Speech Language Pathologist and a practice tape to support home practice of the exercises.

All patients will be treated for approximately 6 weeks and followed for 3 months post treatment. Baseline assessments will be repeated. In addition, daily treatment details, patients perception of current swallowing ability and progress in therapy will be recorded by the Speech Pathologist. Participants will be independently monitored throughout the treatment period by researcher blind to the treatment group assigned, via weekly phone interview sessions. Compliance with the treatment techniques, and the occurrence of any negative endpoints such as occurrence of aspiration pneumonia will be recorded.