A Safety and Feasibility Study of Mitotane in Prostate Cancer
1. The primary objective of this study is to assess the feasibility of treating patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer with mitotane. Secondary objectives are to assess safety and tolerability as well as response rate of therapy
2. To assess the toxicity of Mitotane in men with HRPC
3. To assess the relationship between baseline serum adrenal androgens and their response to Mitotane
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Mitotane
The Primary Endpoint is the Proportion of Patients Maintained on Mitotane After 12 Consecutive Weeks of Therapy. A Positive Outcome Would be Seeing 50% or More Patients Maintained on Therapy. Secondary Endpoint Include Proportion of Adverse Events, maintain 50% of the patients on Mitotane at the 12 week mark
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Response Rate, Continue increase of serum PSA beyond 8 weeks indicate PSA progression. Response and progression will be primarily evaluated in this study using PSA response criteria from the Prostate Cancer Working Group 2. Criteria used to define response include: at least a 50% decline in PSA, confirmed by a second measurement ≥4 weeks later. PSA progression is defined by a \>25% increase from baseline in patients whose PSA did not decrease, and of 50% from the nadir value in patients whose PSA decreased. This increase in PSA must be \>5 ng/ml, and confirmed by a second measurement, at least 1 week later; PSA nadir is defined as the minimum PSA value that was confirmed by a second measurement.

PSA progression free survival is defined as the time between the randomization date and the date of PSA progression or the date of death due to prostate cancer, whichever occurs first., PSA progression free survival and excessive toxicity. Plan to keep the patients on Mitotane for atleast 8 weeks, despite increasing level of PSA as other trials shown early increase in PSA followed by a subsequent decline.
All patients will undergo pre-study assessment for symptoms, performance status, ECG, CT abdomen/pelvis, Bone scan, Complete blood count tests(hematology) , Biochemistry tests like serum electrolytes, liver function tests, coagulation profile, testosterone and PSA tests.

Mitotane will be administered 1.5g daily escalation to maximum of 5 g daily then adjusted according to serum levels and tolerability

Physical examinations, hematology, biochemistry tests, and toxicity evaluations will be measured throughout patients on protocol treatment

Mitotane serum level will be analyzed every second cycle

Research bloods include; ACTH, cortisol, deoxycorticosterone, aldosterone, corticosterone, and testosterone, androstenedione, dehydroepiandrostenedione (DHEA), DHEA sulfate (DHEA-S) and estradiol will be collected only in cycle 1,3 and 5