Transarterial Chemoperfusion: Cisplatin, Methotrexate, Gemcitabine for Unresectable Pleural Mesothelioma
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the transarterial chemoperfusion treatment with cisplatin, methotrexate and gemcitabine is safe and effective in adults with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM).
Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma|Mesothelioma
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Gemcitabine|OTHER: Lung Cancer Symptom Scale for Mesothelioma Questionnaire
Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate of transarterial chemoperfusion treatment with cisplatin, methotrexate and gemcitabine in patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) for mesothelioma. DCR provided as percentage of participants with partial response + percentage of participants with stable disease., Up to 3 years
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival defined as the time from the first day of transarterial chemoperfusion treatment to death., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival defined as the time from the first day of transarterial chemoperfusion treatment to disease progression based on imaging findings using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria for mesothelioma. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 3 years|Occurrence of Treatment Related Toxicity, Safety was assessed by monitoring adverse events and serious adverse events; the association with study treatment was assessed, and severity graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.4.03. Number of events that were Possible, Probable or Definitely related to study treatment., Up to 3 years|Quality of Life Questionnaire Scores, Quality of life will be assessed using the modified version of the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale for Mesothelioma questionnaire. Mesothelioma Symptom Scale includes 7 categories to rate on a scale of 1 to 10 regarding severity of symptoms during the last 24 hours. A higher number indicates more severe symptoms., Up to 3 years
This is an open-label, single arm, phase 2 study with a lead in safety cohort to evaluate the safety and efficacy of transarterial chemoperfusion treatment with cisplatin (35 mg/m2\^), methotrexate (100 mg/m\^2) and gemcitabine (1000 mg/m\^2) in patients with unresectable MPM. During the lead in phase of the study, 3 patients will be treated with 50% reduced dose of methotrexate (50 mg/m\^2) and regular doses of cisplatin (35 mg/m\^2 body surface area (BSA)) and gemcitabine (1000 mg/m\^2 BSA).