Radiation Therapy, Amifostine, and Chemotherapy in Treating Young Patients With Newly Diagnosed Nasopharyngeal Cancer
This phase III trial is studying how well radiation therapy, amifostine, and chemotherapy work in treating young patients with newly diagnosed nasopharyngeal cancer. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs, such as amifostine, may protect normal cells from the side effects of radiation therapy. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving radiation therapy together with amifostine and chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.
Stage I Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage I Nasopharyngeal Undifferentiated Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage II Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage II Nasopharyngeal Undifferentiated Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Undifferentiated Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Undifferentiated Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Amifostine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Two Year Event-free Survival (EFS), The two-year event-free survival will be compared with a standard established from adult oncology data and the results of POG-9486. The two-year Kaplan-Meier estimate of event-free survival will be compared with 70% using a 1-sided test of size 0.05 using the asymptotic distribution of the complementary log-log distribution of the estimate., Up to Two Year After Enrollment
Predictive Value of Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) DNA as Measured by Quantitative Detection at Enrollment on EFS 2 Years After Treatment, Presence of EBV DNA in serum., At study enrollment|Prognostic Significance of EBV Viral Load, Viral load in blood., At study enrollment|Predictive Value of the Detection of EBV DNA in the Peripheral Blood, The prognostic value of the presence of EBV DNA will be assessed using the log-rank test, adjusted by initial stage of disease, if appropriate. The proposed analysis will take place at the analytic endpoint of the clinical trial., Up to 6 years|Protective Effects of Amifostine Assessed Primarily by Sialometry, Weight of stimulated saliva production in grams., At study enrollment|Protective Effects of Amifostine Assessed Primarily by Sialometry: Weight of Unstimulated Saliva Production in Grams., Weight of unstimulated saliva production in grams., At study enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate, overall survival, and event-free survival of children with advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma who are treated with induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy and amifostine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize the role of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in the pathogenesis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma in children.

II. Investigate the predictive value of the detection of EBV DNA in the peripheral blood of children with nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

III. Determine the incidence of NUT rearrangements in childhood nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

IV. Determine the radioprotective effect of amifostine when given daily prior to radiation therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to stage of disease (I or IIA \[stratum I\] vs IIB-IV \[stratum II\]).

STRATUM I: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 8 weeks. Patients also receive amifostine subcutaneously on the same days they undergo radiotherapy.

STRATUM II:

INDUCTION THERAPY (weeks 1-9): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-4. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with responding or stable disease proceed to consolidation therapy.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY (weeks 10-18): Patients undergo radiotherapy and receive amifostine as in stratum I. Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on days 1 and 22 (2 courses).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 10 years.