Multiple Interactive With Nutrition and Exercise Strategies in Frailty Cancer Patients
Due to the changes in lifestyle caused by the COVID-19, it is a priority to provide multi-interactive digital platforms and social media for nutrition and exercise programs for cancer patients. A two-year serial program uses mixed study methods of longitudinal combined experimental study. We will investigate cancer frailty's current situation and track the frailty trends after cancer patients received different treatments. We will also invite experts to develop multi-interactive digital platforms of nutrition and performance-based tailored circuit training programs according to the cancer frailty survey. We will recruit 20-85 years of newly diagnosed or first-time recurrence cancer patients and stratified randomization assigned to evaluate nutrition and physical exercise intervention effectiveness. The measure indicators were treatment-related adverse events, nutritional status, frailty status, survival rate, and life quality.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Nutrition and Exercise Strategies
Frailty trend, After treatment frailty condition, After treatment three-month
Treatment-related adverse events, CTCAE or Clavien-Dindo classification, After treatment one month
Survival, from diagnosed to the dead date, The OS was calculated from the date of diagnosis to the date of death or was censored at the date of the last follow-up (3 years from diagnosed) for surviving patients.
Due to the changes in lifestyle caused by the COVID-19, it is a priority to provide multi-interactive digital platforms and social media for nutrition and exercise programs for cancer patients. A two-year serial program uses mixed study methods of longitudinal combined experimental study. We will investigate cancer frailty's current situation and track the frailty trends after cancer patients received different treatments. We will also invite experts to develop multi-interactive digital platforms of nutrition and performance-based tailored circuit training programs according to the cancer frailty survey. We will recruit 20-85 years of newly diagnosed or first-time recurrence cancer patients and stratified randomization assigned to evaluate nutrition and physical exercise intervention effectiveness. The measure indicators were treatment-related adverse events, nutritional status, frailty status, survival rate, and life quality.