CH14.18 1021 Antibody and IL2 After Haplo SCT in Children With Relapsed Neuroblastoma
A six courses regimen consisting of a 8 hour infusion (ch14.18/CHOmAb 20 mg/m²) for five consecutive days will be administered every 4 weeks, starting 60-180 days after previous haploidentical stem cell transplantation.

Interleukin 2 will be added to cycles 4-6 at days 6,8,10 (1 x 106 IU/m²/d s.c.) Participants will be premedicated with an intravenous antihistamine and ranitidine within approximately 30 minutes prior and during the infusion of the study agent Pain as an anticipated side effect is managed by a standard pain prophylaxis with Morphium hydrochloride Disease status will be evaluated after 3 and 6 courses and after 1 year
Neuroblastoma Recurrent
DRUG: ch14.18/CHO
Success of treatment, Primary endpoint is "success of treatment" defined as a patient receiving the full protocol treatment, still alive 180 days after treatment without progression and without unacceptable toxicity and acute GvHD \>= Grade III or extensive chronic GvHD.

Thus, a composite variable is used as primary endpoint: Treatment success, is defined as a patients who did not experience

1. unacceptable toxicities
2. acute GvHD \>= Grade III or extensive chronic GvHD
3. other toxicities that did not recover to \<= Grade 1 within 4 weeks or
4. progressive disease after 6 cycles or
5. deaths within treatment after SCT
6. withdrawal due to other reasons, 180 days
Anti tumour responses, • To evaluate the anti-tumour responses resulting from this immunotherapy regimen through clinical assessments (radiographic and clinical measurements, including bone marrow immunohistochemistry for those research participants with marrow involvement)., 1 year|Pharmakoinetics, \* To evaluate pharmacokinetics of the ch14.18/CHO including analysis of cytokine levels in patients blood during administration. Antibody levels will be evaluated in determined intervals during Therapy, 1 Year|NK Cell aktivation and proliferation, \* To evaluate changes in NK cell activation and proliferation (immunological monitoring) for additional support of potential Anti-tumor effect., 1 Year
A six courses regimen consisting of a 8 hour infusion (ch14.18/CHOmAb 20 mg/m²) for five consecutive days will be administered every 4 weeks, starting 60-180 days after previous haploidentical stem cell transplantation.

Interleukin 2 will be added to cycles 4-6 at days 6,8,10 (1 x 106 IU/m²/d s.c.) Participants will be premedicated with an intravenous antihistamine and ranitidine within approximately 30 minutes prior and during the infusion of the study agent Pain as an anticipated side effect is managed by a standard pain prophylaxis with Morphium hydrochloride Disease status will be evaluated after 3 and 6 courses and after 1 year