Investigation of Novel Surgical Imaging for Tumor Excision
This is a multi-center, two-arm randomized, blinded pivotal study to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the LUM Imaging System (LUM015 imaging agent in conjunction with the LUM Imaging Device and decision software), in identifying residual cancer in the lumpectomy bed of female breast cancer patients undergoing breast surgery in order to assist surgeons in reducing the rates of positive margins.

All enrolled subjects will be injected with LUM015 prior to surgery. Surgeons are blinded to whether a participant will be randomized into the device arm until after the standard of care lumpectomy is complete. Participants will then be randomized to receiving the device. Therapeutic (LUM guided) shaves will be removed based on the guidance of the LUM Imaging System. Patients will be followed until their first standard of care post-operative follow-up visit.
Breast Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Study Device Arm
Percentage of Patients Who Had Residual Cancer Found in at Least One LUM Imaging System Guided Shave Among All Patients., Residual cancer was defined as tumor found by pathology in a therapeutic shave after the SOC surgical procedure was completed; that is, tumor that current Standard of Care (SOC) surgery failed to remove. LUM Imaging System was used during the surgery, but the assessment of the outcomes was unknown until the pathology report was available., Day 1, during surgery|Sensitivity of LUM Imaging System on Cancer in the Lumpectomy Cavity, Sensitivity of LUM Imaging System on cancer was calculated as percentage of tissues with cancer that was removed from lumpectomy cavity due to positive detection by LUM Imaging System. The estimates of the instrument diagnostic sensitivity used Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) approach. This method was used to analyze correlated data which was modeled with generalized linear model having binomial link function and including correlation cluster and matrix information (here within each subject). LUM Imaging System was used during the surgery, but the assessment of the outcomes was unknown until the pathology report was available., Day 1, during surgery|Specificity of LUM Imaging System Detection on Cancer in the Lumpectomy Cavity, Specificity of LUM Imaging System Detection on Cancer in the Lumpectomy Cavity was measured as percentage of the negative margins without cancer, that were tested negative by LUM Imaging System. The estimate of the instrument diagnostic specificity used Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) approach with random effects from intraclass correlation within subjects., Day 1, during surgery
Detection and Conversion of Positive Margins., Detection of positive margins: Percentage of patients with positive margins after standard of care breast-conserving surgery, all had LUM Imaging System signals above the threshold in the cavity as defined by the tumor detection algorithm.

Conversion of positive margins: Percentage of patients with positive margins after standard of care breast-conserving surgery resulted in the negative margin after LUM Imaging System was used.

The system was used during the surgery, but the assessment of the outcomes was unknown until the pathology report was available., Day 1, during surgery|Removal of Residual Cancer Guided by the LUM Imaging System in Participants With Negative Margins After Standard-of-Care Surgery, Percentage of participants having residual tumor removed within subpopulation of having negative margins after Standard of Care surgery. The system was used during the surgery, but the assessment of the outcomes was unknown until the pathology report was available., Day 1, during surgery|Removal of Residual Cancer Guided by the LUM Imaging System in Subjects With Positive Margins After Standard-of-Care Surgery, Percentage of participants having residual tumor removed within subpopulation of having positive margins after Standard of Care surgery. The system was used during the surgery, but the assessment of the outcomes was unknown until the pathology report was available., Day 1, during surgery|Volume of Therapeutic Shaves Removed During Lumpectomy., The median volumes of Lumicell Imaging System - guided shaves (therapeutic shaves) were measured and the median total volume removed during lumpectomy was presented as well. The system was used during the surgery, but the assessment of the outcomes was unknown until the pathology report was available., Day 1, during surgery|Contribution of Therapeutic Shaves to Total Volume Removed During Lumpectomy., Median of the percentages of the volumes of Lumicell Imaging System - guided shaves (therapeutic shaves) out of total volume removed during lumpectomy for each participant were measured. The system was used during the surgery, but the assessment of the outcomes was unknown until the pathology report was available., Day 1, during surgery
All subjects will be injected with LUM015. The injection of the study drug will occur 2-6 hours prior to surgery at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg. Surgeons will complete the standard of care lumpectomy. Prior to removing any shaves as part of the standard of care, the surgeon will use the LUM Imaging System to scan and image the cavity where shaves will be obtained. The system will not provide guidance. The intent of the standard of care lumpectomy procedure is to achieve negative margins.

Randomization of whether the patient will receive the device will be revealed after the completion of the standard of care lumpectomy. If the patient is randomized to the non-device arm, then the surgeon will complete the surgery per their standard practice. If the patient is randomized to the device arm, the surgeon will use the LUM Imaging Device to scan inside the lumpectomy cavity to indicate areas that may contain residual tumor. If the imaging system identifies that there may be cancer cells remaining in the lumpectomy cavity, the surgeon will remove an additional piece of tissue. This process will be continued until a negative reading from the device is obtained or a maximum of 2 shaves of additional tissue has been removed in each orientation.

Study treatment ends when the surgery is completed. All patients will continue their enrollment in the study until their first follow-up visit and they will continue to be followed until the medical team determines no further surgical intervention is required. Patients who have consented to completing Quality of Life Questionnaires will be in the study until the schedule of questionnaires is complete. Patients with adverse events that are determined to be possibly related to the LUM Imaging System will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse event.