PF-06463922 for Crizotinib Pretreated ROS1 Positive Non-small-cell Lung Cancer
This is a phase II study assessing response rate to PF-06463922 in patients with ROS1 translocation resistant to previous crizotinib therapy. Eligible patients will be treated with the study drug until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient refusal. Disease assessment will be performed every 8 weeks according to RECIST criteria.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Lorlatinib
Response rate to PF-06463922 in patients with ROS1 translocation resistant to crizotinib, Response rate to PF-06463922 in patients with ROS1 translocation resistant to crizotinib, From date of the first enrolment until the date of last documented progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months
Progression-free survival (PFS), The length of time during and after the treatment of a disease,that a patient lives with the disease but it doesn't get worse., Progression-free survival (PFS) will be calculated from the time between the baseline/start of treatment visit to the time of first occurrence of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause. Patients who have neither progressed nor died at time of analysis will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment where non progression was documented (i.e. CR, PR or SD), From date of the first enrolment until the date of last documented progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS): Time from the start of treatment until death from any cause, Overall survival (OS) will be calculated from the time between the baseline/start of treatment visit to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death. Patients still alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the date they were last known to be alive, From date of the first enrolment until the date of last documented progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Patients will be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of potential adverse events, and will undergo frequent laboratory tests to assess lipids, pancreas, liver, kidney, and haematological function., From date of the first enrolment until the date of last documented progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months|Correlation with additional tumor biomarkers in tumor tissue or blood, Correlation with additional tumor biomarkers in tumor tissue or blood, From date of the first enrolment until the date of last documented progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months
PF-06463922 is a novel small-molecule ROS1/ALK inhibitor that was optimized for robust brain penetration. The results showed that PF-06463922 is most potent against ROS1 and ALK, with selectivity ratios \>100-fold for ROS1 over the 204 kinases tested. A recent study has investigated the activity of PF-06463922 against the crizotinib-resistant ROS1G2032R mutation in both recombinant enzyme and cell-based assays. PF-06463922 effectively inhibited the catalytic activity of recombinant ROS1G2032R and the CD74-ROS1G2032R fusion kinase in BaF3 cells. This effect translated directly into an antiproliferative response. These results, together with its exquisite ROS1 potency and ability to suppress the resistant ROS1 mutations, supports the clinical evaluation of PF-06463922 in ROS1-positive NSCLC, including patients who have developed resistance to crizotinib because of the acquired G2032R mutation and/or brain metastases.

This is a phase II study assessing response rate to PF-06463922 in patients with ROS1 translocation resistant to previous crizotinib therapy. Eligible patients will be treated with the study drug until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient refusal. Disease assessment will be performed every 8 weeks according to RECIST criteria.