Elotuzumab, Daratumumab, Iberdomide, and Dexamethasone for the Treatment of Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of iberdomide and how well it works in combination with daratumumab, elotuzumab, and dexamethasone in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed). Immunotherapy with iberdomide, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Daratumumab is in a class of medications called monoclonal antibodies. It binds to a protein called CD38, which is found on some types of immune cells and cancer cells, including myeloma cells. Daratumumab may block CD38 and help the immune system kill cancer cells. Elotuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Dexamethasone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It is used to reduce inflammation and lower the body's immune response to help lessen the side effects of chemotherapy drugs. Giving iberdomide in combination with daratumumab, elotuzumab, and dexamethasone may be safe, tolerable and/or effective in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|DRUG: Dexamethasone|BIOLOGICAL: Elotuzumab|DRUG: Iberdomide|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Maximum tolerated dose (Phase 1), The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of iberdomide, daratumumab, elotuzumab, and dexamethasone (IberDEd) will be defined as the highest tested dose level that is determined to have acceptable toxicity and tolerability based on dose limiting toxicity definitions., Up to 28 days|Proportion of patients with very good partial response (VGPR) or better (Phase 2), Will be defined as a patient who has achieved a VGPR, complete response (CR), or stringent complete response (sCR) and maintained it on two consecutive evaluations at any time during therapy per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria., Up to 3 years
Overall response rate (Phase 2), Will be assessed as stringent Complete Response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR), Minimal Response (MR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD)., Up to 3 years|Complete response rate (Phase 2), Will be estimated by the total number of patients who achieve sCR or CR., Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (Phase 2), Defined as the time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression, relapse, or death due to any cause., Up to 3 years|Overall survival (Phase 2), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause., Up to 3 years|Time to response (Phase 2), Defined in patients who have achieved a response (PR or better) as the time from registration to the first incidence of a response., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs) (Phase 2), Will be assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The maximum grade for each type of AE will be recorded for each patient., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of iberdomide, daratumumab, elotuzumab, and dexamethasone (IberDEd) in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma (MM). (Phase 1 \[Dose Confirmation Cohort\]) II. To determine the proportion of patients with very good partial response (VGPR) or better with iberdomide, daratumumab, elotuzumab and dexamethasone (IberDEd) when used as therapy in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) and complete response (CR or stringent complete response \[sCR\]) rate with the combination of iberdomide, daratumumab, elotuzumab and dexamethasone. (Phase 2) II. To assess the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with relapsed multiple myeloma following treatment with the combination of iberdomide, daratumumab, elotuzumab and dexamethasone. (Phase 2) III. To assess the time to response (defined as the time between the date of first dose and the first documented evidence of a partial response or better) following treatment with the combination of iberdomide, daratumumab, elotuzumab and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed MM. (Phase 2) IV. To describe the toxicities associated with the combination of iberdomide, daratumumab, elotuzumab and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed MM. (Phase 2)

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH:

I. Examine the proportion of next generation flow cytometry assessed minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete response following therapy with iberdomide in combination with daratumumab, elotuzumab and dexamethasone. (Phase 2)

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of iberdomide followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive iberdomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of each cycle, daratumumab subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, 15, 22 of cycles 1 and 2, days 1 and 15 of cycles 3-6, and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Patients also receive elotuzumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1 and 2, and on day 1 of subsequent cycles and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1-12 or at the discretion of the treating physician. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 36 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy during screening, on study and optionally at disease progression and computed tomography (CT), bone scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET)/CT during screening, on study or at the discretion of the treating physician and end of treatment (EOT). Patients may undergo chest x-ray during screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 7 days then 30 days and every 3-6 months for up to 3 years.