A Diagnostic Study of CD38-Targeted ImmunoPET of Myeloma
Evaluation of myeloma disease burden is currently suboptimal. This limits treatment planning and evaluation of residual disease following treatment. 89Zr-DFO-daratumumab is a novel immunoPET tracer, designed to detect CD38 on myeloma cells and allow visualization of myeloma in a PET scanner. A phase I study of 89Zr-DFO-daratumumab demonstrated safety and successful visualization of myeloma with 89Zr-DFO-daratumumab. This will be a phase II study of 89Zr-DFO-daratumumab to evaluate potential clinical applications of this novel imaging agent.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: 89Zr-daratumumab PET/CT
89Zr-daratumumab PET/CT for pre-treatment multiple myeloma imaging, 89Zr-daratumumab PET/CT will be compared against standard of care laboratory and imaging measurements of multiple myeloma prior to therapy, up to 3 years|89Zr-daratumumab PET/CT for post-treatment multiple myeloma imaging, 89Zr-daratumumab PET/CT will be compared against standard of care laboratory and imaging measurements of multiple myeloma following therapy, up to 3 years|Prediction of response to therapy, Determine if tumor uptake of 89Zr-daratumumab predicts response to therapy, up to 3 years
This will be a phase II clinical trial to assess the potential clinical value of 89Zr-DFO-daratumumab immunoPET. 60 patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and a plan for daratumumab containing combination therapy will be enrolled. Prior to therapy, current standard of care (SoC), as well as a research 89Zr-DFO-daratumumab PET/CT, tests will be performed. Patients will then undergo standard of care therapy for myeloma as defined by a medical oncologist and SoC response assessments as defined by the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG). Upon suspected complete response (CR) or completion of 12 cycles of therapy, a repeat research 89Zr-DFO-daratumumab PET/CT will be repeated and standard of care minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment will be performed. This design will determine how 89Zr-DFO-daratumumab immunoPET compares with current methods of measuring and localizing disease prior to therapy, if immunoPET can predict response to therapy, and how immunoPET compares with current methods of detecting MRD after therapy.

The therapy in this trial is standard of care. The research component is the addition of a novel immunoPET imaging test before and after standard of care therapy, to determine if the novel imaging test adds value over current measures of myeloma disease burden.