RAD001 in Recurrent Endometrial Cancer Patients
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if RAD001 can shrink or slow the growth of tumors in patients who have recurrent endometrial cancer. The safety of this drug will also be studied.

Objectives:

Primary Objective:

1. To determine the efficacy of RAD001 in patients with progressive or recurrent endometrial cancer.

Secondary Objective:

1. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of RAD001 in this cohort of patients.
2. To characterize, in pre- and post- treatment tumor samples, when available, expression levels of total and phosphorylated mTOR (mammalian "target of rapamycin") as well as relevant upstream and downstream signaling components (optional).
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: RAD001
Number of Participants With Objective Response Plus Stable Disease Rate (CR + PR + SD), Response determined by tumor assessments from radiological tests or physical examination using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST). Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial Response (PR): At least 30% decrease in sum of the longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. Stable Disease (SD): Any condition not meeting the above criteria. The minimum duration for the SD will be 8 weeks. If the participant has stable disease at the time of the first radiographic evaluation, he/she will be considered to have stable disease. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD or the appearance of new lesions within 8 weeks of study entry., 8 weeks|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate (CBR) is defined as the objective response rate plus the proportion of participants with prolonged stable disease (SD), e.g. nonprogression at 20 weeks. Objective response rate (ORR), determined by tumor assessments from radiological tests or physical examination using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST)., 20 weeks
RAD001 is a new drug that was designed to block proteins that are important in the development and growth of cancer.

Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam, routine blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons), a chest x-ray, and a CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

Routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) will be done weekly during treatment, and before each course of therapy, which is every 4 weeks. A complete checkup including evaluation of side effects, will also be done before each course of therapy and at the end of therapy (4 weeks after treatment ends).

You will take RAD001 10 mg by mouth every day. One course of therapy is 4 weeks long. RAD001 should be taken the same time every day on an empty stomach (fasting state) or after no more than a light, fat-free meal. You should wait at least 6 hours after a eating a regular (not fat-free meal) before taking RAD001. You should not eat fatty foods for at least one hour after taking RAD001.

If side effects occur at this dose, your doctor may lower the RAD001 dose, depending on the severity of the side effects. After an additional 4 weeks of therapy, if the dose was reduced and the side effects have resolved, your doctor may increase the dose back to the original dose, or you may continue at the reduced dose.

You will only be given the amount of drug needed for one course of therapy at a time. You will keep a diary during the study that will list when and how much drug you took. This diary will be reviewed after each course of therapy by the research nurse or physician and filed in your chart.

You will have CT or MRI scans and chest x-rays (only in patients with chest disease) to evaluate the response of your tumor to treatment. These scans will be done after the first two courses (eight weeks) and every third course (every 12 weeks) and at the end of therapy. Treatment will be stopped if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

This is an investigational study. RAD001 has been authorized by the FDA for use in research only. Up to 35 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.