Alisertib in Combination With Osimertinib in Metastatic EGFR-mutant Lung Cancer
This phase I/Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of alisertib when given together with osimertinib in treating patients with EGFR-mutated stage IV lung cancer. Alisertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking a specific protein (Aurora Kinase A) that researchers believe may be important for the growth of lung cancer. Osimertinib may reduce tumor growth by blocking the action of a certain mutant protein (EGFR). This study may help researchers test the safety of alisertib at different dose levels in combination with osimertinib, and to find out what effects, good and/or bad, it has on EGFR-mutated lung cancer.
Lung Cancer Metastatic|EGFR Gene Mutation
DRUG: Osimertinib|DRUG: Alisertib
Determination of Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) (Cohort A), The MTD is the highest dose at which no more than one instance of a dose-limiting toxicity is observed among the 6 participants treated., First 28 days of study treatment (1 cycle is 28 days)|Proportion of patients experiencing dose limiting toxicity (DLT) (Cohort A), Less than or at least 1 out of 6 at highest dose level below the maximal administered dose. If 0 of these 3 additional participants experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) (1 of 6), proceed to the next dose level. If 1 or more of the 3 additional participants experience DLT (2 of 6), then dose escalation is stopped, and this dose is declared the maximal administered dose (highest dose administered). Three (3) additional participants will be entered at the next lowest dose level if only 3 participants were treated previously at that dose., First 28 days of study treatment (1 cycle is 28 days)|Proportion of patients experiencing serious adverse event (SAE), The proportion of participants experiencing an adverse event classified as an SAE will be reported by grade and type according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5, with exact 95% confidence intervals, Up to 2 years
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is defined as the best overall response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression from the start of treatment. The frequency and percentages of patients with a best overall response rate of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) will be determined based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. We will compute a 95% confidence interval using a binomial distribution., Up to 2 years|Median Duration of Response (DR), The DR for CR and PR will be measured from the date that the best response if first recorded until the date that PD is documented over the period of 2 years. For patients who continue treatment post-progression, the date of PD documentation will be used for analysis. The DR will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 2 years|Percentage of tumor shrinkage, The depth of response (DOR) will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria. DOR is defined as the percentage of tumor shrinkage, based on longest diameter or reconstructed volume, observed at the lowest point (nadir) compared with baseline. The DOR will be summarized using descriptive statistics, Up to 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved CR, PR, or SD (based on RECIST 1.1 criteria) for at least 12 weeks. The DCR will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 2 years|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), This study is not powered for a PFS endpoint. PFS will be calculated as 1+ the number of days from the first dose of alisertib to documented radiographic progression (based on RECIST 1.1 criteria) or death due to any cause over a period of 2 years. For patients who continue treatment post-progression, the date of radiographic progression will be used for PFS analysis. The Kaplan-Meier analysis will be used to calculate the median PFS with 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), This study is not powered for an OS endpoint. OS will be calculated as 1+ the number of days from the first dose of alisertib to death due to any cause over a period of 2 years. The Kaplan-Meier analysis will be used to calculate the median OS with 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years|Intratumoral TPX2 expression by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), Pre-treatment tumor biopsy formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples will be stained for TPX2 expression by IHC. TPX2 IHC staining will be scored using the following scale: 0, 0-10% of tissue stained positive; 1, 10-20% stained positive; 2, 20-40% stained positive; 3, 40-70% stained positive; and 4, \> 70% positive cells. The sum of staining score index (intensity + extent) will be designated as follows: 0-2, negative expression; 3-4, strong expression. The IHC score will be generated from three different areas of the slides and an average score will be calculated for each sample. We will determine whether there is a difference in TPX2 staining between responders and non-responders to alisertib + osimertinib treatment by the Fisher's exact test., From pretreatment biopsy to time of response, up to 2 years|Area Under Curve (AUC), Plasma will be collected to measure the drug concentrations at the indicated time points and area under curve (AUC) 0-24 hours. The area under the curve (AUC) is the definite integral in a plot of drug concentration in blood plasma vs. time, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours post-dose, up to 2 days|Maximum (or peak) serum concentration (Cmax), Plasma will be collected to measure the drug concentrations at the indicated time points and Cmax will be calculated. It is a standard measurement in pharmacokinetics, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours post-dose, up to 2 days|Amount of time (maximum) drug concentration in serum (Tmax), Plasma will be collected to measure the drug concentrations at the indicated time points and Tmax will be calculated. It is a standard measurement in pharmacokinetics, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours post-dose, up to 2 days|Central Nervous System (CNS) disease control rate, In patients with known CNS metastases prior to initiating treatment on study, the CNS disease control rate will be defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved CR, PR, or SD in the CNS for at least 12 weeks., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of combination treatment with alisertib and osimertinib in patients with metastatic EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have progressed on osimertinib monotherapy and to identify a recommended phase 2 dose for the combination.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To provide preliminary efficacy data for the combination of alisertib and osimertinib in metastatic EGFR-mutant lung cancer patients who have progressed on osimertinib monotherapy.

II. To determine whether pre-treatment Targeting Protein for XKlp2 (TPX2) positivity by immunohistochemistry (IHC) correlates with response to alisertib + osimertinib combination therapy.

III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of alisertib in combination with osimertinib.

IV. To evaluate the central nervous system (CNS) response rate of alisertib + osimertinib.

V. To provide preliminary efficacy data for the combination of alisertib and osimertinib in metastatic EGFR-mutant lung cancer patients without known TP53 tumor genomic alterations who have progressed on osimertinib monotherapy.

EXPLORATORY (CORRELATIVE) OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify tumor co-occurring genomic alterations that correlate with response to alisertib + osimertinib treatment.

II. To determine whether phosphorylated (phospho)-aurora kinase A (AURKA) levels correlate with response to alisertib + osimertinib treatment.

III. To determine whether tumor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) activity correlates with response to alisertib + osimertinib treatment.

IV. To evaluate for changes in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) during treatment with combination alisertib + osimertinib.

V. To identify mechanisms of resistance to alisertib + osimertinib.

VI. Safety in East Asian vs. Non-East Asian population.

VII. Pharmacokinetics in East Asian vs. Non-East Asian.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of alisertib.

Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17. Patients also receive osimertinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days the absence of clinical benefit, intolerance, or other contraindication to study treatment..

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 to 6 months for up to 2 years.