Partial Nephrectomy in Low Pressure
The main objective is to prospectively assess the impact of low insufflation pressure using AirSeal system (7mm Hg) during RAPN on post-operative patient pain (main location and intensity), 24 hours after surgery. The study will be conducted among 15 centers of the French research network on kidney cancer UroCCR.
Kidney Tumors Treated With Minimally Invasive Surgery
DEVICE: Low insufflation pressure (7mm Hg) for Robotic Assisted Partial Nephrectomy|DEVICE: Standard insufflation pressure (12mm Hg) for Robotic Assisted Partial Nephrectomy
Intensity of post-operative pain, intensity of pain measured by a numeric analogic scale (between 0 and 10), 24 hours after surgery
Number of clamp procedures., Determination of the number of off-clamp procedures and the number of on-clamp procedures (type and length of clamping), at surgery|Main location and intensity of post-operative pain., Determination of main location and intensity (visual analogic scale) of post operative pain (minimum=0 correspond to worse outcome; maximum =10 correspond to better outcome), 6 hours and 48 hours after surgery|Length of surgery, determination of length of surgery in minutes, up to 30 Days|Estimated blood loss and intra-operative transfusion, Estimated blood loss (mL) and intra-operative transfusion, at surgery
Plateau Pressure and PETCO2 60 minutes after incision, at surgery|Length of Hospital stay (days), Determination of Length of Hospital stay (days), up to 30 days after surgery|Number and Clavien-Dindo classification of intra and post-operative complications up to 30 days after surgery, up to 30 days after surgery|Pain-killer intake scoring during the first post-operative week (7days), up to 7 days after surgery|Minutes between end of surgery and first time out of bed, up to Day 2|Minutes between end of surgery and resumption of feeding, up to Day 2 after surgery|Minutes between end of surgery and resumption of bowel function (stools), up to day 7 after surgery|Cost difference between the two arms (€), at surgery|Minutes between end of surgery and resumption of bowel function (gaz), up to day 2 after surgery
Minimally invasive route for PN is recommended to offer patients ERAS and day-case pathways leading to the best possible recovery. In this setting, pain management is crucial and every innovation supposed to offer a benefit has to be assessed. For transperitoneal laparoscopic procedures, the level and stability of the insufflation pressure will influence the quality of the pneumoperitoneum and may impact the feasibility of the surgery as well as intra and post-operative outcomes. It is universally recognized that the lower insufflation pressure, the better. However, a balance has usually to be found between technical feasibility of the surgery and lowest acceptable insufflation pressure. The AirSeal system aims to generate a stable pneumoperitoneum even in case of active gaz succion by the surgeon's assistant. The investigators then hypothesize that RAPN would be feasible and safe even in low pressure (7mm Hg) and may decrease post-operative patients' pain.

The investigators plan to describe the feasibility of Low Pressure RAPN at 7mm Hg (LP-RAPN) and assess its intra and post-operative outcomes including pain and recovery on a patient perspective. This will be achieved comparatively to RAPN performed at standard insufflation pressure of 12 mm Hg and through a single blinded randomized trial design.

The project has been developed and will be conducted within the framework of the French research network on kidney cancer UroCCR (www.uroccr.fr). INCa has been supporting this multidisciplinary network since 2011 and the web-based shared clinical and biological national database on kidney cancer UroCCR will be used.