Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Treatment of rmhTNF for CRCPM: Phase II Clinical Trial
The goal of this study is planing to adopt intra-abdominal perfusion therapy of rmhTNF during radical colorectal cancer surgery to determine whether intra-abdominal therapy has an impact on postoperative intestinal function recovery, anastomotic leakage, postoperative bleeding, postoperative adhesion intestinal obstruction and other complications. On this basis, the effect of rmhTNF on postoperative peritoneal implantation metastasis and long-term survival was further studied. The main question it aims to answer is: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of rmhTNF in the treatment of peritoneal metastases in colorectal cancer. Participants will receive 1. Radical surgery: Surgical methods can be developed or endoscopic (including robotic surgery). Radical resection of colorectal cancer (corresponding resection of colon and rectum plus regional lymph node dissection, regional lymph node dissection including parenteral, intermediate and mesangial root lymph nodes) follows the principle of mesangectomy and tumorless operation. 2. Abdominal heat perfusion was performed twice: the first time, 5 million IUrmhTNF, dissolved in 30-50ml normal saline, was intraperitoneal heat perfusion into the surgical focus after the operation; the second time, rhatitrexed 2.5mg/m2 was injected into the abdominal cavity through thermoperfusion or drainage tube; 3. Postoperative systemic chemotherapy regimen: postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy should be started 3-4 weeks after surgery, and appropriately extended for patients with poor physique, but no later than 8 weeks after surgery. The chemotherapy regimen was determined by the clinician according to pathological stage, molecular typing, and risk factors, referring to the NCCN and CSCO guidelines.
Peritoneal Metastases|Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Hyperthermic intraperitoneal treatment of recombinant modified human tumor necrosis factor (rmhTNF)
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, the time of postoperative intestinal function recovery, whether exist anastomotic leakage, postoperative bleeding, postoperative adhesion ileus, and other complications in 2 weeks after surgery., 1 year
the recurrence rate of metastasis and long-term survival of participants accepted the treatment of rmhTNF in the treatment of peritoneal metastases in colorectal cancer., 1. record the time period between the date of randomization and the date of patient tumor recurrence or death (earliest occurrence), and calculated the recurrence rate of metastasis after surgery.
2. 1-year overall survival rate after surgery, 1 year
The goal of this study is planing to adopt intra-abdominal perfusion therapy of rmhTNF during radical colorectal cancer surgery to determine whether intra-abdominal therapy has an impact on postoperative intestinal function recovery, anastomotic leakage, postoperative bleeding, postoperative adhesion intestinal obstruction and other complications. On this basis, the effect of rmhTNF on postoperative peritoneal implantation metastasis and long-term survival was further studied. The main question it aims to answer is: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of rmhTNF in the treatment of peritoneal metastases in colorectal cancer. Participants will receive 1. Radical surgery: Surgical methods can be developed or endoscopic (including robotic surgery). Radical resection of colorectal cancer (corresponding resection of colon and rectum plus regional lymph node dissection, regional lymph node dissection including parenteral, intermediate and mesangial root lymph nodes) follows the principle of mesangectomy and tumorless operation. 2. Abdominal heat perfusion was performed twice: the first time, 5 million IUrmhTNF, dissolved in 30-50ml normal saline, was intraperitoneal heat perfusion into the surgical focus after the operation; the second time, rhatitrexed 2.5mg/m2 was injected into the abdominal cavity through thermoperfusion or drainage tube; 3. Postoperative systemic chemotherapy regimen: postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy should be started 3-4 weeks after surgery, and appropriately extended for patients with poor physique, but no later than 8 weeks after surgery. The chemotherapy regimen was determined by the clinician according to pathological stage, molecular typing, and risk factors, referring to the NCCN and CSCO guidelines.