Study of Intracellular Nucleotide Pools Determination as Biomarker of the Efficacy of the Induction Treatment in Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) consists in two main phases: induction and consolidation. Standard chemotherapy combination for induction treatment associates cytarabine (AraC), a nucleoside analog, and an anthracycline (most often daunorubucin). About 60-70% of patients achieved complete remission after this standard chemotherapy. As cytarabine competes with endogenous nucleotides to exert its activity, the aim of this protocol is to study in vivo the effect of intracellular nucleotide pools on the efficacy of the induction treatment. Thus, intracellular nucleotides levels will be determined in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with acute myeloid leukemia before treatment, and results will be compared with the efficacy of the treatment. This parameter will be assessed by the achievement of complete remission.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: Biological analyses
Complete remission, Primary endpoint will be the achievement of complete remission after induction treatment and bone marrow aplasia., 30 days
Treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) consists in two main phases: induction and consolidation. Standard chemotherapy combination for induction treatment associates cytarabine (AraC), a nucleoside analog, and an anthracycline (most often daunorubucin). About 60-70% of patients achieved complete remission after this standard chemotherapy. As cytarabine competes with endogenous nucleotides to exert its activity, the aim of this protocol is to study in vivo the effect of intracellular nucleotide pools on the efficacy of the induction treatment. Thus, intracellular nucleotides levels will be determined in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with acute myeloid leukemia before treatment, and results will be compared with the efficacy of the treatment. This parameter will be assessed by the achievement of complete remission.