Response Adapted Incorporation of Tislelizumab Into the Front-line Treatment of Older Patients With Hodgkin lYmphoma
The goal of this clinical trial is to test the effect of tislelizumab treatment in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. The main question it aims to answer is whether including a drug called tislelizumab in first-line treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma for patients age 60 years and older is effective and well-tolerated.

Participants will initially receive tislelizumab infusion every 21 days for 3 doses. After this a PET scan will be performed to assess the response. The subsequent treatment patients receive will depend on the following factors:

1. The lymphoma stage (early stage or advanced stage)
2. The presence or absence of specific high-risk features at the time of diagnosis
3. How well the lymphoma responds to the initial 3 doses of tislelizumab
Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Tislelizumab, AVD, Radiotherapy
Two-year event-free survival (EFS), To determine the effect of tislelizumab on 2 year EFS using a response-adapted approach to treatment in the front-line treatment of older patients with Hodgkin lymphoma, 2 years after start of treatment
The number / percentage of patients with the worst grade of each adverse event, To assess the safety and tolerability of tislelizumab alone and in combination with AVD. Worst grades will be calculated and presented as the number/percentage of patients with each event., From signing of informed consent until 30 calendar days post last IMP or post last investigational treatment administration (or after this date if the site investigator feels the event is related to an IMP and/or investigational treatment)|PET-defined response rates, To determine the effect of single agent tislelizumab on response (overall response rate (ORR), partial response (PR), complete response (CR) and Indeterminate Response (IR)) after 3 cycles of tislelizumab (PET1) and at end of initial treatment (PET2), After 3 cycles of tislelizumab (PET1) and at the end of the initial treatment (PET2) - up to 2 years after start of treatment|Overall survival (OS) of the whole population, To determine the effect of response adapted treatment with tislelizumab on OS, From the date of registration until the date of death (any cause) or the date last seen (patients alive at time of analysis).|Progression free survival (PFS) of the whole population, To determine the effect of response adapted treatment with tislelizumab on PFS, 2 years after start of treatment|EFS in early versus late stage patients, To determine the effect of response adapted treatment with tislelizumab on EFS within early and late stage subgroups of patients, Up to 2 years after start of treatment|EFS in interim PET negative and positive patients, To determine the effect of response adapted treatment with tislelizumab on EFS in PET1 negative and positive patients, Up to 2 years after start of treatment|Quality of life (QoL) assessed using EQ-5D-5L and FACT-Lym, To assess the effect of treatment on QoL using using EQ-5D-5L and FACT-Lym at baseline and at multiple points during treatment and follow-up. These will be analysed using repeated measures including patient group., From baseline until 2 years after start of treatment|Time to treatment failure, To assess the rate of unplanned Hodgkin lymphoma therapy using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, with plots and rates at 2 years presented., From the date of registration until the first date of progression, death or unplanned Hodgkin lymphoma therapy (switch to other regimens or any unplanned consolidation treatment) up to 2 years after start of trial treatment.|PFS in early versus late stage patients, To determine the effect of response adapted treatment with tislelizumab on PFS within early and late stage subgroups of patients, 2 years after start of treatment|OS in early versus late stage patients, To determine the effect of response adapted treatment with tislelizumab on OS within early and late stage subgroups of patients, Up to 2 years after start of treatment|PFS in interim PET negative and positive patients, To determine the effect of response adapted treatment with tislelizumab on PFS in PET1 negative and positive patients, Up to 2 years after start of treatment|OS in interim PET negative and positive patients, To determine the effect of response adapted treatment with tislelizumab on OS in PET1 negative and positive patients, Up to 2 years after start of treatment|Frailty assessed using the Clinical Frailty Score (CFS), To assess the effect of treatment on frailty using the Clinical Frailty Score at baseline and at multiple points during treatment and follow-up. These will be analysed using repeated measures including patient group., From baseline until up to 2 years after start of treatment
Trial patients who are deemed eligible for the trial will receive 3 cycles of tislelizumab which will be administered at a dose of 200 mg (IV) on day 1 of each 21-day cycle. Patients will then undergo a PET-CT scan (PET1). Subsequent treatment is determined by the patient's stage and response to tislelizumab (as determined by PET1).

Patients with early stage lymphoma and no high-risk features who respond very well to the initial 3 doses of tislelizumab will receive a further 2 doses of tislelizumab, followed by radiotherapy, followed by tislelizumab once every 21 days for up to 2 years.

All other patients will receive a combination of tislelizumab with chemotherapy for between 2 and 6 cycles. Each cycle will last 28 days. Tislelizumab will be given on day 1 and chemotherapy (doxorubicin (also known as Adriamycin), vinblastine and dacarbazine, or AVD) will be given on days 1 and 15, as injections or infusions into a vein. Following this some patients may require radiotherapy depending on their response to treatment.

Patients who are in complete metabolic response (CMR) at PET1 will receive 2 fewer cycles of tislelizumab and AVD therapy than those not in CMR.

A further 1 or 2 PET scans will be performed to assess how well the lymphoma has responded to the trial treatment, depending on the results of previous scans. After completing the treatment patients will then be followed-up for at least 2 years from the start of their participation in the trial.

Note: Initial patients will be recruited to a safety run in. Once 6 evaluable patients have completed 2 cycles of tislelizumab and AVD after PET1 the independent data monitoring committee (IDMC) will review the data, and if considered tolerable, recruitment will continue to the full sample size (80 patients).