Donor Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant and Pretargeted Radioimmunotherapy in Treating Patients With High-Risk Advanced Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase I trial studies pretargeted radioimmunotherapy and donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant employing fludarabine phosphate and total-body irradiation (TBI) to treat patients with high-risk acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or myelodysplastic syndrome. Giving chemotherapy drugs, such as fludarabine phosphate, and TBI before a donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies can be combined with fludarabine phosphate and TBI to find cancer cells and kill them without harming normal cells. Pretargeted radioimmunotherapy (PRIT) allows for further improved targeting of tumor cells over standard directly labeled antibodies.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm, Unclassifiable|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts|Refractory Cytopenia With Multilineage Dysplasia|Refractory Cytopenia With Multilineage Dysplasia and Ringed Sideroblasts|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: Pretargeted Radioimmunotherapy|DRUG: Cyclosporine|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation|PROCEDURE: Nonmyeloablative Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) (grade III/IV Bearman) to determine MTD of radiation delivered to normal organ by pretargeted 90Y-DOTA-biotin, Conducted by the "two-stage" approach introduced by Storer. The MTD will be defined as the dose of 90Y-DOTA-biotin used in combination with the non-myeloablative HCT conditioning regimen that is associated with a grade III/IV regimen related toxicity (RRT) or true DLT rate of 25%., Within 100 days post-transplant
Rates of engraftment, chimerism, and non-relapse mortality, Chimerism testing methods will be in accordance with Standard Practice Guidelines, with timing consistent with other non-myeloablative transplant protocols. Mixed or full donor chimerism will be evidence of donor engraftment. Full Chimerism is defined as \> 95% donor CD3+ T cells and mixed chimerism is the detection of peripheral blood donor T cells (CD3+) and granulocytes (CD33+) as a proportion of the total peripheral blood T cell and granulocyte population, respectively. The true rate of graft rejection exceeds must be less than 20%., Days 28|Rates of engraftment, chimerism, and non-relapse mortality, Chimerism testing methods will be in accordance with Standard Practice Guidelines, with timing consistent with other non-myeloablative transplant protocols. Mixed or full donor chimerism will be evidence of donor engraftment. Full Chimerism is defined as \> 95% donor CD3+ T cells and mixed chimerism is the detection of peripheral blood donor T cells (CD3+) and granulocytes (CD33+) as a proportion of the total peripheral blood T cell and granulocyte population, respectively. The true rate of graft rejection exceeds must be less than 20%., Day 84|Rate of grades III-IV acute GVHD, Graded according to the established criteria at the FHCRC., At day +100|Achievement and duration of response, Complete remission is defined as complete resolution of all signs of myelodysplasia or leukemia for at least four weeks with normal bone marrow with blasts \< 5% with normal cellularity, normal megakaryopoiesis, more than 15% erythropoiesis, and more than 25% granulocytopoiesis; normalization of blood counts; and no extramedullary disease. Partial remission is defined as improvement of hematological parameters in the peripheral blood and 50% decline in marrow blasts from pre-transplant level with \> 10% erythropoiesis and 25% granulocytopoiesis., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of radiation delivered via PRIT using BC8-SA (BC8 antibody-streptavidin conjugate) when combined with fludarabine (FLU) (fludarabine phosphate), 2 Gy total body irradiation (TBI), cyclosporine (CSP), mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) in patients who have advanced acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), or high risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate rates of immune reconstitution, engraftment, and donor chimerism resulting from this combined preparative regimen.

II. To estimate rates of disease relapse, acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), and day-100 disease-free survival in patients receiving PRIT using BC8-SA combined with FLU, 2 Gy TBI, CSP, MMF, and allogeneic HCT.

III. To assess biodistribution, serum half-life, urinary excretion, tissue localization, and clearance of BC8-SA conjugate and DOTA-biotin.

IV. To assess the feasibility of yttrium y 90 (90Y)-DOTA-biotin to bind to BC8-SA conjugate localized to hematolymphoid tissues.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo pretargeted radioimmunotherapy comprising a test dose of BC8-SA conjugate intravenously (IV) on day -22 and indium In 111(111In)-DOTA-biotin IV on day -20, followed by a therapy dose of BC8-SA conjugate IV on day -14 and 90Y-DOTA-biotin IV on day -12. Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV on days -4 to -2. Patients undergo TBI and then peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients with matched related donors receive cyclosporine IV on days -3 to 56 and taper to day 180 and mycophenolate mofetil orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 0-27. Patients with matched unrelated donors receive cyclosporine IV on days -3 to 100 and taper to day 180 and mycophenolate mofetil PO thrice daily (TID) on days 0-40 and taper to day 96.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months, and then annually thereafter.