68GA-PSMA-11 PET/CT Scan in Impacting Treatment Strategies for Patients With Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies the impact of 68GA-PSMA-11 positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan on treatment strategies for patients with prostate cancer. Diagnostic imaging procedures, such as 68GA-PSMA-11 PET/CT scan, may help doctors plan the best treatment for prostate cancer.
Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Carcinoma|PSA Level Greater Than Fifty|PSA Progression|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Gallium Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Intended and implemented management changes after gallium Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 (68Ga-PSMA-11) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT), A separate analysis of initial versus subsequent management will be performed. Will be evaluated using descriptive statistics for both the treatment modality analysis and the disease stage based management analysis. Questionnaires will be collected to determine the intended patient management before and intended management changes after PET/CT, and to determine whether intended management changes were implemented. The outcome measure is the rate of change (%) as assessed by the questionnaires before and after PET., Up to 3-6 months after completion of imaging
Prognostic value of the 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT miTNM classification for biochemical progression-free survival (PFS), From inclusion to date until PSA progression or death (whichever occurs first), assessed up to 12 months|Prognostic value of the 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT miTNM classification for radiographic PFS, Nodal and visceral disease will be evaluated on cross-sectional imaging using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1/Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria. Bone metastases will be evaluated using bone scintigraphy and new lesions have to be confirmed on a second scan (2+2 rule) using PCWG3 criteria., From inclusion to date until first site of disease is found to progress or death (whichever occurs first), assessed up to 12 months|Prognostic value of the 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT miTNM classification for overall survival, From inclusion to date of death, assessed up to 12 months|Positive predictive value (PPV) on a per-patient and per-region basis of 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET for detection of tumor location, Confirmed by histopathology/biopsy or follow-up assessed separately for initial staging and restaging. Will be calculated and reported along with the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals. The confidence intervals will be constructed using the Wilson score method. PPV will be reported for each of the three blinded readers independently. Detection rates on a per-patient basis of 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET stratified by prostate-specific antigen (PSA) value will be summarized in tabular format and compared between PSA strata using chi-square analysis. Detection rate is defined as number of patients with PSMA positive disease, independent of pathology, imaging or clinical follow-up. A detection rate will be reported for each reader independently stratified by PSA., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the impact of gallium Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 (68Ga-PSMA-11) PET/CT on initial and subsequent treatment strategies of patients with prostate cancer.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 68Ga-PSMA-11 intravenously (IV) and undergo PET/CT scan over 3 hours. Patients may be reenrolled in the study, if 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT is performed for subsequent management decision.

After completion of study, patients are followed up within 3-12 months.