Resting Energy Expenditure in Palliative Cancer Patients
The study purpose is to measure REE by indirect calorimetry and to determine limits of agreement with confidence intervals between measured REE and predictive equations for determination of energy requirements in patients with incurable cancer. Clinical factors associated with hyper- and hypometabolism will be elucidated. Data will be obtained from patient journals in combination with measurements of REE and registration of survival. Data will be collected at one timepoint and survival will be monitored prospectively.
Cancer|Cachexia
Measurement of resting energy expenditure (REE) in patients with incurable cancer measured with the COSMED Q-NRG+ Indirect Calorimeter with a Canopy Hood., Investigate the agreement between the most used energy expenditure prediction equation (Harris-Benedict calculation for resting energy expenditure based on weight, height and gender) and measured REE (kilocalories/day) by indirect calorimetry in patients with incurable cancer., Throughout study completion, approximately 3 years.
Clinical factors associated with hyper- and hypometabolism, Explore the association between patients identified as hyper-or hypometabolic (REE \> 10% or \< 10% of the predicted BMR (in kilocalories per day)) and a set of explanatory variables such as cancer diagnosis (type), weight loss last six months ((current/past weight)\*100), symptom score (Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS)), degree of inflammation (CRP in mg/L), and survival (days after REE measurement)., Throughout study completion, approximately 3 years.
The study purpose is to measure REE by indirect calorimetry and to determine limits of agreement with confidence intervals between measured REE and predictive equations for determination of energy requirements in patients with incurable cancer. Clinical factors associated with hyper- and hypometabolism will be elucidated. Data will be obtained from patient journals in combination with measurements of REE and registration of survival. Data will be collected at one timepoint and survival will be monitored prospectively.