Sorafenib Tosylate Following a Liver Transplant in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine if sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) is a safe and effective treatment option for preventing liver cancer in high risk patients following liver transplantation. Liver transplantation is a treatment option for liver cancer patients, but despite transplantation, the liver cancer can recur in the new, transplanted liver. It is not known whether sorafenib is effective in preventing cancer recurrence in high risk patients following liver transplantation
Adult Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Localized Resectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Recurrence-free survival, evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST) Committee, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Compared between the drug verses placebo groups using the unstratified log rank test. Hazard rates, hazard rate ratios and median times to recurrence (or 25 percentiles if median time is not reached) and their corresponding 95% confidence bounds will be reported. A secondary analysis will also be presented stratified by macro versus non-macro status, the most important potential covariate., Defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease recurrence by radiological assessment or death due to any cause whichever occurs first, assessed at 2 years
Overall survival, From randomization to the date of death or the last date the subject was known to be alive, assessed up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Recurrence-free survival, evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the mRECIST Committee, Defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease recurrence by radiological assessment or death due to any cause whichever occurs first, assessed at 1 year|Adverse events assessed in terms of seriousness, severity, and relationship to the study material according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Assessed up to 2 years|Impact of drug-drug interactions, Assessed up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Impact of biomarkers (AFP and PIVKA II), Assessed up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Time to wound healing, Assessed up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Time to first HCV viral recurrence, Assessed up to 2 years after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Two-year recurrence free survival (RFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. One-year recurrence free survival. II. Overall survival (OS). III. Safety. IV. Impact of drug-drug interactions (i.e. immunosuppression agents). V. Impact of biomarkers (alpha-fetoprotein \[AFP\], protein-induced by vitamin K absence or antagonist II \[PIVKA II\]).

VI. Effects of therapy on wound healing. VII. Impact of hepatitis C viral recurrence.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID).

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID.

In both arms treatment continues for 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years.