Fat Grafting Used for the Treatment of Breast Cancer Related Lymphedema in China
Breast cancer related lymphedema (BRCL) is a common complication following breast cancer treatment. The incidence of BRCL ranges from 6-50%, depending on the surgical procedure in the axilla and the type of the radiation therapy. BRCL can causes cosmetic deformities, impaired physical mobility, mental discomfort, reduced quality of life and erysipelas. Therapy of BRCL is divided into conservative and operative methods. However, all the above method has some shortcomings. It is urgent to investigate new approaches to treat BRCL. In this study, fat grafting is to be used for the treatment of BRCL, and the efficacy and safety of this method will be also assessed.
Breast Cancer Lymphedema
DEVICE: Fat Grafting
Change in arm volume, All the patients who received treatment are scanned by 3 dimensional camera, then the volume measurement of the affected and normal arm is managed by software, Baseline, 3 months, 6months and 12 months
Change in tissue edema, The affected and normal arms of the patients who received treatment are assessed by multi-frequency bioelectrical impedance analysis, Baseline, 3 months, 6months and 12 months|The function of the lymphatic vessel, The affected arms of the patients who received treatment was assessed by indocyanine green lymphography, Baseline, 3 months, 6months and 12 months|Side effects of treatment, Any side effects of experimental treatment. The patients who received treatment are asked at each visit, Baseline, 3 months, 6months and 12 months|Change in quality of life, The patients who received treatment are asked to fill in a questionnaire (EQ-5D- 5 L-questionnaire), Baseline and 12 months
Breast cancer related lymphedema (BRCL) is a common complication following breast cancer treatment. The incidence of BRCL ranges from 6-50%, depending on the surgical procedure in the axilla and the type of the radiation therapy. BRCL can causes cosmetic deformities, impaired physical mobility, mental discomfort, reduced quality of life and erysipelas. Therapy of BRCL is divided into conservative and operative methods. However, all the above method has some shortcomings. It is urgent to investigate new approaches to treat BRCL. In this study, fat grafting is to be used for the treatment of BRCL, and the efficacy and safety of this method will be also assessed.