Chemoradiation Therapy and Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Stages IB2-IIB or IIIB-IVA Cervical Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ipilimumab when given after chemoradiation therapy in treating patients with stages IB2-IIB or IIIB-IVA cervical cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab, may find tumor cells and help carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving ipilimumab together with chemoradiation therapy may be a better way treat cervical cancer.
Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Cervical Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Stage IB2 Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage II Cervical Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIA Cervical Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Internal Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
DLTs occurring during adjuvant ipilimumab in the dose escalation phase, During first 2 courses of treatment|DLTs occurring in the feasibility phase, Over 4 courses of treatment|Toxicities as assessed by CTCAE version 4, Up to 2 years post-treatment
Response rate in patients enrolled with measurable disease assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, Relationships of translational research endpoints to response will be explored if practical., Up to 2 years post-treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier plots. Relationships of translational research endpoints to PFS will be explored if practical., From time of study entry to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year post-treatment|Overall survival, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier plots., From time of study entry to time of death or the date the patient was last confirmed to be alive, assessed up to 1 year post-treatment|Location of recurrence (loco-regional versus distant), Up to 1 year post-treatment|Chronic toxicities experienced within one year of completion of therapy, Up to 1 year post-treatment
Enumeration of HPV-specific T-cells, Summary statistics (and graphs) of translational research endpoints will be done by dose level. Relationships of these endpoints to response and PFS will be explored if practical., Up to 2 years|Kinetics of HPV-specific T-cell expansion, Summary statistics (and graphs) of translational research endpoints will be done by dose level. Relationships of these endpoints to response and PFS will be explored if practical., Up to 2 years|Characterization of differential activated T-cell responses based on HLA-subtype A*0201, Summary statistics (and graphs) of translational research endpoints will be done by dose level. Relationships of these endpoints to response and PFS will be explored if practical., Up to 2 years|Measurable parameters from the fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-PET/CT, including SUVmax of the primary tumor, metabolic tumor volume (MTV) if available, the presence of abnormal FDG uptake within lymph nodes, Summary statistics (and graphs) of translational research endpoints will be done by dose level. Relationships of these endpoints to response and PFS will be explored if practical. Within-patient changes in the FDG-PET/CT SUVmax and MTV (if available) will be examined., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of adjuvant ipilimumab following concurrent weekly cisplatin and extended field radiation in women with newly diagnosed locally advanced cervical cancer stage IB2/ IIA with-positive para-aortic lymph nodes only and stage IIB/IIIB/IVA with positive lymph nodes.

II. To determine the feasibility of the treatment regimen over the four cycles of adjuvant ipilimumab once the MTD is estimated.

III. To assess the toxicities of the treatment regimen per the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine progression free survival for 1 year after study completion. II. To determine site of recurrence, loco-regional versus distant, for one year after completion of therapy.

III. To estimate the frequency of chronic toxicities experienced within one year after completion of therapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To enumerate the human papillomavirus (HPV)-subtype-specific T-cells and characterize the kinetics of HPV-subtype-specific T-cell expansion associated with chemoradiation and ipilimumab treatment.

II. To characterize the association between differential expression of immune markers on leukocytes from human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A\*0201 patients and response to chemoradiation and ipilimumab treatment.

III. To assess qualitative changes in maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) from positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) after treatment with chemoradiation and ipilimumab.

IV. To bank residual plasma (obtained from leukocyte processing) for future research.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ipilimumab.

Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36, undergo external beam radiation therapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks, and then undergo intracavitary brachytherapy for approximately 2 weeks. Within 2 weeks, patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes once every 3 weeks for 12 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 1 year.