Clinical Evaluation of Fenestration Decompression Combined With Secondary Curettage for Ameloblastoma of the Jaw: Retrospective Radiographic Analysis
Objectives: To investigate the outcomes of fenestration decompression combined with secondary curettage (FDSC) in the surgical treatment of jaw ameloblastoma.

Methods: Medical records of patients diagnosed as multicystic ameloblastoma (MA) or unicystic ameloblastoma (UA) by routine pathology were collected from January 2010 to December 2017 in Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai JiaoTong University Medical College. Patients were divided into two groups based on the management regimen: FDSC group, and local curettage (LC) group. Patients were followed up for 3-8 years, using panoramic radiography to measure the change of the area of the cystic cavity involved in ameloblastoma and the recurrence or malignant transformation of the tumor in both groups. A total of 233 eligible patients were selected for provisional screening, including 145 patients with MA, and 88 patients with UA.
Cystic Cavity Area Reduction Efficiency|the Recurrence of the Tumor
PROCEDURE: fenestration decompression combined with secondary curettage
Cystic cavity area reduction efficiency, (good effect case number + moderate effect case number)/total case number, 3 years after surgery
Tumor recurrence rate, the recurrence case number/total case number, 3 years after surgery
malignant transformation rate, malignant transformation case number/total case number, 3 years after surgery
Objectives: To investigate the outcomes of fenestration decompression combined with secondary curettage (FDSC) in the surgical treatment of jaw ameloblastoma.

Methods: Medical records of patients diagnosed as multicystic ameloblastoma (MA) or unicystic ameloblastoma (UA) by routine pathology were collected from January 2010 to December 2017 in Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai JiaoTong University Medical College. Patients were divided into two groups based on the management regimen: FDSC group, and local curettage (LC) group. Patients were followed up for 3-8 years, using panoramic radiography to measure the change of the area of the cystic cavity involved in ameloblastoma and the recurrence or malignant transformation of the tumor in both groups. A total of 233 eligible patients were selected for provisional screening, including 145 patients with MA, and 88 patients with UA.