Elesclomol Sodium and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer, Fallopian Tube Cancer, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well elesclomol sodium and paclitaxel work in treating patients with ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer that has returned after a period of improvement (recurrent) or is persistent. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as elesclomol sodium and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Elesclomol sodium may also help paclitaxel work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug.
Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Tumor|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
DRUG: Elesclomol Sodium|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Proportion of Participants With Objective Response, Proportion of Participants with Object Response (per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors criteria (RECIST V1.1) for target lesions as assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions, Partial Response (PR), \>= 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 5 years|Duration of Objective Response, Duration of objective response (months), Up to 5 years|Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Adverse Event, The frequency of patients who experienced at least one adverse effect (with a grade of 1 or higher). Adverse effects are defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease that occurs in a patient administered a medical treatment, whether the event is considered related or unrelated to the medical treatment., Up to 5 years|The Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Grade 3 Adverse Event, The number of participants who experienced at least one grade three (or higher) adverse effect. The severity of observed adverse effects is graded using the NCI CTCAE version 4.0., Up to 5 years
Progression-free Survival (Median), Progression-free survival (median, in months) will be analyzed by Kaplan-Meier analysis (progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (also a 5 mm absolute increase is also required), or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Overall Survival (Median), Overall survival (median, in months) will be analyzed by Kaplan-Meier analysis., From start of treatment to time of death or the date of last contact, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the antitumor activity of elesclomol (elesclomol sodium) and paclitaxel in patients with persistent or recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer primarily through the frequency of objective tumor responses.

II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of elesclomol and paclitaxel in this cohort of patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with elesclomol and paclitaxel.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and elesclomol sodium IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: Patients who are currently on treatment must not be dosed with elesclomol sodium after 12/31/2015. All other study procedures, with the exception of elesclomol sodium administration and paclitaxel administration, should continue in accordance with protocol requirements. Any treatment given after 12/31/2015, including continuation of paclitaxel, will be considered off study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.