Sorafenib/Erlotinib Versus Erlotinib Alone in Previously Treated Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This trial will investigate the use of the newer targeted agents erlotinib and sorafenib in patients with stage IIIB or stage IV NSCLC who have received 1-2 prior chemotherapy regimens. Patients will be randomized to receive erlotinib (150 mg/day) and sorafenib (400 mg twice daily), or erlotinib (150 mg/day) and a placebo.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib + Sorafenib|DRUG: Erlotinib + Placebo
Overall Objective Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of patients who have a partial or complete response to therapy. Responses were assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST; version 1.0).

Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions, and disappearance of all non-target lesions.

Partial Response: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum of longest diameters), 18 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the first day of treatment until the day tumor progression was documented. Response was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST).

Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, 18 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR) is defined as the percentage of patients who have a partial/complete/stable response to therapy. Responses were assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST; version 1.0).

Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions, and disappearance of all non-target lesions.

Partial Response: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum of longest diameters) Stable Response: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response, nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters since the treatment started)., 18 months
Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the time from when objective response is realized until time to first documented disease progression. Disease progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Objective Response = CR + PR. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 18 months|6-month PFS, Progression free survival is defined as the time from the first day of treatment until the day tumor progression was documented. Response was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions (1). Percentage of participants who were progression free at 6 month from the start of treatment is reported here., 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the first treatment until date of death due to any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death or lack of data beyond follow-up period, the survival time was censored to last date the participant was known to be alive., 18 months
The rationale of this study is to combine two distinct kinase inhibitors to evaluate synergistic inhibition of angiogenesis and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling. Erlotinib is a oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets EGFR. Sorafenib is a oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR), platelet derived growth factor receptor beta, Raf-1, Flt-3, and C-kit. These agents also do not exhibit overlapping adverse event profiles which provided additional support for studying this combination therapy.