Assessment of Safety of Air Travel in Patients With Birt-Hogg-Dube Syndrome
The aim of this study is to conduct survey-based assessments for the safety of air travel in patients with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome (BHD). The study will enroll patients through the clinic network at Rare Lung Disease Consortium (RLDC) and through the BHD foundation website. Patients will have access to the questionnaire via REDCap (an online data management system) and each patient will be provided with a link to complete the survey. The investigators plan on enrolling approximately 100 patients with BHD for the purpose of this study. Secondary aims of this study include further characterization of the clinical aspects of disease and to establish a contact registry for these patients, in order to facilitate future studies.
Birt-Hogg-Dube Syndrome
OTHER: Non-Interventional Study
Number of Patients With Birt-Hogg-Dube Syndrome Who Experienced Spontaneous Pneumothorax During or Within 24 Hours Following Air Travel, The investigators will measure the number of pneumothoraces that occur either during air travel, or within 24 hours of air travel among patients with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome. The incidence of air travel related pneumothorax will be calculated by dividing the number of pneumothoraces to the total number of flights undertaken by the entire cohort., During air travel or within 24 hours following air travel
Number of Patients With Birt-Hogg-Dube Syndrome Who Experience a Spontaneous Pneumothorax, The investigators will catalogue the number of spontaneous pneumothoraces experienced by patients with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome., 3 years|Number of Patients With Birt-Hogg-Dube Syndrome Who Experience Recurrent Pneumothorax Following Pleurodesis, The investigators will measure the incidence of ipsilateral pneumothorax following pleurodesis in order to determine the efficacy (as measured by the rate of pneumothorax recurrence following pleurodesis)., 3 years
The aim of this study is to conduct survey-based assessments for the safety of air travel in patients with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome (BHD). The study will enroll patients through the clinic network at Rare Lung Disease Consortium (RLDC) and through the BHD foundation website. Patients will have access to the questionnaire via REDCap (an online data management system) and each patient will be provided with a link to complete the survey. The investigators plan on enrolling approximately 100 patients with BHD for the purpose of this study. Secondary aims of this study include further characterization of the clinical aspects of disease and to establish a contact registry for these patients, in order to facilitate future studies.