Gemcitabine, Nab-paclitaxel Plus the TheraBionic P1 (an Amplitude-Modulated Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields) Device to Treat Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
The goal of this study is to learn if the combination of nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine and an Amplitude-Modulated Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields device (Therabionic P1) is safe and effective for patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DEVICE: TheraBionic P1
6 Month Progression-Free Survival Rate (PFS 6), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined from the time of study treatment initiation until progression or death of any cause, whichever occurs first. The six months PFS rate (PFS 6) is defined as the proportion of patients alive and progression-free at six months from treatment initiation. PFS will be evaluated according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) guidelines., 6 months
Adverse Event Incidence, Evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine and AM RF EMF categorized and graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE version 5). The adverse event incidence rate will be defined as a proportion of patients who experience adverse events among the safety population., Up to 1 year|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined from the time of study treatment initiation until progression or death of any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS will be evaluated according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) guidelines. The median PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier estimate., Up to 1 year|6-month Overall Status rate (OS 6), Overall survival (OS) is defined from the time of study treatment initiation until the death of any cause. The six months OS rate (OS 6) is defined as the proportion of patients alive at six months from treatment initiation., 6 Months|Median OS, OS is defined from the time of study treatment initiation until death of any cause. The median OS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier estimate., Up to 1 year|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with partial or complete responses based on Radiographic Determination of Treatment Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) by CT Scan or MRI:

1. Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (with the exception of lymph nodes mentioned below). No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Any lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm. All disease must be assessed using the same technique as baseline.
2. Partial Response (PR): Applies only to patients with at least one measurable lesion. Greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of appropriate diameters of all target measurable lesions., Up to 1 year|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate is defined as the proportion of patients with disease control (complete or partial response or stable disease) based on RECISTv1.1 criteria:

1. Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (with the exception of lymph nodes mentioned below). No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Any lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm. All disease must be assessed using the same technique as baseline.
2. Partial Response (PR): Applies only to patients with at least one measurable lesion. Greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of appropriate diameters of all target measurable lesions.
3. Stable disease: Does not qualify for CR, PR, Progression or Symptomatic Deterioration. All target measurable lesions must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline., Up to 1 year
The goal of this study is to learn if the combination of nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine and an Amplitude-Modulated Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields device (Therabionic P1) is safe and effective for patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.