In Men With Metastatic Prostate Cancer, What is the Safety and Benefit of Lutetium-177 PSMA Radionuclide Treatment in Addition to Chemotherapy
This phase 2 randomised clinical trial will compare the effectiveness of Lu-PSMA therapy followed by docetaxel chemotherapy versus docetaxel chemotherapy on its own in patients with newly-diagnosed high-volume metastatic hormone-naive prostate cancer (mHNPC).
Metastatic Hormone Naive Prostate Cancer
DRUG: 177Lu-PSMA-617|DRUG: Docetaxel
Undetectable prostate specific antigen (PSA) rate at 12 months after commencement of protocol therapy, Undetectable PSA is defined as PSA ≤ 0.2ng/ml at 12 months after protocol treatment commencement. Patients who experience unequivocal radiographic (by conventional imaging modality) and/or clinical disease progression within 12 months of initiating protocol treatment will be considered as not having undetectable PSA at 12 months., Upto 32 months assuming 18 months to complete recruitment, a maximum of 1.6 months from consent to commencement of treatment for last patient and then 12 months from commencement of treatment for last patient.
Safety of 177Lu-PSMA followed by docetaxel compared to docetaxel alone, The type, grade and relationship to treatment of adverse events (AE) will be assessed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v 5.0, Through completion of treatment, maximum 26 months.|Time to development of castration resistance between treatment Arms, Castration resistance is defined as rising PSA and/or radiographic progression despite castrate levels of testosterone (≤ 50ng/dL or ≤ 1.73nmol/L).To be measured from the date of randomisation to the date of first evidence of castration resistance., Through study completion, up until 2 years after the last patient commences treatment.|PSA-progression free survival (PSA-PFS) between treatment Arms, PSA progression is defined as a rise in PSA by more than 25% AND more than 2ng/mL above the nadir (lowest PSA point). This needs to be confirmed by a repeat PSA performed at least 3 weeks later. Early rises in PSA prior to 12 weeks will be disregarded in determining PSA progression. To be measured from the date of randomisation to the first date of evidence of PSA progression or date of death due to any cause., Through study completion, up until 2 years after the last patient commences treatment.|Radiographic-PFS (rPFS) between treatment Arms, Radiographic progression will be assessed by the investigator per RECIST1.1 for soft tissue and PCWG3 for bone lesions. To be measured from randomisation to the first date of documented radiographic progression using conventional imaging or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Through study completion, up until 2 years after the last patient commences treatment.|Early PSMA PET response between treatment Arms, PSMA PET response assessed 3 months after treatment commencement defined by central imaging review of 68Ga-PSMA PET CT images., Through completion of 3 months after treatment commencement for last patient, maximum 23 months.|Describe and compare health-related QoL within 12 months of treatment commencement between treatment Arms, QoL will be assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for Prostate Cancer (FACT-P) questionnaire. The primary endpoint for QoL is the area under the curve (AUC) of the trial outcome index (TOI).

QoL will be assessed at baseline, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months and will be scored according to the respective manuals., Through completion of 12 months after treatment commencement of last patient, maximum 32 months.|Describe and compare pain within 12 months of treatment commencement between treatment Arms, Pain will be assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF). The primary endpoint for pain is the area under the curve (AUC) of the worst pain in 24h.

Pain and QoL will be assessed at baseline, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months and will be scored according to the respective manuals., Through completion of 12 months after treatment commencement of last patient, maximum 32 months.|Overall survival (OS) between treatment Arms, OS is defined as the time from randomisation to the date of death due to any cause., Through study completion, up until 2 years after the last patient commences treatment.
Assess the correlation between PSMA and FDG PET/CT parameters and clinical outcomes, Prognostic and predictive value of PET-derived parameters including molecular tumour volume parameters (volume, SUVmax, SUVmean) and radiomics from PET, CT or bone scans using data-characterisation algorithms will be assessed., Through study completion, up until 2 years after the last patient commences treatment.|Identify biomarkers potentially associated with clinical outcomes, Prognostic and predictive biomarkers associated with treatment outcome and response will be assessed. This will include any of the following: i) circulating tumour DNA ± tumour tissue (DNA repair genes, tumour suppressor genes, androgen receptor); and ii) whole blood RNA (androgen receptor splice variants, TMPRSS2:ERG fusion)., Through study completion, up until 2 years after the last patient commences treatment.
This is an open label, randomised, stratified, 2-Arm, multi-centre, phase 2 clinical trial recruiting 140 newly-diagnosed high-volume mHNPC patients at 11 Australian centres over a period of 18 months. Patients will be randomised to the experimental Arm (177Lu-PSMA followed by docetaxel) or standard-of-care Arm (docetaxel) in a 1:1 ratio. All patients will receive ADT continuously throughout the trial. Patients will be stratified according to disease volume by conventional imaging (low-volume vs. high-volume) and duration of ADT at time of registration (≤ 28 days vs. \> 28 days).