Microwave Ablation With MRI-Guided SBRT Boost in Renal Cell Carcinoma
The specific aims of this study are:

1. To determine the safety and feasibility of treating patients with a combination of MRI guided stereotactic body radiation therapy and microwave ablation.
2. To assess short and long-term toxicity rates of patients treated with a combined modality approach.
3. To assess local control, survival, and pathologic response to treatment
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT)|PROCEDURE: Microwave Ablation (MWA)
Dose-limiting Toxicity With SBRT Combined With Microwave Ablation for Renal Cell Carcinoma, Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as grade 4 or higher non-hematologic toxicity attributable to treatment. This will exclude toxicities not caused by treatment, such as pain due to tumor progression. Toxicities will be defined per NCI CTCAE v5.0., Until 30 days after ablation (up to 12 weeks on study)
Local Control Rate Per RECIST Criteria as Reported by Count of Participants, Radiologic response per RECIST criteria and volumetric measurements., 8 weeks|Progression Free Survival, 8 weeks|Overall Survival, 8 weeks|Tumor Pathology of Post-SBRT Specimen (H&E Staining), H\&E staining for percentage of viable tumor remaining as measured by the presence of necrosis, fibrosis, hyalinization, and/or calcification, compared to pre-SBRT pathology, 8 weeks
Tumor Pathology of Post-SBRT Specimen (Pathologic Evaluation), Pathologic evaluation for percentage of viable tumor remaining as measured by the presence of necrosis, fibrosis, hyalinization, and/or calcification, compared to pre-SBRT pathology, 8 weeks
Renal cell carcinoma is traditionally managed via a surgical approach. Increasingly, local therapy with radiofrequency and microwave ablation is being utilized as an alternative for patients who may not tolerate a nephrectomy or who refuse one. Although local control rates for small lesions are excellent, they drop off precipitously for lesions over 4 cm. Furthermore, lesions in critical areas such as the renal hilum may be difficult to treat with this method. Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) has had a long record of treating patients with inoperable tumors in locations such as the lung and central nervous system, and there is increasing evidence that it may be useful for patients with renal cell carcinoma. The recent emergence of MRI-guided radiation therapy allows for direct visualization of tumors during treatment, and may potentially allow clinicians to treat tumors more precisely. This phase I study will treat renal cell carcinoma patients using a combination of MRI-guided stereotactic body radiation therapy and microwave ablation.