Comparison Between 3-L and 4-L Polyethylene Glycol in Bowel Preparation
High quality bowel preparation is essential for successful colonoscopy. This study aimed to assess the impact of the dose of Polyethylene Glycol(PEG) on the quality of bowel preparation. This prospective, endoscopist-blinded, randomized, controlled study was conducted. 3L-group received 3 bags of PEG and were instructed to drink 1L at 19:00 in the evening before the day of colonoscopy at a rate of 250 mL every 15 minutes, and to drink the remaining 2L 4 to 6 h before colonoscopy at the same rate. 4L-group received 4bags of PEG and were instructed to drink 2 L at 19:00 in the evening before the day of colonoscopy at a rate of 250 mL every 15 minutes, and to drink the remaining 2L 4 to 6 h before colonoscopy at the same rate. The primary outcome was the quality of the bowel preparation according to the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS). The secondary outcomes included polyp detection rate (PDR), adenoma detection rate (ADR), tolerance, and subjective feelings of patients.
Bowel Preparation Scale|Adenoma Detection Rate
DRUG: 4L Polyethylene Glycol|DRUG: 3L Polyethylene Glycol
the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale, The primary end point of the study was adequate bowel preparation quality de ned as a BBPS total score of ≥6 with all segment scores ≥2, 2 days
Polyp detection rate, The secondary end point of the study included polyp detection rate, 2 days|Adenoma detection rate, The secondary end point of the study included adenoma detection rate, 2 days|The mean number of incremental adenomas, It was a new metric called ADR-Plus, the mean number of incremental adenomas after the fist., 2 days
High quality bowel preparation is essential for successful colonoscopy. This study aimed to assess the impact of the dose of Polyethylene Glycol(PEG) on the quality of bowel preparation. This prospective, endoscopist-blinded, randomized, controlled study was conducted. 3L-group received 3 bags of PEG and were instructed to drink 1L at 19:00 in the evening before the day of colonoscopy at a rate of 250 mL every 15 minutes, and to drink the remaining 2L 4 to 6 h before colonoscopy at the same rate. 4L-group received 4bags of PEG and were instructed to drink 2 L at 19:00 in the evening before the day of colonoscopy at a rate of 250 mL every 15 minutes, and to drink the remaining 2L 4 to 6 h before colonoscopy at the same rate. The primary outcome was the quality of the bowel preparation according to the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS). The secondary outcomes included polyp detection rate (PDR), adenoma detection rate (ADR), tolerance, and subjective feelings of patients.