Efficacy and Safety of Albumin Paclitaxel Combined With Cisplatin Chemoradiotherapy for Non-resectable Stage III NSCLC
Non-resectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer is recommended for concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Paclitaxel and platinum are commonly used in chemotherapy regimens. The aim of this study was to investigate whether paclitaxel albumin combined with cisplatin combined with three-dimensional primary radiotherapy could improve short-term efficacy, local progression-free survival, and reduce treatment-related toxicity. To determine whether paclitaxel albumin combined with cisplatin regimen can be used as a first-line treatment for stage III non-small cell lung cancer with concurrent primary thoracic radiotherapy
Efficacy and Safety
DRUG: Albumin paclitaxel combined with cisplatin
ORR, Efficacy of Concurrent chemoradiotherapy, 2 years
Side effection, bone marrow suppression, hepatic and renal toxicity, cardiac toxicity, radiation pneumonia and other toxic and side effects caused by treatment, 2 years
Control group: Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 was injected into saline solution on the first day. Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 was given intravenously for 2-3 days (2-4 days), carboplatin 300 mg/m2 and 2 days. (Because toxicity and heart problems can replace DDP)\]Repeated every 3-4 weeks for 4 consecutive cycles (21-28 days/cycle, minimum 2 cycles). In the experimental group, albumin paclitaxel 40 mg/m2/week was injected into saline at the same time as radiotherapy, once a week. Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 was given intravenously for 2-3 days (2-4 days), carboplatin 300 mg/m2 and 2 days. (Because toxicity and heart problems can replace DDP)\] Repeat every 3-4 weeks for 4 consecutive cycles (21-28 days/cycle, minimum 2 cycles). Three-dimensional radiotherapy: intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) or rotational intensity-modulated radiation therapy (VMAT) segmented dose: primary focus and mediastinal metastatic lymph nodes; segmented mode: continuous accelerated hypersegmentation Dose: DTGTV: \> 60Gy treatment sequence: Chemotherapy started within one week after completion of pre-treatment evaluation. Radiotherapy for primary thoracic tumors was performed simultaneously on the first day of chemotherapy. Chemotherapy effectiveness was evaluated by radiological examination within one week after the completion of the second cycle of chemotherapy.