SMART-ER: Symptom Monitoring With Patient-reported Outcomes
The key hypothesis for this study is that collection of the PRO surveys via the Outcomes4Me app is feasible, as measured by survey completion rates. In addition to informing feasibility, this study will provide information about symptom trajectories, symptom management interventions, and early endocrine therapy adherence and persistence.

Patients with risk factors for adjuvant endocrine therapy non-adherence or early discontinuation will complete patient-reported outcome (PRO) surveys via smart phone app at baseline and 2, 4, 8 and 12 weeks after adjuvant endocrine therapy initiation. Since symptoms and side effects are a key driver of adjuvant endocrine therapy non-adherence and non-persistence, the investigators anticipate that enhanced detection of symptoms via use of PRO surveys will result in improved symptom management and, could thereby support treatment adherence and persistence. This pilot study will assess the feasibility of the PRO survey intervention. In this pilot study, feedback about the intervention will be obtained from patients and from members of the study teams and clinical teams caring for the patients who participate.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Outcomes4Me|OTHER: Semi-structured interview
Number of Participants using symptom monitoring survey, Feasibility of symptom monitoring using PROs as assessed by surveys in the Outcomes4Me smart phone app. This outcome will assess the number of Participants using the symptom monitoring survey., 14 weeks
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Patient-reported baseline and treatment-emergent symptoms during the first 12 weeks of adjuvant endocrine therapy, 12 Weeks|Change in Symptoms From Baseline to 12 weeks after therapy start date, Patient reported questionnaires will be completed to assess symptoms prior to treatment and 12 weeks after treatment start date., Baseline, 12 Weeks
Consenting patient participants will complete PRO surveys at baseline (T0) and 2 (T1), 4 (T2), 8 (T3) and 12 weeks (T4) after endocrine therapy initiation. Surveys will be administered within the Outcomes4Me smart phone app. Each survey will include 15 PRO-CTCAE items about common symptoms during adjuvant endocrine therapy. In addition, patient participants will self-report participants' endocrine therapy at each time point. Demographics and financial hardship will be assessed at baseline. Quality of life will be assessed at baseline and 12 weeks after endocrine therapy initiation. Global bother due to side effects of treatment will be assessed at each time point with the Functional Assessment of Cancer (FACT-B) General Population (GP5) item. Patient participants will also complete a single item from the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Medication Adherence Scale (PMAS) to assess overall adherence at 2, 4 and 8 weeks after endocrine therapy initiation and the entire PMAS 12 weeks after endocrine therapy initiation. In addition, patient participants will report participants' co-payment and pharmacy 2 weeks after endocrine therapy initiation and symptom management interventions the participants have pursued 12 weeks after endocrine therapy initiation. The clinical teams will be alerted if patient participants report severe or worsening symptoms exceeding pre-defined thresholds on the PRO-CTCAE questions. Both patients and members of the clinical team will be offered information about evidence-based symptom management strategies. Patients will complete an End-of-Study Evaluation 12 weeks after endocrine therapy initiation to provide feedback about the study intervention.

Semi-structured interviews will be conducted with consenting members of the study teams and clinical teams at study sites with at least 2 patient participants, at least one of whom has passed the T2 survey time point and at least one of whom has had at least 1 alert for severe or worsening symptom(s). Semi-structured interviews will evaluate barriers and facilitators to implementation of the study intervention.