Sirolimus, Idarubicin, and Cytarabine in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This pilot clinical trial studies sirolimus, idarubicin, and cytarabine in treating patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Sirolimus may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as idarubicin and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving sirolimus together with idarubicin and cytarabine may kill more cancer cells.
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Sirolimus|DRUG: Idarubicin|DRUG: Cytarabine
Change in measurement of mTOR activation paired with mTOR target inhibition, The association between mTOR response and clinical response (complete or partial response) will be evaluated using the two-sided Fisher's exact test with alpha 0.05., Baseline to day 4
Overall survival, Will be evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier method stratified by mTOR response. Log rank test will be used to compare the overall survival in patients with and without mTOR response. Based on the estimated survival curves, the 1-year, 2-year, and 5-year survival rates will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence intervals., 1 year, 2 years, 5 years|Progression free survival, Based on the estimated survival curves, the 1-year, 2-year, and 5-year survival rates will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence intervals., 1 year, 2 years, 5 years|Incidence of toxicities, graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) 4.0 guidelines, Safety data analysis is descriptive. All estimates of adverse events rates will be presented with corresponding confidence intervals using the exact method., Up to 45 days|Response defined as patients achieving a complete remission (CR), complete response in absence of total platelet recovery (CRp), or partial remission (PR), Proportions of complete response and partial response with be computed separately in patients with and without mTOR response and presented with corresponding exact binomial 95% confidence intervals., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

1) To determine whether there is an association between baseline mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activation paired with mTOR target inhibition post-treatment in leukemic blasts and clinical response in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) treated with sirolimus idarubicin/cytarabine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To estimate the response rate of sirolimus idarubicin/cytarabine in patients with newly diagnosed AML compared to historical data using idarubicin/cytarabine alone.
2. To determine the ability of oral sirolimus to inhibit mTOR in leukemic blasts.
3. To assess if mTOR pathway inhibition correlates with clinical response.
4. To collect further information on the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of sirolimus in combination with idarubicin/cytarabine in patients with newly diagnosed AML.
5. To describe the progression-free survival and overall survival (1 year, 2 year and 5 year) of patients treated with sirolimus idarubicin/cytarabine.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sirolimus orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-10, idarubicin intravenously (IV) over 3-5 minutes on days 4-6, and cytarabine IV continuously over 24 hours on days 4-10.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 5 years.