A Randomized Study of ASTX727 With or Without Iadademstat in Advanced Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs)
This phase II trial compares the effect of ASTX727 in combination with iadademstat to ASTX727 alone in treating patients with accelerated or blast phase Philadelphia chromosome negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). ASTX727 is a combination of two drugs, cedazuridine and decitabine. Cedazuridine is in a class of medications called cytidine deaminase inhibitors. It prevents the breakdown of decitabine, making it more available in the body so that decitabine will have a greater effect. Decitabine is in a class of medications called hypomethylation agents. It works by helping the bone marrow produce normal blood cells and by killing abnormal cells in the bone marrow. Iadademstat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving ASTX727 in combination with iadademstat may be more effective than ASTX727 alone in treating patients with accelerated or blast phase Philadelphia chromosome negative MPNs.
Accelerated Phase Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Blast Phase Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Essential Thrombocythemia|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm, Not Otherwise Specified|Polycythemia Vera|Primary Myelofibrosis|Secondary Myelofibrosis
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Decitabine and Cedazuridine|DRUG: Iadademstat
Acute leukemia response-complete (ALR-C) rate, ALR-C rates will be compared between the two treatment arms using Fisher's exact test at the one-sided, alpha = 0.15 significance level., Within 4 cycles (cycle length = 28 days)
Event-free survival, Treatment failure is defined as not achieving ALR-C by four cycles of therapy. Hematological relapse is defined as ≥ 5% blasts in bone marrow or peripheral blood or development of myeloid sarcoma after achievement of ALR-C or better. Kaplan-Meier curves will be generated and the two treatment arms will be compared using a stratified log rank test. Cox regression modeling, including treatment arm and dichotomized blast percentage as covariates, will also be performed to estimate the hazard ratio, along with a 90% confidence interval., From day 1 of randomization to the date of treatment failure, hematological relapse from ALR-C, or death from any cause up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier curves will be generated, and the two treatment arms will be compared using a stratified log rank test. Cox regression modeling including treatment arm and dichotomized blast percentage as covariates, will also be performed to estimate the hazard ratio, along with a 90% confidence interval., From randomization to the time of death due to any cause up to 2 years|Percentage of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HCT), Descriptive statistics will be utilized for analysis and will be broken down by which treatment arm to which a patient is assigned. The number receiving allo-HCT will be compared between the two treatment arms using Fisher's exact test., Up to 2 years
Gene expression levels, Will be compared between the two treatment groups using two-sample t-tests following log2 transformation., After one cycle of therapy (cycle length = 28 days)|Transcriptional changes in proliferative pathways and molecular pathways associated with resistance/disease progression, Will be summarized descriptively., Up to 2 years|Correspondence between responses, Correspondence between responses as determined by the European LeukemiaNet 2022 acute myeloid leukemia criteria versus the 2012 blast phase myeloproliferative neoplasm criteria will be assessed using McNemar's test., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be described and graded using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. AEs will be summarized by type, severity grade, and attribution to treatment. Comparisons between treatment arms will be performed using Fisher's exact test., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the acute leukemia response-complete (ALR-C) rate of iadademstat + ASTX727 (35 mg decitabine + 100 mg cedazuridine) and ASTX727 (35 mg decitabine + 100 mg cedazuridine) monotherapy within 4 cycles of therapy in patients with accelerated/blast-phase myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN-AP/BP) previously untreated with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methyltransferase inhibitors (DNMTi).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare event-free survival (EFS), overall survival (OS), and percentage of patients going onto allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (allo-HCT) of iadademstat + ASTX727 (35 mg decitabine + 100 mg cedazuridine) and ASTX727 (35 mg decitabine + 100 mg cedazuridine) monotherapy in patients with MPN-AP/BP previously untreated with DNMTi.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare iadademstat target engagement between patients treated with iadademstat + ASTX727 (35 mg decitabine + 100 mg cedazuridine) and ASTX727 (35 mg decitabine + 100 mg cedazuridine) monotherapy by evaluating transcriptional changes in proliferative pathways implicated in MPN-AP/BP development and/or progression.

II. To elucidate the common molecular pathways of resistance/progression in patients with MPN-AP/BP receiving DNMTi-based therapy.

III. To measure response using the European LeukemiaNet 2022 Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) criteria (Döhner et al., 2022) and compare with the 2012 MPN-BP criteria that is being utilized for primary objective assessment.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of ASTX727 and iadademstat followed by a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive ASTX727 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo buccal swab sample collection at baseline and blood sample collection and bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the study.

ARM II: Patients receive ASTX727 PO QD on days 1-5 and iadademstat PO QD on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo buccal swab sample collection at baseline and blood sample collection and bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients who stop the study for reasons other than disease progression are followed up every 3 months. Patients who stop the study due to disease progression, are followed up every 6 months.