Acupuncture as add-on to G-CSF for Febrile Neutropenia-related Hospitalization in Doxorubicin-treated Patients With Sarcoma
Chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia (CIFN) is a dangerous complication of many chemotherapy drugs, with current treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSFs) accompanied by adverse effects, primarily muscle and bone pain. Adult patients with sarcoma treated with doxorubicin-based chemotherapy have a high risk (\>40%) for developing CIFN. Acupuncture has been shown to have a potentially myelo-protective effect on bone marrow during chemotherapy, though its effect on the incidence of CIFN-related hospitalization has yet to be examined. In the proposed study, patients with sarcoma will be randomly allocated (in a ratio of 1:1) to Group A, receiving acupuncture during cycles 1, 3, and 5; or Group B, during cycles 2, 4, and 6, with the study oncologist blinded regarding allocation. Acupuncture will be administered on the first day (d1) and the 8th day (d8) of the chemotherapy cycles, with press-tack needles on d1 to d8, and patients will be taught to self-treat with acupressure from d8 to the next cycle. The incidence and duration of hospitalization due to CIFN will be examined, as will adherence to the chemotherapy regimen; G-CSF-related pain; and other outcomes using 3 quality-of-life-focused questionnaires. The study findings will have important implications regarding the role of acupuncture in the treatment of patients treated with chemotherapy drugs with a high risk for CIFN, such as those used in the treatment of sarcoma.
Febrile Neutropenia|Sarcoma|Doxorubicin Adverse Reaction|Hospitalization-Associated Infection
DEVICE: Acupuncture
Incidence of chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia-related hospitalization, 3 weeks|Duration of chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia-related hospitalization, 3 weeks
Relative Dose Intensity of Chemotherapy Regimen, Actual vs. planned dosage and interval between cycles, 3 weeks|G-CSF-related muscle and bone pain, Patient-reported outcome measures, 3 wseks|Quality of life-related outcomes: Quantitative Assessment, Patient-reported outcome measures, 3 weeks|Quality of life-related outcomes: Qualitative Assessment, MYCaW narratives, 3 weeks|Adverse effects of study intervention, Patient medical files, 3 weeks
Chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia (CIFN) is a dangerous complication of many chemotherapy drugs, with current treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSFs) accompanied by adverse effects, primarily muscle and bone pain. Adult patients with sarcoma treated with doxorubicin-based chemotherapy have a high risk (\>40%) for developing CIFN. Acupuncture has been shown to have a potentially myelo-protective effect on bone marrow during chemotherapy, though its effect on the incidence of CIFN-related hospitalization has yet to be examined. In the proposed study, patients with sarcoma will be randomly allocated (in a ratio of 1:1) to Group A, receiving acupuncture during cycles 1, 3, and 5; or Group B, during cycles 2, 4, and 6, with the study oncologist blinded regarding allocation. Acupuncture will be administered on the first day (d1) and the 8th day (d8) of the chemotherapy cycles, with press-tack needles on d1 to d8, and patients will be taught to self-treat with acupressure from d8 to the next cycle. The incidence and duration of hospitalization due to CIFN will be examined, as will adherence to the chemotherapy regimen; G-CSF-related pain; and other outcomes using 3 quality-of-life-focused questionnaires. The study findings will have important implications regarding the role of acupuncture in the treatment of patients treated with chemotherapy drugs with a high risk for CIFN, such as those used in the treatment of sarcoma.