Development and Validation of The Post-RT LARS Prediction Model (PORTLARS)
Bowel dysfunction is common after a restorative rectal cancer resection. Neoadjuvant radiotherapy is an influential factor that impairs bowel function and quality of life. However, almost half patients who have received primary surgery with preoperative radiotherapy are able to restore a good or moderate bowel function in the long term. This multicenter observational study aims to identify the risk factors of severe bowel dysfunction after rectal cancer resection and neoadjuvant radiotherapy, in accordance with the LARS score, and to build a model that predicts long-term major LARS in the early stage of follow-up. Development and validation cohorts are enrolled from tertiary hospitals in China.
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome|Radiotherapy|Rectal Cancer
OTHER: Questionnaire
Area under the curve (AUC), The AUC of PORTLARS in predicting major bowel dysfunction after restorative rectal cancer resection with neoadjuvant radiotherapy.

The AUC is evaluated by calculating the area under curve of receiver operating characteristics which plots the proportion of true positive cases (sensitivity) against the proportion of false positive cases (1-specificity) based on various predictive probability threshold., Over one year after restorative rectal cancer resection
Sensitivity, The sensitivity of PORTLARS in predicting major bowel dysfunction after restorative rectal cancer resection with neoadjuvant radiotherapy.

Model sensitivity is evaluated by calculating the proportion of the 'predicted major LARS' subjects among the total 'actual major LARS' subjects., Over one year after restorative rectal cancer resection|Specificity, The specificity of PORTLARS in predicting major bowel dysfunction after restorative rectal cancer resection with neoadjuvant radiotherapy.

Model specificity is evaluated by calculating the proportion of the 'predicted no/minor LARS' subjects among the total 'actual no/minor LARS' subjects., Over one year after restorative rectal cancer resection|Positive prediction value (PPV), The PPV of PORTLARS in predicting major bowel dysfunction after restorative rectal cancer resection with neoadjuvant radiotherapy.

Model PPV is evaluated by calculating the proportion of the 'actual major LARS' subjects among the total 'predicted major LARS' subjects., Over one year after restorative rectal cancer resection|Negative prediction value (NPV), The NPV of PORTLARS in predicting major bowel dysfunction after restorative rectal cancer resection with neoadjuvant radiotherapy.

Model NPV is evaluated by calculating the proportion of the 'actual no/minor LARS' subjects among the total 'predicted no/minor LARS' subjects., Over one year after restorative rectal cancer resection
Net reclassification index (NRI), The additive NRI of PORTLARS compared to other models is evaluated by calculating the percentage of the 'actual major LARS' subjects correctly reclassified to the percentage of the 'actual no/minor LARS' subjects who are correctly reclassified., Over one year after restorative rectal cancer resection
Bowel dysfunction is common after a restorative rectal cancer resection. Neoadjuvant radiotherapy is an influential factor that impairs bowel function and quality of life. However, almost half patients who have received primary surgery with preoperative radiotherapy are able to restore a good or moderate bowel function in the long term. This multicenter observational study aims to identify the risk factors of severe bowel dysfunction after rectal cancer resection and neoadjuvant radiotherapy, in accordance with the LARS score, and to build a model that predicts long-term major LARS in the early stage of follow-up. Development and validation cohorts are enrolled from tertiary hospitals in China.