Shorter Course, Hypofractionated Pre-Surgery Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Localized, Resectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma of the Extremity of Superficial Trunk
This phase II trial studies the wound complication risk of shorter course, hypofractionated pre-surgery radiation therapy in treating patients with localized soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity of superficial trunk that can be removed by surgery. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Shorter course hypofractionated pre surgery radiation therapy may be more convenient for patients with soft tissue sarcoma than a longer course of radiation therapy, and may result in fewer complications.
Resectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage I Soft Tissue Sarcoma of the Trunk and Extremities AJCC v8|Stage IA Soft Tissue Sarcoma of the Trunk and Extremities AJCC v8|Stage IB Soft Tissue Sarcoma of the Trunk and Extremities AJCC v8|Stage II Soft Tissue Sarcoma of the Trunk and Extremities AJCC v8|Stage III Soft Tissue Sarcoma of the Trunk and Extremities AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Soft Tissue Sarcoma of the Trunk and Extremities AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Soft Tissue Sarcoma of the Trunk and Extremities AJCC v8
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Time to a major wound complication (MWC), A Bayesian approach for the analysis of a stopping rule of higher acute wound complications for the new dose (E) will be employed., Up to 120 days after surgery
Local recurrence free survival, The data from long-term follow-up will be analyzed for the local recurrence free survival. Kaplan-Meier curves will be generated of survival estimates. We will compare these to historical controls., Up to 10 years after radiation therapy|Disease free survival (DFS) time, The data from long-term follow-up will be analyzed for disease-free survival. Kaplan-Meier curves will be generated of survival estimates. Will compare these to historical controls., Up to 10 years after radiation therapy|Time to relapse, Up to 10 years after radiation therapy|Disease specific survival time, Kaplan-Meier curves will be generated of survival estimates., Up to 10 years after radiation therapy|Pattern of local relapse (in radiation field, margin of field, out of radiation field), Up to 10 years after radiation therapy|Incidence of acute toxicity other than MWC, Acute toxicity will be documented and rates tabulated., Up to 120 days after radiation therapy|Incidence of late onset toxicity, Late radiation toxicity will be documented and rates tabulated., Up to 120 days after radiation therapy|Functional outcomes, Limb function and overall patient quality of life/functional status will be documented according to the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) and Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS) and Euroqol-5D (EQ5D), which will be summarized and analyzed as a continuous variable. Differences between mean scores will be tested using the Mann-Whitney test. Mean and median and their 95% confidence interval (CI) will be presented., Up to 10 years after radiation therapy|Quality of life, Limb function and overall patient quality of life/functional status will be documented according to the MSTS and TESS and Euroqol-5D (EQ5D), which will be summarized and analyzed as a continuous variable. Differences between mean scores will be tested using the Mann-Whitney test. Mean and median and their 95% CI will be presented., Up to 10 years after radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine, in patients with localized, resectable soft tissue sarcoma, whether there is a non-inferior major wound complication rate for patients receiving 42.75 Gy in 15 fractions over 3 weeks compared to historical controls who received 50 Gy in conventional fractionation over 5-6 weeks.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether local control rates among patients treated with 42.75 Gy in 15 fractions is similar to that observed in previous studies for patients treated with 50 Gy in conventional fractionation over 5-6 weeks.

II. To determine whether patterns of local relapse, relapse free survival, overall survival, or metastatic disease free survival for patients treated with 42.75 Gy in 15 fractions are similar to previously reported studies.

III. To determine where there is a difference in pathologic response in tumor specimens treated with 42.75 Gy in 15 fractions compared to previously reported rates of hyalinization, fibrosis, or necrosis.

IV. To explore quality of life, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G), financial toxicity as measured by the Comprehensive Score for financial Toxicity (COST) Instrument, and patient reported outcomes, as measured by the Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS), among individuals undergoing a shorter, hypofractionated course of pre-operative radiation therapy for soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or superficial trunk.

V. To gather subjective data on patient treatment preferences and experiences among individuals undergoing a shorter, hypofractionated course of pre-operative radiation therapy for soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or superficial trunk.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive hypofractionated radiation therapy in 15 daily fractions over 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then every year for up to 10 years.