CPX-351 as a Novel Approach for the Treatment of Older Patients With AML and MDS
The purpose of this study is to evaluate how effective lower doses of CPX-351 are in older participants with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are not eligible to receive intensive chemotherapy and in participants with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) after Hypomethylating Agents (HMA) failure.
Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Relapsed Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: CPX-351
Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 International Working Group (IWG) criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 6 months|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 1 year|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 1.5 years|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 2 years|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 2.5 years|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 3 years|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 3.5 years|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 4 years|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 4.5 years|Overall response rate (ORR) per 2003 IWG criteria, ORR = complete response (CR) + CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + partial remission (PR) as defined by 2003 IWG criteria for AML patients, and ORR = CR + PR + hematologic improvement (HI) and as defined per 2006 IWG criteria for MDS patients, At 5 years
Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 6 months|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 1 year|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 1.5 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 2 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 2.5 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 3 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 3.5 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 4 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 4.5 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is measured from start of treatment to the date of achieving a response. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 5 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 6 months|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 1 year|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 1.5 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 2.5 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 3 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 3.5 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 4 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 4.5 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR measured from the time of achieving a response to time of disease progression. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables., At 5 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 6 months|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 1 year|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 1.5 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 2 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 2.5 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 3 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 3.5 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 4 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 4.5 years|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS measured from date of first dose to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause. Wilcoxon rank test will be used for comparison of continuous variables, At 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 1.5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 2.5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 3.5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 4 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 4.5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS measured from start of treatment to death or last follow up. OS function will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, At 5 years
Currently, elderly patients with AML and high risk MDS, who are ineligible to receive induction chemotherapy and fail HMA +/- combination, have very poor outcomes and there is no FDA-approved therapy outside of some targeted therapies which can only be applied to a small patient population. CPX-351 is an investigational (experimental) drug that works by combining two anti-cancer drugs cytarabine and daunorubicin. CPX-351 is experimental because it is only FDA approved for the treatment of adults with two types of AML: newly diagnosed therapy-related AML or AML with myelodysplasia-related changes.

This is an open label clinical trial of lower doses of CPX-351 in relapsed/primary refractory older AML and MDS patients ineligible to receive intensive chemotherapy. The first arm is for particpants with primary refractory/relapsed AML and the second arm is for higher risk MDS participants after HMA failure.