Bevacizumab and Erlotinib After Radiation Therapy and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme or Gliosarcoma
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving bevacizumab together with erlotinib may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving bevacizumab together with erlotinib works after radiation therapy and temozolomide in treating patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) will be measured from the start of treatment until death from any cause. At data cut off patients remaining alive will be censored at the last known date of contact., From start of treatment, during treatment and every 3 months following the end of treatment until death. Median follow up at time of OS data was 33 months.
Progression-free Survival at 12 Months, Progression free survival (PFS) will be assessed by CT or MRI scan using McDonald criteria. Progressive disease (PD) is defined as 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques as baseline, OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer). Stable or increased dose of steroids. PFS will be measured from the start of treatment until first documentation of PD or death., At 12 months from start of treatment|Response Rate (RR), Response Rate (RR) will be defined as the best response seen during treatment measured by CT/MRI scan every 8 weeks during treatment using McDonald Criteria.

CR=Complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. No new lesions. No evidence of non-evaluable disease. Patients off steroids.

PR=Greater than or equal to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable disease. No new lesions. Stable/decreased dose of steroids.

Stable/No Response=Does not qualify for CR, PR, or progression. The designation of Stable/No Response requires a minimum of 8 weeks duration. Stable/decreased dose of steroids.

Progressive disease = 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease), worsening of evaluable disease, new lesions/site, failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition., From the start of treatment, every 2 cycles (1 cycle = 28 days) during treatment until progressive disease|Safety of the Combination of Erlotinib and Bevacizumab in This Patient Population, Toxicity data for combination treatment of erlotinib and bevacizumab will be collected on day 1 of every cycle (1 cycle = 28 days) during treatment according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria for adverse events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0). In general adverse events (AEs) will be graded according to the following:

Grade 1 Mild AE Grade 2 Moderate AE Grade 3 Severe AE Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE Grade 5 Death related to AE, From the start of treatment, at the beginning of every cycle (1 cycle = 28 days) during treatment until 30 days after completion of treatment for up to 49 cycles.|Progression Free Survival at 18 Months, Progression free survival (PFS) will be assessed by CT or MRI scan using McDonald criteria. Progressive disease (PD) is defined as 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques as baseline, OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer). Stable or increased dose of steroids. PFS will be measured from the start of treatment until first documentation of PD or death., At 18 months from start of treatment
Changes in Tumor Blood Flow Based on MR Perfusion, Data from consenting patients will be used to assess of changes in tumor blood flow based on MR perfusion using MRI scans. Two scans will be completed prior to treatment on study; the first after surgery buta before radiation, the second within 14 days before starting combination treatment or erlotinib and bevacizumab. Then scans will be completed every 2 cycles during treatment, where one cycle equals 28 days., Prior to study treatment (after surgery, but before radiation), just before study treatment (within 14 days prior to first treatment) and then every 2 cycles during study treatment, where 1 cycle equals 28 days for a maximum of 49 cycles.|Gene Methylation Studies (Optional), Tissue and plasma collected from consenting patients in the study will be used to correlate tumor tissue with imaging and outcomes. Tissue will be collected before treatment on study begins and plasma will be collected the first day of treatment (before treatment) and every odd cycle after that, whilst on study treatment. Tissue and plasma analysis will be correlated with patients imaging results and response to to treatment, At baseline and then plasma only will be collected every odd cycle (1 cycle = 28 days) during treatment for a maximum of 49 cycles.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the overall survival of patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) with unmethylated MGMT promoter treated with bevacizumab and erlotinib hydrochloride after radiotherapy and temozolomide.

Secondary

* To determine the 12- and 24-month progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with newly diagnosed GBM with unmethylated MGMT promoter treated with this regimen.
* To assess radiographic response rates.
* To perform correlative tissue assays.
* To collect safety data on the combination of bevacizumab and erlotinib hydrochloride in patients with newly diagnosed GBM with unmethylated MGMT promoter treated with bevacizumab and erlotinib hydrochloride after radiotherapy and temozolomide.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo radiotherapy (either intensity-modulated radiation therapy or 3-D conformal radiotherapy) once daily 5 days a week and receive oral temozolomide concurrently with radiotherapy once daily for 6 weeks (as planned). Patients whose tumor has a methylated MGMT promoter are removed from study.

Approximately 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy and temozolomide, patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28. Treatment with bevacizumab and erlotinib hydrochloride repeats every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at approximately 30 days and then every 3 months thereafter.