Pancreaticogastrostomy Versus Pancreaticojejunostomy in Reconstruction After Cephalic Duodenopancreatectomy
Pancreaticoduodenectomy is the standards surgical procedure for various malignant and benign disease of the pancreas and periampullariy region. During the recent years, mortality rate of pancreaticoduodenectomy has decreased to 5% in specialized centers. Although, this procedure still carries considerable morbidity up to 40%, depending of definition of complications. Pancreatic fistula remains a common complication and the main cause of other morbidities and mortality. Pancreaticojejunal (PJ) anastomosis is the most often used method of reconstruction after pancreaticoduodenectomy. Several technique modifications such as placement of the stents, reinforcement of anasomosis with fibrin glue, pancreatic duct occlusion and pancreaticogastrostomy (PG) type of anastomosis was used in order to decrease pancreatic fistula rate. Since, some retrospective studies showed better results with some technique, several meta-analyses did not show any advantage of those various modifications. It was shown that the higher risk of pancreatic fistula was noticed in patients with soft residual pancreas and small diameter of pancreatic duct. There is only one randomized study in the literature dealing with this problem. This study did not reveal any significant differences between PG and PJ in patients with soft pancreas and small duct. In order to investigate once more this important issue, the researchers conducted randomized multicenter controlled trial.
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Anastomotic Leak
PROCEDURE: Pancreatico gastro anastomosis|PROCEDURE: Pancreaticojejuno anastomosis
abdominal complications, Abdominal complications comprises: Pancreatic fistula, acute fluid collection, acute pancreatitis, billiay fistula, gastric fistula, enteral distula, hemorrhage and delayed gastric emptying, 2 years
Pancreaticoduodenectomy is the standards surgical procedure for various malignant and benign disease of the pancreas and periampullariy region. During the recent years, mortality rate of pancreaticoduodenectomy has decreased to 5% in specialized centers. Although, this procedure still carries considerable morbidity up to 40%, depending of definition of complications. Pancreatic fistula remains a common complication and the main cause of other morbidities and mortality. Pancreaticojejunal (PJ) anastomosis is the most often used method of reconstruction after pancreaticoduodenectomy. Several technique modifications such as placement of the stents, reinforcement of anasomosis with fibrin glue, pancreatic duct occlusion and pancreaticogastrostomy (PG) type of anastomosis was used in order to decrease pancreatic fistula rate. Since, some retrospective studies showed better results with some technique, several meta-analyses did not show any advantage of those various modifications. It was shown that the higher risk of pancreatic fistula was noticed in patients with soft residual pancreas and small diameter of pancreatic duct. There is only one randomized study in the literature dealing with this problem. This study did not reveal any significant differences between PG and PJ in patients with soft pancreas and small duct. In order to investigate once more this important issue, the researchers conducted randomized multicenter controlled trial.