A Eurosarc Study of Mifamurtide in Advanced Osteosarcoma (MEMOS)
This is a Bayesian designed multi-arm, multi-centre, open label phase II study. The target sample size of 40 patients will be recruited from up to 8 EU countries, but this may be revised in light of the interim analysis. Patients with relapsed or metastatic osteosarcoma will be divided into three treatment groups. They will all either have surgery or a biopsy before and after six weeks exposure to either Mifamurtide alone, Ifosfamide alone, or Mifamurtide combined with Ifosfamide. They will then receive further treatment to a maximum of 42 or 36 weeks in total (depending on Arm), with all patients being able to receive 36 weeks of Mifamurtide treatment.
Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Mifamurtide|DRUG: Ifosfamide
Biological Response Data Based on Pharmacodynamic Endpoints on Tumour Biopsy Material, Biological response data based on pharmacodynamic endpoints on tumour biopsy material including macrophage infiltration and innate immune activation., Change from Baseline to after 6 weeks of treatment|Radiological Response Defined as Complete or Partial Response and Assessed Using RECIST Criteria, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) assessed by CT or MRI:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions Partial Response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, AND no evidence of progression in non-target lesions, AND no new lesions Stable Disease (SD): sum of longest diameter of target lesions between PR and PD values, AND no evidence of progression in non-target lesions, AND no new lesions Progressive Disease (PD): \>20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, OR evidence of progression in non-target lesions, OR evidence of new lesions, Change from Baseline to after 6 weeks of treatment
Objective Radiological Response Based on RECIST v1.1, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) assessed by CT or MRI:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions Partial Response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, AND no evidence of progression in non-target lesions, AND no new lesions Stable Disease (SD): sum of longest diameter of target lesions between PR and PD values, AND no evidence of progression in non-target lesions, AND no new lesions Progressive Disease (PD): \>20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, OR evidence of progression in non-target lesions, OR evidence of new lesions, Change from Baseline to after 12, 18, 24 & 36 weeks and end of treatment visit|Number of Patients Experiencing a Grade 3 or More Severe Adverse Event (Graded According to CTCAE Criteria v4.0), Toxicity measured and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0 (CTCAE)

Grade refers to the severity of the adverse event. The CTCAE displays Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline:

Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated.

Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living.

Grade 3 Severe; medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalisation or prolongation of hospitalisation indicated; disabling or limiting self care activities of daily living.

Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., Up to 42 weeks|Number of Patients Experiencing a Laboratory Abnormality (Grade 3-4), A laboratory abnormality is defined as an adverse event of grade 3 or 4 identified by a laboratory test of participant blood samples.

Adverse events were graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0 (CTCAE)., Up to 42 weeks|Disease Specific Overall Survival, Median time from death attributed to the disease. Censored at last known time alive or death from other causes., Up to 42 weeks|Progression Free Survival, Time from randomisation for deemed non-resectable groups, or time from registration for deemed resectable group to first event, where an event is Progressive Disease as (defined by RECIST criterion v1.1) or death due to any cause. Patients who have not had an event will be censored at their last follow-up date. Patients lost to follow-up without an event will be censored at the date of their last consultation.

Progressive disease according to RECIST v1.1 is defined as a \>=20% increase in the sum of long diameters of target lesions, OR progression of non-target lesions, OR evidence of new lesions., Up to 42 weeks|Biological Response (Systemic Levels of Mifamurtide Activated Cytokines)., Biological response based on systemic levels of mifamurtide activated cytokines., During screening, and weeks 1, 4, 6 and 7. Then every 3 weeks during treatment.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most common primary tumour arising from bones. There is currently no approved treatment other than surgery for metastatic or recurrent osteosarcoma refractory to chemotherapy. Patients deemed unresectable normally receive chemotherapy prior to attempted resection. The addition of chemotherapy to surgery for metastatic or recurrent osteosarcoma may improve response rates. MEPACT (Mifamurtide, MTP-PE) is licensed for use in the adjuvant osteosarcoma setting; indicated in children, adolescents and young adults for the treatment of high-grade resectable non-metastatic osteosarcoma after macroscopically complete surgical resection. It is used in combination with post-operative multi-agent chemotherapy. This is a Bayesian designed multi-arm, multi-centre open-label phase II study in patients with metastatic and/or recurrent osteosarcoma, which will investigate why some patients with osteosarcoma may respond better than others to mifamurtide given alone or in combination with ifosfamide. Patients with relapsed or metastatic osteosarcoma will be divided into three treatment groups (Arms). Depending on their current disease status, patients may be either Registered to Arm A (resectable group), to receive Mifamurtide alone; or Randomised to Arm B/C (non-resectable group), to receive mifamurtide in combination with ifosfamide. Arm A - Mifamurtide alone; Arm B - Ifosfamide alone for 6 weeks then Ifosfamide + mifamurtide for 6 weeks, then mifamurtide alone for 30 weeks; Arm C - Ifosfamide + mifamurtide for 12 weeks then mifamurtide alone for 24 weeks. All participants will receive 36 weeks or more of mifamurtide. Biopsies (or resected tumour samples) will be obtained before and after 6 weeks of therapy interval in order to determine the pharmacodynamic endpoints. The target sample size is 40 patients. An interim analysis will be performed for the primary efficacy endpoint.