Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients Receiving Trastuzumab For HER2-Positive Stage IIIB-IV Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well vaccine therapy works in treating patients receiving trastuzumab for HER2-positive stage IIIB- IV breast cancer. Vaccines made from peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Male Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: HER-2/neu intracellular domain protein|PROCEDURE: leukapheresis|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|OTHER: immunologic technique|BIOLOGICAL: synthetic tumor-associated peptide vaccine therapy
Relapse-free survival, At 4 years
Safety as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Baseline and 1 month following last vaccination|Immune response as assessed by HER2 specific T cell immunity and/or intramolecular epitope spreading, Baseline, midpoint in the immunization schedule (prior to the 4th vaccine), 1 month after the 6th and last immunization and at 4, 8 and 12 months after the end of vaccinations|Correlation of RFS to the generation of an immune response, Prior to the 4th vaccine, 1 month after the 6th and last immunization and at 4, 8 and 12 months after the end of vaccinations
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To estimate the RFS in patients with HER2 positive locally advanced breast cancer vaccinated with a HER2 ICD peptide-based vaccine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To assess the safety of a HER2 ICD peptide-based vaccine administered concurrently with trastuzumab.
2. To determine the immunogenicity of the HER2 ICD peptide based vaccine when given within one year of initiating standard treatment which includes trastuzumab.

   1. To determine the incidence of the development of T cell immunity specific for the HER2 ICD.
   2. To determine the incidence of the development of intramolecular epitope spreading.
   3. To determine the magnitude of the HER2 ICD specific CD4+ and CD8+ immune response generated with immunization.
3. To assess whether there is an association between RFS and the development of an immune response (HER2 specific T cell immunity and/or the development of intramolecular epitope spreading).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive HER-2/neu intracellular domain peptide-based vaccine mixed with GM-CSF intradermally (ID) once monthly for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 4, 8, and 12 months and then annually thereafter for up to 5 years.