Pembrolizumab In Central Nervous System Metastases
This research study is studying Pembrolizumab as a possible treatment for this diagnosis for metastases in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord).
Brain Metastases
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: MRI|RADIATION: PET/CT|PROCEDURE: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Objective Response Rate, Contrast-enhanced cranial MRI will be performed every 6 weeks. The proportion of patients in each cohort with a best response of CR or PR will be presented with a 90% confidence interval estimated using the method of Atkinson and Brown, which allows for the two-stage design., 6 Weeks|Overall Survival Rate, Any patient whose vital status is unknown due to loss of follow-up will be classified as having died for purposes of estimating the primary endpoint. The proportion of patients alive at six months will be summarized with a 90% confidence interval estimated using the method of Atkinson and Brown, which allows for the two-stage design., 3 Months|Extracranial Overall Response Rate, The proportion of patients with a best extracranial response of CR or PR will be presented with a 90% confidence interval estimated using the method of Atkinson and Brown, which allows for the two-stage design., 3 Months
Number of Participants with grade-3 or higher hematologic toxicities or grade-3 or higher neurologic toxicities, Baseline to 21 Days|Overall Survival Rate, Kaplan-Meier, 3 Months and 6 Months|Intracranial Response Rate, intracranial response (CR or PR by RANO) will be presented with a two-sided, 90% exact binomial confidence interval, 6 Months|Extracranial Response Rate, Extracranial response rates (CR or PR) according to RECIST and irRC will be summarized for Cohorts A, B, C, and D, 6 Months|Extracranial PFS, 3 Months and 6 Months|Intracranial PFS, 3 Months and 6 Months
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

Pembrolizumab may help the immune system fight cancer.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved pembrolizumab FDA for some diseases that are being treated on this study, but not for central nervous system metastases. Researchers hope to study the effects of pembrolizumab. Many cancers use specific pathways (such as PD-1/PD-L1 and CTLA-4) to evade the body's immune system. Pembrolizumab works by blocking the PD-1/PD-L1 pathways and thus releasing the brakes on the immune system so it can stop or slow cancer.

Researchers hope to study the effects of pembrolizumab in cancer that has metastasized to the brain. These drugs work by stimulating the immune system to fight cancer.