Deslorelin Combined With Low-Dose Add-Back Estradiol and Testosterone in Preventing Breast Cancer in Premenopausal Women Who Are at High Risk for This Disease
RATIONALE: Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain drugs to try to prevent the development or recurrence of cancer. Deslorelin combined with low-dose add-back estradiol and testosterone (given to replace hormones suppressed by deslorelin) may be effective in preventing breast cancer in at-risk women.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving deslorelin together with estradiol and testosterone works in preventing breast cancer in premenopausal women who are at high risk for this disease.
brca1 Mutation Carrier|brca2 Mutation Carrier|Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic estradiol|DRUG: deslorelin|DRUG: therapeutic testosterone|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|OTHER: active surveillance|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Treatment effects and correlation of changes in morphometrics and biomarkers as assessed by mammogram and magnetic resonance image (MRI) densities on days 1 and 300, Day 300|Perspectives about risk reduction options and their impact on quality of life (QOL) as assessed by Medical Outcomes 36-item short-form version, Health Perceptions scale, and Body Image scale on days 1, 169, and 300, and then every 6 months for 2 years, 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the effects on the breast of treatment with the gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRHA)-based regimen in breast cancer (BRCA) gene mutation carriers, including correlation of changes in mammographic and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) densities with tissue morphometrics and biomarkers.

II. Evaluate perspectives about risk reduction options and impact on quality-of-life (QOL) measures of participation in the chemopreventive protocol and in risk reduction surgery.

OUTLINE:

GROUP 1: Patients receive deslorelin, estradiol, and testosterone intranasally once daily (QD) for 6 months. Patients then undergo planned risk reduction mastectomy.

GROUP 2: Patients receive deslorelin, estradiol, and testosterone intranasally QD for 10 months. Patients then undergo continued surveillance through 10 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years.