Improving the Approach to and Management of the Older Patient With Metastatic Gastric Cancer
The purpose of this study is to enhance the care of older metastatic gastric cancer (mGC) patients by increasing awareness among oncology providers of the unique aspects of care required for older patients. The goal of the study is to educate providers on the utility of geriatric assessment in guiding therapy of older mGC patients. The investigators will also assess the feasibility and benefit of incorporating geriatric self-assessments into clinical practice. The study will include four phases.
Metastatic Gastric Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Didactic Session|BEHAVIORAL: Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment, including an exploratory analysis to evaluate the use of fitness trackers for evaluation of functional status.
Number of geriatric abnormalities detected. (Tool used: Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment), Investigators will test the proportions of patients having at least one abnormality detected by the Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment that was missed in the standard clinical assessment compared to a null-hypothesis rate of 5%.

The Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment includes the following scales:

Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status, Self-rated Performance Status, Katz Activities of Daily Living scale, Lawton Instrumental Activities of Daily Live Scale, Timed Up and Go, Number of Falls in past 6 months, Medical Social Support Scale, Geriatric Depression Scale, National Comprehensive Cancer Center Distress Thermometer, Blessed Orientation Memory Concentration Scale, Charlson Comorbidity Index, Body Mass index,Mini Nutritional Assessment, Cancer and Aging Research Group Chemotherapy Toxicity Prediction Calculator, Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity - Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy scale, 18 Months|Percentage of treatment plan changes. (Count # of treatment changes 2-3 months after comprehensive geriatric assessment. Site coordinators will complete follow-up chart review of each patient to see what, if any, changes were made), Investigators will assess the percentage of physician reported cases whose treatment plan was modified due to responses on the Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment., 18 months
Provider perception (Review of Geriatric Assessment Questionnaire), Measurement of provider perception of the efficacy and feasibility of the didactic educational session via questionnaire, 18 months|Fitbit assessed functional status. Fitbit data: step count, We aim to determine the feasibility of using fitbits in this patient population and evaluate the correlation between step count, physician recorded performance status, and scores on functional assessment in the comprehensive geriatric assessment.

We will compare data collected from the FitBit to both the physician-reported and CGA-identified functional status (Timed Up and Go, Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, and number of falls in the past 6 months) in each patient., 18 months|Fitbit assessed functional status. Fitbit data: distance logged, We aim to determine the feasibility of using fitbits in this patient population and evaluate the correlation between distance logged, physician recorded performance status, and scores on functional assessment in the comprehensive geriatric assessment.

We will compare data collected from the FitBit to both the physician-reported and CGA-identified functional status (Timed Up and Go, Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, and number of falls in the past 6 months) in each patient., 18 months|Fitbit assessed functional status. Fitbit data: moderately active, lightly active, and sedentary minute categorization., We aim to determine the feasibility of using fitbits in this patient population and evaluate the correlation between moderately active, lightly active, and sedentary minute categorization, physician recorded performance status, and scores on functional assessment in the comprehensive geriatric assessment.

We will compare data collected from the FitBit to both the physician-reported and CGA-identified functional status (Timed Up and Go, Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, and number of falls in the past 6 months) in each patient., 18 months|Fitbit assessed functional status. Fitbit data: floors climbed, We aim to determine the feasibility of using fitbits in this patient population and evaluate the correlation between floors climbed, physician recorded performance status, and scores on functional assessment in the comprehensive geriatric assessment.

We will compare data collected from the FitBit to both the physician-reported and CGA-identified functional status (Timed Up and Go, Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, and number of falls in the past 6 months) in each patient., 18 months|Fitbit assessed functional status. Fitbit data: calories burned, We aim to determine the feasibility of using fitbits in this patient population and evaluate the correlation between calories burned, physician recorded performance status, and scores on functional assessment in the comprehensive geriatric assessment.

We will compare data collected from the FitBit to both the physician-reported and CGA-identified functional status (Timed Up and Go, Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, and number of falls in the past 6 months) in each patient., 18 months|Fitbit assessed functional status. Fitbit data: heart rate, We aim to determine the feasibility of using fitbits in this patient population and evaluate the correlation between heart rate, physician recorded performance status, and scores on functional assessment in the comprehensive geriatric assessment.

We will compare data collected from the FitBit to both the physician-reported and CGA-identified functional status (Timed Up and Go, Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, and number of falls in the past 6 months) in each patient., 18 months
Older oncology patients pose a significant treatment challenge due to poor chemotherapy tolerance as a result of underlying co-morbidities, lack of social support, and diminished functional reserve. Oncologists are faced with the challenge of differentiating between patients that can and cannot tolerate chemotherapy, and tailoring therapy to the patient's biologic rather than chronologic age.

A significant challenge that surrounds the treatment of the older metastatic gastric cancer (mGC) patient in particular, lies in the lack of evidence based clinical data to guide the oncologist in determination of a treatment plan. This is a result of under representation of older patients in clinical trials. Due to these challenges, a thorough evaluation of the older patient is recommended prior to initiation of anti-cancer therapy.

The purpose of this research study is to enhance the care of the older mGC patient by increasing awareness among oncology providers of the unique aspects of care required for older patients. The goal of the study is to educate providers on the utility of geriatric assessment in guiding therapy of older metastatic gastric cancer patients. The investigators will also assess the feasibility and benefit of incorporating geriatric self-assessments into clinical practice. The study will include four phases:

1. Needs assessments - to understand the population of older gastric cancer patients seen in routine practice at community and academic centers, and assess their treatment approach.
2. Educational programming about management of older metastatic gastric cancer patients, and geriatric assessment of these patients.
3. Active testing of the use of geriatric assessment in clinical practice, including an exploratory analysis to evaluate the use of fitness trackers for evaluation of functional status.
4. Short-term follow-up chart reviews (2-3 months post intervention) to assess for actual implementation of recommended interventions identified by the geriatric assessment.

The ultimate goal is to expand this educational intervention to other oncology practices beyond those participating in this study, and for all older cancer patients regardless of their disease site. During this study period we will identify the specific gaps that exist in each practice for the care of older patients with mGC. This information is crucial to understand the needs of this patient population and will inform future trials with possible intervention. The second phase of our study will expose the practices to the use of a geriatric assessment through a patient's self-assessment tool and demonstrate its feasibility. Our hope is that all involved practices will find benefit from incorporating a geriatric assessment into their practice and will continue to use it in the future.