EMST in Patients Undergoing CRT for HNCA
This study is a randomized trial examining the impact of expiratory muscle strength training (EMST) on maintenance of safe and efficient oropharyngeal swallow function in persons with cancer of the head and neck (HNCA) undergoing treatment with radiation therapy or chemoradiotherapy (RT/CRT).
Head and Neck Neoplasms|Deglutition Disorders
OTHER: EMST
Feeding-tube-free food intake (days), the number of days from the beginning of the study until change in feeding status from 100% oral intake to combined oral intake and tube intake and/or 100% tube feeding will be calculated, 8 weeks
Penetration-Aspiration Scale rating (number), From Videofluoroscopic Swallow Studies (VFSS), change in Penetration-Aspiration scale score will be determined from baseline to mid-treatment to post-treatment. Penetration-Aspiration Scale is an 8-point ordinal rating scale., 8 weeks|Timing of Aspiration (category), From Videofluoroscopic Swallow Studies (VFSS), timing of aspiration will be determined from baseline to mid-treatment to post-treatment. Timing is identified as a category, either before, during, or after., 8 weeks|Presence of pharyngeal residue (dichotomous), From Videofluoroscopic Swallow Studies (VFSS), the presence of residue in the pharynx (yes or no) will be determined from baseline to mid-treatment to post-treatment., 8 weeks|Extent of hyoid movement (mm), From Videofluoroscopic Swallow Studies (VFSS), the change in extent of hyoid movement in mm will be determined from baseline to mid-treatment to post-treatment., 8 weeks|Upper esophageal sphincter (UES) opening width (mm), From Videofluoroscopic Swallow Studies (VFSS), the change in width of UES opening width in mm will be determined from baseline to mid-treatment to post-treatment., 8 weeks
Eating Assessment Tool (EAT-10) (number), Change in score on the EAT-10 will be calculated from baseline to mid-treatment to post-treatment. EAT-10 is an ordinal rating scale with values that range from 0 to 40, with lower score reflecting better function., 8 weeks|M.D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) (number), Change in scores on the M.D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) will be calculated from baseline to mid-treatment to post-treatment. MDADI consists of four ordinal rating scales with scores ranging from 0 to 100 with higher score reflecting better function., 8 weeks
Thirty (30) persons with newly-diagnosed HNCA who will be treated with RT/CRT will be randomized to an 8-week program of either Active Expiratory Muscle Strength Training (EMST) + Standard Care or Sham EMST + Standard Care in order to examine the impact of EMST on swallowing function. The training program will consist of 5 sets of 5 breaths, 5 days per week for 8 weeks, coincident with RT/CRT. Patients randomized to the Active EMST group will use the EMST150 (product name) expiratory muscle strength trainer according to package instructions. Those randomized to the Sham EMST group will use an EMST150 device that has been modified to eliminate resistance to airflow.

All subjects will be evaluated prior to initiation of cancer treatment (baseline assessment), 4 weeks into cancer treatment and again at the completion of cancer treatment (8 weeks after initiation of treatment). Assessment will include measurement of maximum expiratory pressure (MEP), a videofluoroscopic swallow study (VFSS) to objectively document swallow function, and administration of swallow-related quality of life (QOL) questionnaires.