Ovarian Hyperandrogenism in Normal and Excessive Body Weight Adolescent Girls and Their Relation to Diet (HAstudy)
The objective was

1. to check whether serum androgen levels and concomitant metabolic changes, oxidative stress and inflammation in adolescent girls with hyperandrogenism may be related to diet.
2. to identify the factors that increase the risk of being overweight and of obesity among adolescents with clinical features of PCOS, related to diet and DEA (Disordered Eating Attitudes)
3. to investigate the relationships between markers of oxidation and markers of Systemic Inflammation and macronutrients intake
4. to assess the relation between oral health of girls with PCOS (including condition of periodontium and dental caries) and their dietary habits, hormonal, metabolic and oxidative and inflammatory status.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
OTHER: Lifestyle intervention|OTHER: Effects of AIDiet intervention to improve diet quality, immuno-metabolic health in normal and overweight PCOS girls
Blood parameters, Hormonal and biochemical parameters, including follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), total testosterone, androstenedione, estradiol, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA-S), Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG), fasting glucose and fasting insulin, total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and triglycerides (TG), 17 OH-Progesterone, Prolactin, Cortisol, Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), will be measured in the morning after overnight fasting., 2018-2022|Anthropometric Assessment, Body mass index BMI: derived from measured body height (m) and body weight (kg) as body weight / height². Weight will be measured to the nearest 0.1 kg using digital medical scales. Height will be measured with a stadiometer attached to the scales.

Waist circumference (WC) will be measured to the nearest 0.1 mm using anthropometric tape between the lower border of rib margin and the upper border of iliac crest (WC-mid)., 2018-2022|Body Composition, Body composition will be assessed with a body composition analyzer (BIA method). The measurements of fat mass (FM) will be expressed as a percentage (%) and kilograms (kg)., 2018-2022
Disordered Eating Attitudes, Eating behavior will be assessed with a standard Eating Attitudes Test-26 (EAT-26), a self-administrated questionnaire., 2018-2022|Inflammation and Oxidative Stress, Serum concentrations of the inflammation markers: Interleukin 1 (IL-1), Interleukin 6 (IL-1), Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF-α), C-reactive protein (CRP) and the markers of oxidation: malondialdehyde, total antioxidant capacity will be measured with a commercial ELISA assay kits, 2018-2022|Nutrition evaluation, Nutrition evaluation will be conducted by continuous recording of all consumed foodstuffs, dishes and beverages, specifying home measures and weight (3-day food record method and food frequency method FFQ). Data will be analysed using The Aliant computer program (Cambridge Diagnostics)., 2018-2022|Oral Health Assessment, * Severity of gingivitis expressed as a Gingival Index (GI)
* Presence of gingivitis assessed based on the percentage of sites bleeding upon probing BOP%.
* The subgingival microflora assessed on the basis of the number of specific bacteria isolated from gingival sulci of every individual and the percentage of patients affected by specific periodontal pathogens.
* Salivary levels of TNF-alfa, IL-6, IL-1B, uric acid used to assess and compare the inflammation in oral environment.
* Testosteron in saliva used to compare androgenic status of patients with PCOS and healthy controls., 2018-2022|Evaluation of physical activity, International Physical Activity Questionnaire will be applied, including records of the type and specific character of the training and activity, its duration, intensity and frequency., 2018-2022|The Data From The Child's Health Book, Collected from the child's health book regarding newborn body weight and term of delivery. The incidence of macrosomia (body weight over 4000 g) or low birth weight, LBW (body weight less than 2500 g) was assessed on the basis of the newborn's body weight. The full term of delivery (term births) will be assessed for deliveries that occur between 38-42 weeks of pregnancy, while preterm births will be defined as those deliveries between 23 weeks and 37 weeks, 2018-2022
Hyperandrogenism in women is a state of increased androgen production, manifested by irregular menstrual cycles, a more frequent incidence of infertility, metabolic syndrome, oxidative stress, and inflammation, as well as acne and hirsutism. In addition to ovulation disorders and the multifollicular ovaries structure in an ultrasound examination, hyperandrogenism is a typical clinical feature of the Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS), which is diagnosed in approximately 8.6% of adolescent girls. Excessive body weight makes it difficult to diagnose at an early stage of the disease and intensifies metabolic and hormonal disorders, as well as those related to oxidative stress and inflammation of the body. Some research studies suggest that PCOS may negatively affect oral health of women, increasing the risk of periodontal problems.

The main purpose of this research was to check whether serum androgen levels and concomitant metabolic changes, oxidative stress and inflammation in adolescent girls with hyperandrogenism may be related to diet.

The investigators aimed to identify the factors that increase the risk of being overweight and of obesity among adolescents with clinical features of PCOS, related to diet and DEA(Disordered Eating Attitudes).

The objective was also to investigate the relationships between markers of oxidation and markers of Systemic Inflammation and macronutrients intake, such as carbohydrates and fiber, protein (animal, plant), fats and cholesterol in normal and overweight/obese girls with clinical features of PCOS.

Additionally, the investigators would like to evaluate the relation between oral health of girls with PCOS (including condition of periodontium and dental caries) and their dietary habits, hormonal, metabolic and oxidative and inflammatory status.