A6 in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer, Fallopian Tube Cancer, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well A6 works in treating patients with persistent or recurrent ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer. A6 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Malignant Ovarian Mixed Epithelial Tumor|Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Clear Cell Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Serous Cystadenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Undifferentiated Ovarian Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Urokinase-Derived Peptide A6|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of one or more new lesions.

CT scan or MRI is used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months; every three months thereafter; and at any time if clinically indicated based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease or rising serum tumor marker levels. Responses must be confirmed by repeat imaging 4 weeks following documentation of response., Scans to assess progression were done every other cycle for the first 6 months.|Tumor Response, Complete and Partial Tumor Response by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0). Per RECIST v1.0 for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT scan: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD.

CT scan or MRI is used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months; every three months thereafter; and at any time if clinically indicated based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease or rising serum tumor marker levels. Responses must be confirmed by repeat imaging 4 weeks following documentation of response., Scans to assess response were done every other cycle for the first 6 months; every three months thereafter; and at any time if clinically indicated based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease or rising serum tumor marker levels.|Incidence of Adverse Effects (Grade 3 or Higher) as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0, Every cycle during treatment (average collection time = 4 months)
Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of one or more new lesions.

CT scan or MRI is used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months; every three months thereafter; and at any time if clinically indicated based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease or rising serum tumor marker levels. Responses must be confirmed by repeat imaging 4 weeks following documentation of response., scans to assess response were done every other cycle for the first 6 months; every three months thereafter; and at any time if clinically indicated based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease or rising serum tumor marker levels.|Overall Survival, Every other cycle, up to 5 years|Biomarkers of Drug Effect on Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs), Note: due to the limited activity of this agent, it was decided not to expend resources assaying the PBMCs. Data was not collected., Day 1 prior to dosing; Day 2 prior to dosing and 4-hour post dosing; Day 8 prior to dosing.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the activity of A6, as measured by the 6-month progression-free survival (PFS) rate and objective tumor response (complete or partial) rate, in patients with persistent or recurrent ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma.

II. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v3.0.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the duration of PFS and overall survival. II. To identify biomarkers of drug effect on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore whether genes identified as being up- or down-regulated by exposure of human PBMCs to A6 in vitro are also up- or down-regulated following treatment of patients with A6 in vivo.

II. To explore whether there is an association between the expression of candidate A6 receptors in the tumor prior to treatment with A6 (as determined by IHC) and response and PFS.

III. To explore whether there is an association between change in expression of candidate biomarkers in PBMCs between 0-24 hours following the first dose of A6 and response and PFS.

IV. To explore whether there is an association between change in expression of candidate biomarkers in PBMCs over the course of the first one month cycle (course 1) and response and PFS.

V. To determine whether there is an association between plasma A6 levels measured on days 2 (24 hours after the first dose and 4 hours after the second dose) and 8 (prior to injection of A6) of course 1 and levels of expression of candidate biomarkers in PBMCs collected on the same days.

VI. To explore whether there is an association between plasma A6 levels measured on days 2 (24 hours after the first dose and 4 hours after the second dose) and 8 (prior to injection of A6) of course 1 and response and PFS.

VII. To explore whether there is an association between candidate serum biomarkers and response and PFS over the course of A6 treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive A6 subcutaneously once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.