Phase II Study of Intraperitoneal NanoPac® in Patients With Ovarian Cancer
This study will evaluate NanoPac® administered intraperitoneally (IP) immediately post-cytoreductive surgery, followed by standard of care (SOC) intravenous (IV) chemotherapy, in women with ovarian cancer. The study will compare IP NanoPac® (plus IV chemotherapy) with SOC IV chemotherapy alone.
Ovarian Carcinoma
DRUG: NanoPac® 100 mg/m2|DRUG: NanoPac® 200 mg/m2|DRUG: NanoPac® 300 mg/m2|DRUG: NanoPac® 400 mg/m2|DRUG: Standard of Care Intravenous Chemotherapy
Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Adverse events will include any clinically relevant changes in laboratory values, vital signs, and physical examination. Treatment-emergent adverse events occur when the date and time of the adverse event onset is on or after the first application of the investigational agent and any time up to when the intravenous chemotherapy commences. Treatment-emergent adverse events will be summarized for each treatment group. The summaries will include an overall summary of the number of subjects reporting and the number of events reported, summaries of adverse events leading to termination or death, and summaries by severity and relatedness (separately and combined). Of greatest interest will be post-surgery signs of toxicity (e.g., severe abdominal pain after 5-7 days, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, bowel dehiscence, prolonged ileus)., 12 months
Maximum Plasma Concentration of Paclitaxel (Cmax), Plasma samples will be taken on Day 1 at 1, 2, 4, 8, and 24 hours post-intraperitoneal administration of NanoPac® and weekly thereafter until IV chemotherapy begins. Additionally, a pharmacokinetics (PK) sample will be collected from every subject prior to each cycle of IV chemotherapy for determination of paclitaxel concentrations to assess potential NanoPac® persistence. PK levels of paclitaxel in the plasma will be summarized descriptively., 12 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 12 Months, Progression free survival (PFS) was assessed every 3 months until the end of the 12-month follow-up period, and every 6 months thereafter until progression or the last subject in the trial has completed 12 months of follow-up. Factors taken into account to determine time-to-progression included CA-125 levels, tumor burden as assessed by imaging and utilizing RECIST version 1.1 for assessment of response, and cancer-related symptoms such as bowel obstruction and ascites., 12 months post-treatment
Research has shown that the administration of chemotherapy directly into the peritoneal cavity (intraperitoneal \[IP\] chemotherapy) may provide a significant survival benefit to women with ovarian cancer when combined with cytoreductive surgery and IV chemotherapy.

This study will include a dose-finding phase and an efficacy phase to evaluate IP NanoPac® administered immediately post-cytoreductive surgery in women with ovarian cancer. In the dose-finding phase, subjects will be enrolled in dose-escalated cohorts of three subjects and receive IP NanoPac® at 100, 200, 300, or 400 mg/m2 plus standard of care (SOC) IV chemotherapy. Subjects will be followed for disease status for 12 months. The two best doses from the dose-finding phase will be determined. In the efficacy phase, subjects will be randomized 1:1:1 to one of the two best doses plus SOC IV chemotherapy or SOC alone.