Psychological Interventions to Prevent Late Effects in Breast Cancer
The study aims to investigate whether a combined pre-operative medical hypnosis plus a post-operative internet-based acceptance and commitment intervention are more effective in preventing post-surgical pain and fatigue following breast cancer surgery compared with pre-operative mindfulness plus treatment as usual.
Pain, Postoperative|Fatigue|Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Medical hypnosis|BEHAVIORAL: Internet-based Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (iACT)|BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness session|BEHAVIORAL: Treatment as Usual (TAU)
Chronic post-surgical pain, Measured through a Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) for pain intensity. The scale ranges from 0-10, anchored by verbal descriptors at either end of the scale where 0 is no pain at all and 10 is the worst possible pain., 3 months after surgery|Post-surgical fatigue, Measured through the 13-item Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue subscale (FACIT-F) which is a unidimensional self-report scale to assess fatigue and its impact on daily life. The score range is 0-52 where a higher score indicates better quality of life (i.e. less symptoms and disability), 3 months after surgery
Pain intensity, pain unpleasantness, fatigue, nausea, physical discomfort and emotional upset, Measured by a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) (to replicate a previous hypnosis trial - Montgomery et al 2007). The range is 0-100 where a higher score indicates more intense symptoms., On the day of surgery right before discharge|Stress (immunological) reactivity, Immune function is assessed through whole blood samples using the standardized TruCulture system that contains immunogenic stimuli (infected tubes). This test will reveal the induced innate and adaptive immune response in whole blood after stimulation with LPS, by quantifying the release of soluble immune activation products (cytokines, chemokines, soluble receptors etc.) in the supernatant and by measuring the transcription level (mRNA) in the circulating blood (immune) cells., Baseline (pre-surgery) plus 4 weeks post-surgery (Cortisol will only be measured at baseline)|Number of psychotropic and pain-related prescriptions, Usage of psychotropic and pain medication obtained through registry data from the Norwegian Prescription Database at 3 and 12 months follow-up. Number of prescriptions will be summarized and compared between intervention and control group., 3 and 12 months post-surgery|Number of sick leave days, Days away from work on sick leave will be measured through registry data, 3 and 12 months post-surgery|Psychological flexibility, Measured through the Acceptance and Action Questionnaire (AAQ-II). The scale ranges from 7-49, where higher score indicates more psychological inflexibility, 3 and 12 months post-surgery|Psychological distress, Measured through the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The total score ranges from 0-42, where a higher score indicates more symptoms, 3 and 12 months post-surgery
The trial will include 200 patients undergoing breast cancer surgery at Oslo University Hospital. The patients will be randomized into two groups. One group will receive a 20 minute pre-surgical hypnosis session delivered by an experienced clinical psychologist plus a post-surgical internet-based acceptance and commitment intervention. The control group will receive a 20 minute pre-surgical mindfulness session delivered through an audio recording plus treatment as usual. The primary outcomes of the study are quantitative measures of post-surgical pain and fatigue. In addition, relationships between biomarkers of stress and subacute post-surgical pain and fatigue will be analyzed using using blood- and hair samples. The study uses a longitudinal design with baseline measures obtained pre-surgery and follow up measures obtained 3 and 12 months post-surgery.