Intra-pemetrexed Alone or Combined With Concurrent Radiotherapy for Leptomeningeal Metastasis
Intrathecal chemotherapy is one of the mainstay treatment options for leptomeningeal metastases. Owing to the limited number of agents available for intrathecal chemotherapy, it is crucial to find a novel agent with efficacy and safety. In our phase 1 study, intrathecal pemetrexed showed controllable toxicities and potential promising efficacy for refractory leptomeningeal metastases from non-small-cell lung cancer patients. In our further study, intrathecal pemetrexed combined with involved-field radiation therapy was administered as the first-line intrathecal chemotherapy for leptomeningeal metastases from solid tumors. In this study, intrathecal pemetrexed combined with involved-field radiation therapy showed feasibility and controllable adverse events. It has been proved that pemetrexed as a novel intrathecal drug exhibited promising antitumor effects in cerebrospinal fluid. Moreover, the concomitant therapeutic modality is an optimal treatment option for leptomeningeal metastases from solid tumors.

Central nervous system radiotherapy is a part of the specific treatment of leptomeningeal metastases. Radiotherapy has been proved to improve neurologic function and control of parenchymal brain metastases in leptomeningeal metastases treatment. Additionally, radiotherapy is revealed to improve the efficacy and attenuate toxicity of intrathecal chemotherapy as a result of normal cerebrospinal fluid reestablishing. However, it is still controversial whether radiotherapy can improve the overall survival. We conduct this study to further demonstrate the efficacy and safety of intrathecal pemetrexed administration for patients with leptomeningeal metastases from solid tumors by multicenter study. Furthermore, the study of effective treatment modality is of great significance. The safety and antitumor activity of intrathecal pemetrexed combined with involved-field radiation therapy and intrathecal pemetrexed alone were also compared to confirm an optimized therapeutic regimen.
Leptomeningeal Metastasis
DRUG: Pemetrexed|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Clinical response rate, The response assessment in neuro-oncology criteria (RANO) proposal for response criteria of leptomeningeal metastasis was used to assess the clinical response in this study., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.|Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, The incidence of treatment-related adverse events were measured for determining tolerability and safety. Adverse events (AEs) are evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 4.03). Events of grade 3-5 are defined as moderate and severe adverse events., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.
Overall survival, Survival time was recorded since the date of patient enrollment. All patients were followed up until death or the end of the study., From the enrollment of this study until date of death from any cause, whichever came first, or the last follow-up (at least 7 months).|Neurological progression-free survival (NPFS), NPFS was defined as time from the start of treatment until neurological progression or death. The neurological progression was determined based on the RANO proposal evaluation criteria which have been established and published on Neuro Oncol., From date of randomization until the date of first documented neurological progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.
In this randomized, open-label, multicenter clinical trial, we aim to compare the efficacy and safety of intrathecal pemetrexed combined with concomitant involved-field radiation therapy and intrathecal pemetrexed alone for leptomeningeal metastasis patients from solid tumor. Patients were randomly divided into two arms willing to receive involved-field radiation therapy combined with concurrent intrathecal pemetrexed and intrathecal pemetrexed alone, respectively. In concomitant therapy group, participants received induction intrathecal pemetrexed first. Then concomitant intrathecal pemetrexed and involved-field radiation therapy were given. In intrathecal pemetrexed alone group, participants received induction intrathecal pemetrexed and consolidation intrathecal pemetrexed. Pemetrexed was administrated by intrathecal injection via intraventricular administration or lumbar puncture. Induction intrathecal pemetrexed was given twice per week for 2 weeks to all participants first. Then consolidation/concomitant intrathecal pemetrexed was given once per week for 4 weeks. Involved-field radiation therapy was administrated with a total dose of 40 Gy in 20 fractions for 4 weeks to the concomitant therapy group participants. Primary endpoints were clinical response and treatment-related adverse events. Secondary endpoints were overall survival and neurological progression-free survival.