Expression Pattern of HNRNPH1 and HNRNPK Genes in MPNs
The aim of the study is to evaluate the expression pattern of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H1 (HNRNPH1) and K (HNRNPK) genes in Myeloproliferative neoplasms as a possible indicator of disease progression and as a potential therapeutic target
Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs)
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR)
Expression of Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H1 (HNRNPH1) and Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (HNRNPK) genes in myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs), Expression levels of Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H1 (HNRNPH1) and Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (HNRNPK) genes for diagnosis of myeloproliferative neoplasms., two years
Correlation between expression levels of HNRNPH1 and HNRNPK genes and molecular diagnostic tests for myeloproliferative neoplasms, Correlation between expression levels of HNRNPH1 and HNRNPK genes and molecular diagnostic tests for myeloproliferative neoplasms as Philadelphia chromosome or JAK2 V617F or JAK2 exon 12 mutation or CALR or MPL mutation according to the case, Two years
Self-renewing Hematopoietic pluripotent stem cells can develop into either myeloid or lymphoid lineages. A diverse range of diseases known as myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) develop due to the aberrant proliferation of one or more terminal myeloid cell lines in the peripheral circulation. MPNs come in four traditional forms: chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), polycythaemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), and primary myelofibrosis (PMF). Chronic neutrophilic leukaemia (CNL), chronic eosinophilic leukaemia (CEL), and MPN unclassifiable, were also included in the WHO classification. While PV, ET, and PMF are BCR-ABL1 negative, CML is BCR-ABL1 positive.

In eukaryotic cell's nucleus, many ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) assemble on to recently produced transcripts. The heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) are one type of RNPs. Some hnRNPs are now known to play a role in the development of human hematologic malignancies. Disease research is becoming more interested in how hnRNPs control gene expression. Numerous cancers exhibit changed hnRNPs expression levels, which raises the possibility that they play a part in carcinogenesis.

For instance, leukaemia cells showed downregulation of Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (HNRNPK). In vivo myeloproliferative neoplasm tumour growth was accelerated by HNRNPK knockdown. On the other hand, A study suggests that HNRNPK overexpression could accelerate CML development and thus a possible indicator of CML progression and a potential therapeutic target might be HNRNPK.

Moreover, one of the earliest RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) to be identified, Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H1 (HNRNPH1) contributes to RNA stabilization, RNA editing, and RNA modification. Previous research has demonstrated that high levels of HNRNPH1 expression leads to carcinogenesis by both upregulating the expression of oncogenes and downregulating the expression of tumour suppressor genes such P53, Ron, and BCL-X.

The investigators performed the study with the aim to study the expression level of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H1 (HNRNPH1) and K (HNRNPK) genes and their proteins in MPNs and to investigate the association of HNRNPH1 and HNRNPK with molecular diagnostic tests of MPNs.