Prognostic Value of Sarcopenia and Nutritional Status in Early-stage Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Growing evidence has confirmed that the prognosis of lung cancer is not only related to the stage of disease, but also to the physiological and psychological situation of the patients. Malignant tumors are often associated with weakness and cachexia, leading to less physical activities and worse moods. However, few studies that have attempted to investigate the impact of nutritional status on the prognosis of NSCLC. Existing applications of nutritional scoring systems in early-stage of NSCLC are very limited. Therefore, this study aims to observe the correlation between nutritional status and the prognosis of patients with early-stage NSCLC, to clarify the value in predicting the overall survival rate and progression-free survival rate of NSCLC patients, and to offer evidence for alleviating the social and economic burden of NSCLC.
Sarcopenia|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Malnutrition
DEVICE: Inbody 570|DEVICE: JAMAR Dynamometer|RADIATION: CT scan
Progression free survival (PFS), Time from diagnosis to clinically recorded disease progression or death from any cause, 2 years after enrollment
Overall survival time (OST), Outcome of patient death from diagnosis to any cause or the final follow-up time, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after enrollment
Nutritional score (MNA), Nutritional score (MNA), 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after enrollment|Skeletal muscle mass, Skeletal muscle mass, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after enrollment|Grip strength test, Grip strength test, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after enrollment|6-meter distance pace measurement, Walking test, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after enrollment
The prognosis of lung cancer is not only related to the stage of disease, but also to the physiological and psychological situation of the patients. Malignant tumors are often associated with weakness and cachexia, leading to less physical activities and worse moods. However, few studies that have attempted to investigate the impact of nutritional status on the prognosis of NSCLC. Existing applications of nutritional scoring systems in early-stage of NSCLC are very limited. Therefore, this study aims to observe the correlation between nutritional status and the prognosis of patients with early-stage NSCLC, to clarify the value in predicting the overall survival rate and progression-free survival rate of NSCLC patients, and to offer evidence for alleviating the social and economic burden of NSCLC.