Human Leukocyte Antigen-A*02:01-restricted Tumor Vessel Specific Peptide Vaccination for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer death in the United States, and no combination therapy is far superior to gemcitabine alone. Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor type 1 (VEGFR1) is expressed on the tumor vessels and a candidate of tumor vessel-specific peptide vaccination strategy to induce T cell immune response. We conducted the study to confirm the safety and efficacy of combined modality intervention using conventional dose of gemcitabine with peptide vaccination targeting tumor-vessel specific VEGFR1 in case of advanced/inoperable or therapy-resistant pancreatic cancer patients.

Gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m\^2 (body surface area) will be administered on day 1, day 8, day 15, day 29, day 36, and day 43, respectively.

VEGFR1-derived HLA-A\*02:01-restricted peptide (VEGFR1-A02-770; TLFWLLLTL) emulsified with Montanide ISA51 will be subcutaneously injected twice weekly for 8 weeks (total 16 doses).
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreas Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: HLA-A*02:01-restricted VEGFR1-derived peptide vaccination
Number of Participants Without Grade 4 Hematological or Grade 3 to 4 Non-hematological Adverse Events, Number of participants without grade 4 hematological or grade 3 other adverse events were caslculated based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (NCI CTCAE v.3), 2 months
Number of Participants With Tumor Regression, Sum of diameters of primary pancreatic tumor or metastatic tumors (target lesions) before and after vaccination were measured by computed tomography. Sum of tumors' size diameters decrease more than 30% after vaccination was diagnosed as response according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0 guidelines., 2 months
HLA-A\*02:01-restricted VEGFR1-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses were obtained from HLA-A2/Kd transgenic murine model.

HLA-A\*02:01-restricted VEGFR1-specific CTL clones were also obtained from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of healthy volunteer donors.

These CTL clones showed potent anti-tumor CTL responses in HLA class Ⅰ-restricted manner in vitro.

Vaccination of HLA-A\*02:01-restricted VEGFR1-specific peptide to A2/Kd transgenic mice markedly suppress the tumor-induced angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo.