A Study of Dalotuzumab (MK-0646) in Breast Cancer Patients (MK-0646-013)
A study to evaluate the response of growth factor signatures (GFS) to a single dose of dalotuzumab in participants with triple negative (TN) or estrogen receptor (ER)-positive luminal B breast cancer. The primary hypothesis is that dalotuzumab will induce a decrease in the GFS in at least 40% of participants.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: dalotuzumab (MK0646)
Percentage of Participants Demonstrating a Decrease in the Growth Factor Signature (GFS), GFS was measured by microarray analysis of the entire 101 gene signature expression. The GFS is quantified as the change in gene expression between two separate samples collected from the same participant. A log (base 10) ratio of expression in the post-dose sample was generated relative to the reference in both the Up and DOWN arms of the gene signature. A log ratio value of zero indicated no change in the expression between the two samples. GFS was calculated as the mean log ratio of genes in the UP arm minus mean log ratio of genes in the Down arm. GFS was compared for paired samples (pre-dose and post-dose) by a T-statistic calculated as the GFS divided by its standard error. Responders to therapy had a T-statistic that was smaller than the threshold 1st percentile of student's T-distribution and were counted as having a decrease in GFS., Up to 12 Days Post-dose
Percentage of IGF1R Positive Participants With a Decrease in GFS by Cohort, Insulin-like Growth Factor Receptor Type 1 (IGF1R) expression was measured in pre-dose biopsy samples using an immunohistochemistry assay to establish baseline IGF1R positivity. Biopsy samples were considered IGF1R positive if at least 10% of tumor cells stain with intensity 1+ or greater based on staining criteria of very weak (+/-); weak (1+); moderate (2+); or strong (3+). GFS response was correlated with IGF1R expression for ER-positive luminal B and triple negative cohorts., Up to 12 Days Post-dose|Percentage of IGF1R Negative Participants With a Decrease in GFS by Cohort, Biopsy samples were considered IGF1R negative if less than 10% of tumor cells stain. GFS response was correlated with IGF1R expression for ER-positive luminal B and triple negative cohorts., Up to 12 Days Post-dose|Change From Baseline in IGF1R Membrane H-Score After a Single Dose of Dalotuzumab, IGF1R expression was measured in pre and post-dose biopsy samples using an immunohistochemistry assay. Results were expressed as an IGF1R membrane H-score. The H-score was calculated from the percentage of cells staining very weak (+/-); weak (1+); moderate (2+); or strong (3+) and obtained by the formula: (3 x percentage of strongly staining nuclei) + (2 x percentage of moderately staining nuclei) + (1 x percentage of weakly staining nuclei) + (0.5 x percentage of weakly staining nuclei). The H-score ranges from 0 to 300; with a score of 0 representing the absence of IGF1R expression and an H-score of 300 representing maximum IGF1R expression. A decrease in IGF1R membrane H-score was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger decrease in H-score correlated with a greater target engagement, Baseline and Up to 12 Days
A study to evaluate the response of growth factor signatures (GFS) to a single dose of dalotuzumab in participants with triple negative (TN) or estrogen receptor (ER)-positive luminal B breast cancer. The primary hypothesis is that dalotuzumab will induce a decrease in the GFS in at least 40% of participants.