Open Versus Laparoscopic Left-sided Hepatectomy Trial
Open versus Laparoscopic Left-sided Hepatectomy (OLLEH) trial Multi-institutional, prospective and randomized trial in patients undergoing left sided hepatectomy through laparoscopic versus open procedure.

Primary endpoint: Functional recovery Secondary endpoint: Hospital duration, estimated blood loss, operation time, resection margin status, postoperative complication, mortality, liver function laboratory test, re-admission, quality of life, cosmesis, cost effectiveness
Neoplasm, Liver
PROCEDURE: Open left-sided hepatectomy|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic left-sided hepatectomy
Checklist of functional recovery (Questionnaire, liver function test of aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase), Checklist of functional recovery

1. (Questionnaire) Do you want intravenous analgesics for postoperative pain ? (Yes, No)
2. (Questionnaire) Do you have trouble to ambulate by oneself ? (Yes, No)
3. (Questionnaire) Do you have trouble to digest solid meal ? (Yes, No)
4. (Questionnaire) Do you want intravenous fluid to subside your thirsty ? (Yes, No)
5. (Liver function test) Are serum aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase increasing ? (Yes, No)

   * Daily check the five item above until every item is 'No'
   * If all of the items are 'No', the patient is regarded as a functionally recovered state., up to 30 days
Postoperative complication, Discharge summary, up to 30 days|Mortality, Death within 30 days after surgery, up to 30 days|Readmission rate, Readmission, up to 30 days|Hospital duration, Hospital duration after surgery, up to 30 days|Blood loss, Estimated blood loss on anesthesiology sheet, up to 30 days|Operation time, Skin incision to wound closure, up to 30 days|Resection margin status, According to the pathology report, up to 30 days|Liver function test, Bilirubin, Aspartate Aminotransferase, Alanine Aminotransferase, Prothrombin time, international normalized ratio (INR), Albumin, up to 30 days|Quality of life, questionnaire, up to 30 days
Laparoscopic left-sided hepatectomy is widely performed for the treatment of various hepatic neoplasms. Many studies have reported that laparoscopic left-sided hepatectomy is safe and effective compared with open conventional left-sided hemihepatectomy. However, prospective study is rare and there is no randomized controlled trial.

The surgeons who are affiliated at a medical center in capital area of Korea launched the Open versus Laparoscopic Left-sided Hepatectomy (OLLEH) trial to verify the surgical outcome of laparoscopic left-sided hepatectomy.

Laparoscopic surgery has benefits that less wound and less pain. The hypothesis of the study is 'The laparoscopic left-sided hemihepatectomy is better than open surgery from functional recovery.