TACE vs TACE+SBRT for Unresectable Hepatocellular Cancer
Vast majority of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) present with unresectable disease. In the last decade results of randomized trials and a subsequent metaanalyses established transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) or systemic chemotherapy (sorafenib) as standard of care. However, TACE alone is not a curative approach. The two year survival following TACE ranges from 31-63% with almost 100% patients developing disease progression after treatment. There is need to investigate additional therapeutic options that would consolidate the initial response to TACE. A recent metaanalyses concluded that addition of high dose radiation to TACE results in 10-35% improvement in two year overall survival. However as results of metaanalyses were based on studies with small sample size, unclear randomization procedure and heterogenous dose of radiation, the need for conducting a high quality randomized study was highlighted The present study is designed to investigate the role of high dose conformal radiation as consolidation therapy after TACE in patients with nonmetastatic unresectable HCC.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
RADIATION: SBRT|PROCEDURE: TACE|DRUG: Sorafenib
In-field Progression Free Survival, The trial is designed to assess a benefit in in-field progression free survival. The principal investigator would assess the study results 24 months after last accrual., Upto 24 months
Cause Specific Survival, Will compare the cause specific survival between both the arms, Upto 24 months|Response assessment after treatment, Using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors scoring, radiological response to treatment will be assessed between both the arms., Upto 24 months|Quality of Life Assessment of patients over a period of time, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Study Group on Quality of Life has developed the Quality of life questionaires (QLQ) which are EORTC QLQ-C30 and the hepatocellular carcinoma specific EORTC QLQ-HCC 18 consisting in a modular system for assessing the quality of life of cancer patients in clinical research. EORTC QLQ-HCC 18 is an 18-item questionnaire designed to be used along with the 30-item EORTC QLQ-C30 Each item will be scored according to the EORTC guidelines, Upto 24 months|Toxicity Assessment, Assessment will be done according to CTCAE v4.0, Upto 24 months
Resection or liver transplant is the only curative treatment in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) however a vast majority of patients present with unresectable disease. In the last decade results of randomized trials and a subsequent metaanalyses established transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) as standard of care in patients with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage B. However, TACE alone is not a curative approach. The two year survival following TACE ranges from 31-63% with almost 100% patients developing disease progression after treatment. There is need to investigate additional therapeutic options that would consolidate the initial response to TACE. A recent metaanalyses including 17 trials (5 randomized and 12 non randomized studies) concluded that addition of high dose radiation to TACE results in upto 10-35% improvement in two year overall survival. However as results of metaanalyses were based on studies with small sample size, unclear randomization procedure and heterogenous dose of radiation, the need for conducting a high quality randomized study was highlighted. The present study is designed to investigate the role of high dose conformal radiation as consolidation therapy after TACE in patients with nonmetastatic unresectable HCC.

With an integrated phase II/III design the study investigates the impact of local radiation therapy on infield progression free survival in patients with locally advanced unresectable HCC.