A Study of Rebastinib (DCC-2036) in Combination With Carboplatin in Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
This is an open-label Phase 1b/2 multicenter study of rebastinib (DCC-2036) in combination with carboplatin designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) in participants with advanced or metastatic solid tumors.
Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumor
DRUG: Rebastinib|DRUG: Carboplatin
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Number of participants who experienced serious adverse events (SAE) and adverse events (AE)., Baseline up to 2.32 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR) (Dose Expansion Phase), Percentage of participants who achieved an objective response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST) v1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had to have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline; or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Time from CR or PR to disease progression or death due to any cause (Up to 1.53 years)
Objective Response Rate (ORR) (Dose Escalation Phase), Percentage of participants who achieved an objective response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST) v1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had to have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline; or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Time from CR or PR to disease progression or death due to any cause (Up to 1.53 years)|Duration of Response (DOR), Time from first partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) to disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause. Evaluation of radiographic disease assessment per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST v1.1). CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had to have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline; or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Time from PR or CR to PD or Death due to Any Cause (up to 1.53 years)|Time to Progression (TTP), Time from first dose of study drug to the first documentation of progressive disease (PD). Participants were considered to have progressive disease if they had documented progression based on radiologic assessment according to RECIST v1.1. RECIST v1.1 defined disease progression as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the disease measurements for measurable lesions, taking as reference the smallest disease measurement recorded since the start of treatment, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., First Dose of Study Drug to PD (Up to 1.63 years)|Progression-free-survival (PFS), Time from first dose of study drug to disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause. Participants who undergo surgical resection of target or non-target lesions, who have received other anticancer treatments, including surgical resection or radiation (other than palliative radiation to pre-existing bone metastases'), or who do not have a documented date of progression or death due to any cause will be censored at the date of the last assessment. Disease progression per RECIST v1.1 is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline; or the appearance of one or more new lesions., First Dose of Study Drug to PD or Death due to Any Cause (up to 1.63 years)|Overall Survival (OS), Time from baseline C1 D1 to date of death due to any cause. Participants who are still alive or who are lost to follow-up will be censored at the date of last contact., Baseline to death due to any cause (Up to 2.12 years)|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) of Rebastinib (Part 1), Cmax of rebastinib, Part 1: Cycle (C) 1 Day (D) 1, C2 D1 (Cycle = 21 Days)|PK: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve 0-3 Hours (AUC 0-3 Hours) (Part 1), Measure the AUC 0-3 hours, Part 1: Cycle (C) 1 Day (D) 1, C2 D1 (Cycle = 21 Days)
This is an open-label Phase 1b/2 multicenter study of rebastinib (DCC-2036) in combination with carboplatin designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) in participants with advanced or metastatic solid tumors.