Lenalidomide, Ibrutinib, and Rituximab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma That Is Metastatic or Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with ibrutinib and rituximab in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma that has come back (relapsed), has not responded well to prior treatments (refractory), has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic), or cannot be removed by surgery. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, use substances made from living organisms that may stimulate or suppress the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Ibrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving lenalidomide together with ibrutinib and rituximab may kill more cancer cells.
Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Electrocardiogram|DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Recommended phase II dose of lenalidomide and ibrutinib with rituximab based on the maximum tolerated dose and the assessment of any clinically relevant toxicity, Graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 28 days
Incidence of adverse events, Graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0. Descriptive statistics will be used in the analysis of all laboratory and safety parameters (adverse events, serious adverse events, adverse events leading to discontinuation, deaths) for all treated patients., Up to 30 days following the last dose of ibrutinib|Overall response rate, The proportion of patients who achieve stable disease (SD) or a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) will be reported with a 95% exact binomial confidence interval., From the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence or death, assessed up to 10 years|Complete response rates, The proportion of patients who achieve CR will be reported with a 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 10 years|Duration of response, From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented or death, assessed up to 10 years|Progression-free survival, The progression-free survival will be evaluated using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or relapse or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the recommended phase II doses of lenalidomide and ibrutinib for combination with rituximab in previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of lenalidomide, ibrutinib and rituximab in previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma.

II. To describe any preliminary evidence of antitumor activity of the combination of lenalidomide, rituximab and ibrutinib in previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma as defined by response rate, duration of response, and progression-free survival.

III. To observe and record anti-tumor activity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 (up to 6 cycles), lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 (up to 12 cycles), and ibrutinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo electrocardiogram (ECG) on screening and computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), bone marrow biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 6 months for 10 years.