A Trial On 4 Cycles Of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Plus Concurrent Chemoradiation In N2-3 Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
The standard treatment strategy of locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) nowadays is concurrent chemoradiation (CCRT) based on intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT). However, distant metastasis remains the major cause of treatment failure, especially in patients with T1-4N2-3M0 diseases (N2-3 NPC). The investigators inferred that it was more appropriate to consider N2-3 NPC as a systemic disease instead of a local disease. NACT of sufficient intensity such as 4 cycles might be effective enough for control of the pre-existing micrometastases. Therefore, the objective of this phase 3 multicenter randomized controlled trial is to make a comparison between NACT of 4 cycles plus CCRT based on IMRT and CCRT alone in N2-3 NPC on distant metastasis, survival and adverse reaction.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Docetaxel (DOC)|DRUG: Cisplatin (DDP)|RADIATION: Concurrent chemoradiation (CCRT)
5-year overall survival (5y-OS), Percentage of patients in a treatment group who are alive for a 5-year period of follow-up after the date of pathologic diagnosis, 5 years after the date of pathologic diagnosis|5-year distant-metastasis-free survival (5y-MFS), Percentage of patients in a treatment group who are alive without distant metastasis for a 5-year period of follow-up after the date of pathologic diagnosis, 5 years after the date of pathologic diagnosis
5-year local-relapse-free survival (5y-RFS), Percentage of patients in a treatment group who are alive without local recurrence for a 5-year period of follow-up after the date of pathologic diagnosis, 5 years after the date of pathologic diagnosis|5-year disease-free survival (5y-DFS), Percentage of patients in a treatment group who are alive without disease-related events (local recurrence, distant metastasis) for a 5-year period of follow-up after the date of pathologic diagnosis, 5 years after the date of pathologic diagnosis|Incidence of grade 3/4 adverse event, Incidence of patients in a treatment group who manifest a specific adverse event (such as myelosuppression) of grade 3/4. Incidence is calculated for each adverse event respectively and severity is evaluated on basis of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 criteria., Once a week during therapy, up to 7 weeks (Group A) or 19 weeks (Group B)
The standard treatment strategy of locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) nowadays is concurrent chemoradiation (CCRT), which is based on intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and achieves a satisfactory local-regional control and a 5-year overall survival (OS) of 83.0%. However, distant metastasis remains the major cause of treatment failure, especially in patients with T1-4N2-3M0 diseases (N2-3 NPC). The distant metastasis reaches 35-48% after CCRT alone.

To decrease distant metastasis of locally advanced NPC so as to improve survival, approaches on modifying timing of chemotherapy have been made to mainly 2 types: one was CCRT plus adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT), the other was neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) plus CCRT. It was proved that CCRT plus ACT could not improve survival of locally advanced NPC further. Some clinical trials indicated that locally advanced NPC patients with 2-3 cycles of NACT plus CCRT had a better survival than those with CCRT alone though the roles of NACT remain controversial.

It is known that N stage is by far the most significant predicting factor of metastasis risk for NPC. N2-3 NPC was also proved to have a quite great risk of distant failure. 51.4% of distant metastases happened within 1 year after CCRT. The investigators inferred that subclinical micrometastases were already present before treatment starting. Hence, it was more appropriate to consider N2-3 NPC as a systemic disease instead of a local disease. NACT of sufficient intensity such as 4 cycles might be effective enough for control of the pre-existing micrometastases.

Therefore, this phase 3 multicenter randomized controlled trial is conducted to enroll 144 patients with N2-3 NPC. After stratification by N stage, the patients will be allocated into 2 treatment groups randomly at a ratio of 1:1 and applied with different treatment strategies to make a comparison between NACT of 4 cycles plus CCRT based on IMRT and CCRT alone in N2-3 NPC on distant metastasis, survival and adverse reaction.