A Radiomic Model for Risk of Local Recurrence and DFS for T3 and T4 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The investigators retrospectively collected the participants with T3 and T4, N0-2, M0 NSCLC patients resected between January 2013 to December 2021 for training and internal validation. The Clinical data, preoperative laboratory results and images were collected. High-risk margins were defined as R1 or R2 surgical margins or local recurrence during follow-up, and the investigators also collected the disease-free survival time. On the Deepwise multi-modal research platform, the images were semi-automatically segmented and expanded outward by 3mm to obtain the peritumor tissue. PyRadiomics was used to extract the radiomic features. LASSO was used to select the features and tumor radiomics model, peritumor model and combined model were built using 5-fold cross-validation. And it was further tested on the independent cohort. Discrimination was assessed by using the C-index and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), sensibility, specificity.
Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell
OTHER: tumor and peritumor radiomic feature
disease free time and recurrence location, the time from the surgery time to the recurrence time, until the December 2023
The investigators retrospectively collected the participants with T3 and T4, N0-2, M0 NSCLC patients resected between January 2013 to December 2021 for training and internal validation. The Clinical data, preoperative laboratory results and images were collected. High-risk margins were defined as R1 or R2 surgical margins or local recurrence during follow-up, and the investigators also collected the disease-free survival time. On the Deepwise multi-modal research platform, the images were semi-automatically segmented and expanded outward by 3mm to obtain the peritumor tissue. PyRadiomics was used to extract the radiomic features. LASSO was used to select the features and tumor radiomics model, peritumor model and combined model were built using 5-fold cross-validation. And it was further tested on the independent cohort. Discrimination was assessed by using the C-index and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), sensibility, specificity.