Impact of Oncogeriatric Consultation on Quality of Life of Patients Aged 75 and More With Cancer
Among patients with cancer, 6 in 10 are over 65 years of age. In order to improve quality of life of aged cancer patients, the oncogeriatric consultation has been created. Oncogeriatric consultation aim to help oncologists determine the best solutions to combine therapy and quality of life. Factors influencing quality of life of cancer patients have been studied previously. However, these studies always focus on one specific cancer.
Cancer
OTHER: Data collection
EORTC QLQ-C30, The QLQ-C30 is a generic questionnaire with 30 questions coded in 4 response modalities (not at all (1), a little (2), enough (3), a lot (4)) or in 7 response modalities (from very bad (1) to excellent ( 7)).

Questions are summarized in five multiitem domains (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social functioning) and nine single item domains (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting, appetite loss, financial impact; diarrhea, constipation, sleep disturbance and quality of life).

Each domain is scored between 0 and 100. For functional domains, a high score value represents a high level of quality of life. For symptom domains, a high score represents an important level of symptoms (a low level of quality of life)., Day 0|EORTC QLQ-C30, The QLQ-C30 is a generic questionnaire with 30 questions coded in 4 response modalities (not at all (1), a little (2), enough (3), a lot (4)) or in 7 response modalities (from very bad (1) to excellent ( 7)).

Questions are summarized in five multiitem domains (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social functioning) and nine single item domains (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting, appetite loss, financial impact; diarrhea, constipation, sleep disturbance and quality of life).

Each domain is scored between 0 and 100. For functional domains, a high score value represents a high level of quality of life. For symptom domains, a high score represents an important level of symptoms (a low level of quality of life)., Day 60
The aim of the study is to study factors associated with quality of life in patients aged 75 and more with cancer, notably the oncogeriatric consultation.