Erdafitinib and Abiraterone Acetate or Enzalutamide in Treating Patients With Double Negative Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well erdafitinib in combination with abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide works in treating patients with double negative prostate cancer. Erdafitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Testosterone can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Abiraterone acetate lowers the amount of testosterone made by the body. This may help stop the growth of tumor cells that need testosterone to grow. Enzalutamide blocks the use of testosterone by the tumor cells. Giving erdafitinib with abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide may work better in treating patients with prostate cancer compared to abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide alone.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Double-Negative Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Erdafitinib
Objective Response Rate, Will be calculated as the percentage of patients, with 95% confidence intervals, achieving a complete response or partial response across the entire study population at any time., Up to 67 days
Radiographic Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival is time to progressive disease. Disease progression is determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for soft tissue metastases and Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 criteria for bone metastases. Median progression free survival will be calculated., Up to 67 days|Time to Response, Time to response is the time until a radiographic response occures as determined by RECIST 1.1 criteria. This cannot be determined since only two patients had re-staging scans on study and neither had a response., Up to 67 days|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is time to death from any cause. Median overall survival survival will be calculated., From cycle 1, day 1 to the date of death, assessed up to 178 days|Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Response, PSA response will be defined by a \> 50% reduction in PSA compared with baseline at any point during treatment. We will report the percentage of patients who achieve a PSA response., Baseline up to 73 days|Incidence and Severity of Adverse Events (AEs), Will be assessed using version National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Will characterize AEs by type and grade. Safety will be summarized as the severity and frequency of a given AE., Within 14 days of end of treatment, an average of 1 year.
OUTLINE: Patients receive abiraterone acetate orally (PO) once daily (QD) or enzalutamide PO QD on days 1-21. Patients also receive erdafitinib PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.