Fruquintinib Sequential BEV+FOLFIRI vs. BEV+FOLFIRI Sequential Fruquintinib in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is a prospective, open, multicenter, randomized controlled phase II study designed to observe the difference of efficacy, adverse events and quality of life between second-line and third-line application of Fruquintinib in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The study will evaluate PFS, ORR, OS and safety.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Fruquintinib
Sequential treatment of PFS with furoquitinib in second-line (F-C group) versus third-line (C-F group), Sequential PFS is defined as:

F-C group: time from randomization to disease progression or death after drug C, whichever occurred first.

C-F group: time from randomization to disease progression or death after use of F drug, whichever occurred first., 10 months
A maximum of 134 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who had previously failed to receive fluorouracil/oxaliplatin were included in the study. The patients were randomly divided into two groups according to the ratio of 1:1 and given different medication regiments. Stratified factors included left and right colorectal cancer, tumor RAS gene status, and first-line use of bevacizumab. Specific grouping and medication regimen are as follows:

Second-line treatment group (F-C group) : After enrollment, patients were given Fruquintinib 5 mg/d orally for 21 consecutive days with 7 days of rest, with a cycle of 28 days. Use drugs until the disease progresses or toxicity is intolerable, and then carry out third-line treatment. BEV+FOLFIRI was administered in the third line. Third-line medication until disease progression or toxicity becomes intolerable.

Third-line application group (C-F group) : After enrollment, patients were treated with BEV+FOLFIRI until disease progression or toxicity intolerance, and third-line treatment was carried out after progression. Fruquintinib was given in the third line of treatment, specifically: Fruquintinib 5 mg/d orally for 21 consecutive days, followed by 7 days of rest, with a cycle of 28 days. Third-line medication until disease progression or toxicity becomes intolerable.