Personalized Experiences to Inform Improved Communication for Minorities With Life Limiting Illness
The purpose of this research is to develop patient-centered palliative care interventions to improve patient-provider communication and Quality of Life (QoL) of ethnic and racial minority patients living with life-limiting illnesses. Eliciting personal experiences is an effective way for patients to communicate their cultural values and beliefs. This study will assess how to integrate the patients' personal experience narratives into the electronic health record (EHR). The primary hypothesis is that the implementation of a patient-centered intervention to elicit personal experiences that are included in the EHR will improve patient-provider communication and patients' QoL.
COPD|Heart Failure|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Storytelling Intervention for Patient Participants|BEHAVIORAL: Storytelling Intervention for Nurse Participants
Number of Completed Exit Interviews From Patients on Feasibility of Their Use of Their Narrative Integrated Into EHR, Using an observational design, this measure (exit interviews) were completed with 20 inpatient participants and 18 nurse participants. The qualitative data from the interviews were used to define and refine the storytelling intervention. The data collected from the exit interview is qualitative in nature and therefore does not have a numerical value., 1-2 weeks
Usability Assessment Via the System Usability Scale(SUS), Range of 0 to 100, With Higher Number Representing a Better Outcome SUS Scores Have a Range of 0 to 100, the Higher the Number Represents a Better Outcome., This study will utilize an observational design to define and refine the storytelling intervention, seeking input from the key stakeholders: providers (acute care bedside nurses).The SUS scale is a 10 item Likert scale which gives a global view of subjective assessment of usability with five item responses options from strongly agree to strongly disagree. SUS yields a single number representing a composite measure of the overall usability of the system being studied. Note that scores for individual items are not meaningful on their own. To calculate the SUS score, first sum the score contributions from each item. Each item's score contribution will range from 0 to 4. For items 1,3,5,7, and 9, the score contribution is the scale position minus 1. For items 2,4,6,8, and 10, the contribution is 5 minus the scale position. Multiply the sum of the scores by 2.5 to obtain the overall value of the SUS, with the higher the number, the better the outcome., 1-2 weeks
Racial and ethnic minority patients with a Life Limiting Illnes (LLI) in the United States are underserved in many ways, including quality of palliative care. Specific disparities have been reported in palliative care for minority patients, including sub-optimal patient-provider communication and resulting lower QoL. A potential approach to improve communication is to elicit patients' personal narratives that address their cultural or spiritual values and beliefs, and include them in the EHR. The objective of this observational study is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of a palliative care nursing intervention designed to 1) identify barriers and facilitators for eliciting and recording relevant narratives from the perspectives of the key stakeholders: minority patients with LLI; 2) to conduct usability testing, applying a user-system-environment evaluation process to determine essential requirements for integration of the patient-centered narratives into the EHR; and 3) identify barriers and facilitators of integration of the patient's narrative into daily workflow from the perspectives of key stakeholders: acute care bedside nurse.