Nivolumab for the Treatment of Metastatic or Unresectable Solid Tumors With ARID1A Mutation and CXCL13 Expression
This phase II trial studies the effect of nivolumab in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) with RID1A mutation and CXCL13 expression. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving nivolumab may help to control the disease.
Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Solid Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined as the rate of confirmed complete responses (CR) + partial responses (PR) as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and as assessed by the investigator. Will estimate ORR along with the 95% exact confidence interval (CI), Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the median OS and 1-year Survival Rate; the 95% CI of the 1-year survival rate will also be reported. Censoring for the survival endpoint will be assigned on the date of the last on-study follow-up that the patient is reported to be alive., From date of first study treatment to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate objective response rate (ORR) and overall survival (OS) in patients with ARID1A mutations receiving nivolumab therapy.

II. To estimate objective response rate (ORR) and overall survival (OS) in patients with ARID1A mutations plus CXCL13-high expression and ARID1A mutations plus CXCL13-low expression, receiving nivolumab therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate progression free survival (PFS) in subjects with harboring ARID1A mutation treated with nivolumab monotherapy.

II. To estimate progression free survival (PFS) in subjects with ARID1A mutations plus CXCL13-high expression and ARID1A mutations plus CXCL13-low expression, treated with nivolumab monotherapy.

III. To assess peripheral and tumor infiltrating immune cell sub-populations in patients with ARID1A mutations, ARID1A plus CXCL13-high and ARID1A plus CXCL13-low expression, to determine predictors of response and resistance.

IV. To determine expression pattern of CXCL13 in ARID1A mutant tumors.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nivolumab and relatlimab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), tissue biopsy and blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.