The Study for Evaluating the Clinical Effectiveness and Safety of Respiratory Rehabilitation Software 'Redpill Breath'(COPD, Asthma, Lung Cancer, Etc.)
The purpose of the study is to prove the clinical superiority of respiratory rehabilitation software "Redpill Breath" and evaluate the clinical improvement effect by 6-minute walk test of the software, compared to the manual rehabilitation management for those who need respiratory rehabilitation(COPD, Asthma, Lung Cancer, etc.)
Respiratory System Disease|Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease|Asthma Copd|Lung Cancer|Lung Diseases|Pulmonary Rehabilitation|Respiratory Rehabilitation|Home Based Rehabilitation|Mobile Application|Rehabilitation
BEHAVIORAL: Conventional rehabilition treatment(e.g leaflet) educated by hospital|DEVICE: Digital treatment based on Respiratory Rehabilitation Software
The 6-minute walking distance (6 minute walking distance, 6MWD) change amount(in meters) at 12 weeks after respiratory rehabilitation compared to the baseline., the primary efficacy variable is the change of respiratory function parameters as a 6-minute walking distance(6MWT) in meters(m) at V4 compared with the baseline(V2). The value of 6MWD at V2 adjust as the value of covariate for statistical significance between the groups., 12 weeks
The 6-minute walking distance (6 minute walking distance, 6MWD) change amount(in meters) at 8 weeks after respiratory rehabilitation compared to the baseline., the efficacy variable is the change of respiratory function parameters (6MWT) at V3 compared with the baseline(V2). Statistical significance is tested through the Independent two-sample-test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test. it will be evaluated separately from the primary outcome(6MWD at 12 weeks), 8 weeks|The amount of change in the modified medical ressearch council Dyspnea scale (mMRC) scores at 8 and 12 weeks after respiratory rehabilitation compared to the baseline., the efficacy variable is the change of respiratory function parameter by modified medical research council Dyspnea scale(mMRC) scores at V3 and V4 compared with the baseline(V2). the total score ranges from 0 to 4, The higher score means more severe symptoms. Statistical significance of changes within each group is tested by the Paired -test or Wilcoxon signed rank test., 8 and 12 weeks|The amount of change in the Structures Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) score at 8 and 12 weeks after respiratory rehabilitation compared to the baseline., the efficacy variable is the change of respiratory function scores(Structures Respiratory Questionnaire, SGRQ) at V3 and V4 compared with the baseline(V2). Scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating more limitations. Statistical significance of changes within each group is tested by the Paired -test or Wilcoxon signed rank test., 8 and 12 weeks|The amount of change in the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) at 8 and 12 weeks after respiratory rehabilitation compared to the baseline., the efficacy variable is the change of respiratory function scores(Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS) at V3 and V4 compared with the baseline(V2). Scores range from 0 to 21, with the higher score indicating the more depressed and anxious. Statistical significance of changes within each group is tested by the Paired -test or Wilcoxon signed rank test., 8 and 12 weeks|The amount of change in the average number of daily steps per week during the respiratory rehabilitation management period (number of times), the efficacy variable is the daily step count detection using medical device for 12 weeks. Statistical significance of changes within each group is tested by the Paired -test or Wilcoxon signed rank test., per week for 12weeks|The number of times in the use of medical support (days of hospitalization), the efficacy variable is number of days of hospitalization for 12 weeks compared with the baseline(V2). Statistical significance of changes within each group is tested by the Paired -test or Wilcoxon signed rank test., 12 weeks|The number of times in the use of medical support (days of emergency room visits), the efficacy variable is number of days of hospitalization, number of days of emergency room visits for 12 weeks compared with the baseline(V2). Statistical significance of changes within each group is tested by the Paired -test or Wilcoxon signed rank test., 12 weeks|Abnormal case (safety evaluation variable), The analysis of abnormal case analyzes all abnormal cases(TEAE) that occurre after the application of medical devices for clinical trials.

Descriptive statistics(the number of subjects, incidence, and occurrence of coded adverse events) are presented by group. Treatment Emergency Adverse Event (TEAE), Adverse Device Effect (ADE), and Serious Adverse Event (SAE), and the difference in ratio between groups analyzes through Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test. The factors are coded according to SOC and PT using MedDRA. In addition, a detailed list is presented for individual subjects who have experienced significant abnormalities., 8 and 12 weeks|Patient Global Assessment (PGA) evaluation for 12 weeks after respiratory rehabilitation management, the scores of experimental group's Patient Global Assessment (PGA) evaluation using medical device for 12 weeks. PGA is assessed by a single question ranged from 0 to 10. the higher score means the greater patient's satisfaction., 12 weeks|Evaluation of the number of treatments during the respiratory rehabilitation management period (number of times), the experimental group's the number of treatments, using medical device for 12 weeks represents descriptive statistics (number of subjects, average, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum value), 12 weeks
The purpose of the study is to prove the clinical superiority of respiratory rehabilitation software "Redpill Breath" and evaluate the clinical improvement effect by 6-minute walk test of the software, compared to the manual rehabilitation management for those who need respiratory rehabilitation(COPD, Asthma, Lung Cancer, etc.)