Docetaxel Plus Lycopene in Castration Resistant, Chemotherapy-Naïve Prostate Cancer Patients
This phase II trial evaluated the impact of giving docetaxel together with lycopene supplements in treating patients with hormone-resistant prostate cancer not previously treated with chemotherapy. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs, such as lycopene, to keep cancer from forming. Giving docetaxel together with lycopene may be an effective treatment for prostate cancer.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage I Prostate Cancer|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer|Stage III Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Lycopene
Proporation of Subjects Achieving Partial Response, Stable Disease or Progressive Disease Based on PSA Response Rates, To define the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate according to the criteria of Bubley, et al. in subjects treated with a combination of docetaxel and lycopene. Per criteria of Bubley, et al., PSA response rate is defined the number of subjects who achieve a \>50% decline in PSA from baseline., Up to week 12 of therapy
Objective Response Rate as Assessed by RECIST Criteria in Either Visceral or Lymph Node Metastases, The percent of subjects achieving an objective response by RECIST criteria in either visceral or lymph node metastases, and the percent achieving clinical complete disappearance of disease at any site, will be recorded., Up to 4 years|Time to PSA Progression, The definition of time to PSA progression is the date (after the initiation of chemotherapy on day 2) that a 25% or greater increase, and an absolute increase of 2ng/mL or more, from the nadir PSA is documented. If there is no decrease in PSA following chemotherapy, then PSA progression is the date for documentation of a 25% increase from the baseline value along with an increase in absolute value of 2ng/mL or more., Up to 4 years|Toxicity of Combined Docetaxel + Lycopene Therapy, The percentage of subjects experiencing grade 3-4 hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity will be recorded, as well as the reason for ending treatment. This outcome measure was not collected due to lack of funding., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate according to the criteria of Bubley, et al. (\>50% reduction from baseline) in subjects treated with a combination of docetaxel and lycopene.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I.To determine the objective response rate (ORR) according to modified RECIST criteria in patients with measurable disease, following treatment with docetaxel and lycopene.

II. To define the time to PSA progression, according to the response criteria of Scher, et al., in subjects treated with docetaxel and lycopene.

III. To determine the safety and tolerability of lycopene in combination with docetaxel.

IV. To determine the effects of docetaxel + lycopene therapy on the functioning of the IGFR-I, selected biomarkers, and docetaxel blood levels in plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (correlative studies).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 75 mg/m2 docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour q 21 days and lycopene 30 mg capsules orally (PO) once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.