Dexamethasone vs Placebo in the Prophylaxis of Radiation-Induced Pain Flare Following Palliative Radiotherapy for Bone Metastases
This research is being done because is is not known if dexamethasone can prevent pain flare (their pain temporarily gets worse before it gets better) caused by the radiation used to treat painful bone metastases. Using dexamethasone to prevent pain like this has been studied in a few people and seems promising, but it is not clear if it can decrease the pain or prevent the pain flare before it happens.
Bone Metastases
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Placebo
Radiation-induced Pain Flare Incidence, The incidences of radiation-induced pain flare from the time of radiotherapy treatment to ten days after the completion of treatment, 10 days
Radiation-induced Pain Flare Incidence From Day 6 to Day 10 After Radiotherapy Treatment, Reduction in incidence of radiation-induced pain flare from Day 6 to Day 10 after radiotherapy treatment, From Day 6 to day 10 after radiotherapy treatment|Analgesic Use, Change in mean analgesic use from baseline to day 10., 10 days|Response to Radiation Treatment at Six Weeks, Response to radiation treatment at six weeks after treatment. Complete response (CR) is defined as a worst pain score of zero (0) at the bony metastatic site with no concomitant increase in analgesic intake (stable or reduced oral morphine equivalent dosage (OMED)).

Partial response (PR) is defined as any of the following:

i. Reduction in worst pain score of two or more at the bony metastatic site on a 0-10 scale without analgesic increase.

ii. Analgesic reduction of 25% or more from baseline without an increase in worst pain score with reference to baseline.

iii. For patients who were using opioid analgesics at the baseline assessment, a daily oral morphine equivalence of zero (0) without an increase in worst pain score relative to the baseline worst pain score, From day 0 to 6 weeks|Change in Pain Intensity Score Over 10 Days After Radiotherapy., Change in pain score over 10 days after radiotherapy, pain score range from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain as can imagine)., Pain intensity score change from baseline of day 0 to day 10 after radiation
Previous research has shown that for patients who receive radiation therapy to treat their painful bone metastases, about 2 out of every 5 patients (about 40%) experience pain flare. The purpose of this study is to find out whether pain flare is prevented by receiving 8mg dexamethasone at least one hour prior to radiotherapy and once daily for the following 4 days. To do this, half of the patients in this study will get dexamethasone and the other half will receive a placebo (a substance that does not do anything). Using a placebo is the best way to see if a new therapy is effective and to clearly see the potential side effects and impact on quality of life.