Study on the Efficacy and Safety of PEG-rhG-CSF in Preventing Neutropenia During Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy of Cervical Cancer
This randomized controlled prospective study aims to explore the efficacy and safety of using (PEGylated Recombinant Human Granulocyte Stimulating Factor) PEG-rhG-CSF to prevent neutropenia during concurrent chemoradiotherapy of paclitaxel and cisplatin (TP) regimen for cervical cancer. To find out the best time to use PEG-rhG CSF, and to explore investigate the effect of PEG-rhG-CSF on long-term bone marrow function in the process of concurrent chemoradiotherapy, and finally to explore the clinical feasibility of using PEG-rhG-CSF to prevent neutropenia during concurrent chemoradiotherapy of TP regimen for cervical cancer.
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: PEG-rhG-CSF|DRUG: rhG-CSF
Incidence of Grade 3-4 neutropenia, Incidence of Grade 3-4 neutropenia, 2 months|Duration of grade 3-4 neutropenia, Duration of grade 3-4 neutropenia, 2 months
Incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN), Incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN), 2 months|the rate of postponement of the course of radiotherapy, the rate of postponement of the course of radiotherapy, 2 months|reduction in chemotherapy dose, reduction in chemotherapy dose, 2 months|postponement of the course of chemotherapy, postponement of the course of chemotherapy, 2 months|Changes of bone marrow function in patients 3 months and 6 months after radiotherapy, Changes of bone marrow function in patients 3 months and 6 months after radiotherapy, 6 months
Study design: In this prospective, single-center, randomized controlled study, patients with locally advanced cervical cancer are randomly divided into two groups. Patients in the experimental group will receive PEG-rhG-CSF 6mg prevention during concurrent chemoradiotherapy, whereas the control group do not use PEG-rhG-CSF for prevention. When the patient's ANC is less than 1✕109/L, 5μg/kg rhG-CSF will be given for treatment until the ANC returned to 2✕109/L.

Case selection: patients with IIb-IIIb cervical cancer, squamous cell carcinoma confirmed by histopathology, and three-week regimen of paclitaxel and carboplatin with Concurrent Radiotherapy.

Primary end point: incidence and duration of grade 3/4 neutropenia in patients. Secondary endpoints: 1) Incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN); 2) the rate of postponement of the course of radiotherapy, reduction in chemotherapy dose and postponement of the course of chemotherapy; 3) Changes of bone marrow function in patients 3 months and 6 months after radiotherapy.

Safety assessment: laboratory safety testing, including platelet count and hemoglobin. Evaluation of adverse events: infection, neutropenic fever, bone pain, etc.