A Study of IMC-RON8 in Advanced Solid Tumors
A dose escalation study to determine the maximum tolerated dose of IMC-RON8 in participants with solid tumors. Participants can either be dosed once a week, or once every other week.
Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: IMC-RON8|BIOLOGICAL: IMC-RON8|BIOLOGICAL: IMC-RON8|BIOLOGICAL: IMC-RON8|BIOLOGICAL: IMC-RON8|BIOLOGICAL: IMC-RON8|BIOLOGICAL: IMC-RON8|BIOLOGICAL: IMC-RON8
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of IMC-RON8, The MTD was the previous dose level to that in which 2 of 6 participants experienced dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). DLTs were defined as any of the following events: Grade 4 neutropenia lasting \>7 days; any Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia complicated by fever ≥38.5 degrees Celsius or infection, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, or Grade 3 thrombocytopenia complicated by hemorrhage; Grade 3 hepatic toxicity; or any Grade 3 or 4 nonhematologic toxicity (excluding alopecia, fatigue, anorexia, nausea, and vomiting that is controlled with antiemetics)., Baseline through end of study treatment (up to 48 weeks)
Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of IMC-RON8, The Cmax of IMC-RON8 following the first and multiple IV infusions (the fourth infusion for the qw treatment regimen and the fifth infusion for the q2w treatment regimen) is reported. PK samples were collected per protocol and individual sampling times varied depending on the treatment arm and infusion (first or multiple). The geometric mean and geometric coefficient of variation (%CV) were calculated for treatment arms that had ≥3 participants who had evaluable PK samples for Cmax., First and fourth or fifth infusion: Predose, immediately postdose through 168 or 336 hours postdose|PK: Area Under the Curve (AUC) of IMC-RON8, The AUC from time 0 to the last quantifiable concentration \[AUC(0-tlast)\] of IMC-RON8 following the first IV infusion is reported along with the AUC for 1 dosing interval (AUC tau). Tau = fourth infusion through 168 hours post infusion for the qw regimen and the fifth infusion through 336 hours post infusion for the q2w regimen. PK samples were collected per protocol and individual sampling times varied depending on the treatment arm and infusion (first or multiple). The geometric mean and geometric coefficient of variation (%CV) were calculated for treatment arms that had ≥3 participants who had evaluable PK samples for AUC(0-tlast) or AUC tau., First and fourth or fifth infusion: Predose, immediately postdose through 168 or 336 hours postdose|Immunogenicity of IMC-RON8, An immunogenicity assay for IMC-RON8 was not developed due to the decision to not further develop IMC-RON8 based on preliminary results of this study., Prior to first infusion through study completion (up to 52 weeks)|Pharmacodynamics: H-Score of Macrophage-Stimulating 1-Receptor-8 (RON8), The expression of RON8 was measured in cell membrane/cytoplasm by immunohistochemistry (IHC) methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. The H-Score was calculated by summing the percentage of cell staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining: 0 (no staining), 1+ (weak staining), 2+ (medium staining), 3+ (strongest staining). H-Scores could range from a minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicated the strongest expression. Pharmacodynamic samples were collected per protocol and individual sampling times varied depending on the treatment group., Prior to first infusion through 1 hour post last infusion (end of study treatment, up to 48 weeks)|Best Overall Tumor Response (Antitumor Activity of IMC-RON8 in the Treatment of Solid Tumors), Response was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST, v 1.1) criteria. CR was the disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions; and any pathological lymph node (whether target or nontarget) must have had a reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm) and normalization of tumor marker level of nontarget lesions. The disappearance of any intratumoral arterial enhancement in all target lesions was also required. PR was having at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. PD was having at least 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions and minimum 5 mm increase above nadir and the unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. SD was small changes that did not meet the above criteria., Baseline to measured PD (up to 48 weeks)
Number of Participants Who Died, The number of participants who died is reported by cause of death., Baseline through study completion (up to 52 weeks)
A dose escalation study to determine the maximum tolerated dose of IMC-RON8 in participants with solid tumors. Participants can either be dosed once a week, or once every other week.