Intratumoral Cavrotolimod Combined With Pembrolizumab or Cemiplimab in Patients With Merkel Cell Carcinoma, Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma, or Other Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a phase 1b/2, open-label, two-part, multicenter trial designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and preliminary efficacy of intratumoral cavrotolimod injections alone and in combination with intravenous pembrolizumab or cemiplimab in patients with Merkel Cell Carcinoma, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, and advanced solid tumors.

Phase 1b of this trial is a 3+3 dose escalation study evaluating escalating or intermediate dose levels of cavrotolimod given with a fixed dose of pembrolizumab.

The Phase 2 dose expansion part of the study will consist of two primary cohorts of patients: Merkel cell carcinoma and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. Patients in the Merkel Cell Carcinoma cohort will receive IT cavrotolimod combined with a fixed, standard dose of pembrolizumab while the Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma cohort will receive IT cavrotolimod combined with a fixed, standard dose of cemiplimab. The Phase 2 dose expansion is designed to provide a preliminary estimate of efficacy in patients that have progressed on an anti-PD-(L)1 CPI.
Advanced or Metastatic Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Advanced or Metastatic Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Advanced or Metastatic Melanoma|Advanced or Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
DRUG: Cavrotolimod|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab|DRUG: Cavrotolimod
Adverse events of cavrotolimod alone and in combination with pembrolizumab or cemiplimab, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Study day 36
Recommended Phase 2 dose, To recommend a dose of cavrotolimod and combination regimen for further development, 12 months|Objective response rate (ORR) per RECIST v1.1, ORR to be calculated overall and by cohort/subgroup using RECIST v1.1. Subgroups will be defined for the efficacy analyses based on prior exposure and response to immune checkpoint inhibitors., 24 months|Measure changes in correlative biomarkers including tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, PD-L1 and other checkpoint expression at baseline, after cavrotolimod monotherapy, and after combination therapy of both cavrotolimod and pembrolizumab or cemiplimab., IHC on FFPE biopsies will be used to assess markers., Study day 36|Measure changes in gene expression profiles at baseline, after cavrotolimod monotherapy, and after combination therapy of both cavrotolimod and pembrolizumab or cemiplimab., Selected gene-expression profiling on gene expression will be performed with nCounter (NanoString Technologies)., Study day 36
This study will be conducted in 2 phases. Phase 1 evaluates cavrotolimod given in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced solid tumors in a classical 3+3 dose escalation design, with up to five ascending dose cohorts of cavrotolimod and enrollment of at least 3 patients per cohort to identify an RP2D. Patients will be dosed twice with cavrotolimod as a monotherapy before adding pembrolizumab, which will be added starting at the second cycle. Once the MTD or highest escalation cohort has been reached, or notable efficacy has been observed at a given dose level, and a decision as to a RP2D has been made, a two 2-stage expansion cohort design will be initiated.

Phase 2 will evaluate the RP2D of cavrotolimod given in combination with pembrolizumab or cemiplimab in two expansion cohorts following a modified Simon 2-stage optimal design comprised of patients with Merkel cell carcinoma or cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. who previously received and have progressed on an anti-PD-(L)1 CPI. Patients in the Merkel Cell Carcinoma cohort will receive IT cavrotolimod combined with a fixed, standard dose of pembrolizumab while the Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma cohort will receive IT cavrotolimod combined with a fixed, standard dose of cemiplimab.

Phase 2 will include an exploratory expansion cohort to evaluate cavrotolimod in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with other advanced solid tumors, including melanoma, who have progressed on anti-PD-(L)1 therapy.

Exploratory expansion cohorts will evaluate patients with melanoma and additional patients with Merkel Cell Carcinoma who do not meet criteria for enrollment in the primary Merkel Cell Carcinoma cohort. In addition, two exploratory cohorts have been added to evaluate patients with advanced solid tumors and no superficial tumor accessible for IT injection using subcutaneously administered cavrotolimod or IT injection into liver metastases.

A cohort of up to 10 evaluable patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors with no cutaneous, subcutaneous, or accessible nodal tumor lesions available for IT injection may be enrolled (inclusion criterion #4). The inclusion/exclusion criteria for this exploratory cohort will otherwise be the same as those used for the Phase 2 dose expansion cohorts except these patients will not be required to have a lesion accessible for biopsy (inclusion criterion #5). Patients will be dosed with cavrotolimod subcutaneously at a dose not to exceed the recommended Phase 2 dose, 32 mg, in combination with pembrolizumab.