Study of the Trifunctional Antibody Catumaxomab to Treat Recurrent Symptomatic Malignant Ascites
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the investigational drug catumaxomab is a safe and effective treatment for recurrent symptomatic malignant ascites.
Malignant Ascites
DRUG: catumaxomab
The Proportion of Patients Who Achieved at Least a 4-fold Increase of Puncture/Paracentesis-free Interval Following Catumaxomab Relative to Their Pre-treatment Interval., The parameter to be estimated is the proportion of patients who achieve at least a 4-fold increase in their puncture/paracentesis-free interval. The pretreatment interval is defined as the length of time between the patient's most recent paracentesis (baseline) and the subsequent paracentesis necessitated by her increasing ascites-related symptoms. The post-treatment interval is defined as the time between the last dose of catumaxomab plus 1 day to the time of recurrence of ascites requiring therapeutic paracentesis or death, whichever occurred sooner., 6 months|Increase of Paracentesis/Puncture-free Interval (Ratio), The parameter to be tested is the ratio of the post-treatment puncture/paracentesis-free interval divided by the pre-treatment puncture/paracentesis-free interval. The pre-treatment interval is defined as the length of time between the patient's most recent paracentesis (baseline) and the subsequent paracentesis necessitated by her increasing ascites-related symptoms. The post-treatment interval is defined as the time between the last dose of catumaxomab plus 1 day to the time of recurrence of ascites requiring therapeutic paracentesis or death, whichever occurred sooner., 180 days
Puncture/Paracentesis-free Survival (PuFS), Puncture/Paracentesis-free Survival (PuFS), Defined as the Number of Days Between the Date of Last Dose and the Date of Documented End of Study (EoS) Paracentesis or Death, Whichever Occurred First, ≥6 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the interval from the date of first dose to the date of death., ≥ 6 months|Ascites Signs and Symptoms, Patient-reported ascites symptoms were to be assessed using the patient questionnaire, Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Ascites Index (FACIT-AI). At 6 months following catumaxomab administration, the patient was requested to assess the severity of the following parameters during the past week using a 5-point scale with scores from "0 = not at all" to "4 = very much": anorexia, insomnia, decreased mobility, dyspnea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, fatigue, early satiety, urinary frequency, constipation, and emotional distress. For the parameters anorexia, insomnia, and decreased mobility, high scores mean good response, for the other parameters low scores mean good response., 6 months|Ascites Volume, Ascites volume measurement were to be performed at screening (= prior to baseline), at baseline (= before start of therapy with catumaxomab) and during the 6-month follow-up period when the patient had recurrence of symptomatic ascites requiring therapeutic paracentesis. At each paracentesis, drainage to dryness was to be achieved and the exact volume was to be measured and documented., 6 months
A multi-center, phase II study of catumaxomab in ovarian cancer patients with recurrent symptomatic malignant ascites requiring therapeutic paracentesis. Each eligible patient will receive four ascending doses of catumaxomab, administered intraperitoneally via an indwelling catheter. Catumaxomab will be administered as a 3-hour constant rate infusion with a dosing interval of 3-4 days. Each patient will participate in this study for up to 7 months (includes the baseline therapeutic paracentesis and screening period, 11 to 21 days treatment period, and up to 180 days/6 months follow-up), with monthly post-study follow-up for the lifetime of the patient.

Catumaxomab is a trifunctional antibody targeting EpCAM on tumor cells and CD3 on T cells. Trifunctional antibodies represent a new concept for targeted anticancer therapy. This new antibody class has the capability to redirect T cells and accessory cells (e.g. macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs) and natural killer (NK) cells) to the tumor site. According to preclinical data, trifunctional antibodies activate these different immune effector cells, which can trigger a complex anti-tumor immune response.