Individualized Health Management of Epithelial Ovarian Cancer: A Retrospective Study
The purpose of this study is to identify the demographic and sociological characteristics of epithelial ovarian cancer in a cohort, identify the risk factors of epithelial ovarian cancer, effectively identify the high-risk population of epithelial ovarian cancer in the population, implement standardized health management, and clarify the effect of standardized health management on the incidence and prognosis of epithelial ovarian cancer. It can also provide a case control population for the clinical cohort of epithelial ovarian cancer to benefit the majority of postoperative patients.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Hematologic features
Number of diagnosed patients, Patients were diagnosed with epithelial ovarian cancer or benign gynecological diseases (including ovarian cysts, uterine fibroids, and uterine prolapse). The blood characteristics of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer and patients with benign gynecological diseases (including ovarian cysts, uterine fibroids, and uterine prolapse) were compared to observe the performance of the study model in predicting disease diagnosis, one month after surgery
Overall survival, The time from the first surgical or biopsy diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer to confirmed death or the end of follow-up, up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, The time from the first surgical or needle biopsy diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer to the confirmation of disease progression or the end of follow-up, up to 5 years
1. The clinical characteristics, preoperative hematological parameters of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer and patients with benign gynecological diseases, and the pathological stage, grade and features extracted by PET/CT images of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer were recorded.
2. Patients from Renji Hospital were divided into training group and test group at a ratio of 7:3, and patients from Shanghai First Maternity and Infant Hospital were used as external validation group.
3. The training group was used to establish the diagnosis and prognosis prediction model of epithelial ovarian cancer, and the test group and the external validation group were used to verify the model, and the area under the ROC curve, accuracy, specificity, and sensitivity were used to evaluate the effect of the model.
4. For machine learning models, SHAP and LIME algorithms were used for model interpretation.
5. Unsupervised clustering algorithm was used to distinguish the subgroups of epithelial ovarian cancer patients, and KM was used to analyze the overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) to predict the survival and recurrence of the subgroups. Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from the first diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer to the confirmation of death or the end of follow-up. Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the first diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer to the confirmation of disease progression or the end of follow-up.