Study of Tocilizumab in Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) Undergoing Transarterial Chemoembolization (TACE)
This is a phase IB study design planned to identify the MTD (Maximum Tolerated Dose) of Tocilizumab in HCC (Hepatocellular Carcinoma) patients followed by a phase II design whereupon the primary objective will be median progression free survival (PFS).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Tocilizumab|PROCEDURE: Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Tocilizumab, The MTD is defined as the dose of Tocilizumab that induces dose-limiting toxicity in 20% of subjects or less when added to TACE. Patients must complete 84 days of treatment before the dose can be escalated., 84 Days Post Treatment|Median Progression Free Survival, Patients will be followed every 3 months for 2 years post treatment. Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death. Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 2 Years Post Treatment
Number of patients that respond to treatment, Number of patients that respond to treatment, 2 Years Post Treatment|Number of patients alive at two years post treatment, Number of patients alive at two years post treatment, 2 Years Post Treatment
TACE (Transarterial Chemo Embolization) has shown to improve overall survival compared to non-treated patients with intermediate HCC (Hepatocellular Carcinoma) tumors. However, TACE is not considered a curative strategy and eventual local recurrence is observed in nearly all (\>95%) of cases. Therefore, significant clinical equipoise exists in this large group of HCC patients such that novel therapies can be tested in an adjuvant manner to TACE. Based on pre-clinical data in HCC and the increasing identification that IL-6 signaling leads to tumor progression or local recurrence in other solid malignancies, significant rationale exists for the use of Tocilizumab, an IL-6 receptor inhibitor adjuvant to TACE. While Tocilizumab has been demonstrated to be safe in RA patients and is FDA approved, limited data exists for the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in patients with cirrhosis and HCC. Therefore, a lead in phase IB study design is planned to identify the MTD of Tocilizumab in HCC patients followed by expansion to the phase II component whereupon the primary objective will be median progression free survival (PFS).