INtracorporeal Versus EXTracorpoREal anastoMOsis After Laparoscopic Right Colectomy for Cancer
The aim of this systematic review is to compare intracorporeal (IA) versus extracorporeal anastomosis (EA) after laparoscopic right hemicolectomy for cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic right hemicolectomy for cancer
Overall surgical morbidity, Surgical morbidity rate defined as any diagnosed morbidity related to surgical technique (anastomotic leakage, anastomotic bleeding, wound infection, ileus) within 60 days from surgery., 60 days from surgery
Operative time, Minutes from skin incision to skin closure, day of intervention|Largest incision length, millimeters of skin incision, day of intervention|Numbers of node harvested, Numbers of node harvested, day of intervention|Intraoperative complicatons, Incidence and kind of intraoperative morbidity, day of intervention|Mortality, Incidence and kind of intraoperative morbidity, 60 days from surgery|Non surgical site complications, Incidence and kind of medical morbidity (cardiovascular, respiratory, or metabolic events; nonsurgical infections; deep venous thrombosis; and pulmonary embolism), 60 days from surgery|Bowel movement, Defined as hours from surgery to peristalsis, assessement every 8 hours, 10 days from surgery|First flatus, Defined as hours from surgery to first flatus, 10 days from surgery|First stool canalization, Defined as hours from surgery to first stool canalization, 10 days from surgery|Time to solid diet, Defined as hours from surgery to solid diet tolerance, 10 days from surgery|Naso gastric tube reintroduction, Defined as rate of NGT reintroduction, 60 days from surgery|Days of analgesic usage, Defined as number of days after interventions, 60 days from surgery|Length of hospital stay, Defined as day from surgery to dismission plus eventual days of recovery after readmission, 60 days from surgery|Readmission, Rate of readmission after home dimission, 60 day from intervention
Background. Only a few retrospective publications comparing these anastomotic techniques and no randomized clinical trial has been performed. We conducted a meta-analysis of the existing non randomized comparative studies on the argument: the results suggest that the IA results in better postoperative recovery outcomes, such as shorter hospital stay, faster bowel movement recovery, faster first flatus, faster time to solid diet and lesser analgesic usage.

Design: Two-armed, double-blinded, randomized, controlled study.

The patients will be randomized into two groups:

A. After laparoscopic right colectomy for cancer, anastomosis will be carried out intracorporeally (IA) B. After laparoscopic right colectomy for cancer, anastomosis will be carried out extracorporeally (EA)

Primary endpoint: Surgical morbidity rate defined as any diagnosed morbidity related to surgical technique (anastomotic leakage, anastomotic bleeding, wound infection, ileus) within 60 days from surgery.

Secondary endpoints:

* Intra-operative: operative time, largest incision length (mm), number of nodes harvested, intraoperative complications.
* Early postoperative: mortality, non-surgical site complications.
* Postoperative recovery: bowel movement, first flatus, time to solid diet, nasogastric tube (NGT) reintroduction, day of analgesic usage, length of stay, readmission.

Randomization. The randomization will be obtained through a computer generated program (GraphPad Software, Inc, La Jolla, California, USA). The randomization, will be done before the beginning of the study and it will consist with an ordered series of numbers with a corresponding letter: A for intracorporeal anastomosis and B for extracorporeal anastomosis. This series of numbers will be kept in a central dedicated web database; after right colon cancer diagnosis, if the patient fulfills the inclusion criteria and signs the consent a number, progressive as in order of inclusion, will be assigned to him or her. The letter corresponding to the number, and hence the type of procedure to perform, will be notified to the operating surgeon, who will proceed accordingly.

Blinding. A second surgeon team (different from the one who participate in the intervention), aware of the operative findings but not the management of the anastomosis, will then assume the care of the patient. Postoperative care and ability to be discharged from the hospital will be determined by the second surgical team. This second surgical team will be blinded to the kind of anastomosis. The primary operative team will be in every moment available for emergent consultation.

Power Calculation. The reported prevalence of surgical morbidity after laparoscopic colectomy varies widely from 5-15%16-39, usually depending on the definition of complications and the type of resection performed. The most recent Cochrane review on the argument indicates a 8.6% of local morbidity (Wound infection, anastomotic insufficiency, postoperative ileus, postoperative bleeding)40. Therefore the number of patients required was based on the hope of improving the rate of surgical morbidity from 8.6% to 4.3%; considering a drop-out rate of 5%, 384 patients (192 in the IA group and 192 in the EA group) are necessary to ensure an 80% power with an alpha of 5%, when using a two-sided log-rank test. The statistical power sample calculation was carried out using PASS 2005 (Power Analysis and Sample Size, within the statistical package "NCSS 2004 and PASS 2005").

Sixty-four patients will be included by each of the six centers of the consortium. Only surgeons with at least 30 right colectomies performed with intracorporeal anastomosis will be allowed to recruit patients as first operator.

Statistics. To evaluate significance of differences between the two groups, chi-squared and Fisher's exact test will be used as appropriated for categorical variables, and the non-parametric Mann-Whitney U-test for continuous variables. Significance level will be set at 5%. The statistical analysis will be carried out using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS version 13; SPSS Inc. Chicago, Illinois, USA).

Monitoring. as commonly requested for Randomized Controlled Trials on patients, a strict control of outcomes has been planned during the study. Three experts in laparoscopic colorectal surgery will be designed as member of IN EXTREMO Trial Monitoring Committee. They would have access to the data during the whole course of the study and indicate cessation of the trial if one arm is providing manifestly inferior results.