Neoantigen Peptide Vaccine Strategy in Pancreatic Cancer Patients Following Surgical Resection and Adjuvant Chemotherapy
This is a phase 1 open-label study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a neoantigen peptide vaccine strategy in pancreatic cancer patients following surgical resection and adjuvant chemotherapy. The neoantigen peptide vaccines will incorporate prioritized neoantigens and personalized mesothelin epitopes and will be co-administered with poly-ICLC. The hypothesis of this study is that neoantigen peptide vaccines will be safe and capable of generating measurable neoantigen-specific CD4 and CD8 T cell responses.
Pancreas Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Cancer of the Pancreas
BIOLOGICAL: Neoantigen Peptide Vaccine|DRUG: Poly ICLC|PROCEDURE: Blood for immune monitoring
Safety of Neoantigen Peptide Vaccine as Measured by the Number of Serious Adverse Events, -Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0., Through 30 days following completion of treatment (median follow-up of 107 days, full range of 88-157 days)
Number of Participants With Immune Response as Measured by ELISPOT Analysis, The ELISpot assay was performed after in vitro culture of patient PBMC with neoantigen peptide for \~12 days. The number of spot-forming T cells, a surrogate for the number of neoantigen-specific T cells, was determined after neoantigen peptide re-stimulation for the duration of the assay (48 hours) and compared to that of control cells that were not re-stimulated with neoantigen during the assay. Independent t tests between pre- and post-vaccination PBMCs were performed., Baseline through week 52|Number of Participants With Immune Response as Measured by Multiparametric Flow Cytometry (CD4), Multiparametric flow cytometry was performed as a second readout to characterize the neoantigen-specific T cell response. Markers included CD4, CD8, IFNγ, and a viability marker. After culture, as described above, T cells were stimulated overnight with/without neoantigen and stained with fluorescent antibodies specific for the various markers. Data were analyzed by comparing, between pre- and post-vaccination PBMCs, the percent ratio of IFNγ+ CD4/CD8 cells with neoantigen stimulation over those without stimulation; a \>2-fold increase in response after vaccination was considered positive., Baseline through week 52|Number of Participants With Immune Response as Measured by Multiparametric Flow Cytometry (CD8), Multiparametric flow cytometry was performed as a second readout to characterize the neoantigen-specific T cell response. Markers included CD4, CD8, IFNγ, and a viability marker. After culture, as described above, T cells were stimulated overnight with/without neoantigen and stained with fluorescent antibodies specific for the various markers. Data were analyzed by comparing, between pre- and post-vaccination PBMCs, the percent ratio of IFNγ+ CD4/CD8 cells with neoantigen stimulation over those without stimulation; a \>2-fold increase in response after vaccination was considered positive., Baseline through week 52
This is a phase 1 open-label study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a neoantigen peptide vaccine strategy in pancreatic cancer patients following surgical resection and adjuvant chemotherapy. The neoantigen peptide vaccines will incorporate prioritized neoantigens and personalized mesothelin epitopes and will be co-administered with poly-ICLC. The hypothesis of this study is that neoantigen peptide vaccines will be safe and capable of generating measurable neoantigen-specific CD4 and CD8 T cell responses.