Role of FCγRIIIA and FCγRIIA Receptor Polymorphisms
Hypothesis:

Cetuximab, an anti-EGFR antibody, is used with radiotherapy in the treatment of locally advanced and inoperable upper aerodigestive tract cancers. Actually, no predictive biomarkers of Cetuximab antitumor activity are known in this setting. It has been shown recently that FCγRIIIA and FCγRIIA receptor polymorphisms played a role in antitumor activity of trastuzumab and cetuximab.

The investigators therefore hypothesized that FCγRIIIA and FCγRIIA receptor polymorphisms may play a predictive role in Cetuximab effectiveness in upper aerodigestive tract cancers with recurrence or metastatic disease that make them inaccessible to loco regional treatment.
Upper Gingival Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Blood sample for identifying the polymorphism
The main objective is to evaluate the role of FCGR3A and FCGR2A receptor polymorphism in cetuximab and chemotherapy response, in patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinomas of the upper aero-digestive tract, The main objective is to evaluate the role of FCGR3A and FCGR2A receptor polymorphism in cetuximab and chemotherapy response, in patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinomas of the upper aero-digestive tract, Proportion of patients with positive response to treatment at 4 months
Progression-free survival Overall survival Toxicity, Overall survival: defined as the time between the first cycle of chemotherapy and the date of death, all causes. In the absence of death confirmation, survival data are censored from the date of last news, Progression-free survival: Tumour evaluation will be done at baseline and at 4 months or until the earlier of the following events: disease progression, patient death.
Hypothesis:

Cetuximab, an anti-EGFR antibody, is used with radiotherapy in the treatment of locally advanced and inoperable upper aerodigestive tract cancers. Actually, no predictive biomarkers of Cetuximab antitumor activity are known in this setting. It has been shown recently that FCγRIIIA and FCγRIIA receptor polymorphisms played a role in antitumor activity of trastuzumab and cetuximab.

We therefore hypothesized that FCγRIIIA and FCγRIIA receptor polymorphisms may play a predictive role in Cetuximab effectiveness in upper aerodigestive tract cancers with recurrence or metastatic disease that make them inaccessible to loco regional treatment.

This study is a multicentre prospective pharmacogenetic observational study, conducted on locally advanced and inoperable upper aerodigestive tract cancers.