Transdermal or Oral Telapristone Acetate in Treating Patients Undergoing Mastectomy
This randomized trial studies transdermal or oral telapristone acetate in treating patients undergoing surgery to remove the breast (mastectomy). Telapristone acetate may help prevent breast cancer from forming in premenopausal women. Giving telapristone acetate transdermally may be safer and have fewer side effects than oral administration.
BRCA1 Mutation Carrier|BRCA2 Mutation Carrier|Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Lobular Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Stage 0 Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer
DRUG: Telapristone Acetate|OTHER: Placebo|DRUG: Telapristone Acetate|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Mean Levels of Telapristone Acetate in Breast Tissue, Post-therapy mean levels of telapristone acetate in breast tissue., At the time of mastectomy, up to 5 weeks from baseline
Plasma Concentrations of Telapristone Acetate, Post-therapy plasma concentrations of telapristone acetate., At the time of mastectomy, up to 5 weeks from baseline|Within-breast Variation of Breast Tissue Concentration of Telapristone Acetate, Post-therapy concentrations of telapristone acetate in 5 locations within breast tissue., At the time of mastectomy, up to 5 weeks from baseline|Changes in Cell Proliferation, Changes in cell proliferation (Ki67 labeling index) measured in percentage of positive cells from baseline to mastectomy by tumor status in ER positive tumors., Baseline to mastectomy (up to 5 weeks)|Changes in Serum Sex Hormone Concentrations: Estradiol, Change in estradiol in premenopausal women from baseline to post-intervention compared between treatment groups, Baseline to mastectomy, up to 5 weeks post-intervention|Change in Symptoms as Captured in the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) Eight Symptom Scale (BESS) Questionnaire, Mean change in symptoms as captured using the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) Eight Symptom Scale (BESS) questionnaire. A patient reported outcome, scores range from 0 (Not at All) to 4 (Extremely) when asked about experiencing symptoms. A positive change in scores indicates an increase in symptoms experienced and a negative change in scores indicates a decrease in symptoms experienced, Baseline to mastectomy (up to 5 weeks)|Changes in Serum Sex Hormone Concentrations: Progesterone, Change in progesterone in premenopausal women from baseline to post-intervention compared between treatment groups, Baseline to mastectomy (up to 5 weeks)|Changes in Serum Sex Hormone Concentrations: FSH, Change in FSH in premenopausal women from baseline to post-intervention compared between treatment groups, Baseline to mastectomy (up to 5 weeks)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate that mean levels of telapristone (telapristone acetate) in breast tissue following gel application will result in levels that are not more than 50% lower than those following oral administration.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether plasma concentrations of telapristone are significantly lower with transdermal than oral therapy.

II. To compare within-breast variation of breast tissue concentration in transdermal and oral groups.

III. To measure changes in cell proliferation (marker of proliferation (Ki-67 labeling index).

IV. Explore changes in gene expression in breast tissue related to telapristone therapy.

V. Assess change in serum progesterone associated with telapristone therapy. VI. Assess the safety and tolerability of oral and transdermal administration. VII. Assess symptom measurements using BESS Questionnaire

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I (TRANSDERMAL TELAPRISTONE ACETATE): Patients receive telapristone acetate transdermally and placebo orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 4 weeks.

ARM II (ORAL TELAPRISTONE ACETATE): Patients receive placebo transdermally and telapristone acetate PO QD for 4 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 60.