Re-craniotomy and Complications After Elective Neurosurgery
This study is a prospective cohort study to find the incidence of re-craniotomy and predictive factors. The secondary outcomes are to find the incidence of major non-neurological complications and predictive factors.
Brain Tumor|Brain Metastases|Brain Cancer|Brain Neoplasms
DRUG: Propofol
re-craniotomy, number of participants who required re-craniotomy assessed by the neurosurgeon, the first 24 hours|predictive factors of re-craniotomy, types of perioperative factors to predict the occurrence of re-craniotomy, the first 24 hours
incidence of major non-neurological complications, number of participants who develop any major systemic complications, the first 24 hours|predictive factors of major non-neurological complications, types of predictive factors to predict the occurrence of major non-neurological complications, the first 24 hours
Demographic data include age, gender, preoperative neurological assessment, diagnosis, operation, surgical position, ASA physical status, dexamethasone requirement, anticonvulsant therapy, airway assessment, and blood component reservation.

Intraoperative information contain anesthetic technique, total dosage of propofol, fentanyl, and other anesthetic agents, total blood loss, types and amount of fluid replacement, volume of blood transfusion, latest body temperature, and the ability of safe extubation.

Postoperative complications will be categorized in to general conditions, neurological complications, and systemic problems. General conditions such as on endotracheal tube overnight and postoperative blood transfusion. Neurological complications include worsen increased ICP, intracranial hematoma, seizures, newly-developed motor deficit, cranial nerve palsy, CSF rhinorrhea, and emergency re-craniotomy. Systemic problems are hypothermia, electrolyte imbalance, anemia, hypertension, and hyperglycemia. Postoperative nausea and vomiting and the rescued anti-emetic drugs will be recorded. Postoperative anti-epileptic drug (AED) and pain medication will be collected.