PLX51107 and Azacitidine in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of PLX51107 and how well it works with azacitidine in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome. PLX51107 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving PLX51107 and azacitidine may work better than azacitidine alone in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: BRD4 Inhibitor PLX51107
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity type and severity will be summarized for each patient cohort using frequency tables. Per-treated analysis will be performed to include any patient who received the treatment regardless of the eligibility nor the duration or dose of the treatment received., Up to 5 years|Minimum safe and biologically effective dose, The minimum safe and biologically-effective dose is the highest dose level in which \< 2 patients of 6 develop first cycle dose limiting toxicity., Up to 28 days
Overall response rate, Will be defined as blast count reduction, hematologic improvement, partial remission, complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete count recovery, complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery, complete remission with partial hematologic recovery. Will be calculated and credible interval will be provided. Wilcoxon rank sum test or Fisher's exact test will be used to evaluate the association between patient prognostic factor (e.g. lab result and gene mutation) and response., Within 3 months of treatment initiation|Gene mutations in acute myeloid leukemia, Pre-therapy, on-therapy, and progression 81-gene panel of gene mutations will be correlated with response., Up to 5 years|Duration of response, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test., Number of days from the date of initial response to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Event-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test., Number of days from the date of treatment initiation to the date of documented treatment failure, relapses from CR, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test., Time from treatment start until death or last follow up, assessed up to 5 years|Number of patients bridged to stem cell transplant (SCT), Up to 5 years|Median duration to SCT from initiation of combination, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the minimum safe and biologically-effective dose of the combination of PLX51107 and azacitidine (AZA).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine overall response rate (ORR) rate including CR (complete remission) + CRp (complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery) + CRi (complete remission with incomplete count recovery) + CRh (complete remission with partial hematologic recovery), partial remission (PR) within 3 months of treatment initiation of PLX51107 and AZA combination in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

II. To investigate correlations of response to this combination with a pre-therapy, on-therapy, and progression 81-gene panel of gene mutations in AML.

III. To determine the duration of response (DOR), event-free survival (EFS), overall survival (OS), and number of patients bridged to stem cell transplant (SCT) and median duration to SCT from the initiation of the combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of PLX51107.

Patients receive PLX51107 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes on days 8-14 and 22-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 6-12 months for 5 years.