Methoxyamine and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as methoxyamine and temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving methoxyamine together with temozolomide may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of methoxyamine when given together with temozolomide in treating patients with advanced solid tumors.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: Methoxyamine|DRUG: Temozolomide
Maximum tolerated dose of methoxyamine, A total of 38 patients were analyzed to determine the maximum tolerated dose of methoxyamine in this study and this was determined in the non-CNS arm. An initial 6 patients received treatment with continuous dosing of methoxyamine and based on an assessment of pharmacokinetics, in this group, the study was revised to administer methoxyamine as a bolus dose. Thirty-eight patients received this type of dosing., Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.|Dose limiting toxicities of the combination of methoxyamine and temozolomide, The 38 patients receiving bolus dosing of methoxyamine in this trial were used to determine any dose limiting toxicities., Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.|Pharmacokinetics methoxyamine and temozolomide, when given alone or in combination, Thirty-eight patients were analyzed per the schedule above (after an initial 6 patients treated per an alternative dosing schedule)., Blood sampling during cycles 1 and 2 depending upon the PK data from initial subjects.
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine the maximum tolerated dose of methoxyamine given in conjunction with temozolomide in patients with and without CNS disease.
* To determine the dose limiting toxicities of the combination of methoxyamine and temozolomide in patients with and without CNS disease.
* To determine the pharmacokinetics of these two agents when given alone or in combination, as well as the pharmacokinetic profile of methoxyamine after single one-hour IV administration.
* To determine relative DNA damage, as single or double strand breaks by comet assay in blood mononuclear cells which will serve as a surrogate for tumor response to the drug combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of methoxyamine.

Patients receive oral temozolomide for 5 days every 28 days and methoxyamine IV over 1 hour every 28 days. Methoxyamine IV administration will follow, within 5 minutes, initial administration of TMZ on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood samples are collected periodically for correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for methoxyamine and temozolomide pharmacokinetics, apurinic/apyrimidinic sites, and DNA strand break determination by comet assay.