A Cross-sectional Partnership to Improve Prevention and Health Equity Among African Americans
African Americans face racial disparities in colorectal cancer (CRC), with lower screening rates and higher incidence and mortality rates. To address this gap and improve CRC screening rates, investigators aims to recruit a total of 1,200 African American participants aged 45-75 during their visits to the DMV, 4606 N 56th St Ste100, Omaha, for CRC screening. All participants will receive a free Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT) kit with a prepaid return envelope, a culturally tailored educational brochure, reminder text messages and calls, and post-FIT navigation support for participants with positive results or without family doctor/insurance. Kits are returned to a designated Nebraska Medicine lab for testing, and test results will be mailed to participants within 14-21 days. Participants will be assigned to one of two groups: the on-site distribution group or the on-site distribution group with social media advertising group. The social media advertising group will additionally be exposed to targeted ads on platforms like Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube to increase awareness and potentially improve participation rates. The study will compare FIT kit return rates, positive screening rates, and completion rates of follow-up colonoscopies after positive FIT results between the two groups.
Colorectal Cancer|Prevention
OTHER: On-site Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT) Kit Distribution|OTHER: On-site With Social Media Advertising Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT) Kit Distribution
Fecal Immunochemical Test Kit Return Rate, The fecal immunochemical test kit (FIT) return rate is the proportion of participants who have completed the screening by returning the FIT kits., 6 months from date of FIT distribution
Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT) Kit Positive Rate, The fecal immunochemical test (FIT) kit positive rate is the proportion of participants who have positive FIT kit results., 6 months from date of FIT distribution|Follow-up Colonoscopy Completion Rate, The follow-up colonoscopy completion rate is the proportion of participants with positive FIT results who complete a follow-up colonoscopy., 6 months from date of positive FIT result notification
African Americans face racial disparities in colorectal cancer (CRC), with lower screening rates and higher incidence and mortality rates. The American Cancer Society reported that African Americans are about 20% more likely to have CRC and 40% more likely to die from it compared to other racial groups. The main reasons for high CRC incidence and mortality for African Americans are structural barriers in access to quality healthcare and timely screening that can be attributed in large part to historical and persistent structural racism in the U.S. To address this gap and improve CRC screening rates among African Americans, this study will partner with the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) to recruit African Americans eligible for CRC screening during their regular visits to the DMV. Investigators will recruit 1,200 participants aged 45-75 for CRC screening.

Upon consent, participants' demographic and screening-related information will be collected via a paper-based registration survey (e.g., name, age, gender, race/ethnicity, address, healthcare access, recent CRC screening history, smoking status, and personal/family history of CRC). All participants will receive a free Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT) kit with a prepaid return envelope, a culturally tailored educational brochure, reminder text messages and calls. Participants will be assigned to one of two groups: the on-site distribution group or the on-site distribution group with social media advertising group. The social media advertising group will additionally be exposed to targeted ads on platforms like Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube from August 19, 2024, to October 29, 2024, to increase awareness and potentially improve participation rates.

Kits are returned to a designated Nebraska Medicine lab, and test results will be mailed to participants within 14-21 days. Follow-up services, including assistance with scheduling colonoscopies and applying for financial support programs, will be provided by a health navigator at Charles Drew Health Center for participants with positive results or those without health insurance or a primary care provider. Outcomes (screening completion rate and positive results) will be compared between the onsite and onsite with social media advertising groups, controlling for other covariates (age, gender, income, previous screening, smoking status, healthcare access, and health beliefs). The study will also assess the cost-effectiveness of each strategy and the completion rate of follow-up colonoscopies after receiving positive FIT results. Participants' perceptions and beliefs about screening will be collected via an online survey.