A Study of ES014 in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
OVERALL DESIGN: This study is an open-label, single-center, single-arm phase 2 clinical study designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of ES014 in adults with advanced solid tumors. Adult patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors will be enrolled in this study. This study is not blinded.

Subject type and number : The study population will be adults with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors, whose disease has progressed despite standard therapy and for whom no further standard therapy exists; or for whom standard therapy has proven to be ineffective or intolerable.

This study is expected to enroll no more than 15 subjects, including malignant pleural mesothelioma and myxofibrosarcoma, 4-5, respectively, 2-3 malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, and other solid tumors.

Duration of treatment: Subjects will be treated with ES014 in 28-day cycles. ES014 will be administered at 1400 mg on days 1 and 15 of each cycle. Each subject will be treated with study drug for a maximum of 24 months. Subjects will be treated according to protocol until disease progression per RECIST v1.1, development of unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, completion of study treatment of 24 months, end of study, or early termination of study by sponsor, or other discontinuation and withdrawal reason, whichever occurs first.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: ES014
Evaluating the Efficacy of ES014 in Adult Subjects with Advanced Solid Tumours, ORR assessed by the investigators according to RECIST v1.1, 1-2 years
Subject type and number : The study population will be adults with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors, whose disease has progressed despite standard therapy and for whom no further standard therapy exists; or for whom standard therapy has proven to be ineffective or intolerable.

* Cohort A: malignant pleural mesothelioma
* Cohort B: Mucinous fibrosarcoma
* Cohort C: Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour
* Cohort D: Other solid tumours

This study is expected to enroll no more than 15 subjects, including malignant pleural mesothelioma and myxofibrosarcoma, 4-5, respectively, 2-3 malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, and other solid tumors.

Duration of treatment: Subjects will be treated with ES014 in 28-day cycles. ES014 will be administered at 1400 mg on days 1 and 15 of each cycle. Each subject will be treated with study drug for a maximum of 24 months. Subjects will be treated according to protocol until disease progression per RECIST v1.1, development of unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, completion of study treatment of 24 months, end of study, or early termination of study by sponsor, or other discontinuation and withdrawal reason, whichever occurs first.