Temporally Feathered Radiation Therapy (TFRT) for Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This study will evaluate the feasibility of using more advanced IMRT (intensity modulated radiation therapy) techniques. This new technique is termed Temporally Feathered Radiation Therapy (TFRT). TFRT is designed to reduce the side effects of conventional radiation therapy. Research has shown that TFRT may lessen these side effects.
Head and Neck Cancer
RADIATION: Temporally Feathered Radiation Therapy (TFRT)
Feasibility of TFRT Planning and Delivery Defined by Number of Participants Starting Radiotherapy Within 15 Days of Simulation, Number of participants starting radiotherapy within 15 days of simulation. The TFRT technique will be deemed feasible if 3/5 participants meet this criteria., 15 days from start of treatment
Number of Participants Who Experienced Grade 3-5 Acute Toxicities Per CTCAE Version 4, Number of participants who experienced grade 3-5 acute toxicities as defined by CTCAE version 4, Up to 90 days after treatment|Participant-reported Outcomes (PRO) During TFRT Using EORTC QLQ-C30 Questionnaire, Global health status/health-related quality of life measurements based on European Organization of Research and Treatment Of Cancer tool general (EORTC QLQ-H\&N35). Scores range from 0-100., At weeks 1, 4, and 7 of treatment and at 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 3 months post-treatment|Participant-reported Outcomes (PRO) During TFRT Using EORTC QLQ-H&N35 Questionnaire, Health-related quality of life measurements and symptoms among head and neck cancer participants based on European Organization of Research and Treatment of Head and Neck cancer questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). Scores range from 0-100., At weeks 1, 4, and 7 of treatment and at 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 3 months post-treatment|Participant-reported Outcomes (PRO) of Mouth Dryness After TFRT Using Xerostomia Questionnaire, Xerostomia Questionnaire is a questionnaire used to describe mouth dryness and its effects on daily life. Scores range from 0-100. A high score represents a worse Xerostomia., At week 1, 4, and 7 of treatment and at 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 3 months post-treatment|Number of Participants Considered Compliant With Plan Delivery, Number of participants who were able to complete the treatment course within the allotted time and without deviations and complete the questionnaires within the allotted time. Considered successful if 3/5 complete prescribed treatment course per protocol., 5 months from start of treatment
The primary objective of this study is to determine the feasibility of TFRT planning and delivery for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Secondary objectives include estimating grade 3-5 acute toxicity (within 90 days) and describing patient-reported outcomes (PRO) of toxicity during and after TFRT. This study is planned as a single arm feasibility trial to demonstrate clinical delivery of TFRT plans. Five patients will be accrued as a single cohort.

When using standard-of-care intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), a single radiation plan is created and delivered on a daily basis Monday-Friday for a total of 7 weeks. In contrast, when using TFRT, up to 5 different plans are created and delivered each specific day of the week. Treatments will still occur on a daily basis Monday-Friday for 7 weeks. In each of these radiation plans used for TFRT, the radiation dose that will be delivered to the nearby healthy tissues will vary, allowing for increased time for normal tissue to recover from radiation-induced damage. Once weekly, a slightly higher radiation dose will be delivered to the "feathered" organ. On the remaining four days of the week, a slightly lower radiation dose will be delivered to the "feathered" organ. The radiation dose that will be delivered to the areas of cancer will not be changed. In this study, only the radiation dose delivered to the normal healthy tissues will be changed.