NCI COVID-19 in Cancer Patients, NCCAPS Study
This study collects blood samples, medical information, and medical images from patients who are being treated for cancer and have a positive test for SARS CoV-2, the new coronavirus that causes the disease called COVID-19. Collecting blood samples, medical information, and medical images may help researchers determine how COVID-19 affects the outcomes of patients undergoing cancer treatment and how having cancer affects COVID-19.
COVID-19 Infection|Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Data Collection|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Patient variables (factors) associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus 2 (COVID-19) severity, Distinguish the likelihood of severe COVID19 (for example, requiring hospitalization, requiring intensive care unit \[ICU\] treatment or requiring a ventilator) and death due to COVID-19 for patients with versus without the factor. Among subgroups of at least 50 patients, evaluate using chi-square tests as well as death and hospitalization rates., Up to 2 years|Effects of COVID-19 on cancer therapy and association with clinical outcomes, Describe the degree to which COVID-19 interrupts, delays, or otherwise alters cancer treatment for pediatric patients and subgroups of adult patients defined by cancer type and/or treatment modality. Describe the association between changes in cancer therapy and clinical outcomes. Evaluate association of COVID-19 with outcome by comparison to historical controls in subgroups of at least 50 patients using log rank tests to assess time to survival event., Up to 2 years|Physical health (patient-reported health-related quality of life), Will be measured using items from the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) 29 Profile., Up to 2 years
Collection of blood specimens for future biomarker studies, Analysis will include time to development of antibodies, prevalence of cytokine abnormalities, and genome-wide association study (GWAS) to define genetic polymorphisms associated with severe COVID-19 disease/mortality., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize patient factors, such as pre-existing comorbidities, cancer type and treatment, and demographic factors, associated with short- and long-term outcomes of coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19), including symptoms, severity, and fatality, in adult and pediatric cancer patients undergoing treatment.

II. Describe cancer treatment modifications made in response to COVID-19 in adult and pediatric patients, including dose adjustments, changes in symptom management, or temporary or permanent cessation.

III. Evaluate the association of COVID-19 with cancer outcomes in adult patient subgroups defined by clinico-pathologic characteristics and in pediatric patients.

EXPLORATORY CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. Study the immune response to COVID-19 in patients with cancer by assessing cytokines by Olink profiling and the cellular compartment of the immune system using mass cytometry (CyTOF).

II. Describe coagulation abnormalities in COVID-19 cancer patients. III. Describe the development of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV-2) antibodies and neutralizing antibodies in cancer patients.

IV. Investigate both common and rare genetic variants associated with differences in disease outcome using a case-case design to increase understanding of COVID-19 disease in cancer patients using large-scale genome-wide association studies and whole genome sequencing.

V. Characterize the development and longevity of vaccine-induced immunity using serology (ligand-binding assays) and neutralizing antibodies.

VI. Collect and bank research blood specimens and radiological images for future research.

PATIENT-REPORTED HEALTH-RELATED QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe patient-reported short-and long-term physical health, defined as a composite of physical function, pain interference and intensity, and ability to participate in social roles and activities, as measured by the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-29 version (v)2.0 profile in adult cancer patients diagnosed with COVID-19. (Primary) II. Describe patient-reported short-and long-term symptoms (anxiety, depression, and dyspnea) and function (cognitive function and social isolation) in adult cancer patients diagnosed with COVID-19. (Secondary) III. Assess how patient-reported physical health (primary objective) and symptoms and function (secondary objective) in adult cancer patients vary by COVID-19 symptom burden, cancer type, cancer treatment, comorbidities, tobacco use, body mass index, and demographic characteristics. (Exploratory)

PEDIATRIC COVNET COHORT OBJECTIVE (FOR PATIENTS \< 18 YEARS OLD):

I. Investigate both common and rare variants associated with differences in disease outcome using a case-case design for children and adolescents, \< 18 years old to increase understanding of COVID-19 in pediatric cancer patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo collection of medical information about COVID-19 symptoms, treatments/cancer treatments and outcomes, and results from laboratory tests and imaging scans performed as part of routine care for up to 2 years. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples at the same times they receive routine bloodwork up to 8 times for adults and up to 5 times for children. Patients who are hospitalized for COVID-19 undergo collection of blood samples at up to 6 additional times for adults and up to 3 additional times for children. Adult patients also complete quality of life questionnaire.