Perioperative Immunotherapy vs. Chemo-immunotherapy in Patients With Advanced GC and AEG
IMAGINE is a Phase II, randomized, two-arm, chemotherapy controlled modular trial in subjects with histologically confirmed, resectable gastric cancer (GC) or adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction (AEG). Up to 22 patients will be included in each arm of the trial.
Gastric Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagogastric Junction
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: relatlimab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU)|DRUG: Folic acid (FA)
Rate of pathological complete responses, As determined by pathological examination of the resected tumor following preoperative systemic therapy, 3 years
Determination of pathological response rate, Complete or subtotal response pCR (pathological Complete Response)/pSR (pathological Subtotal Response) according to the Becker criteria, 3 years|Determination of Curative (R0) resection rate, Assessment of complete resection of primary tumor, 3 years|Assessment of disease-free survival rate, Per Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1, 3 years|Assessment of Survival rate, Evaluation of overall survival rate, 3 years|Evaluation of number of patients with adverse events grade 1 through grade 5 adverse events (AEs), graded according to NCI CTCAE Version 5.0., Evaluation of the patient´s safety indicated by rate of adverse events grade 1 through grade 5 adverse events (AEs) that are related to the study drug.

Analysis based on but not limited to: ECG recordings, hematological analysis, clinical blood chemistry, and urinalysis values., 3 years|Assessment of perioperative morbidity, Assessment of the patient´s morbidity status by analysing the current disease status and the incidence of new diseases. Parameter will be analyzed in timely correlation to the Tumor resection., 3 years|Assessment of perioperative mortality, Assessment of mortality status based on the incident of death. Parameter will be analyzed in timely correlation to the Tumor resection., 3 years|Time to relapse, To evaluate the feasibility of perioperative immunotherapy and immuno-chemotherapy in the clinical routine. Assessment of the completeness of the pre- and postoperative therapy per patient, measured by tumor response ., 3 years|Patient-reported outcome (PRO), Changes in health-related quality of life will be assessed using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORT QLQ-C30) and evaluated via corresponding scoring system. The questionnaire is composed of of 30 questions with both multi-item scales and single-item measures. These include five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status / QoL scale, and six single items, scales range from 1 (lowest quality) to 100 (highest quality)., 3 years
This study will determine the rate of pathological complete responses (pCR) as determined by pathological examination of the resected tumor following preoperative systemic therapy. A pCR rate of 15% is expected with neoadjuvant FLOT chemotherapy. An increase to 35% is estimated to be clinically relevant when patients are treated with either nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy (Arm B) or nivolumab and another immuno-oncology (IO) agent (relatlimab) in Arm D. Additional objectives include resection rate, diseasefree survival (DFS), median overall survival (OS), patient's quality of life (QoL), and safety and tolerability of the treatment. Furthermore, translational endpoints will be investigated.