The Effectiveness of Lymphatic Bypass Supermicrosurgery
This study evaluate the effectiveness of lymphatic bypass supermicrosurgery (LBS) and axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) compare to ALND alone to prevent breast cancer treatment-related lymphedema (BCRL).
Breast Cancer Related Lymphedema|Lymphedema Arm
PROCEDURE: Lymphatic Bypass Supermicrosurgery
Cumulative incidence of BCRL, BCRL definition:

Post operation subject condition with presence of minimum DB 2 with one or both symptoms (swelling, heaviness), and increment of UEL index \>10% compared to pre operation

OR

Post operation subject condition with presence of ≥ DB 2 with minimum area 30% in one arm region in one of the arm lymphatic pathway (anterior or posterior), without presence of symptoms (swelling or heaviness), and increment of UEL index \>10% compared to pre operation, 1 year
BCRL and SCL progression-free survival rate, Percentage of subjects who do not progress to subclinical lymphedema or lymphedema during the research., 1 year|Collateral lymphatic pathway, The number of lymphatic pathways flow into the region: supraclavicular, internal mammary, and contralateral axillary and supraclavicular nodes based on the ICG lymphography., 1 year|Quality of life lymphedema, Assessment of lymphedema quality of life score after the surgery using the lymphedema quality of life score questionnaire that is self-reported by the subjects every 2 months and every 3 months in the second year. Calculation of the lymphedema quality of life score is the summation of the score from each question. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 100. A higher score indicates lower lymphedema quality of life., 1 year
Association of body mass index (BMI) with BCRL, BMI was calculated by weight (kilograms) and height (centimeters). Categorized based on Asia Pacific classification are overweight (BMI ≥ 23 kg/m\^2) and no overweight (BMI \< 23 kg/m\^2). Measured at one time point., 1 year|Association of number of axillary lymph nodes metastases with BCRL, The number of metastases lymph nodes and classified into \>3 lymph nodes and ≤3 lymph nodes. Measured at one time point., 1 year|Association of number of taxane chemotherapy with BCRL, Taxane chemotherapy data from the subject's medical record and categorized into yes or no. Measured at one time point., 1 year|Association of regional lymph node radiation with BCRL, Regional lymph node radiation data from the subject's medical record and categorized into yes or no. Measured at one time point, 1 year|Association of axillary fat weight with BCRL, Axillary fat weight in grams is taken at the time of surgery. Measured at one time point., 1 year
In the intervention group, LBS was performed after ALND with the intima-to-intima coaptation using the supermicrosurgery technique. The anastomosis is done between the afferent lymphatic vessel to the recipient's vein, or if possible, from the afferent to the efferent lymphatic vessel. The upper extremity lymphedema (UEL) index and indocyanine green (ICG) lymphography are utilized to evaluate the development of lymphedema.