A Study of Subcutaneous Versus Intravenous MabThera/Rituxan (Rituximab) in Combination With CHOP Chemotherapy in Patients With Previously Untreated CD20-Positive Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This multicenter, randomized, open label parallel-group study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of subcutaneous versus intravenous MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) in combination with CHOP chemotherapy in patients with previously untreated CD20-positive diffuse large B-Cell lymphoma. Patients will be randomized to receive either MabThera/Rituxan 1400 mg subcutaneously or MabThera/Rituxan 375 mg/m2 intravenously on Day 1 of each cycle for 8 cycles, in combination with 6-8 cycles of CHOP chemotherapy. Anticipated time on study treatment is 6 months.
Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse
DRUG: CHOP|DRUG: rituximab [MabThera/Rituxan]|DRUG: rituximab [MabThera/Rituxan]
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or Complete Response Unconfirmed (CRu), Tumor response was assessed per criteria published by Cheson et al (1999). According to consensus recommendations, CR was defined as complete disappearance of all clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disease-related symptoms, regression of lymph nodes to normal size, absence of splenomegaly, and absence of bone marrow involvement. CRu was defined as disappearance of clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and absence of splenomegaly, with regression of lymph nodes by greater than (\>) 75 percent (%) but still \>1.5 centimeters (cm) in size, and indeterminate bone marrow assessment. The percentage of participants with either response at the end of induction (EOI) was determined with corresponding 95% Pearson-Clopper confidence interval (CI)., Up to approximately 4.25 years
Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ) Domain Scores, The CTSQ is a validated 16-item questionnaire that measures three domains related to satisfaction with cancer therapy. These include expectations of therapy, feelings about side effects, and satisfaction with therapy. Each domain is scored on a scale of 0 to 100, with higher scores indicative of more positive feelings toward therapy. The score for each domain was averaged among all participants., At Cycle 7 (each cycle was 14 or 21 days)|Rituximab Administration Satisfaction Questionnaire (RASQ) Domain Scores, The RASQ is a 20-item questionnaire that measures five domains related to the impact of treatment administration. These include physical impact, psychological impact, impact on activities of daily living (ADLs), convenience, and satisfaction. Each domain is scored on a scale of 0 to 100, with higher scores indicative of more positive feelings toward therapy. The score for each domain was averaged among all participants., At Cycle 7 (each cycle was 14 or 21 days)|Median Duration of Rituximab Administration for Each Treatment Cycle, Duration of rituximab administration was defined as the time from start to end of the SC injection or IV infusion. The median duration was reported., Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 (each cycle was 14 or 21 days)|Percentage of Participants by Time Spent in the Infusion Chair/Bed for Each Treatment Cycle, Chair time was defined as the amount of time the participant occupied an infusion chair/bed for a single treatment cycle of rituximab + CHOP chemotherapy. Where the chair time was not documented for a given cycle, it was reported as "Missing"., Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 (each cycle was 14 or 21 days)|Percentage of Participants by Time Spent in the Hospital for Each Treatment Cycle, Hospital time was defined as the amount of time the participant was in the hospital for the course of one cycle of rituximab + CHOP chemotherapy. Where the hospital time was not documented for a given cycle, it was reported as "Missing"., Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 (each cycle was 14 or 21 days)|Number of Participants With an Event-Free Survival (EFS) Event, EFS events included disease progression, relapse, initiation of other anti-lymphoma therapy, or death. Tumor response was assessed according to criteria published by Cheson et al (1999). Progression was defined as greater than or equal to (≥) 50% increase in the sum of products of greatest diameters of any previously identified abnormal lymph node or the appearance of any new lesion. Relapse was defined as a new lesion or increase by ≥50% in size of previously involved sites, or ≥50% increase in greatest diameter of any previously identified node \>1 cm, following an earlier assessment of CR or CRu., Up to approximately 4.25 years|Duration of EFS, EFS was defined as the time from randomization to first occurrence of disease progression, relapse, initiation of other anti-lymphoma therapy, or death, whichever occurred first. Tumor response was assessed according to criteria published by Cheson et al (1999). Progression was defined as a ≥50% increase in the sum of products of greatest diameters of any previously identified abnormal lymph node or the appearance of any new lesion. Relapse was defined as a new lesion or increase by ≥50% in size of previously involved sites, or ≥50% increase in greatest diameter of any previously identified node \>1 cm, following an earlier assessment of CR or CRu., Up to approximately 4.25 years|Number of Participants With Relapse or Death at the Time of Primary Analysis, Tumor response was assessed according to criteria published by Cheson et al (1999). Relapse was defined as a new lesion or increase by ≥50% in size of previously involved sites, or ≥50% increase in greatest diameter of any previously identified node \>1 cm, following an earlier assessment of CR or CRu. The number of participants who had experienced relapse or death prior to the clinical cut-off date (October 2014) was determined., Up to approximately 2 years (assessed at Baseline, Day 1 of each cycle [maximum 8 cycles; each cycle was 14 or 21 days], every 3 months thereafter, and/or 4 weeks after early termination)|Duration of Disease-Free Survival (DFS), DFS was defined as the time from date of initial CR/CRu to the date of relapse or death from any cause. Tumor response was assessed according to criteria published by Cheson et al (1999). Relapse was defined as a new lesion or increase by ≥50% in size of previously involved sites, or ≥50% increase in greatest diameter of any previously identified node \>1 cm, following an earlier assessment of CR or CRu., Up to approximately 4.25 years|Number of Participants With Progression, Relapse, or Death, Tumor response was assessed according to criteria published by Cheson et al (1999). Progression was defined as ≥50% increase in the sum of products of greatest diameters of any previously identified abnormal lymph node or the appearance of any new lesion. Relapse was defined as a new lesion or increase by ≥50% in size of previously involved sites, or ≥50% increase in greatest diameter of any previously identified node \>1 cm, following an earlier assessment of CR or CRu., Up to approximately 4.25 years|Duration of Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to first occurrence of disease progression, relapse, or death from any cause. Tumor response was assessed according to criteria published by Cheson et al (1999). Progression was defined as ≥50% increase in the sum of products of greatest diameters of any previously identified abnormal lymph node or the appearance of any new lesion. Relapse was defined as a new lesion or increase by ≥50% in size of previously involved sites, or ≥50% increase in greatest diameter of any previously identified node \>1 cm, following an earlier assessment of CR or CRu., Up to approximately 4.25 years|Number of Deaths, Up to approximately 4.25 years|Duration of Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., Up to approximately 4.25 years
This multicenter, randomized, open label parallel-group study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of subcutaneous versus intravenous MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) in combination with CHOP chemotherapy in patients with previously untreated CD20-positive diffuse large B-Cell lymphoma. Patients will be randomized to receive either MabThera/Rituxan 1400 mg subcutaneously or MabThera/Rituxan 375 mg/m2 intravenously on Day 1 of each cycle for 8 cycles, in combination with 6-8 cycles of CHOP chemotherapy. Anticipated time on study treatment is 6 months.