Study Assessing Activity of Molecularly Matched Targeted Therapies in Select Tumor Types Based on Genomic Alterations
With the increased availability of next-generation sequencing, oncologists are starting to incorporate genomic profiling into routine care of cancer patients. If a genomic alteration is identified during profiling, it could help guide the choice of therapy and improve treatment outcomes. This study will examine the anti-tumor activity of selected commercially available molecularly matched targeted therapies in patients who have failed first-line treatment for one of the following tumor types: non-small cell lung cancers; urothelial cancer; non-colon gastrointestinal cancers, and upper aerodigestive tract cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Urothelial Carcinoma|Gastrointestinal Carcinoma, Non-colon|Upper Aerodigestive Tract Carcinoma
DRUG: Afatinib|DRUG: Regorafenib|DRUG: Cabozantinib
Overall Response Rate (ORR) in Each Arm Receiving Targeted Therapy Based on Relevant Genomic Alterations, ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR), i.e., two CRs and/or PRs at least 4 weeks apart, according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria. CR=disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. PR=at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., every 8 weeks until tumor progression or treatment discontinuation, up to 45 months.
Clinical Benefit Rate in Each Arm Receiving Targeted Therapy Based on Relevant Genomic Alterations, Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) is defined as the percentage of patients with confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) ≥ 6 months according to RECIST v1.1. Confirmed response is defined as two CRs and/or PRs at least 4 weeks apart, according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria. CR=disappearance of all target lesions. PR=at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Stable Disease= Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase of 20% in the sum of diameters or presence of a new lesion to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest (nadir) sum of diameters since the treatment started., Every 8 weeks until tumor progression or treatment discontinuation, up to 45 months|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF) in Each Arm Receiving Targeted Therapy Based on Relevant Genomic Alterations, Time to treatment failure is measured from the first day of treatment until the patient is removed from study for toxicity, disease progression per RECIST v1.1, patient choice, or death. Progressive disease (PD) per RECIST v1.1 is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest (nadir) sum since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Requires not only 20% increase, but absolute increase of a minimum of 5 mm over the sum., Every 8 weeks until tumor progression or treatment discontinuation, up to 45 months|Progression-Free Survival in Each Arm Receiving Targeted Therapy Based on Relevant Genomic Alterations, Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the first day of study drug administration (Day 1) to disease progression as defined by the RECIST v1.1, or death on study. Patients who are alive and free from disease progression will be censored at the date of last tumor assessment. Progressive disease (PD) per RECIST v1.1 is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest (nadir) sum since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Requires not only 20% increase, but absolute increase of a minimum of 5 mm over the sum., Every 8 weeks until tumor progression or treatment discontinuation, up to 45 months
This four-arm pilot phase II study will evaluate the preliminary antitumor activity of selected commercially available molecularly matched targeted therapies in patients who have failed first line treatment for one of the following tumor types:

1. non-small cell lung cancer,
2. urothelial carcinoma,
3. non-colon gastrointestinal cancers, and
4. upper aerodigestive tract cancers (lip, tongue, salivary glands, gum, mouth, oral cavity, tonsils, oropharynx, nasopharynx, nasal cavity, sinus, and larynx tumors).

Approximately 160 patients (40 per tumour type) are planned for enrollment. Consideration for enrollment will be based on results from profiling with next-generation sequencing technology that was performed outside of the protocol. Eligible patients will receive one of the FDA-approved targeted agents at the recommended dose. The treating physician will decide which targeted agent to prescribe based on the genomic alterations per tumor type and the targets listed in the package insert for each agent.