Enfortumab Vedotin and Pembrolizumab vs. Chemotherapy Alone in Untreated Locally Advanced or Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
This study is being done to see how well two drugs (enfortumab vedotin and pembrolizumab) work together to treat patients with urothelial cancer. The study will compare these drugs to other drugs that are usually used to treat this cancer (standard of care). The patients in this study will have cancer that has spread from their urinary system to other parts of their body.
Urothelial Cancer
DRUG: Enfortumab vedotin|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version (v) 1.1 by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), PFS was defined as the time from date of randomization to first documentation of disease progression (PD), or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeter (mm). PD could also be unequivocal progression of non-target lesions or the presence of unequivocal new lesions. Kaplan-Meier method was used for analysis., From the date of randomization to first documentation of PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (maximum exposure to treatment was up to 39.2 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. In the absence of death, OS was censored at the date the participant was last known to be alive. Kaplan-Meier method was used for analysis., From randomization to date of death due to any cause or censoring date, whichever occurred first (maximum exposure to treatment was up to 39.2 months)
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, ORR as per RECIST v1.1 by BICR was defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions including non-target lesions (not just target lesions). Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to\<10 mm. PR was defined as at least 30 percent \[%\] decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. For a response to be considered as confirmed, the subsequent response needs to be at least 4 weeks after the initial response., From first dose till CR/PR or PD or death, whichever occurred first (maximum up to approximately 7.4 years)|Time to Pain Progression (TTPP), TTPP was defined as the time from the date of randomization to date of pain progression. Pain progression was defined as a participant reporting either of the following, whichever came first: 1) Increase of 2 or more points from baseline on Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF) Question 3 (i.e., pain at its worst in the last 24 hours, score range 0 to 10 with higher scores associated with higher pain levels) maintained for at least two consecutive assessments. 2) Initiation of new opioid medication from baseline for pain with usage maintained for at least two consecutive assessments as recorded in BPI-SF Question 7 (i.e., What medications received for pain)., From the date of randomization to date of pain progression (maximum up to approximately 7.4 years)|Change From Baseline in Worst Pain Using BPI-SF at Week 26, Brief Pain Inventory (BPI-SF) was defined as summary of the worst, least, and average pain experienced in the last 24 hours as well as pain right now and number of pain locations were provided for each treatment arm. BPI-sf worst pain measured the severity of pain based on the pain at its worst in the last 24 hours, score range 0 to 10 with higher scores associated with higher pain levels., Baseline, Week 26|PFS Per RECIST v1.1 by Investigator Assessment, PFS as per RECIST v1.1 by investigator was defined as the time from date of randomization to first documentation of PD, or to death due to any cause, whichever comes first. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PD could also be unequivocal progression of non-target lesions or the presence of unequivocal new lesions., From the date of randomization to first documentation of PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (maximum up to approximately 7.4 years)|ORR Per RECIST v1.1 by Investigator Assessment, ORR as per RECIST v1.1 by investigator was defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed CR or PR. CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions including non-target lesions (not just target lesions). Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to\<10 mm. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. For a response to be considered as confirmed, the subsequent response needs to be at least 4 weeks after the initial response., From first dose till CR/PR or PD or death, whichever occurred first (maximum up to approximately 7.4 years)|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, DOR was defined as the time from the first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to the first documented PD per RECIST v1.1 per BICR or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. DOR will only include subjects with a confirmed response (CR or PR per RECIST v1.1). CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to\<10 mm. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. For a response to be considered as confirmed, the subsequent response needs to be at least 4 weeks after the initial response. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From the date of first documented response of CR or PR to the first documented disease progression or to death from any cause, whichever occurred first (maximum up to approximately 7.4 years)|DOR Per RECIST v1.1 by Investigator Assessment, DOR was defined as the time from the first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to the first documented PD per RECIST v1.1 per investigator or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. DOR will only include subjects with a confirmed response (CR or PR per RECIST v1.1). CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to\<10 mm. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. For a response to be considered as confirmed, the subsequent response needs to be at least 4 weeks after the initial response., From the date of first documented response of CR or PR to the first documented disease progression or to death from any cause, whichever occurred first (maximum up to approximately 7.4 years)|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, DCR by BICR was defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed response (CR or PR), or SD (or non-CR/non-PD), per RECIST v1.1. Subjects who have no post-baseline response assessments will be considered as non-responders for calculating the DCR. Only response assessments before the first documented PD or subsequent anticancer therapies were considered. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to\<10 mm. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. For a response to be considered as confirmed, the subsequent response needs to be at least 4 weeks after the initial response. SD was defined as a change in tumor size that is neither radiological response (\>30% shrinkage) nor progression (\>20% growth)., From the date of randomization to the date of PD or death from any cause or censoring date, whichever occurred first (maximum up to approximately 7.4 years)|DCR Per RECIST v1.1 by Investigator Assessment, DCR by BICR was defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed response (CR or PR), or SD (or non-CR/non-PD), per RECIST v1.1. Subjects who have no post-baseline response assessments will be considered as non-responders for calculating the DCR. Only response assessments before the first documented PD or subsequent anticancer therapies were considered. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to\<10 mm. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. For a response to be considered as confirmed, the subsequent response needs to be at least 4 weeks after the initial response. SD was defined as a change in tumor size that is neither radiological response (\>30% shrinkage) nor progression (\>20% growth)., From the date of randomization to the date of PD or death from any cause or censoring date, whichever occurred first (maximum up to approximately 7.4 years)|Mean Scores in Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) Assessment Measured by the EuroQOL Five Dimensions Questionnaire 5L (EQ-5D-5L), The EQ-5D-5L is a 5-item self-reported measure of functioning and well-being, which assesses 5 dimensions of health, including mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression (EQ-5D-5L User Guide, 2019). Each dimension comprises 5 levels (no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems)., End of study (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Change From Baseline in PRO Assessment Measured by the EQ-5D-5L, The EQ-5D-5L is a 5-item self-reported measure of functioning and well-being, which assesses 5 dimensions of health, including mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression (EQ-5D-5L User Guide, 2019). Each dimension comprises 5 levels (no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems)., Baseline, End of study (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Mean Scores in PRO Assessment Measured by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30), EORTC QLQ-C30: included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status (GHS), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4- point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores averaged, transformed to 0- 100 scale; higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., End of study (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Change From Baseline in PRO Assessment Measured by EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-C30: included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status (GHS), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4- point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores averaged, transformed to 0- 100 scale; higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms. Change from baseline=Cycle/Day score minus baseline score., Baseline, End of study (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events Adverse Events (AEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. Treatment-emergent are events between first dose of study drug and up to 37 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state., From start of treatment up to 37 days after last dose of study drug (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Number of Participants With Serious TEAE, SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/ incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent are events between first dose of study drug and up to 37 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state., From start of treatment up to 37 days after last dose of study drug (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Number of Participants With Grade 3-5 TEAE, AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. As per common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 4, Grade 3= severe AE; Grade 4= life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5= death related to an AE., From start of treatment up to 37 days after last dose of study drug (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Number of Participants Related to Treatment AEs, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. Treatment relatedness was assessed by the investigator., From start of treatment up to 37 days after last dose of study drug (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Number of Participants With Laboratory Abnormalities, Laboratory abnormalities included Hematology and Serum Chemistry. In Hematology (increased : hemoglobin, lymphocytes, leukocytes, and decreased : hemoglobin, lymphocytes, neutrophils, platelets and leukocytes) and In serum chemistry (increased in : alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, bilirubin, calcium corrected for albumin, creatinine, glucose (non-fasting), potassium, sodium, and decreased in albumin, calcium corrected for albumin, glucose (non-fasting), potassium, phosphate and sodium)., From start of treatment up to 37 days after last dose of study drug (approximately up to 7.4 years)|Number of Participants With Treatment Discontinuation Rate Due to AEs, During study (approximately up to 7.4 years)
Japan PMDA has approved enfortumab vedotin (Padcev) for the treatment of advanced urothelial cancer. The study will continue as a post marketing study in Japan.

This study is being conducted to evaluate the combination of enfortumab vedotin + pembrolizumab versus standard of care gemcitabine + platinum-containing chemotherapy, in subjects with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer.

Enfortumab vedotin may be administered for an unlimited number of cycles until a protocol defined reason for study discontinuation occurs. Pembrolizumab may be administered for a maximum of 35 cycles or a protocol-defined reason for study discontinuation occurs, whichever is first. Cisplatin or carboplatin plus gemcitabine may be administered for a maximum of 6 cycles or a protocol-defined reason for study discontinuation occurs, whichever is first.