Study of Stem Cell Transplant vs. Non-Transplant Therapies in High-Risk Myelofibrosis
The purpose of this research study is to see how effective hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) is compared to best available non-transplant therapies (BAT) in patients with high risk myelofibrosis. This will be done by asking participants to choose the treatment that they prefer to receive (HCT or BAT) and then comparing the outcomes of the participants in both treatment groups.
Myelofibrosis|High-Risk Cancer|Bone Marrow Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Hematopoietic stem cell transplant|DRUG: Ruxolitinib|DRUG: Hydroxyurea
Number of patients allocated to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT), 5 years|Number of patients allocated to best available non-transplant therapies (BAT), 5 years|Overall survival rate of patients who receive hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT), Time from study allocation to death or last follow up., 5 years|Overall survival rate of patients who receive best available non-transplant therapies (BAT), Time from study allocation to death or last follow up., 5 years
Median change in Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) score, Range from -3 to 3. Positive number equals increase in quality of life., 0 and 36 months|Median change in MPN Symptom Assessment Form Total Symptom Score (MPN-SAF TSS), Range from 0 to 10. Increase equals worsening of symptoms., 0 and 36 months|Median change in FACT-BMT Questionnaire, Range from 1 to 4. Increase equals increase in quality of life., 0 and 36 months|Disease-free survival of patients who receive hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT), Time from allocation to study arm to death/acute myeloid leukemia transformation or last follow up., 5 years|Disease-free survival of patients who receive best available non-transplant therapies (BAT), Time from allocation to study arm to death/acute myeloid leukemia transformation or last follow up., 5 years|Number of patients who receive hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) in remission (complete and partial), 3 years|Number of patients who receive best available non-transplant therapies (BAT) in remission (complete and partial), 3 years
There is currently little information regarding which treatments are best for patients with myelofibrosis. On one hand, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) is potentially curative treatment but is associated with significant risk of complications related to graft failure (the new donor cells does not grow properly after the transplant), side effects such as graft versus host disease (the patient's cells attack the new donor cells), and risk of infections. Non-transplant therapies such as ruxolitinib provide effective symptom control for few months to few years, but are not curative in nature. As such, this study will compare the effectiveness of HCT versus best available non-transplant therapies (BAT) in patients with high risk myelofibrosis.

This is an observational study, meaning that participants will be followed to assess the effects of their treatment, but no intervention (treatments) will be given as a part of this study.