Zanubrutinib and Tafasitamab in Mantle Cell Lymphoma
The main purpose of this study to find the ideal dose for the combination treatment of Zanubrutinib and Tafasitamab in patients with mantle cell lymphoma. Another purpose is to assess how well the combination treatment works in patients with the study disease.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Zanubrutinib|DRUG: Tafasitamab
Phase 1: Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of Zanubrutinib, Determination of the RP2D of Zanubrutinib, when used in combination with Tafasitamab, based on evaluation of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) in participants during the Phase 1 part of the study. DLT will be defined as the occurrence of specified adverse events (AEs) at least possibly related to the study therapy during the DLT review period., 4 weeks|Phase 2: Rate of Complete Response (CR) to Zanubrutinib at RP2D, The complete response (CR) rate among study participants in Phase 2 to Zanubrutinib at the RP2D in combination with Tafasitamab will be assessed. Response will be assessed using positron emission tomography (PET)/computerized tomography (CT) according to the Lugano 2014 criteria. CR will be defined by a Deauville score of less than or equal to (≤) 3., Up to 48 weeks
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The overall response rate (ORR) in study participants will be assessed. ORR will be defined at the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response to study therapy at at the end of early (cycles 1-3) and late induction (cycles 4-12). Response to treatment will be assessed using PET/CT according to Lugano 2014 criteria after weeks 12 and 48 of treatment. CR will be defined by a Deauville score of ≤ 3, and PR by a Deauville score of 4 or 5 with reduced uptake from baseline., Up to 48 weeks|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival among study participants will be assessed during treatment and clinical follow-up. PFS is defined as the time from start of treatment until disease progression or death., Up to 48 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) among study participants will be assessed during treatment and clinical follow-up. OS is defined from start of treatment until death from any cause., Up to 48 months|Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-related Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), The dosing, safety, and feasibility of combination of Zanubrutinib and Tafasitamab will be assessed and reported among study participants in Phase 1 as the number of participants experiencing treatment-related toxicity after start of study therapy, including treatment-related adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs). AEs and SAEs will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 5, per physician discretion., Up to 27 months|Phase 2: Duration of Response (DOR), The duration of response (DOR) among study participants will be assessed during treatment and clinical follow-up. DOR is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or death in patients who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., Up to 48 months|Phase 2: Time to Next Treatment (TTNT), Time to next treatment (TTNT) is defined as the time between the date of initiation of proposed treatment and the date of next subsequent systemic treatment initiation. For participants who do not have a subsequent treatment, the TTNT will be censored at last date known to be alive, except that death from any cause will be considered a competing risk event., Up to 24 months
The main purpose of this study to find the ideal dose for the combination treatment of Zanubrutinib and Tafasitamab in patients with mantle cell lymphoma. Another purpose is to assess how well the combination treatment works in patients with the study disease.