A Study of Induction and Maintenance Treatment of Advanced or Metastatic Non Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This study will estimate the response rate in patients with advanced or metastatic non-squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Patients who don't progress after 4 to 6 cycles of induction treatment with pemetrexed, cisplatin and cetuximab will receive maintenance treatment with pemetrexed and cetuximab.
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cetuximab
Percentage of Participants With a Tumor Response (Objective Tumor Response Rate), Response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Complete Response (CR)=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR)=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. Tumor response is presented as a percentage (%) and is the number of participants with a CR plus PR divided by the number of participants in the protocol qualified (PQ) population, then multiplied by 100., From start of treatment until documented best response. (up to 18.9 months)
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is measured from study entry until disease progression, death or date of last contact. Progressive disease (PD) was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. PD = 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. For participants not known to have died or have had objective PD as of the data cutoff date, PFS was censored at the date of the last objective progression-free disease assessment., From start of treatment until documented disease progression or death from any cause (up to 18.9 months)|The Percentage of Participants Still Living at One Year (One Year Survival Rate), The one year survival rate is presented as percentage (%) of participants still living at one year and is the number of participants that are still alive at one year divided by the number of participants in the protocol qualified (PQ) population, which is then multiplied by 100., One year|The Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) (Disease Control Rate [DCR]), The DCR is presented as percentage (%) and is the number of participants with a best tumor response of CR, PR, or SD divided by the number of participants in the protocol qualified (PQ) population, then multiplied by 100. Best tumor response of CR, PR, or SD was determined from the sequence of tumor response assessments. Tumor response was assessed using RECIST criteria. CR=disappearance of all target lesions; PR=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; SD=small changes that do not meet above criteria., From start of treatment until documented best tumor response (up to 18.9 months)
This study will estimate the response rate in patients with advanced or metastatic non-squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Patients who don't progress after 4 to 6 cycles of induction treatment with pemetrexed, cisplatin and cetuximab will receive maintenance treatment with pemetrexed and cetuximab.