A Randomized Controlled Trial Comparing Safety and Efficacy of Carboplatin and Paclitaxel Plus or Minus Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) in Chemonaive Patients With Stage IIIB-IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
A randomized controlled trial comparing safety and efficacy of carboplatin and paclitaxel plus or minus sorafenib in chemonaive patients with stage III-IV non-small cell lung cancer.
Carcinoma, Non-Small Cell Lung
DRUG: Nexavar (Sorafenib, BAY43-9006) + carboplatin + paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin plus Paclitaxel
Overall Survival (OS) in Patients Treated With Carboplatin, Paclitaxel and Sorafenib to OS in Patients Treated With Carboplatin, Paclitaxel and Placebo, Overall survival determined as the time (days) from the date of randomization at start of study to the date of death, due to any cause. Outcome measure was assessed regularly, i.e. every 3 weeks during study treatment and every 3 months during post-treatment., Outcome measure was assessed every 3 weeks starting from randomization, during treatment period and every 3 months during follow-up period until death was recorded or up to data cutoff (1Oct2007) used for planned formal interim analysis
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS determined as time (days) from the date of randomization at start of study to disease progression (radiological or clinical) or death due to any cause, if death occurs before progression., Tumor measurements and assessments based on RECIST criteria were performed every 6 weeks for the first 18 weeks of therapy ( week 6, 12, and 18) and every 12 weeks thereafter up to data cutoff (1Oct2007) used for planned formal interim analysis|Overall Best Response, Best overall tumor response for the ITT population was determined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Categories: complete response (CR, tumor disappears), partial response (PR, sum of lesion sizes decreased), stable disease (SD, steady state of disease), progressive disease (PD, sum of lesion sizes increased)., Tumor measurements and assessments based on RECIST criteria were performed every 6 weeks for the first 18 weeks of therapy ( week 6, 12, and 18) and every 12 weeks thereafter up to data cutoff (1Oct2007) used for planned formal interim analysis|Duration of Response, Duration of response (PR or better) is defined as the time from the first documented objective response of PR or CR, whichever is noted earlier, to disease progression or death (if death occurs before progression is documented)., Tumor measurements and assessments based on RECIST criteria were performed every 6 weeks for the first 18 weeks of therapy ( week 6, 12, and 18) and every 12 weeks thereafter up to data cutoff (1Oct2007) used for planned formal interim analysis|Patient Reported Outcome as Assessed by FACT-L Score. Change From Baseline in Total FACT-L at Cycles 3,5,7,9 and End of Treatment (EOT), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung cancer subscore (FACT-L). Patient reported outcome as assessed by FACT-L score. FACT-L questionnaire comprises statements about physical, social / family, emotional and functional well-being as well as additional concerns which have to be rated by the patients (0="not at all" to 4="very much"). Cycle duration defined as 21 days. Change from baseline in Total FACT-L on day 1 of cycles 3,5,7,9 (weeks 7,13,19 and 25) and end of treatment (EOT); cycle 1, day 1 used as baseline. EOT is determined by patient's last visit after treatment discontinuation., Outcome measure was assessed on Day 1 of Cycle 1 and Day 1 of every other cycle (i.e. Cycle 3, 5, 7 etc.) during treatment and at end of treatment visit or up to data cutoff (10ct2007) used for planned formal interim analysis|Patient Reported Outcome as Assessed by LCS Subscale Score. Change From Baseline in LCS Subscale at Cycles 2 Through 9 and at End of Treatment (EOT), Lung Cancer Symptoms (LCS) subscale ranges from 0 (severe debilitation) to 28 (asymptomatic). Cycle duration defined as 21 days. Change from baseline in LCS Subscale on day 1 of cycles 2 through 9 (weeks 4,7,10,13,16,19,22 and 25) and end of treatment (EOT); cycle 1, day 1 used as baseline. EOT is determined by patient's last visit after treatment discontinuation., Outcome measure was assessed on Day 1 of Cycle 1 and Day 1 of every cycle (i.e. Cycle 2, 3, 4, 5 etc.) during treatment and at end of treatment visit or up to data cutoff (10ct2007) used for planned formal interim analysis
A randomized controlled trial comparing safety and efficacy of carboplatin and paclitaxel plus or minus sorafenib in chemonaive patients with stage III-IV non-small cell lung cancer.