Tac, Mini-MTX, MMF Versus Tac, MTX for GVHD Prevention
This randomized clinical trial studies standard GVHD prophylaxis with tacrolimus and methotrexate compared to tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil and a reduced-dose methotrexate in patients with hematologic malignancies undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant. Both mycophenolate mofetil and reduced-dose methotrexate, in combination with a calcineurin inhibitor, have been shown to be safe and effective in GVHD prevention with less toxicity than standard dose methotrexate. It is not yet known, however, whether this combination of mycophenolate mofetil and reduced-dose methotrexate with tacrolimus is more effective than tacrolimus and standard dose methotrexate in preventing GVHD.
Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Hodgkins Disease|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: tacrolimus|DRUG: methotrexate|DRUG: Mycophenolate mofetil|DRUG: Methotrexate (low dose)
Percentage of Severe (Grade 3-4) Mucositis Graded According to the World Health Organization (WHO) Grading Scale, Participants (percentage of) will be graded three times per week through day 28 of the study. Incidence will be compared through Wilcoxon rank sum tests.

The WHO grading scale for mucositis is scaled depending on the severity of mucositis symptoms, with a lower stage associated with a better outcome and greater stages associated with worse outcomes. The staging is as follows:

Stage 0: None Stage 1 (mild): Oral soreness, erythema Stage 2 (moderate): Oral erythema, ulcers, solid diet tolerated Stage 3 (severe): Oral ulcers, liquid diet only Stage 4 (life-threatening): Oral alimentation impossible, Up to day 28|Time to Neutrophil Engraftment, The number of days to reach a neutrophil count of greater than or equal to 500/ul for three consecutive laboratory values obtained on different days. The day of engraftment will be the first day of the three consecutive laboratory values., Up to 28 days|Time to Platelet Engraftment, The number of days to reach a platelet count of greater than or equal to 20,000/ul for three consecutive laboratory values obtained on different days, independent of platelet transfusions the prior 7 days. The day of engraftment will be the first day of the three consecutive laboratory values. For cases of delayed engraftment beyond 28 days, results will be recorded once the participant engrafts., The date the participant engrafts, up to 28 days|Cumulative Incidence of Participants With Acute GVHD, Acute GVHD by grade will be estimated using cumulative incidence methods and compared using the Gray test.

A lower clinical grade and/or stage of GVHD corresponds to a better participant outcome and a higher grade corresponds to a worse participant outcome. Grading is as follows:

Grade 0: No stage 1-4 of any organ Grade 1: Stage 1-2 skin without liver, upper GI, or lower GI involvement. Grade 2: Stage 3 rash and/or stage 1 liver and/or stage 1 upper GI and/or stage 1 lower GI.

Grade 3: Stage 2-3 liver and/or stage 2-3 lower GI, with stage 0-3 skin and/or stage 0-1 upper GI.

Grade 4: Stage 4 skin, liver, or lower GI involvement, with stage 0-1 upper GI.

A greater stage of GVHD involves worsening end-organ involvement and worse participant outcomes based on the skin, liver, lower GI, and upper GI., Day 7- Day 100
Length of Hospitalization, Hospital stay will be compared between patients in groups A and B using the Wilcoxon rank sum test., Date of transplant to date of discharge, assessed up to 1 year|Percentage of Participants Using Total Parenteral Nutrition (TPN) Within 100 Days, TPN use will be compared using the Chi-square test., Up to day 100|Overall Survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and compared between the 2 groups using the log-rank test., Up to 1 year|Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and compared between the 2 groups using the log-rank test., Up to 1 year|Incidence of Chronic GVHD, Chronic GVHD will be graded as mild, moderate, or severe based on the National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Project. The type and duration of immunosuppressive treatment given for cGVHD will be recorded. Mild grades are associated with a better participant outcome and severe corresponds to a worse participant outcome. Grading is as follows:

Mild: 1 or 2 organs involved with no more than score 1 plus Lung score 0

Moderate: 3 or more organs involved with no more than score 1 OR At least 1 organ (not lung) with a score of 2 OR Lung score 1

Severe: At least 1 organ with a score of 3 OR Lung score of 2 or 3

Organ scores can range from 0 to 3, with 0 being no symptoms on the target organ and a better participant outcome while a score of 3 correlates to severe symptoms on the target organ and worse participant outcomes.

Potential target organs include: skin, mouth, eyes, GI tract, liver, lungs, joint /fascia, and genital tract, at 6 months|Incidence of Chronic GVHD, Chronic GVHD will be graded as mild, moderate, or severe based on the National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Project. The type and duration of immunosuppressive treatment given for cGVHD will be recorded. Mild grades are associated with a better participant outcome and severe corresponds to a worse participant outcome. Grading is as follows:

Mild: 1 or 2 organs involved with no more than score 1 plus Lung score 0

Moderate: 3 or more organs involved with no more than score 1 OR At least 1 organ (not lung) with a score of 2 OR Lung score 1

Severe: At least 1 organ with a score of 3 OR Lung score of 2 or 3

Organ scores can range from 0 to 3, with 0 being no symptoms on the target organ and a better participant outcome while a score of 3 correlates to severe symptoms on the target organ and worse participant outcomes.

Potential target organs include: skin, mouth, eyes, GI tract, liver, lungs, joint /fascia, and genital tract, at 12 months|Length of Time on Continuous Infusion Narcotics, Start and stop dates for the need of continuous IV infusion of narcotics for severe mucositis pain will be recorded. Time on IV infusion will be compared between patients in groups A and B using the Wilcoxon rank sum test., up to +28 day|Incidence of Infection, 100-day incidence of infection will be compared using a the Gray test., Up to day +100|Incidence of Hepatotoxicity as Measured by Bilirubin, 100-day incidence of hepatotoxicity will be compared using a Gray test. Median and range of largest total bilirubin (mg/dL),, Up to day +100|Incidence of Hepatotoxicity as Measured by Elevated Liver Enzymes, 100-day incidence of hepatotoxicity will be compared using a Gray test. Percentage of patients with elevated Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST), Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT), and alkaline phosphatase and a 95% confidence interval, Up to day +100|Incidence of Hepatotoxicity as Measured by Veno-occlusive Disease (VOD), 100-day incidence of hepatotoxicity will be compared using the Gray test. Percentage of patients with VOD and 95% confidence interval, Up to day +100|Incidence of Nephrotoxicity, 100-day incidence of nephrotoxicity will be compared using a Chi-squared test. Percentage of patients requiring dialysis and those with elevated creatinine using a 95% confidence interval, Up to day +100|Incidence of Pulmonary Toxicity Measured by Pulmonary Hemorrhage, 180-day incidence of pulmonary toxicity will be compared using the Gray test. Percentage of patients with pulmonary hemorrhage and 95% confidence interval, Up to day +180|Incidence of Pulmonary Toxicity Measured by Pulmonary Edema, 180-day incidence of pulmonary toxicity will be compared using the Gray test. Percentage of patients with pulmonary edema and 95% confidence interval, Up to day +180|Incidence of Pulmonary Toxicity Measured by Respiratory Failure, 180-day incidence of pulmonary toxicity will be compared using the Gray test. Percentage of patients with respiratory failure and 95% confidence interval, Up to day +180
Chimerism Results, Donor chimerism will be assessed by analysis of single-tandem repeats on whole marrow and in lymphocyte enriched or sorted CD3+ T cells and CD33+ granulocytes. Blood will be obtained for donor chimerism "Bone Marrow Engraftment analysis" at approximately 1, 2, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months or as clinically indicated., Up to one year
Study Design This is a prospective randomized trial to determine the effectiveness of different doses of GVHD prophylaxis on mucositis, engraftment and aGVHD. Study consists of two study groups of 50 subjects each.

Group A will receive Tac and MTX (15 mg/m2 day +1, 10 mg/m2 day +3, +6, +11). Group B will receive Tac, Mini-dose MTX (5 mg/m2 on day +1, +3, +6) and MMF.