Investigation of the Effects of Online Education Application on Gynecological Cancer Patients Receiving Chemotherapy
The aim of the study was to examine the effect of online nursing education given to women diagnosed with gynecological cancer and receiving chemotherapy. It was conducted as a randomized controlled experimental study. The study examined the effect of online nursing education given to patients in the intervention group diagnosed with gynecological cancer and receiving chemotherapy on symptoms, quality of life and patient satisfaction. The control group received routine nursing care.
Gynecological Cancer
OTHER: Chemotherapy symptom Management Online Education
EORT QLQ-C30, EORT QLQ-C30: It consists of three main dimensions and 30 questions, namely general well-being, functional difficulties and symptom control., three monhts|Nightingale symptom assessment scale, Nightingale symptom assessment scale: This scale, consisting of 38 items, has three sub-dimensions, namely physical, social and psychological well-being., three monhts
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire,, EORT QLQ-C30: It consists of three main dimensions and 30 questions: general well-being, functional difficulties and symptom control. İThe first 28 questions are Likert-type. The other two questions are evaluated as 1: very bad and 7: excellent. Each subscale of the scale is scored between 0-100. High scores from the sub-dimension and general quality of life indicate that the quality of life is high, and high scores from the symptom scale indicate that the symptoms experienced are at a high level., three monhts|Nightingale Symptom Assessment Scale, Nightingale symptom assessment scale: This scale, consisting of 38 items, has three sub-dimensions: physical, social and psychological well-being. This is a Likert-type scale. The total sub-dimension score is calculated by adding the item scores in each sub-dimension and dividing by the number of items. 0-4 points are taken in each subscale of the scale. A high score indicates that the level of being affected by problems caused by the disease/treatment is high., three months|patient satisfaction, score average is taken., one months
This study examined the effect of online nursing education given to women diagnosed with gynecological cancer and receiving chemotherapy. This randomized controlled experimental study was conducted in a public hospital in Balıkesir province between December 1, 2021 and June 1, 2024. The study sample consisted of 90 women (intervention=45, control=45). Online nursing education was given to women in the intervention group receiving chemotherapy. Patients in the control group received routine nursing care. The study used the women's descriptive characteristics questionnaire, disease and treatment questionnaire, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire, Nightingale Symptom Assessment Scale, nurse follow-up form and patient satisfaction questionnaire. Data were collected during three chemotherapy cycles in four phases.