Study of Nonmyeloablative Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant With High-dose Posttransplantation Cyclophosphamide in Hematopoietic Malignancies Including Those That Are Challenging to Engraft
This is an open label phase II single arm study of peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and posttransplantation cyclophosphamide, using HLA full match or haploidentical related donors, in hematological malignancies including those difficult to engraft. The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and feasibility in nonmyeloablative, partially HLA-mismatched or HLA-matched PBSC transplant from haploidentical donors or fully matched donors with post-grafting immunosuppression that includes high-dose cyclophosphamide, tacrolimus, and Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF).
Hematopoietic Malignancies
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Event Free Survival (EFS), Estimate the one year after transplantation event free survival (EFS) rate using a Kaplan-Meier curve with a 90% confidence interval. An event for EFS is defined as the first of any of the following failures: relapse or disease progression or death from any cause, One Year
Number of Participants With Chronic GVHD and Grades I-IV GVHD, Acute GVHD is graded by standard criteria, and all suspected cases of acute GVHD will be confirmed histologically by biopsy of an affected organ. The severity of acute GVHD is determined by an assessment of the degree of involvement of the skin, liver, and gastrointestinal tract. Grade I is characterized as mild disease (skin involvement alone), Grade II as moderate, Grade III as severe (involvement of any organ system), and Grade IV as life-threatening. The diagnosis of a chronic GVHD per NIH criteria requires a) at least 1 diagnostic manifestation or b) 1 distinctive manifestation confirmed by biopsy or testing of the same or other involved organ., 1 year|Number of Major Toxicities and Complications Associated With Transplantation Procedure, Summarize major toxicities and complications associated with the transplantation procedure, 1 year|Cumulative Incidences of Systemic Steroid Initiation, Estimate the cumulative incidence of systemic steroid initiation, by 1 year after HSCT. This is will be reported as number of participants who started steroids over the course of the study., 1 year|Graft Failure Frequency, Graft failure and death, or graft failure, death and treatment of relapse/progressions. This will be reported as the number of participants with graft failures., 1 year|Time to Neutrophil Recovery, Neutrophil recovery is defined as post-nadir ANC greater than or equal to 500/mm3 for three consecutive measurements on different days. The first of the three days will be designated as the day of neutrophil recovery., 1 year|Time to Platelet Recovery, Platelet recovery is defined as sustained platelet count greater than or equal to 20,000/mm3 or greater than or equal to 50,000/mm3 with no platelet transfusions in the preceding seven days. The first of three consecutive measurements on different days will be designated as the day of initial platelet recovery., 1 year
Primary Objective Estimate event free survival (EFS) (relapse, progression, or death) rate one year after transplant.

Secondary Objectives:

1. Estimate the cumulative incidences of severe acute grade III or higher GVHD, chronic GVHD (overall and by extent)
2. Estimate the cumulative incidence of systemic steroid initiation,
3. Summarize the graft failure frequency,
4. Summarize the kinetics of neutrophil and platelet recovery, and kinetics of donor chimerism in unsorted and CD3+ sorted peripheral blood.
5. Summarize major toxicities and complications associated with the transplantation procedure selected toxicities.

Exploratory Objectives:

Explore the association between the amount of donor T cell chimerism at \~ Day 28 and patient/graft characteristics (e.g., prior therapies, graft cell dose) and transplantation outcomes (sustained engraftment, relapse or progression, GVHD).