Ph II Study of Pembrolizumab & Eribulin in Patients With HR+/HER2- MBC Previously Treated With Anthracyclines & Taxanes
This a multicenter, open-label, phase II clinical trial to assess the efficacy of pembrolizumab in combination with eribulin in female patients older than 18 years old with hormone receptor-(HR)positive/HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC) previously treated with at least one, but not more than two, prior chemotherapeutic regimens for treatment of locally recurrent and/or metastatic disease. Prior therapy must have included an anthracycline and a taxane and prior anti-hormonal therapy is mandatory.

The number of patients to be included is 44 patients at 11 sites. All eligible patients will be treated with MK3475 (pembrolizumab) 200 mg on day 1 of each 21-day cycle and eribulin 1.23 mg/m2 (equivalent to eribulin mesylate at 1.4 mg/m2) on days 1 and 8 of every 21-day cycle.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Eribulin
Efficacy of Pembrolizumab in Combination With Eribulin., The efficacy -as determined by the clinical benefit rate (CBR) (total number of objective responses plus stable disease for at least 24 weeks) based on RECIST v.1.1- of MK3475 (pembrolizumab) in combination with eribulin in patients with HR-positive/HER2-negative MBC who have previously received an anthracycline and a taxane (for either early or advanced disease), unless contraindicated, and between one to two lines of chemotherapy in the metastatic setting.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions: Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR) is defined as a decrease of ≥30% in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Stable Disease (SD) is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify as PR nor sufficient increase to qualify as Progressive Disease (PD)., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.
The CBR in Subjects With Programmed Death Ligand-1 (PD-L1) Positive Tumors., CBR based on RECIST v.1.1 in subjects with PD-L1 positive tumors., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.|The Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS based on RECIST v.1.1., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.|The PFS in Subjects With PD-L1 Positive Tumors., PFS based on RECIST v.1.1 in subjects with PD-L1 positive tumors., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) represents the time from the start of the study until death from any cause., From baseline up to 36 months.|The OS in Subjects With PD-L1 Positive Tumors., OS in subjects with PD-L1 positive tumors., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Based on RECIST v1.1, The Overall Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of participants who achieve a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) based on RECIST v1.1 criteria. ORR is calculated as:

ORR = (Number of participants with CR + Number of participants with PR) / Total number of participants., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.|Overall Response Rate (ORR) in Participants With PD-L1 Positive Tumors Based on RECIST v1.1, The Overall Response Rate (ORR) in participants with PD-L1 positive tumors is defined as the proportion of participants with a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) based on RECIST v1.1 criteria. ORR is calculated as:

ORR = (Number of participants with CR + Number of participants with PR) / Total number of participants with PD-L1 positive tumors., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.|The Duration of Response (DoR), DoR based on RECIST v.1.1., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.|The DoR in Subjects With PD-L1 Positive Tumors., DoR based on RECIST v.1.1 in subjects with PD-L1 positive tumors., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.|Number of AEs Per CTCAE Grade (Safety and Tolerability of Pembrolizumab in Combination With Eribulin), The safety and tolerability of MK3475 (pembrolizumab) in combination with eribulin according to the US National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.3., Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.
Gene Signature Predictive of MK3475 (Pembrolizumab) and Eribulin Therapy Benefit., New predictive factors of response to MK3475 (pembrolizumab) and eribulin, 24 months|The Link Between Mutational Load and Response to MK3475 (Pembrolizumab) and Eribulin., New predictive factors of response to MK3475 (pembrolizumab) and eribulin, 24 months|PD-L1 Expression in Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) and Its Correlation With Response to MK3475 (Pembrolizumab) and Eribulin., New predictive factors of response to MK3475 (pembrolizumab) and eribulin, Through study completion. From baseline up to 36 months.
This a multicenter, open-label, phase II clinical trial to assess the efficacy of pembrolizumab in combination with eribulin in female patients older than 18 years old with hormone receptor-(HR)positive/HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC) previously treated with at least one, but not more than two, prior chemotherapeutic regimens for treatment of locally recurrent and/or metastatic disease. Prior therapy must have included an anthracycline and a taxane in any combination or order and either in the early or metastatic disease setting unless contraindicated for a given patient. Prior anti-hormonal therapy is mandatory.

The number of patients to be included is 44 patients at 11 sites. The primary objective is to assess the efficacy -as determined by the clinical benefit rate (CBR) (total number of objective responses plus stable disease for at least 24 weeks) based on RECIST v.1.1- of MK3475 (pembrolizumab) in combination with eribulin.

Primary endpoint is CBR based on RECIST v.1.1. All eligible patients will be treated with MK3475 (pembrolizumab) 200 mg on day 1 of each 21-day cycle and eribulin 1.23 mg/m2 (equivalent to eribulin mesylate at 1.4 mg/m2) on days 1 and 8 of every 21-day cycle. Treatment with MK3475 (pembrolizumab) and eribulin will continue based on physician criteria. No maximum duration of treatment is specified. Study follow-up will be performed 12 months after last study dose.

Available tumor tissue for PD-L1 biomarker analysis from a newly obtained core or excisional biopsy since last progression of a metastatic tumor lesion not previously irradiated is requested for this study.

Translational research of this protocol involves the collection, processing, temporary storage, and shipment of samples from consenting patients enrolled in centers selected for participation in the study. The study plan includes collection and initial processing of tumor tissues and blood samples to the central laboratory of Institut Hospital del Mar d"Investigacions Mèdiques (IMIM), that will be used to identify dynamic biomarkers that may be predictive of response to MK3475 (pembrolizumab) and eribulin treatment.