Real Clinical Practice Register of AlbUminuRia Detection in Patients With Previously undiAgnosed Chronic Kidney Disease
Real clinical practice register of Albuminuria detection in patients with previously undiagnosed chronic kidney disease
Chronic Kidney Diseases|Hypertension|Chronic Heart Failure|Ischemic Heart Disease|Atrial Fibrillation|PreDiabetes|Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease|Cancer|Urolithiasis|COVID-19
Prevalence of AU and its severity., Determination of AU by qualitative and/or quantitative methods, Day 1
Number of comorbidities per patient with AU., Number of comorbidities per patient with AU., Day 1|Frequency of prescribing renoprotective drugs., Frequency of prescribing renoprotective drugs., Day 1|Calculation of eGFR according to CKD-EPI formula 2021 in different phenotypes from the study population., Calculation of eGFR according to CKD-EPI formula 2021 in different phenotypes from the study population., Day 1|Prevalence of probable CKD in the study sample based on the clinical and laboratory data obtained during the screening., Prevalence of probable CKD in the study sample based on the clinical and laboratory data obtained during the screening., Day 1
This register was sponsored and organized by the Association "Eurasian Association of Internal Medicine". It is a multicenter non-interventional register of real clinical practice. The database will include patients aged 40 years and older without pre-existing nephrological disease who are available for a dipstick test for albuminuria. The subjects will be identified by screening all patients who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria during routine outpatient and hospital follow-up. The register does not include follow-up (cross-sectional design).

Patients eligible for the register should be enrolled and documented. The procedure for obtaining informed consent for the collection and analysis of the retrospective data must comply with the local legislation. If necessary, patients will be asked to sign an informed consent document.

All study sites will use standardized electronic CRFs. The Electronic Data Capture (EDC) system should be validated in accordance with current standards and legal requirements. The investigators will log into this system using individual usernames and passwords. Data may only be entered and corrected by the investigator or other authorized study site personnel.