Maximum Tolerated Dose, Safety, and Efficacy of Rhenium Nanoliposomes in Recurrent Glioma (ReSPECT)
This is a multi-center, sequential cohort, open-label, volume and dose escalation study of the safety, tolerability, and distribution of 186RNL given by convection enhanced delivery to patients with recurrent or progressive malignant glioma after standard surgical, radiation, and/or chemotherapy treatment. The study uses a modified Fibonacci dose escalation, followed by an expansion at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) to determine efficacy. The starting absorbed dose is 1mCi in a volume of 0.660mL.
Glioma
DRUG: Rhenium Liposome Treatment
Phase 1: Maximum Tolerated Dose, Evaluation of any toxicity associated with research treatment per Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events., 90 days|Phase 2: Overall Survival, To assess overall survival (OS) following 186RNL administration by convection enhanced delivery (CED) in patients with recurrent glioma., 12 Months
Phase 1: Dose Distribution, SPECT imaging of the radioactive materials spread across the tumor and surrounding brain, Up to 7 days|Phase 1: Response rate, Evaluation of overall response rate by RANO criteria, 8 weeks followed by standard of care|Phase 1: Survival, Disease specific progression free survival, 6 months|Phase 1: Safety of single dose of treatment, Evaluation of any toxicity associated with research treatment as determined by the most recent version of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., Up to 3 years|Phase 2: Safety and tolerability of 186RNL, To assess the safety and tolerability of 186RNL by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0 criteria. Safety and tolerability will be defined by the percent of participants experiencing ≥ Grade 3 AE/SAE., Up to 3 years|Phase 2: Objective response rate (ORR), To determine the objective response rate (ORR) from the date of complete or partial response or Serious Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Up to 3 years.|Phase 2: Progression free survival at 6 months (PFS-6), To determine progression free survival at 6 months (PFS-6) as measured from the initiation of study treatment until the date of first documented progression by modified RANO criteria (recognizing the potential of pseudo progression significantly complicating the use of the RANO criteria) or date of death from any cause., Up to 6 months|Phase 2: Progression free survival (PFS) from the initiation of study to first documented progression, To determine progression free survival (PFS) as measured from the initiation of study treatment until the date of first documented progression by modified RANO criteria (recognizing the potential of pseudo progression significantly complicating the use of the RANO criteria) where progression is defined as \>25% in the sum of products of the perpendicular diameters of CE lesions, evidence of new lesion(s), or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first., Up to 3 years.|Phase 2: Quality of Life, Evaluate assessing quality of life using a Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (developed in collaboration with FDA, Investigators and established glioblastoma patient advocacy groups), Up to 3 years
The Phase I portion of the clinical study evaluates a single dose of 186RNL (radionuclide clinical study drug) administered through a convection enhanced delivery catheter (CED catheter) in participants with recurrent Glioma (GBM). The clinical study treatment consists of a single administered dose of 186RNL per participant. The clinical study will include the evaluation of multiple separate dose levels (dose escalation). Three to six participants may be treated at each dose. The maximum number of participants to be enrolled in the study is approximately 21. The clinical study treatment will be administered, following CED placement, by the clinical study physician. Participants will be followed for up to 36 months after the clinical study drug is administered.

The Phase II portion of the clinical study is a multicenter, single arm, prospective study utilizing a non-DLT dose obtained from the dose escalation portion of IND 116117, NIH-NCI Grant (22.3 mCi (total 186RNL activity) at a concentration of 2.5 mCi/mL and 8.8 mL total volume). The maximum number of participants to be enrolled in the Phase II study is approximately 34. The clinical study treatment will be administered, following CED placement, by the clinical study physician. Participants will be followed for up to 36 months after the clinical study drug is administered.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved 186RNL for this specific disease.