Phase II Study of Pembrolizumab and Nab-paclitaxel in HER-2 Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
This is a single-arm open-label multi-cohort Phase II study evaluating the safety/tolerability and clinical activity of the combination of nab-paclitaxel and the antibody against programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), pembrolizumab, in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER-2) negative metastatic breast cancer (n=50). There will be two cohorts of patients consisting of a triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) cohort with 30 subjects and a hormone receptor (HR)-positive cohort with 20 subjects. There will be an initial safety run-in with 12 subjects from the TNBC and HR-positive cohort (\~ 6 patients from each cohort). If no unexpected toxicity is observed (as defined in the study protocol), then enrollment will continue to complete both cohorts (30 total TNBC, 20 total in HR positive cohort). The subjects from the run in safety part will be included in the Phase II analysis. Tumor expression of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is not required for enrollment in the study, but will be assessed as possible predictive marker.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Nab-Paclitaxel
Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response Rate (BORR) of Complete Response or Partial Response, Overall response measured by RECIST version 1.1 and will be used in this study for assessment of tumor response. Complete response (CR) defined as disappearance of all target lesions; and partial response (PR) defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to Year 2
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from initial treatment to documented disease progression or death., Up to Year 2|Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from initial treatment to death due to any cause., Up to Year 2|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Percentage of patients whose disease shrinks or remains stable over a certain time period., Up to Year 2|Duration of Response (DOR), Defined as the time from onset of response to progression or death due to any reason, whichever occurs earlier., Up to Year 2
This is a single-arm open-label multi-cohort Phase II study evaluating the safety/tolerability and clinical activity of the combination of nab-paclitaxel and the antibody against programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), pembrolizumab, in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER-2) negative metastatic breast cancer (n=50). There will be two cohorts of patients consisting of a triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) cohort with 30 subjects and a hormone receptor (HR)-positive cohort with 20 subjects. There will be an initial safety run-in with 12 subjects from the TNBC and HR-positive cohort (\~ 6 patients from each cohort). If no unexpected toxicity is observed (as defined in the study protocol), then enrollment will continue to complete both cohorts (30 total TNBC, 20 total in HR positive cohort). The subjects from the run in safety part will be included in the Phase II analysis. Tumor expression of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is not required for enrollment in the study, but will be assessed as possible predictive marker.