Secretin Enhanced MRCP for Evaluation of the Known or Suspected Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasms of the Pancreas
1. To assess the effect of RG1068 at a dose of 0.2 mcg/kg intravenously (IV) on the diameter of the pancreatic duct when used during Magnetic Resonance Pancreatography
2. To demonstrate that RG1068-enhanced MRCP improves detection and characterization of intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN) relative to unenhanced MRCP in patients with suspected IPMN
3. To correlate findings on MRCP with histologically confirmed malignancy
Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasms
DRUG: RG1068 (Synthetic Human Secretin)
MR & MRCP - Images will be evaluated for quality, main and branch duct visualization, ductal diameter and improved visualization of structural abnormalities with and without use of RG1068., 1
Laboratory, 2
Until relatively recently, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was the primary diagnostic and therapeutic modality for assessing patients with suspected pancreatic disease or abnormalities. However, this invasive procedure carries with it a significant potential for complications including acute pancreatitis, hemorrhage and infection, as well as reactions to contrast material or premedications and exposure to radiation. In addition, the success of such procedures, both from the standpoint of safety and efficacy, is highly dependent on the skill of the endoscopist, and the cost of ERCP is relatively high.

The advent of magnetic resonance imaging has resulted in the development of a less expensive, non-invasive, radiation-free means of assessing the pancreaticobiliary system: Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (MRCP). MRCP uses stationary water in biliary and pancreatic secretions as an intrinsic contrast medium, thus facilitating examination of pancreatic and biliary ducts and surrounding tissue. Secretin, which promotes the secretion of pancreatic fluid into the pancreatic ducts, can thereby enhance the MR imaging signal, improving delineation of both normal and abnormal structures, as well as highlighting abnormal fluid collections and leakage. Conversely, filling defects can indicate the presence of stones or mass lesions.

This study is being undertaken to prospectively assess the effectiveness of RG1068-enhanced MRCP relative to unenhanced MRCP for the evaluation of patients with known or suspected IPMN. RG1068 is a synthetic human secretin with a pharmacological profile very similar to that of biological and synthetic porcine secretins. Secretin is a 27-amino acid gastrointestinal peptide hormone that is produced by S-cells in the duodenum in response to the pH decrease caused by the passage of partially digested food from the stomach into the intestine. RG1068 is identical in amino acid sequence to naturally occurring human secretin and differs from porcine secretin in 2 amino acids.