TR128 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a open-label, 3+3 design, dose escalation and expansion, phase I study, to evaluate the safety and tolerability, and to determine the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of TR128 when administered qd in patients with advanced solid tumors. Up to 5 cohorts of 3-6 patients each will be treated in dose escalation phase of the study. One cycle is 28 days. Dose expansion phase to further evaluate the safety, tolerability and preliminary anti-tumor activity of TR128 at the RP2D.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: TR128
Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, Frequency, duration, and severity of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events evaluated by NCI CTCAE v5.0, from the first dose to within 30 days after the last dose|Dose limited toxicities, Incidence of dose limited toxicities, within 28 days after the first dose|Maximum tolerated dose, Evaluated by safety review committee, Throughout the study for approximately 2 years|Recommended phase II dose, Evaluated by safety review committee, Throughout the study for approximately 2 years
AUClast, Characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of TR128, within 31 days after the first dose|AUCinf, Characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of TR128, within 31 days after the first dose|Cmax, Characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of TR128, within 31 days after the first dose|Tmax, Characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of TR128, within 31 days after the first dose|CL/F, Characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of TR128, within 31 days after the first dose|Vz/F, characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of TR128, within 31 days after the first dose|Terminal half-life (T1/2), Characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of TR128, within 31 days after the first dose|ORR, Efficacy-overall response rate, throughout the study for approximately 2 years|PFS, Efficacy-progression free survival, throughout the study for approximately 2 years|DOR, Efficacy-duration of response, throughout the study for approximately 2 years|DCR, Efficacy-disease control rate, throughout the study for approximately 2 years
This phase I study of TR128 will investigate the tolerability, safety, pharmacokinetics (PK) and preliminary efficacy of TR128, and will define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of TR128 using 3+3 design. A dose expansion phase will identify the recommended phase 2 dose. In this clinical study, TR128 is given orally daily. A treatment cycle is defined as 28 days. Patients will receive study treatment until criteria for study termination are met. A safety follow-up visit will be conducted 28 days after the last dose of study treatment. Patients who discontinue study treatment for reasons other disease progression will have post-treatment follow-up for disease assessment until start of new anticancer treatment, patient withdraws consent, is lost to follow-up, death, or until the sponsor stops the study, whichever comes first.

Adverse events (AEs) will be assessed using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 5.0.

Tumor response will be assessed by computed tomography (CT) and /or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan using RECIST1.1 criteria, assessed by the investigator.