Monitoring Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Response in Breast Cancer Patients Using Diffuse Optical Spectroscopic Imaging
This study seeks to enroll women with breast cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy to evaluate the efficacy of an investigational imaging technology known as Diffuse Optical Spectroscopy Imaging (DOSI) in predicting patient response to chemotherapy treatment. DOSI is a noninvasive imaging method that uses harmless near-infrared light using simple wearable probes held against the skin by transparent dressings to predict tumor metabolic activity. It uses nonionizing radiation, requires no external contrast agent and uses low light exposure to human tissue. DOSI scans can be performed frequently at the bedside in settings such as a doctor's office or infusion center.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Diffuse Optical Spectroscopy Imaging (DOSI) - Neoadjuvant Chemo (NAC) Cohort|DEVICE: Diffuse Optical Spectroscopy Imaging (DOSI) - Non-NAC Cohort
Analysis of differences in longitudinal trends of oxyhemoglobin concentration as related to final pathological response, The longitudinal trends of oxyhemoglobin concentration measured over the early time-points (infusion, first 10 days). Differences in these trends will be analyzed to determine if they are prognostic of the final pathologic response (i.e. pathological complete response or non-complete response) of the primary tumor in patients with locally advanced breast cancer., 6 months
Analysis of longitudinal trends of other composite DOSI derived parameters (deoxyhemoglobin, total blood volume, oxygen saturation, water, lips concentrations), The longitudinal trends of other DOSI derived parameters (deoxyhemoglobin, total blood volume, oxygen saturation, water, lips concentrations) measured over the early time-points (infusion, first 10 days), mid therapy, and end therapy time-points., 6 months|Analysis of composite DOSI derived parameters (deoxyhemoglobin, total blood volume, oxygen saturation, water, lips concentrations) as related to overall pathologic response and to biopsy results, DOSI derived parameters (deoxyhemoglobin, total blood volume, oxygen saturation, water, lips concentrations) as measured immediately prior to a mid-therapy biopsy. These parameters will be correlated to overall pathologic response and to biopsy results., up to 6 months
This study seeks to enroll women with breast cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy to evaluate the efficacy of an investigational imaging technology known as Diffuse Optical Spectroscopy Imaging (DOSI) in predicting patient response to chemotherapy treatment. DOSI is a noninvasive imaging method that uses harmless near-infrared light using simple wearable probes held against the skin by transparent dressings to predict tumor metabolic activity. It uses nonionizing radiation, requires no external contrast agent and uses low light exposure to human tissue. DOSI scans can be performed frequently at the bedside in settings such as a doctor's office or infusion center.

DOSI has already shown promise in monitoring breast cancer patients undergoing preoperative chemotherapy. Several groups have demonstrated optical changes predictive of response in the course of weeks to months of treatment. The investigators group has begun to show that DOSI measurements during drug infusions and at early time-points (first 24 hours) correlate with tumor final pathological response. While this data is provocative, significantly more work is needed to confirm that early time-points are predictive in different treatment groups and tumor molecular subtypes.

In this study, breast cancer patients will receive DOSI scans at a subset or all of the following time-points: baseline, during drug infusion, early therapy, mid-therapy and post-therapy. DOSI results will be compared to standard of care pathology results determined after surgery. Additionally, the investigators will correlate DOSI parameters with any additional biopsy specimens taken during treatment (typically for patients on adaptive treatment trials). Each DOSI scan will take about 30-60 minutes/ session, although infusion measurements will take longer. DOSI can potentially help doctors to gain information necessary to make evidence-based changes in treatment strategies of individual patients. The investigators long-term goal is to provide oncologists with a relatively simple, risk-free bedside tool that can help predict response early, thereby maximizing therapeutic response and minimizing unnecessary toxicity.

A cohort of 10 additional patients with breast cancer who are not receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) who will only be measured at baseline has been created. Complete characterization of baseline properties in patients is essential for understanding subsequent changes from baseline in response to chemotherapy. Adding an additional 10 patients who are not receiving NAC to be enrolled will allow for better characterization of baseline properties, which in turn will allow for a better understanding of the changes in properties seen in those patients who are undergoing NAC.