Thalidomide Combined With Chemotherapy and Monotherapy for Maintenance Treatment for Her2-negative Advanced GC
The overall incidence of liver metastases from gastric cancer is about 9.9%-18.7%. Gastric cancer has strong heterogeneity and rapid disease progression, and the prognosis of liver metastasis is poor. The 5-year survival rate of patients with liver metastases from gastric cancer is very low, making clinical treatment challenging.

Thalidomide has immunomodulatory and anti-angiogenesis effects. It has been used in the treatment of multiple myeloma for more than 20 years, and there are many clinical studies in solid tumors. In recent years, thalidomide has been found to induce the degradation of IKAROS family transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3 in combination with CRBN. Therefore, it is very meaningful to explore the therapeutic value of thalidomide in advanced gastric cancer liver metastasis.
Gastric Cancer Metastatic to Liver
DRUG: Thalidomide Combined With Chemotherapy and Monotherapy
progression-free survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause whichever occurs first as determined by an IRF according to RECIST v1.1. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters on study (including baseline). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum of diameters must also demonstrate an absolute increase of \>/= 5 millimeters (mm)., Randomization to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause up to the clinical cut off date of March10,2024 (up to approximately 18 months) ]
Quality of life (QOL), EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3) Quality of life questionnaire will be used to assess the quality of life of the subjects., UpUp to end of study (up to approximately 24 months)|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., Up to end of study (up to approximately 24 months)
The overall incidence of liver metastases from gastric cancer is about 9.9%-18.7%. Gastric cancer has strong heterogeneity and rapid disease progression, and the prognosis of liver metastasis is poor. The 5-year survival rate of patients with liver metastases from gastric cancer is very low, making clinical treatment challenging. Although immune checkpoint inhibitors have been approved for third-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer, they are expensive and poorly accessible. For patients with poor economic conditions, combination therapy based on chemotherapy regimen or treatment regimen optimization may still be a relatively important direction.

Thalidomide has immunomodulatory and anti-angiogenesis effects. It has been used in the treatment of multiple myeloma for more than 20 years, and there are many clinical studies in solid tumors. In recent years, thalidomide has been found to induce the degradation of IKAROS family transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3 in combination with CRBN.

In addition, the sedative effect of thalidomide helps to improve patients' sleep. Thalidomide can also inhibit inflammatory factors such as TNF-α, thus improving appetite and increasing lean body weight in patients with cachexia. Its antiemetic effects can reduce gastrointestinal reactions to chemotherapeutic drugs in combined therapy. Thalidomide is also very cheap in China, which is suitable for patients on long-term maintenance treatment. Therefore, it is of great significance to explore the therapeutic value of thalidomide in liver metastasis of advanced gastric cancer.