Rolapitant as an Antiemetic in Malignant Glioma Patients Receiving Radiotherapy and Temozolomide
The purpose of this phase 2 study is to assess the efficacy and patient satisfaction of oral rolapitant plus ondansetron vs. oral ondansetron monotherapy in malignant glioma (MG) patients receiving standard of care radiation (RT) and temozolomide (TMZ) therapy. This is a randomized phase 2 trial of rolapitant plus ondansetron vs. ondansetron monotherapy for the prevention of chemo-radiation induced nausea and vomiting in primary MG subjects receiving RT and concomitant multi-dose TMZ.
Chemo-radiation Induced Nausea and Vomiting
DRUG: Rolapitant|DRUG: Ondansetron
Complete Response (CR) Rate as Measured by Antiemesis Tool (MAT), The Complete Response rate is defined as the proportion of participants with no emetic episode or the use of rescue medication during the first two weeks of radiation therapy and concomitant Temozolomide. The Complete Response rate will be assessed via the modified Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) Antiemesis Tool (MAT)., Weeks 1 and 2|Complete Response (CR) Rate as Measured by MAT With Supplemental Nurses Notes, The Complete Response rate is defined as the proportion of participants with no emetic episode or the use of rescue medication during the first two weeks of radiation therapy and concomitant Temozolomide. The Complete Response rate will be assessed via the modified Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) MAT and nurse notes if MATs are missing., Weeks 1 and 2
Number of Participants Preferring Rolapitant in Combination With Ondansetron Versus Ondansetron Alone, The number of participants who prefer rolapitant plus ondansetron over ondansetron alone, as determined by response to the question with "Which nausea medication regimen was I most satisfied with?", Weeks 1-6|Week 3 Patient Satisfaction: Effectiveness, Mean effectiveness scores at week 3 using the 9-item Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM-9) patient satisfaction survey. The effectiveness subscale score was computed from the 3 items corresponding to effectiveness. The resulting effectiveness score is measured from 0-100 with higher scores corresponding to higher effectiveness., Weeks 1-3|Week 3 Patient Satisfaction: Convenience, Mean convenience scores at week 3 using the 9-item Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM-9) patient satisfaction survey. The convenience subscale score was computed from the 3 items corresponding to convenience. The resulting convenience score is measured from 0-100 with higher scores corresponding to higher convenience., Weeks 1-3|Week 3 Patient Satisfaction: Overall Satisfaction, Mean overall satisfaction scores at week 3 using the 9-item Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM-9) patient satisfaction survey. The overall satisfaction subscale score was computed from the 3 items corresponding to overall satisfaction. The resulting overall satisfaction score is measured from 0-100 with higher scores corresponding to higher overall satisfaction., Weeks 1-3|Week 6 Patient Satisfaction: Effectiveness, Mean effectiveness scores at week 6 using the 9-item Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM-9) patient satisfaction survey. The effectiveness subscale score was computed by summing the 3 items corresponding to effectiveness. The resulting effectiveness score is measured from 0-100 with higher scores corresponding to higher effectiveness., Weeks 4-6|Week 6 Patient Satisfaction: Convenience, Mean convenience scores at week 6 using the 9-item Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM-9) patient satisfaction survey. The convenience subscale score was computed from the 3 items corresponding to convenience. The resulting convenience score is measured from 0-100 with higher scores corresponding to higher convenience., Weeks 4-6|Week 6 Patient Satisfaction: Overall Satisfaction, Mean overall satisfaction scores at week 6 using the 9-item Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM-9) patient satisfaction survey. The overall satisfaction subscale score was computed from the 3 items corresponding to overall satisfaction. The resulting overall satisfaction score is measured from 0-100 with higher scores corresponding to higher overall satisfaction., Weeks 4-6|Chemoradiation-induced Nausea (cRIN) Rate Over First Two Weeks, The cRIN-CR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who did not use rescue medication for nausea. The cRIN-CR rates were assessed via the modified Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) Antiemesis Tool (MAT)., Weeks 1 and 2|Chemoradiation-induced Nausea (cRIN) Rate Over First Two Weeks and Supplemented by Nurses Notes, The cRIN-CR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who did not use rescue medication for nausea. The cRIN-CR rates were assessed via the modified Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) Antiemesis Tool (MAT) and nurses notes if MATs were missing., Weeks 1 and 2|Chemoradiation-induced Vomiting (cRIV) Rate Over First Two Weeks, The cRIV-CR rate is defined as the proportion of participants without use of rescue medication for vomiting. The cRIV-CR rates were assessed via the modified Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) Antiemesis Tool (MAT)., Weeks 1 and 2|Chemoradiation-induced Vomiting (cRIV) Rate Over First Two Weeks With Supplemental Nurses Notes, The cRIV-CR rate is defined as the proportion of participants without use of rescue medication for vomiting. The cRIV-CR rates were assessed via the modified Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) Antiemesis Tool (MAT) and nurse notes if MATS are missing., Weeks 1 and 2|Chemoradiation-induced Nausea (cRIN) Rate Over All Six Weeks, The cRIN-CR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who did not use rescue medication for nausea. The cRIN-CR rates were assessed via the modified Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) Antiemesis Tool (MAT)., Weeks 1-6|Chemoradiation-induced Vomiting (cRIV) Rate Over All Six Weeks, The cRIV-CR rate is defined as the proportion of participants without use of rescue medication for vomiting. The cRIV-CR rates were assessed via the modified Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) Antiemesis Tool (MAT)., Weeks 1-6|Ondansetron Medication Compliance Weeks 1-3, Percentage of participants who adhered to ondansetron treatment for more than 21 days during weeks 1-3., Weeks 1-3|Ondansetron Medication Compliance Weeks 4-6, Percentage of participants who adhered to ondansetron treatment for more than 21 days during weeks 4-6., Weeks 4-6|Proportion of Participants With Grade 3, 4 or 5 Treatment-related Adverse Events, The proportion of participants with grade 3, 4 or 5 adverse events (severe, life-threatening, or fatal) possibly, probably or definitely related to administration of Rolapitant or Ondansetron. Adverse events will be collected from start of treatment through the end of the two-week period following chemoradiation (or until 30 days after the last dose of rolapitant is given in Sequence A). CTCAE version 4 was used to grade adverse events., 8 weeks
All eligible subjects should receive a planned total dose of 54-60 gray (GY) of radiation and 75 mg/m2 of TMZ daily for a total of six weeks. Patients will be randomized to receive one of two antiemetic treatment sequences: sequence A that involves administration of ondansetron alone for 3 weeks followed by a single dose of rolapitant (day 22) plus daily ondansetron for 3 weeks or sequence B that involves a single dose of rolapitant (day 1) plus daily ondansetron for 3 weeks followed by 3 weeks of daily ondansetron alone. The study has one primary endpoint: complete response (CR) rate. Participation in this study may result in reduced chemo-radiation induced nausea and vomiting, however, risks include the common side effects of rolapitant including decreased appetite, neutropenia, dizziness, dyspepsia, urinary tract infection, stomatitis, and anemia.