Testing Trametinib as a Potential Targeted Treatment in Cancers With NF1 Genetic Changes (MATCH-Subprotocol S1)
This phase II MATCH treatment trial identifies the effects of trametinib in patients whose cancer has a has a genetic change called NF1 mutation. Trametinib blocks proteins called MEK1 and MEK2, which may be needed for cancer cell growth when an NF1 mutation is present. Researchers hope to learn if trametinib will shrink this type of cancer or stop its growth.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Trametinib Dimethyl Sulfoxide
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate was defined as the proportion of patients with best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) among all eligible and treated patients. Best overall response was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Please refer to the protocol for the detailed definitions of response criteria. The 90% two-sided binomial exact confidence interval was calculated for ORR., Tumor assessments occurred at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
6-month Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate, Progression free survival is defined as time from treatment start date to date of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Please refer to the protocol for detailed definitions of disease progression. 6 month PFS rate was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, which can provide a point estimate for any specific time point., Assessed at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles, and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration, from which 6-month PFS rate is determined|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as time from treatment start date to date of disease progression or death from any causes, whichever occurred first. Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Please refer to the protocol for detailed definitions of disease progression., Assessed at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response (OR) to targeted study agent(s) in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with targeted study agent in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

II. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. III. To identify potential predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and imaging-based assessment platforms.

IV. To assess whether radiomic phenotypes obtained from pre-treatment imaging and changes from pre- through post-therapy imaging can predict objective response and progression free survival and to evaluate the association between pre-treatment radiomic phenotypes and targeted gene mutation patterns of tumor biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if less than 2 years from study entry, and then every 6 months for year 3 from study entry.