BRAF/MEK/EGFR Inhibitor Combination Study in Colorectal Cancer (CRC)
This was a four part, phase I/II study aimed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of combination of an anti-EGFR antibody panitumumab (P) either with a BRAF inhibitor (dabrafenib (D); GSK2118436) alone or with the combination of a BRAF inhibitor and a MEK inhibitor (trametinib (T); GSK1120212) in patients with BRAF-mutant V600E advanced or mCRC. The goal was to: 1) Determine RP2R/MTD for doublet (D+P) and triplet (D+T+P) combinations in Part 1; 2) Assess clinical activity for these combinations in Part 2; 3) Determine RP2R/MTD for double (T+P) combination in Part 4A, and assess clinical activity of this combination in two patient populations in Part 4B (patients with BRAF-V600E mutation-positive advanced or metastatic CRC and patients with advanced or metastatic CRC with secondary resistance to anti-EGFR therapy).
Cancer
DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: Trametinib|DRUG: Panitumumab|DEVICE: 5-fluorouracil
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The distribution of adverse events was done via the analysis of frequencies for Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events and Deaths due to AEs, through the monitoring of relevant clinical and laboratory safety parameters. Only descriptive analysis performed., From study treatment start date till 30 days safety follow-up, assessed up to approximately 90 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) was used for efficacy based on radiological assessment of tumor burden: CR = Complete Response, disappearance of all target lesions; PR = Partial Response, \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; PD = progressive disease, \>=20% increase in sum of target lesions and/or presence of new lesions and/or substantial increase in non-target lesion; SD = stable disease, response not meeting CR or PR or PD; ORR = overall response rate, defined as CR+PR, From study treatment start date until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 90 months|Part 3: Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from study treatment start date to the date of first radiologically documented progression or death due to any cause. If a patient did not progress or die at the time of the analysis data cut-off or start of new antineoplastic therapy, PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment before the earliest of the cut-off date or the start date of additional anti-neoplastic therapy. Progression was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria RECIST v1.1, as 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline and/or unequivocal progression of the non-target lesions and/or appearance of a new lesion. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From study treatment start date until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 90 months
Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of Response (DoR) was defined as the time from the first documented occurrence of response (PR or CR) until the date of the first documented progression based on RECIST v1.1 or death., From study treatment start date until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 90 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from study treatment start date to the date of first radiologically documented progression or death due to any cause. If a patient did not progress or die at the time of the analysis data cut-off or start of new antineoplastic therapy, PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment before the earliest of the cut-off date or the start date of additional anti-neoplastic therapy. Progression was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria RECIST v1.1, as 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline and/or unequivocal progression of the non-target lesions and/or appearance of a new lesion. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From study treatment start date until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 90 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time to death due to any cause., From study treatment start date until date of of death from any cause, assessed up to approximately 90 months|Cmax of Dabrafenib and Derived Metabolites in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Maximum observed concentration (Cmax) of Dabrafenib and derived metabolites were listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Cmax of Trametinib in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Maximum observed concentration (Cmax) of Trametinib was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Tmax of Dabrafenib and Derived Metabolites in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Time of occurrence of Cmax (tmax) of Dabrafenib and derived metabolites were listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Tmax of Trametinib in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Time of occurrence of Cmax (tmax) of Trametinib was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|AUC[0-8] of Dabrafenib and Derived Metabolites in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Area under the concentration-time curve from zero (pre-dose) 8 hours (AUC\[0-8\]) of Dabrafenib and derived metabolites were listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8 (Dabrafenib derived metabolites), Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|AUC[0-8] of Trametinib in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Area under the concentration-time curve from zero (pre-dose) 8 hours (AUC\[0-8\]) of Trametinib was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Ctau of Dabrafenib and Derived Metabolites in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Pre-dose (trough) concentration at the end of the dosing interval (Ctau) of Dabrafenib and derived metabolites were listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Ctau of Trametinib in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Pre-dose (trough) concentration at the end of the dosing interval (Ctau) of Trametinib was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Ctau of Panitumumab in the Triple Combination (D+T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Pre-dose (trough) concentration at the end of the dosing interval (Ctau) of Panitumumab was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 15, Week 4, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Apparent Base Clearance (CL0/F) and Apparent Maximum Inducible Clearance at Steady State (CLIND,SS/F) of Dabrafenib in the Triple Combination (D+T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Dabrafenib can be described using a two-compartment model with a delayed 1st order absorption (Alag1, Ka) and an inducible elimination (CL/F) that consists of a base clearance (constant over time, CL0/F) and a dose- and time-dependent inducible clearance (CLind/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of dabrafenib. The apparent base clearance (CL0/F) and apparent maximum inducible clearance at steady state (CLIND,SS/F) of Dabrafenib estimated with the PopPK model are summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Effect of Combination With Trametinib on Apparent Maximum Inducible Clearance at Steady State of Dabrafenib in the Triple Combination (D+T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Dabrafenib can be described using a two-compartment model with a delayed 1st order absorption (Alag1, Ka) and an inducible elimination (CL/F) that consists of a base clearance (constant over time, CL0/F) and a dose- and time-dependent inducible clearance (CLind/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of dabrafenib. The effect of combination with trametinib on apparent maximum inducible clearance at steady state (CLIND,SS/F) (CLCOMBO) of Dabrafenib estimated with the PopPK model is summarized in this record.

The parameter in question is a covariate that describes the effect of Effect of combination with trametinib on apparent maximum inducible clearance: the number denoting the effect means that the including trametinib will decrease the apparent maximum inducible clearance as opposed to when dabrafenib is administered alone., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Oral Volume of Distribution (V/F) of Dabrafenib in the Triple Combination (D+T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Dabrafenib can be described using a two-compartment model with a delayed 1st order absorption (Alag1, Ka) and an inducible elimination (CL/F) that consists of a base clearance (constant over time, CL0/F) and a dose- and time-dependent inducible clearance (CLind/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of dabrafenib. The oral volume of distribution (V/F) of Dabrafenib of Dabrafenib estimated with the PopPK model is summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Absorption Rate Constant (Ka) of Dabrafenib in the Triple Combination (D+T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Dabrafenib can be described using a two-compartment model with a delayed 1st order absorption (Alag1, Ka) and an inducible elimination (CL/F) that consists of a base clearance (constant over time, CL0/F) and a dose- and time-dependent inducible clearance (CLind/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of dabrafenib. The absorption rate constant (Ka) of Dabrafenib estimated with the PopPK model is summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Cmax of Trametinib in the Double Combination (T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Maximum observed concentration (Cmax) of Trametinib was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 12, Week 20|Tmax of Trametinib in the Double Combination (T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Time of occurrence of Cmax (tmax) of Trametinib was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 12, Week 20|AUC[0-t] of Trametinib in the Double Combination (T+P), Serial blood samples will be collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples will be collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Area under the concentration-time curve from zero (pre-dose) the time of the last quantifiable concentration (AUC\[0-t\]) of Trametinib was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 1, Day 15, Week 12, Week 20|Ctau of Trametinib in the Double Combination (T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Pre-dose (trough) concentration at the end of the dosing interval (Ctau) of Trametinib was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Ctau of Panitumumab in the Double Combination (T+P), Serial blood samples were collected pre-dose and post-dose on Day 1, Day 15 and pre-dose on Day 21 in the first 28 days of dosing. In the continuation period, blood samples were collected every 4 weeks up to and including Week 20 on study. Pre-dose (trough) concentration at the end of the dosing interval (Ctau) of Panitumumab was listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Apparent Base Clearance (CL0/F) and Apparent Maximum Inducible Clearance at Steady State (CLIND,SS/F) of Dabrafenib in the Double Combination (T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Dabrafenib can be described using a two-compartment model with a delayed 1st order absorption (Alag1, Ka) and an inducible elimination (CL/F) that consists of a base clearance (constant over time, CL0/F) and a dose- and time-dependent inducible clearance (CLind/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of dabrafenib. The apparent base clearance (CL0/F) and apparent maximum inducible clearance at steady state (CLIND,SS/F) dabrafenib estimated with the PopPK model are summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Oral Volume of Distribution (V/F) of Dabrafenib in the Double Combination (T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Dabrafenib can be described using a two-compartment model with a delayed 1st order absorption (Alag1, Ka) and an inducible elimination (CL/F) that consists of a base clearance (constant over time, CL0/F) and a dose- and time-dependent inducible clearance (CLind/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of dabrafenib. The oral volume of distribution (V/F) of Dabrafenib estimated with the PopPK model is summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Absorption Rate Constant (Ka) of Dabrafenib in the Double Combination (T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Dabrafenib can be described using a two-compartment model with a delayed 1st order absorption (Alag1, Ka) and an inducible elimination (CL/F) that consists of a base clearance (constant over time, CL0/F) and a dose- and time-dependent inducible clearance (CLind/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of dabrafenib. The absorption rate constant (Ka) of Dabrafenib estimated with the PopPK model is summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Apparent Clearance (CL/F) of Trametinib in the Double Combination (T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Trametinib can be described using a two-compartment model with dual sequential 1st order absorption (Ka1, Ka2) and 1st order elimination (CL/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of trametinib. The apparent clearance (CL/F) of Trametinib estimated with the PopPK model is summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Apparent Central Volume (V/F) of Trametinib in the Double Combination (T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Trametinib can be described using a two-compartment model with dual sequential 1st order absorption (Ka1, Ka2) and 1st order elimination (CL/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of trametinib. The apparent central volume (V/F) of Trametinib estimated with the PopPK model is summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Absorption Rate Constant 1 (Ka1) and Absorption Rate Constant 2 (Ka2) of Trametinib in the Double Combination (T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Trametinib can be described using a two-compartment model with dual sequential 1st order absorption (Ka1, Ka2) and 1st order elimination (CL/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of trametinib. The absorption rate constant 1 (Ka1) and absorption rate constant 2 (Ka2) of Trametinib estimated with the PopPK model are summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Time When Ka1 Transitions to Ka2 of Trametinib in the Double Combination (T+P) Estimated With a PopPK Model, The population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model of Trametinib can be described using a two-compartment model with dual sequential 1st order absorption (Ka1, Ka2) and 1st order elimination (CL/F). The PopPK analysis examined the influence of demographics (i.e., weight) on the pharmacokinetics of trametinib. The time when Ka1 transitions to Ka2 of Trametinib estimated with the PopPK model is summarized in this record., Day 1, Day 15, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20|Change in Levels of Proteins/Ribonucleic Acid (RNA), H-score or "Histo-score" measures cell membrane immunohistochemistry staining intensity in a fixed field. Membrane staining is categorized as 1+, 2+, or 3+. Minimum score is 0, maximum score is 300 (no subscale values are reported). H-score values themselves are not considered to be better or worse - measurements for levels of proteins/ribonucleic acid (RNA) are surrogate for MAPK pathway activity. Low values = low pathway activity. High values = high pathway activity. Changes in mean phosphorylated-ERK (pERK) and phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6 (pS6) H-score from baseline indicate changes in MAPK pathway activity that may be associated with treatment arms. A positive change from baseline suggests increased pathway activity. A negative change from baseline suggests decreased pathway activity. Total score is calculated as follows: \[1 x (% cells 1+) + 2 x (% cells 2+) + 3 x (% cells 3+)\]., Baseline, Day 15|Part 3: Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall Response Rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants with Best Overall Response (BOR) of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) using RECIST 1.1, From study treatment start date until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 90 months|Part 3: Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of Response (DoR) was defined as the time from the first documented occurrence of response (PR or CR) until the date of the first documented progression based on RECIST v1.1 or death., From study treatment start date until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 90 months|Part 3: Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time to death due to any cause., From study treatment start date until date of of death from any cause, assessed up to approximately 90 months|Part 3: Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, The distribution of adverse events (AE) will be done via the analysis of frequencies for treatment emergent Adverse Event (TEAEs), Serious Adverse Event (TESAEs) and Deaths due to AEs, through the monitoring of relevant clinical and laboratory safety parameters., From study treatment start date till 30 days safety follow-up, assessed up to approximately 90 months
Part 1: Dose escalation This was a dose escalation part intended to evaluate safety, tolerability, PK, PD, clinical activity and determine RP2R/MTD for the doublet (D+P) and the triplet (D+T+P) combinations in patients with BRAF-mutation V600E positive advanced or metastatic CRC. A 3+3 dose escalation procedure was followed. Dosing for dabrafenib and trametinib was continuous daily dosing while panitumumab was dosed once every two weeks (Q2W). Patients were evaluated for dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) during the first 28 days of treatment.

Part 2A:

This was a cohort expansion part to assess the safety and preliminary clinical activity of the optimal safe and tolerable dose combinations (D+P)/(D+T+P) defined in Part 1.

Part 2B:

In this part, additional patients were enrolled into the triplet (D+T+P) combination at two dose levels in to further explore safety, tolerability and clinical activity. Up to 10 patients each with no prior treatment (First Line Population), and up to 20 patients each with at least one prior treatment (Second to Fourth Line Population) were planned to be enrolled in dose Cohorts 3A and 4.

Part 3: Randomized Phase 2 Study The randomized phase 2 portion (Phase 3) of the study was not pursued as the observed responses in any of the cohorts did not meet the predefined criteria at the time of the preliminary analysis (data cut-off date: 06-May-2016).

Part 4 This part was designed to identify the RP2R/MTD and initial clinical activity for the doublet (T+P) combination in patients BRAF-mutation V600E positive advanced or metastatic CRC, and advanced or metastatic CRC with secondary resistance to prior anti-EGFR therapy.

Part 4A: Dose Escalation This was a dose escalation part intended to determine RP2R/MTD for the doublet (T+P) combination in patients with BRAF-mutation V600E positive advanced or metastatic CRC. Approximately 18 patients (\~6 each cohort) were planned to be enrolled in Part 4A. A 3+3 dose escalation procedure was followed. Dosing for trametinib was continuous daily dosing while panitumumab was dosed once every two weeks (Q2W). Patients were evaluated for DLTs during the first 28 days of treatment.

Part 4B: Cohort Expansion This was a cohort expansion part intended to evaluate safety and efficacy of the doublet (T+P) combination. Up to 20 patients in each of two expansion cohorts were planned to be enrolled at the starting dose cohort or MTD from Part 4A.