Evaluation of FROM-16 in ATMP Patients & Families
Poor health, and its treatment, has impact beyond the healthcare system into wider society. A person's productivity, taxable earnings, benefit payments and community contribution may all be adversely affected by poor health. Family members living with or caring for a patient may suffer equally, or sometimes more than the patient themselves, but this familial burden has gone largely unrecognised by healthcare systems. The Family-Reported Outcome Measure (FROM-16) is the first generic questionnaire designed to measure the impact of any chronic disease on the quality of life of family members or partners of patients with a health condition. Advance Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs) are a novel \& ground-breaking therapeutic approach for curative treatment of disease and/or injury where conventional treatments have been ineffective. Such disease/injury generally has an extremely high impact on the patient's quality of life, and also the quality of life of the patient's family, in particular those family members who take on the role of 'informal carer'. ATMPs usually have very high costs and this can limit their usage, especially in the context of low prevalence disease and publicly-funded healthcare systems, where healthcare providers may be reluctant to take on the cost burden of the ATMP therapy. As a result, there is a particular focus on the 'value' of ATMPs. An important component of value is 'Societal Value', where a treatment leads to societal contributions, and considering Societal Value may justify the high cost of ATMPs despite the relatively few patients cured. In this study, we will validate the FROM-16 for use as one measure of the Societal Value of very high cost, potentially curative treatments such as ATMPs.
Family Members|Cancer
OTHER: FROM-16 Questionnaire|OTHER: Semi-structured two-part interview
Validity of the FROM-16 to the ATMP population, Successful outcomes will be defined by this study demonstrating that the FROM-16 is a suitable tool for gathering FROMs from ATMP patient family members, through showing high reliability of the responses to the FROM-16, and showing that the FROM-16 is valid when applied to this population.

Reliability, assessed by Cronbach's Alpha, should have scores in excess of 0.8, indicating high internal consistency.

Validity will be assessed in three dimensions: Face, Construct and Content Validity. Face validity will be assessed by an experimenter independent to the data analytics and collection processes. Content validity will be assessed by thematic analysis of interview transcripts, and by assessing the intraclass correlation of themes. Construct validity will be assessed by measuring convergent and discriminatory validity by confirmatory factor analysis., November 2021 - March 2022
Poor health, and its treatment, has impact beyond the healthcare system into wider society. A person's productivity, taxable earnings, benefit payments and community contribution may all be adversely affected by poor health. Family members living with or caring for a patient may suffer equally, or sometimes more than the patient themselves, but this familial burden has gone largely unrecognised by healthcare systems. The Family-Reported Outcome Measure (FROM-16) is the first generic questionnaire designed to measure the impact of any chronic disease on the quality of life of family members or partners of patients with a health condition. Advance Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs) are a novel \& ground-breaking therapeutic approach for curative treatment of disease and/or injury where conventional treatments have been ineffective. Such disease/injury generally has an extremely high impact on the patient's quality of life, and also the quality of life of the patient's family, in particular those family members who take on the role of 'informal carer'. ATMPs usually have very high costs and this can limit their usage, especially in the context of low prevalence disease and publicly-funded healthcare systems, where healthcare providers may be reluctant to take on the cost burden of the ATMP therapy. As a result, there is a particular focus on the 'value' of ATMPs. An important component of value is 'Societal Value', where a treatment leads to societal contributions, and considering Societal Value may justify the high cost of ATMPs despite the relatively few patients cured. In this study, we will validate the FROM-16 for use as one measure of the Societal Value of very high cost, potentially curative treatments such as ATMPs.