Cognitive Effects of Androgen Receptor Directed Therapies for Advanced Prostate Cancer
This clinical trial studies cognitive function in men with prostate cancer treated with androgen receptor directed therapies such as abiraterone acetate and enzalutamide. The investigators use MRI imaging (non-invasive, non-contrast) to see whether there are changes in brain structure or activity related to treatment that may be related to changes in cognitive function. The investigators are also looking for genetic variations that might make patients more or less sensitive to cognitive changes during treatment for prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostatic Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer|Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: GnRH agonist/antagonist|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Enzalutamide
Cognitive function defined by overall Cogstate score and Cogstate module scores for each domain, Raw scores on each module of the Cogstate test will be converted to standardized scores (z-scores and T-scores) according to age and/or education-adjusted published normative data per the Cogstate protocol. Linear regressions will be utilized to assess the mean differences between groups at each time point after the baseline while adjusting for baseline scores., Measured at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months
Quality of life assessed using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ C-30), The outcome measure for this questionnaire is the score as determined per standard scoring practices in the EORTC QLQ-C30 scoring manual. Mean scores from the EORTC QLQ-C30 survey instrument will be compared between groups at each time point, and changes in score will be assessed over time for each individual. Generalized linear regressions will be performed to estimate the differences between groups at each time point with adjustment for baseline and other covariates. GEE analysis will be used for the longitudinal data. Spearman p correlation coefficients between the standardized cognitive test scores and the mediators will be evaluated. Multivariable linear regressions for each time point will be performed to test the interactions between the group identity and each of the interested sociodemographic and clinical factors while adjusting for baseline and other covariates., Measured at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months|Fatigue assessed using Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT- Fatigue), The outcome measure for this questionnaire is the score as determined per standard scoring practices with the FACIT-Fatigue scoring manual. Mean scores from the FACIT-Fatigue survey instrument will be compared between groups at each time point, and changes in score will be assessed over time for each individual. Generalized linear regressions will be performed to estimate the differences between groups at each time point with adjustment for baseline and other covariates. GEE analysis will be used for the longitudinal data. Spearman p correlation coefficients between the standardized cognitive test scores and the mediators will be evaluated. Multivariable linear regressions for each time point will be performed to test the interactions between the group identity and each of the interested sociodemographic and clinical factors while adjusting for baseline and other covariates, Measured at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months|Subjective measure of cognitive function by FACT-Cog, The outcome measure for this questionnaire is the score as determined per standard scoring practices with the FACT-Cog scoring manual. Mean scores from the FACT-Cog survey instrument will be compared between groups at each time point, and changes in score will be assessed over time for each individual. Generalized linear regressions will be performed to estimate the differences between groups at each time point with adjustment for baseline and other covariates. GEE analysis will be used for the longitudinal data. Spearman p correlation coefficients between the standardized cognitive test scores and the mediators will be evaluated. Multivariable linear regressions for each time point will be performed to test the interactions between the group identity and each of the interested sociodemographic and clinical factors while adjusting for baseline and other covariates., Measured at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months|Depression by Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), The outcome measure for this questionnaire is the score as determined per standard scoring practices with the PH-Q 9 scoring manual. Mean scores from the PHQ-9 survey instrument will be compared between groups at each time point, and changes in score will be assessed over time for each individual. Generalized linear regressions will be performed to estimate the differences between groups at each time point with adjustment for baseline and other covariates. GEE analysis will be used for the longitudinal data. Spearman p correlation coefficients between the standardized cognitive test scores and the mediators will be evaluated. Multivariable linear regressions for each time point will be performed to test the interactions between the group identity and each of the interested sociodemographic and clinical factors while adjusting for baseline and other covariates., Measured at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months|Instrumental activities of daily living by Texas Functional Living Scale, This measure will provide a score to represent patient's ability to complete daily tasks, and is a "direct assessment" based approach to measure instrumental activities of daily living., Measured at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months
SNPs associated with cognitive function, Multivariable linear regression will be utilized to compare the difference in primary outcomes between two allele groups at each time point for each SNP among patients in each treatment group. Baseline scores and other covariates will also be included in the model. Multivariable analyses using data from both treatment groups and control patients at each time point will be performed to identify SNPs whose associations with cognitive function are different between each treatment group and the control patients. The coefficient for the interaction between treatment group and allele group identity will be estimated and Wald-test p value will be provided. The p values will be ranked for the difference obtained from separate analysis for each SNP. A positive false discovery rate adjusted p values (q) will be calculated., SNP chip assessment using blood drawn at baseline or 3 month visit|Imaging assessed by MRI, MRI sequences will be compared by qualitative and quantitative analyses comparing MRI at baseline to MRI at 3 months for each patient. Changes will be compared qualitatively and quantitaively between treatment groups at baseline and 3 months also., Baseline and 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare cognitive function and associated mediators of cognitive function (quality of life, depression, pain, and fatigue) of men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) or metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer during treatment with enzalutamide (mCRPC only) and abiraterone acetate (mHSPC or mCRPC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify characteristics of men with mCRPC associated with change in cognitive function during treatment with androgen receptor (AR) directed therapy.

II. To compare quality of life and associated factors, including fatigue, pain, and depression, of men with mCRPC during treatment with enzalutamide and abiraterone acetate.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) may be associated with change in cognitive function during treatment with AR directed therapy.

II. To compare the functional and structural components of the brain over time and between the brains of men with mCRPC treated with enzalutamide or abiraterone acetate using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), functional MRI (fMRI), arterial spin labeling (ASL), and other advanced neuroimaging techniques.

OUTLINE: Treatment patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. Control patients receiving long term androgen deprivation therapy will be assessed with the same measures as a control arm.

ARM I: Patients receive standard of care treatment with gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist/antagonist therapy. Patients also receive abiraterone acetate orally (PO) and prednisone PO twice daily (BID) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo cognitive assessment comprising of neuro-cognitive tests and assessments of overall quality of life, fatigue, pain, and symptoms at baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months. Patients also undergo MRI program for 40 minutes comprising of DTI, fMRI, ASL MRI, Magnetization Prepared Rapid Gradient Echo (MPRAGE) MRI, Fluid attenuated Inversion Recovery (FLAIR) MRI, and blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) MRI at baseline and 3 months.

ARM II: Patients receive standard of care treatment with GnRH agonist/antagonist therapy. Patients also receive enzalutamide PO QD in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo cognitive assessment and MRI program as in Arm I.

ARM III: Patients receive standard of care treatment with GnRH agonist/antagonist therapy and undergo cognitive assessment and MRI program as in Arm I.