Establishment of a Decision Aid Tool for Asymptomatic Small Leiomyoma and Analysis of Influencing Factors for Clinical Decision-making Using HIFU
With the younger patients diagnosed with asymptomatic leiomyoma, delay in the reproductive age of women, the advancement of medical technology, and the rapid development of treatment methods, there are many choices between gynecologists, gynecologists and patients because of experience and knowledge. It is not easy to make the most favorable choice for patients. This study is mainly led by a committee composed of designers, doctors, nurses and patients, and based on clinical guidelines and evidence-based medicine. Co-operating with patients with asymptomatic small leiomyoma, we want to find the influencing factors of clinical decision-making, and to establish a patient decision aid tool. We use prospective trial to verify that the use of this tool can improve patients' decision-making efficacy and further improve patient-reported outcomes.
Leiomyoma, Uterine|High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound Ablation|Patients Decision Aids
OTHER: Patients Decision Aids
Patient satisfaction after using PDAs, The patients in PDAs will undertake the treatment by PDAs. And we will collect the satisfaction after 12 months., 6-12 months
With the younger patients diagnosed with asymptomatic leiomyoma, delay in the reproductive age of women, the advancement of medical technology, and the rapid development of treatment methods, there are many choices between gynecologists, gynecologists and patients because of experience and knowledge. It is not easy to make the most favorable choice for patients. This study is mainly led by a committee composed of designers, doctors, nurses and patients, and based on clinical guidelines and evidence-based medicine. Co-operating with patients with asymptomatic small leiomyoma, we want to find the influencing factors of clinical decision-making, and to establish a patient decision aid tool. We use prospective trial to verify that the use of this tool can improve patients' decision-making efficacy and further improve patient-reported outcomes.