Safety Study to Evaluate Induction and Consolidation Treatment in Patients With Mantle Cell Lymphoma (LCM-04-02)
Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL) is a malignancy with a poor response to treatment and with a median survival of 2- 4 years since diagnosis. Although histology is similar to that of an indolent lymphoma, MCL is currently considered an aggressive tumour. Few prospective therapeutic trials have been reported in MCL, and results are difficult to interpret due to treatment heterogeneity. It is known that standard chemotherapy for other clinically aggressive lymphomas yields poor results. Recently, better results have been communicated with intense induction chemotherapy treatments or consolidating the response with high dose chemotherapy with stem cell support. Keeping in mind these considerations, we will use and intensive induction treatment with Hyper-CVAD/MTX-AraC associated with anti-CD20 in order to increase the overall response rate followed by consolidation treatment with Ibritumomab -tiuxetan (Zevalin) with the aim of eradicate the minimal residual disease, responsible of relapse.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Y-90 Ibritumomab tiuxetan
Treatment safety, Safety of the treatment, recording the adverse events throughout the treatment., 36 months
Feasibility of proposed treatment scheme., Number and percentage of patients susceptible of receiving consolidation treatment after induction chemotherapy, according to inclusion criteria for consolidation with radioinmunotherapy., 36 months|Efficacy based on response rate: overall, partial and complete response., 36 months|Progression free, disease free and overall survivals., 36 months|Analysis of the significance of the minimal residual disease (MRD) detection., 36 months
Study Design:

* The Patients will receive 6 cycles of induction chemotherapy as follows: Anti-CD20/Hyper -CVAD chemotherapy will be alternated with anti-CD20 +MTX/Ara-C chemotherapy. After 4 cycles (2 x2), response will be evaluated. If response (complete or partial) is observed, 2 additional cycles will be administrated. If less than a partial response is observed, the patient will be out of the study.
* Consolidation treatment will be a single dose of Y90Ibritumomab -Tiuxetan (Zevalin) will be administered after 12 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy. The initial dose of Zevalin will be 0.3 mCi/kg, to be further escalated to 0.4 mCi/Kg if unacceptable toxicity does not occur.