A Study of Abemaciclib (LY2835219) Plus Hormone Therapy in Participants With Early Breast Cancer
The main purpose of this study is to measure how well abemaciclib works in participants with early breast cancer who are taking hormone therapy after surgery. Participants must have breast cancer that is hormone receptor positive (HR+) and human epidermal receptor 2 positive (HER2+). Your participation could last up to 10 years depending on how you and your tumor respond.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Standard Adjuvant ET|DRUG: Placebo
Invasive Disease Free Survival (IDFS), IDFS as defined by the STEEP System, Randomization to Recurrence or Death from Any Cause (up to 10 Years)
Overall Survival (OS), OS, Randomization to Death from Any Cause (up to 10 Years)|Distant Relapse-Free Survival (DRFS), DRFS, Randomization to Distant Recurrence or Death from Any Cause (up to 10 Years)|Percentage of Participants with Central Nervous System (CNS) Metastases as First Site of Disease Recurrence, Percentage of Participants with CNS Metastases as First Site of Disease Recurrence, Randomization to Distant Recurrence or Death from Any Cause (up to 10 Years)|Change from Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a self-administered questionnaire with multidimensional scales that measures 5 functional domains (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status, and symptom scales of fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation and diarrhea, and financial difficulties. A linear transformation is applied to standardize the raw scores to range between 0 and 100 per developer guidelines. For functional domains and global health status, higher scores represent a better level of functioning. For symptoms scales, higher scores represented a greater degree of symptoms., Cycle 1 up to end of Year 4|Change from Baseline in the EuroQOL 5 Dimension 5 Level (EQ-5D 5L) Index Score, The EQ-5D is a self-administered questionnaire that participants complete to rate their health state in 5 health domains: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression using a scale from 1 to 5 (no problem, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems/unable to, respectively). These combinations of attributes were converted into a weighted Health State Index score; the possible values for the Health State Index score range from less than 0 (0 equals health state of "dead"; severe problems in all 5 dimensions) to 1.0 (full health; no problem in any dimension). Higher score indicates better health state., Cycle 1 up to end of Year 4|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Mean Steady State Concentrations of Abemaciclib, PK: Mean Steady State Concentrations of Abemaciclib, Day 1 of Cycles 1-3 (Cycle = 28 days)
The main purpose of this study is to measure how well abemaciclib works in participants with early breast cancer who are taking hormone therapy after surgery. Participants must have breast cancer that is hormone receptor positive (HR+) and human epidermal receptor 2 positive (HER2+). Your participation could last up to 10 years depending on how you and your tumor respond.