Efficacy and Safety Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) With or Without Lenvatinib (MK-7902/E7080) in Adults With Programmed Cell Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1)-Positive Treatment-naïve Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) (MK-7902-007/E7080-G000-314/LEAP-007)
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) combined with lenvatinib (MK-7902/E7080) compared to pembrolizumab alone (with placebo for lenvatinib) in treatment-naïve adults with no prior systemic therapy for their metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors have a programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) Tumor Proportion Score (TPS) greater than or equal to 1%.

The primary study hypotheses are that: 1) the combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib is superior to pembrolizumab alone as assessed by Progression-free Survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1); and 2) the combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib is superior to pembrolizumab alone as assessed by Overall Survival (OS).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Placebo for lenvatinib
Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), PFS was defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Data are from the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data. PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR) per RECIST 1.1 was presented., Up to approximately 25 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death from any cause. OS was presented., Up to approximately 25 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. ORR as assessed by BICR per RECIST 1.1 is presented., Up to approximately 25 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experienced an AE were reported, Through 90 days post last dose of study treatment (Up to approximately 27 months)|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE were reported., Through last dose of study treatment (Up to approximately 24 months)|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core30 (QLQ-C30) Combined Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 & 30) Scale Combined Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life (QoL) of cancer patients. Participant responses to questions regarding Global Health Status (GHS; "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?") and QoL ("How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). The combined score of GHS (Item 29) and QoL (Item 30) is computed by averaging the raw scores of the 2 items and then applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. Per protocol, the change from baseline in GHS and QoL combined score was presented., Baseline and Week 21|Change From Baseline in Cough (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Lung Cancer Module 13 [QLQ-LC13] Item 31) Score, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. Per protocol, the change from baseline in cough (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31) score was presented., Baseline and Week 21|Change From Baseline in Chest Pain (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40) Score, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question "Have you had pain in your chest?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. Per protocol, the change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-LC13 chest pain (Item 40) score was presented., Baseline and Week 21|Change From Baseline in Dyspnea (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question: "Were you short of breath?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. Per protocol, the change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 dyspnea (Item 8) score was presented., Baseline and Week 21|Change From Baseline in Physical Functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning (Items 1 to 5) are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). The combined score of items 1 to 5 was computed by averaging the raw scores of the 5 items and then applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. Per protocol, the change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 physical functioning (Items 1-5) combined score was presented., Baseline and Week 21|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 Combined Global Health Status /Quality of Life (Items 29 & 30) Scale Combined Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to questions on GHS ("How would you rate your overall health during the past week?") and QoL ("How would you rate your overall QoL during the past week?") were scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). The combined score of GHS (Item 29) and QoL (Item 30) was computed by averaging raw scores of the 2 items and applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in GHS-QoL combined score. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Up to approximately 25 months|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-LC13 Cough (Item 31) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific questionnaire. Participant responses to the question: "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0-100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in cough (Item 31). A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Up to approximately 25 months|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-LC13 Chest Pain (Item 40) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific questionnaire. Participant responses to the question: "Have you had pain in your chest?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0-100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in cough (Item 40). A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Up to approximately 25 months|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 Dyspnea (Item 8) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question: "Were you short of breath?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in dyspnea (Item 8). A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Up to approximately 25 months|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) Based on Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning (Items 1 to 5) are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). The combined score of items 1 to 5 was computed by averaging the raw scores of the 5 items and then applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in physical functioning (Items 1 to 5). A longer TTD indicates a better outcome., Up to approximately 25 months|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) Based on Change From Baseline in the Composite Endpoint of Cough (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31), Chest Pain (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40), or Dyspnea (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the QoL of cancer patients, including a single-item scale score for dyspnea (Item 8; score range:1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Used in combination with QLQ-C30, the EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a supplemental lung cancer-specific module, including a single-item scale score for cough (Item 31; score range:1=Not at All to 4=Very Much ) and chest pain (Item 40, score range: 1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). The combined score of items 31, 40 and 8 was computed by averaging the raw scores of the items and then applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. The TTD in the composite endpoint of EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31, EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40, EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8 scale score was presented, defined as the time to first onset of a ≥10point decrease from baseline in anyone of the three scale items. A longer TTD indicates better outcome., Up to approximately 25 months
As of 30-Jul-2021, active participants, investigator, and sponsor personnel or delegate(s) involved in the treatment administration or clinical evaluation of the participants will be unblinded. Participants will discontinue lenvatinib and placebo, and participants who remain on treatment will receive open-label pembrolizumab only.