Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy, Tremelimumab and Durvalumab in Treating Participants With Recurrent or Metastatic Cervical, Vaginal, or Vulvar Cancers
This phase I trial studies how well stereotactic body radiation therapy works in combination with tremelimumab and durvalumab in treating participants with cervical, vaginal, or vulvar cancers that have come back (recurrent) or spread to other areas of the body (metastatic). Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a specialized radiation therapy that sends x-rays directly to the tumor using smaller doses over several days and may cause less damage to normal tissue. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as tremelimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Durvalumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving stereotactic body radiation therapy, tremelimumab, and durvalumab may work better in treating participants with cervical, vaginal, or vulvar cancers.
Advanced Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Vaginal Carcinoma|Advanced Vulvar Carcinoma|Human Papillomavirus-Related Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Human Papillomavirus-Related Vulvar Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Cervical Carcinoma|Metastatic Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Metastatic Vaginal Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Vaginal Carcinoma|Metastatic Vulvar Carcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent Vaginal Carcinoma|Recurrent Vulvar Carcinoma|Stage III Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Vaginal Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Vulvar Adenocarcinoma|Vulvar Squamous Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery|BIOLOGICAL: Tremelimumab
Incidence of adverse events by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.03, Will be assessed based on dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and based on adverse events (AEs) throughout the entire treatment period. In the overall assessment of adverse events, AEs will be tabulated by body system, type and grade, overall and by disease cohort. The number and percentage of patients experiencing at least one grade 3 or higher AE will also be reported., Up to 3 months after last dose of durvalumab
Response to treatment by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 and immune-related response criteria, This will be measured in both treated and untreated lesions with computed tomography (CT) imaging or other appropriate imaging modalities. Immune-related response is reported as number and percent of patients with two-sided 80% confidence intervals (CI). Because each patient will have multiple lesions, a generalized linear mixed model will be used, if possible, to calculate overall response, as well as response by index or non-index lesion. The depth and duration of response will be depicted using waterfall and swimmer plots., Up to 1 year|Progression-Free Survival, To summarize progression free survival we will use Kaplan Meier analysis, reporting the median with confidence interval., From the start of therapy up to first documented disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Overall Survival, To summarize overall survival we will use Kaplan Meier analysis, reporting the median with confidence interval., From start of therapy to death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Time to next treatment (TTNT), To summarize time to next treatment we will use Kaplan Meier analysis, reporting the median with confidence interval., From the end of immune-checkpoint inhibition treatment to institution of next therapy, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety, and tolerability of combined immune checkpoint blockade with 3 fractions of stereotactic body radiation therapy (stereotactic ablative radiotherapy \[SABR\]) of up to two metastatic lesions in patients with recurrent and or metastatic cervical, vaginal, or vulvar cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate clinical response rates and assess toxicities of treatment to durvalumab combined with tremelimumab with 3 fractions of SABR of at least one and up to two metastatic lesions in patients with recurrent/metastatic cervical, vaginal, or vulvar cancer.

II. To estimate progression-free survival, overall survival, and time to next treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate potential biomarkers of immune response to combined immune-checkpoint inhibition with SABR and correlate this with clinical response to treatment.

II. To evaluate potential biomarkers of immune response including cervical and rectal microbial diversity, cervical immune cell infiltration and peripheral immune cell activation as correlates of clinical response to treatment.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive tremelimumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour followed by durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1 of each cycle. Participants also undergo SABR over 30-45 minutes on days 8, 10, and 12 of cycle 1. Treatment with tremelimumab repeats every 4 weeks for up to 4 cycles, and treatment with durvalumab repeats every 4 weeks for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days, at 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 months, and then every 6 months thereafter.