Study to Learn More About the Safety and Effectiveness of the Drug VITRAKVI During Routine Use in Patients With TRK Fusion Cancer Which is Locally Advanced or Spread From the Place Where it Started to Other Places in the Body
In this observational study researcher want to learn more about the effectiveness of drug VITRAKVI (generic name: larotrectinib) and how well the drug is tolerated during routine use in patients with TRK fusion cancer which is locally advanced or spread from the place where it started to other places in the body. TRK fusion cancer is a term used to describe a variety of common and rare cancers that are caused by a change to the NTRK (Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase) gene called a fusion. During this fusion, an NTRK gene joins together, or fuses, with a different gene. This joining results in the activation of certain proteins (TRK fusion proteins), which can cause cancer cells to multiply and form a tumor. VITRAKVI is an approved drug that blocks the action of the NTRK gene fusion. This study will enroll adult and paediatric patients suffering from a solid tumor with NTRK gene fusion for whom the decision to treat their disease with VITRAKVI has been made by their treating physicians. During the study, patients' medical information such as treatment information with VITRAKVI, other medication or treatments, changes in disease status and other health signs and symptoms will be collected within the normal medical care by the treating doctor. Participants will be observed over a period from 24 to 60 months.
Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumor Harboring an NTRK Gene Fusion
DRUG: larotrectinib(Vitrakvi, BAY2757556)
Number of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), Up to 30 days after last dose|Severity of TEAEs, Up to 30 days after last dose|Seriousness of TEAEs, Up to 30 days after last dose|Reasonable causal relationship between larotrectinib and an AE, Up to 30 days after last dose|Causality of TEAEs, Up to 30 days after last dose|Action taken related to larotrectinib treatment, Up to 30 days after last dose
Objective response rate (ORR), Up to 8 years|Disease control rate (DCR), Up to 8 years|Duration of response (DOR), Up to 8 years|Time to response (TTR), Up to 8 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Up to 8 years|Overall survival (OS), Up to 8 years|Total dose, Up to 8 years|Starting and ending dose, Up to 8 years|Dose modification during treatment, Up to 8 years|Duration of treatment (DOT), Up to 8 years|ORR by patient subgroup(s), Up to 8 years|DCR by patient subgroup(s), Up to 8 years|DOR by patient subgroup(s), Up to 8 years|TTR by patient subgroup(s), Up to 8 years|PFS by patient subgroup(s), Up to 8 years|OS by patient subgroup(s), Up to 8 years|Number of patients with change in height and weight from baseline by visit, neurological abnormalities (normal/abnormal), for all patients, Up to 8 years|Number of patients with abnormal developmental milestones, Pediatric cohort only, Up to 8 years|Number of patients with abnormal Tanner stage, Pediatric cohort only, Up to 8 years
In this observational study researcher want to learn more about the effectiveness of drug VITRAKVI (generic name: larotrectinib) and how well the drug is tolerated during routine use in patients with TRK fusion cancer which is locally advanced or spread from the place where it started to other places in the body. TRK fusion cancer is a term used to describe a variety of common and rare cancers that are caused by a change to the NTRK (Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase) gene called a fusion. During this fusion, an NTRK gene joins together, or fuses, with a different gene. This joining results in the activation of certain proteins (TRK fusion proteins), which can cause cancer cells to multiply and form a tumor. VITRAKVI is an approved drug that blocks the action of the NTRK gene fusion. This study will enroll adult and paediatric patients suffering from a solid tumor with NTRK gene fusion for whom the decision to treat their disease with VITRAKVI has been made by their treating physicians. During the study, patients' medical information such as treatment information with VITRAKVI, other medication or treatments, changes in disease status and other health signs and symptoms will be collected within the normal medical care by the treating doctor. Participants will be observed over a period from 24 to 60 months.