Toripalimab in Combination With Lenvatinib and TACE for Conversion Therapy in Patients With Potentially Resectable HCC
Study introduction: this is a multicenter, randomized controlled study of patients with histopathologically confirmed hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have not previously received systematic treatment for HCC, all the patients are Chinese stage IIb/IIIa (BCLC stage B/C), and have not developed extrahepatic metastases. Follow-up, data collection and analysis will be performed for patients who meet the study inclusion criteria and will be treated with lenvatinib plus toripalimab and TACE (on demand) or TACE alone, so as to compare the objective response rate (ORR), overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), ratio of conversion resection, and safety between the two cohorts.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib 4 MG Oral Capsule [Lenvima]|DRUG: Toripalimab|PROCEDURE: TACE
Tumor response: Objective response rate (assessed based on mRECIST criteria), Proportion of patients who achieve pre-defined tumor volume reduction and can maintain the minimum time limit, as the sum of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) ratios (assessed based on mRECIST criteria), Up to approximately 36 months
Tumor response: Objective response rate (assessed based on RECIST1.1 criteria), Proportion of patients who achieve pre-defined tumor volume reduction and can maintain the minimum time limit, as the sum of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) ratios (assessed based on RECIST1.1 criteria), Up to approximately 36 months|Overall survival (OS), Time period from the patient's enrollment to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 36 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Time period from the patient's enrollment to the event of tumor progression or death., Up to approximately 36 months|Percentage of patients who can receive resection., Percentage of patients who can receive resection., Up to approximately 36 months|Adverse Events as assessed by CTCAE 5.0 criteria, the main evaluation includes surgery-related adverse events, adverse events (AE), Serious adverse events (SAE), vital signs, physical examination, and laboratory examination. The severity of adverse events will be evaluated according to the NCI CTCAE 5.0 criteria., Up to approximately 36 months
The study includes two groups:

Treatment group: patients with potentially resectable HCC who meet the study inclusion criteria will be treated with lenvatinib in combination with toripalimab and TACE (on demand). Tumor response will be regularly evaluated, data will be collected, and complete surgical resection will be evaluated by an independent review committee, the conversion resection rate will be calculated, and patient survival will be assessed.

Control group: patients with potentially resectable HCC who meet the study inclusion criteria will be treated with TACE. Tumor response will be regularly evaluated, data will be collected, and complete surgical resection will be evaluated by an independent review committee, the translational resection rate will be calculated, and patient survival will be assessed.

The maximum duration of study treatment for each subject is expected to be 48 weeks, with efficacy evaluation by the MDT after 2 TACE treatments to determine whether subjects meet the surgical criteria.

This study is a multicenter, randomized controlled study. The primary endpoint is the objective response rate (ORR). Historical data showed that the objective response rate of patients in the TACE group was about 40%. The objective response rate of lenvatinib in combination with toripalimab and TACE is expected to reach 60%. Using a two-sided Z test of pooled variance, α is set to 0.05, power is set to 0.8, and patients will be assigned at a 1:1 ratio. The required sample sizes are 98 (treatment group) and 98 (control group), and a total of 220 subjects are planned to be prospectively observed, taking into account a dropout rate of 10%.