A Study of BIBW 2992 (Afatinib) in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This Phase II study is open to patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have tried but failed chemotherapy regimens containing oxaliplatin and irinotecan. Patients must not have received anti-EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) treatment (for example, cetuximab, panitumumab) in the past. Patients with wild-type KRAS (v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) colorectal cancer will be randomised to receive either BIBW 2992 or cetuximab. Patients with KRAS mutated colorectal cancer will not be randomised, but will all receive BIBW 2992. The main objectives of the study are: to compare the effectiveness of BIBW 2992 with that of cetuximab in patients with KRAS wild type cancer, and to assess the effectiveness of BIBW 2992 in patients with KRAS mutated cancer.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: BIBW 2992|DRUG: Cetuximab
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Percentage of participants with objective response: complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST (version 1.1) without confirmation criteria applied., Baseline till progression or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 23 months|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control (DC), Percentage of participants with objective response or stable disease (SD) as determined by RECIST (version 1.1) with confirmation criteria applied., Baseline till progression or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 23 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS time is defined as time from randomisation (wild-type group) or start of treatment (mutated group) to tumor progression evaluated according to RECIST (version 1.1) or death whichever occurs earlier. Median and confidence interval estimated using product-limit Kaplan-Meier method., Baseline till progression or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 23 months|Overall Survival (OS) Time, OS time is defined as time from the date of randomisation (wild-type group) or date of start of treatment (mutated group) to the date of death. Median and confidence interval estimated using product-limit Kaplan-Meier method., Baseline till death, assessed up to 23 months|Pre-dose Concentration of Afatinib in Plasma at Steady State on Day 8 (Cpre,ss,8), Cpre,ss,8 represents the pre-dose concentration of afatinib in plasma at steady state on day 8., day 8
This Phase II study is open to patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have tried but failed chemotherapy regimens containing oxaliplatin and irinotecan. Patients must not have received anti-EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) treatment (for example, cetuximab, panitumumab) in the past. Patients with wild-type KRAS (v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) colorectal cancer will be randomised to receive either BIBW 2992 or cetuximab. Patients with KRAS mutated colorectal cancer will not be randomised, but will all receive BIBW 2992. The main objectives of the study are: to compare the effectiveness of BIBW 2992 with that of cetuximab in patients with KRAS wild type cancer, and to assess the effectiveness of BIBW 2992 in patients with KRAS mutated cancer.