Corticosteroids With Placebo Versus Corticosteroids With Propranolol Treatment of Infantile Hemangiomas (IH)
This is a prospective randomized, double-blind study to compare the clinical efficacy of infantile hemangioma treatment using propranolol with corticosteroids as compared to therapy with corticosteroids and placebo. We hypothesize that a two-month treatment period with propranolol plus corticosteroids is more effective at reducing infantile hemangioma size and vascularity when compared to corticosteroids used without propranolol for the same time period.
Hemangioma
DRUG: Prednisolone (Corticosteroid)|DRUG: Propranolol|DRUG: Placebo
Compare Changes in IH Size and Vascularity for the Two Treatment Groups, This outcome cannot be evaluated. Trial limited by lack of patient family to have randomization, which limited the number of participants and made the project nonviable., 1, 2, and 6 months after treatment initiation|Lesion Regression, measure of change in lesion area or volume, 12 months
Determine Therapeutic Response of IH to Propranolol Among Patients Who Switch to Corticosteroids Plus Propranolol Therapy After Failing to Respond to Corticosteroids Alone., This outcome cannot be evaluated. Trial limited by lack of patient family to have randomization, which limited the number of participants and made the project nonviable., 1, 2, and 6 months after treatment initiation|Assess the Safety of Propranolol With Corticosteroids and Corticosteroids Alone in the Treatment of IH., This outcome cannot be evaluated. Trial limited by lack of patient family to have randomization, which limited the number of participants and made the project nonviable., 1, 2 and 6 months after treatment initiation|Demonstrate How Duplex Scanning to Assess Blood Vessel Density and Qualitative Color Ratings of Cutaneous Lesions From Photographs Can be Used to Measure and Quantify Changes in IH Size and Vascularity in a Clinically Relevant Manner., This outcome cannot be evaluated. Trial limited by lack of patient family to have randomization, which limited the number of participants and made the project nonviable., 1, 2 and 6 months after treatment initiation
Infantile hemangiomas (IH) are the most common head and neck pediatric tumors. Presence of these tumors can lead to complications of vision and airway compromise, bleeding and disfigurement. Medical treatment of these lesions has traditionally been focused on stopping new blood vessel growth with corticosteroids. Recent reports and our own experience have demonstrated that significant reduction in IH size and vascularity can also occur through the use of propranolol. Our initial experience with propranolol has demonstrated significant efficacy with fewer side effects than corticosteroids. Despite this experience, the standard of care for initial IH medical therapy remains corticosteroids.

This Trial is a direct comparison of traditional IH therapy with corticosteroids to newer therapy with propranolol and corticosteroids.