RNA Precision Oncology in Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
The overall objective of this project is to determinate the feasibility of administering personalized therapy to subjects with advanced pancreatic cancer utilizing the novel OncoTreat platform. The primary objective of this study is to assess the feasibility of implementing the OncoTreat framework in patients with newly diagnosed, untreated metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
Pancreatic Cancer
DEVICE: OncoTreat
Number of Participants Assigned Therapy With OncoTreat, The primary outcome of the study is whether a subject is assigned a therapy that they are able to begin on Part 2 of this study. Assignment of therapy is based on results from OncoTreat analysis and recommendations of the Precision Medicine Tumor Board (PMTB) which included assessment of availability and expected toxicity of identified agents., 36 months
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is a major health problem in the United States and throughout the world. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) has the worst prognosis of any major malignancy in the United States and, unlike other common cancers, annual deaths from PDA are rising. During 2017, it is estimated that 53,670 people were diagnosed with PDA and approximately 43,090 people died from PDA in the U.S. Despite recent advances, cytotoxic chemotherapy for PDA has been disappointing with response rates of 20-30% for the most active regimens and little activity for targeted therapies. Even among the small subset of patients who are suitable for surgical resection at the time of diagnosis, complete resection is followed by recurrence in \>90% of patients without further systemic therapy, with a median time to recurrence of 6.9 months. Thus all PDA patients require systemic chemotherapy and more effective regimens are urgently needed.

Previous versions of this record contained reference to an observational arm in error. The observational arm has been removed from the record for consistency with the study protocol.