Metacognitive Intervention in Youth With Oncological Disease - the Mio Study
The aim of the Mio-Study is to address the current lack of effective treatment options to reduce cognitive and physical long-term problems in adolescents with cancer. Through the use of the Mio-App, cognitive and physical development will be strengthened and metacognitive thinking and awareness will increase.

The Mio-App for adolescence with cancer will include a combination of cognitive and physical training tasks and prospective as well as retrospective metacognitive questions. In a randomized controlled trial, the App will be analysed for its efficacy on metacognitive thinking and executive functions. In particular, the investigators are interested in factors that affect the efficacy of the training program such as compliance, age, sex or the presence of fatigue. This study will give insight into the role of metacognition in cognitive and physical performance and will foster the development of adolescents with cancer in the long-term.
Cancer
OTHER: Mio-App
Junior Metacognitive Awareness Inventory, Change from baseline in Junior Metacognitive Awareness Inventory to 3-months follow-up. Raw values ranging 18-90. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period; at 3-months follow-up
Wechsler Intelligence Scale For Children: 5th Ed (WISC-V), Indices ranging from 0 to 155. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period.|Color-Word Interference Test, Scaled Scores ranging from 1 to 19. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period.|Tower of Hanoi (D-KEFS), Scaled Scores ranging from 1 to 19. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period.|Verbal learning and memory test (VLMT), Percentile ranks ranging from 0-100. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period.|Pattern learning (Basic-MLT), Percentile ranks ranging from 0-100. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period.|German Motor Performance Test (DMT), Percentile ranks ranging from 0-100. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period.|Behaviour Rating Inventory of Executive Function, Percentile ranks ranging from 0-100. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period; at 3-months follow-up.
Physical Self-Description Questionnaire (PSDQ-S), Short version, Likert scale ranging from 1 to 6. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period; at 3-months follow-up.|Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), The total value is between 0 -40. Lower scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period; at 3-months follow-up.|Pediatric quality of life multidimensional fatigue scale (PedsQL-MFS), 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 to 4. Higher scores mean better outcome., At baseline; immediately (up to 1 week) after the training or waiting period; at 3-months follow-up.
In the Mio-Study, the investigators are developing a training app at the interface between neuropsychology and sports science - the Mio-training. The aim of the Mio-training is to strengthen the cognitive and motor development of adolescents after cancer in the long-term. The App contains a combination of cognitive and physical training tasks and metacognitive questions to promote knowledge and awareness of one's own thinking. In order to counteract the shortage of skilled workers and the increasing specialization of individual specialist areas, solutions are needed that can be implemented without a lot of staff. From today's perspective, there are hardly any trainings for adolescents that show long-term effects on cognitive and motor development and can also be transferred to non-trained tasks in school and everyday life.

The investigators are testing the effectiveness of the Mio-training in a randomized clinical trial (RCT) and expect a strengthening of metacognition and core cognitive functions (i.e. executive functions). The Mio-Study will provide information about the role of metacognition in cognitive and physical performance and, ideally, provide evidence for a novel, interdisciplinary rehabilitation strategy for adolescents after cancer.