Treating Relapsed/Recurrent/Refractory Pediatric Solid Tumors With Sorafenib in Combination With Irinotecan
This study proposes to treat patients with the combination of sorafenib and irinotecan. Patients with relapsed, recurrent, refractory, or high risk malignancies whose tumors possess a non-synonymous mutation in Raf, PDGFR, VEGFR, Flt-3, KIT, JAK, STAT, RAS, MEK, or ERK will be eligible for the study. Very few phase 2 clinical trials have been performed in pediatrics using targeted agents in combination with conventional chemotherapy agents. Furthermore, since some combinations such as the combination of this study (sorafenib and irinotecan) have shown additive/synergistic effects in preclinical studies, therapy selecting for those patients who possess mutations targeted by the TKI of the study, may unveil activity that has not been previously observed. Thus, the investigators hope to determine whether the addition of additive/synergistic chemotherapy will increase efficacy of the targeted agent and/or increase tumor susceptibility to the targeted agent, resulting in increased anti-tumor activity.
Pediatric Solid Tumors
DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Irinotecan
Overall response rate, * The percentage of patients who have complete response (CR) and partial response (PR)
* CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10mm. Disappearance of all target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, Completion of treatment (18 weeks)
Time to progression (TTP), -Progressive disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions)., Completion of treatment (18 weeks)|Toxicity as measured by grade, frequency, and relatedness of adverse events per CTCAE version 4.0, 30 days after the completion of treatment (22 weeks)
This study proposes to treat patients with the combination of sorafenib and irinotecan. Patients with relapsed, recurrent, refractory, or high risk malignancies whose tumors possess a non-synonymous mutation in Raf, PDGFR, VEGFR, Flt-3, KIT, JAK, STAT, RAS, MEK, or ERK will be eligible for the study. Very few phase 2 clinical trials have been performed in pediatrics using targeted agents in combination with conventional chemotherapy agents. Furthermore, since some combinations such as the combination of this study (sorafenib and irinotecan) have shown additive/synergistic effects in preclinical studies, therapy selecting for those patients who possess mutations targeted by the TKI of the study, may unveil activity that has not been previously observed. Thus, the investigators hope to determine whether the addition of additive/synergistic chemotherapy will increase efficacy of the targeted agent and/or increase tumor susceptibility to the targeted agent, resulting in increased anti-tumor activity.