MSB0011359C (M7824) in Participants With Metastatic or Locally Advanced Solid Tumors
The main purpose of this study was to assess the safety and tolerability of MSB0011359C. Study consists of dose-escalation part and an expansion part in participants with metastatic or locally advanced solid tumors, for which no standard effective therapy exists or a standard therapy had failed.
Solid Tumors
DRUG: MSB0011359C
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), A DLT was defined as any grade greater than or equal to (\>=) 3 adverse event suspected to be related to investigational medicinal product (IMP) by the Investigator and / or Sponsor occurring in the DLT evaluation period confirmed by the Safety Monitoring Committee (SMC) to be relevant for the IMP treatment., Baseline up to Week 3|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) According to National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (NCI-CTCAE) Version 4.03, An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a product or medical device; the event needed not necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment or usage. Serious AE: an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. TEAE: AE with onset after start of treatment or with onset date before the treatment start date but worsening after the treatment start date. TEAEs included both serious and non-serious TEAEs., First study drug administration up to 30 days after the last drug administration assessed up to approximately 5 years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events (TRAEs) According to NCI-CTCAE Version 4.03, An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a product or medical device; the event needed not necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment or usage. Serious AE: an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. TEAE: AE with onset after start of treatment or with onset date before the treatment start date but worsening after the treatment start date. TEAEs included both serious and non-serious TEAEs. Treatment-related TEAEs: reasonably related to the study intervention. Number of participants with TEAEs and treatment related TEAEs were reported., First study drug administration up to 30 days after the last drug administration assessed up to approximately 5 years
Dose-Escalation Phase: Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of M7824, Cmax is the maximum observed serum concentration obtained directly from the concentration versus time curve., Pre-dose, 0, 4 hour post dose on Day 1, 2,8,15,29,43|Dose-Escalation Phase: Terminal Half Life (t1/2) of M7824, t1/2 was the time measured for the concentration to decrease by one half, determined as 0.693/Lambda z, here Lambda z was the terminal elimination rate constant determined by log-linear regression analysis of the measured serum concentrations of the terminal log-linear phase., Pre-dose, 0, 4 hour post dose on Day 1, 2,8,15,29,43|Dose-Escalation Phase: Area Under the Serum Concentration Time Curve From Zero to Last Sampling Time (AUC0-t) of M7824, Area under the serum concentration versus time curve from time zero to the last sampling time t at which the concentration was at or above the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ). AUC0-t was calculated by linear trapezoidal summation., Pre-dose, 0, 4 hour post dose on Day 1, 2, 8, 15, 29, 43|Dose-Escalation Phase: Area Under The Concentration Time Curve From Time Zero to Infinity (AUC0-inf) of M7824, The AUC(0-inf) was estimated by determining the total area under the curve of the concentration versus time curve extrapolated to infinity., Pre-dose, 0, 4 hour post dose on Day 1, 2, 8, 15, 29, 43|Dose-Escalation Phase: Number of Participants With Positive Serum Titers of Anti-Drug Antibodies of M7824, The detection of antibodies to M7824 was performed using a validated electrochemiluminescence (ECL) immunoassay with tiered testing of screening, confirmatory and titration. Number of participants with positive anti-drug antibody (ADA) of M7824 were reported., Predose, Day 15, 43, 85 and every 6-weekly until progression or end of the treatment whichever occur first, assessed up to 3 years|Dose-Escalation Part: Number of Participants With Best Overall Response (BOR) As Assessed By Investigator, BOR was assessed by investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1. BOR was defined as sum of complete response and partial response (CR+PR). For target lesions (TLs), CR was defined as the disappearance of all TLs; PR was defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of largest diameter (SLD) of the TLs, taking as a reference the baseline SLD., Date of randomization up to 2 years|Expansion Part: Best Overall Response (BOR) As Assessed By Investigator, BOR was assessed by investigator according to RECIST Version 1.1. BOR was defined as sum of CR and PR. For TLs, CR was defined as the disappearance of all TLs; PR was defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the SLD of the TLs, taking as a reference the baseline SLD., Date of randomization up to 2 years|Expansion Part: BOR According to RECIST 1.1 As Adjudicated By The Independent Review Committee (IRC), The BOR per Independent Endpoint Review Committee (IRC) adjudication was determined according to RECIST 1.1. BOR is defined as sum of CR and PR. For TLs, CR was defined as the disappearance of all TLs; PR was defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the SLD of the TLs, taking as a reference the baseline SLD., Up to 2 years|Expansion Part: Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response according to RECIST 1.1 as adjudicated by the IRC was defined as the time from first confirmed response until the first documented disease progression that was subsequently confirmed. It was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Expansion Part: Disease Control Rate, The disease control rate was defined as the percentage of participants with BOR. The BOR per IRC adjudication was determined according to RECIST 1.1. BOR is defined as sum of CR and PR. For TLs, CR was defined as the disappearance of all TLs; PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the SLD of the TLs, taking as a reference the baseline SLD., Up to 2 years|Expansion Part: Progression Free Survival (PFS) Time, PFS was defined as the time from date of randomization until date of the first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD, whichever occurs first. PFS was assessed as RECIST v1.1 as adjudicated by IRC. PD is defined as at least a 20 % increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Date of randomization until death or progressive disease assessed up to 2 years|Expansion Part: Overall Survival (OS) Time, OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Date of randomization until death assessed up to 2 years
The main purpose of this study was to assess the safety and tolerability of MSB0011359C. Study consists of dose-escalation part and an expansion part in participants with metastatic or locally advanced solid tumors, for which no standard effective therapy exists or a standard therapy had failed.