Improved Breast Cancer Therapy (I-BCT-1) in the Neoadjuvant and Metastatic Setting
The purpose of the study is to investigate the molecular biology of the tumor in relation to treatment response to chemotherapy, in particular paclitaxel compared to the combination paclitaxel and carboplatin. The study is carried out in two different, separate cohorts:

Cohort I: Patients with large primary breast cancer (\> 2.0 cm) including locally advanced disease, are treated with weekly paclitaxel for 12 weeks, before continuing on anthracycline containing regimen for another 12 weeks before surgery. Patient are randomized 1:1 to receive carboplatin in addition to paclitaxel for the first 12 weeks of the treatment.

Cohort II: Patients with metastatic disease, available for biopsies before and during therapy are included to receive paclitaxel for 24 weeks. Patients are randomized 1:1 to receive paclitaxel alone or paclitaxel in combination with carboplatin.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Treatment response: Cohort I - pCR (pathologic complete response), Cohort II - CR (complete response), PR (partial response), SD (stable disease), PD (progressive disease), The primary objective of the study is to determine the molecular (DNA, RNA, protein and metabolic) changes in the tumors with reference to the obtained therapeutic response in the different treatment arms., 24 weeks
Circulating tumor-DNA in plasma, Treatment induced changes and characteristics of circulating tumor DNA compared to tumor response, 24 weeks|Fatigue (patient reported by standardized questionnaire), Course of fatigue and predictors of chronic fatigue in the treatment arms., 24 weeks
High-throughput methods in molecular biology have revealed considerable alterations in the breast cancer genome, transcriptome and proteome with extensive heterogeneity between tumors, potentially explaining the large variation in response to treatment. Classification of breast cancer can be based on such molecular alterations, and have shown to be of clinical relevance. Studies on how genome-wide mRNA (messenger ribonucleic acid) /miRNA (microRNA) expression, copy number alterations (CNAs) and DNA methylation, in addition to the detection of circulating tumor DNA could be used to improve prognostication and aid in therapy decision are highly needed. This project includes a phase II clinical trial where patients will be randomized to treatment with standard anthracycline- and taxane containing chemotherapy with or without the addition of carboplatin. The study aims to include patients in two cohorts as described, with large primary breast cancer (cohort I - 150 patients) and patients with metastatic disease (cohort II - 60 patients). Essential for the study is the mandatory tissue samples for comprehensive molecular analyses to identify markers of response.