Bevacizumab to Treat Kaposi's Sarcoma in HIV-Positive and HIV-Negative Patients
This study will examine the safety and effectiveness of the experimental drug bevacizumab for treating both non-acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and AIDS-associated Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). KS tumors depend on the formation of new blood vessels for their growth. Bevacizumab is an antibody to a protein called vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) that is produced by the body and is involved in blood vessel growth. Bevacizumab may block the action of VEGF, and thus help shrink KS lesions.

Patients 18 years of age and older with Kaposi's sarcoma that is restricted to the skin and is not life threatening may be eligible for this study. Candidates will be screened with a medical history and physical examination, blood and urine tests, electrocardiogram (EKG), chest x-ray, and, if needed, imaging studies to evaluate internal tumors.

Participants will receive bevacizumab intravenously (by vein) once a week for 2 weeks and then every 3 weeks at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Center. The first infusion takes about 90 minutes, the second takes about 60 minutes, and subsequent infusions take about 30 minutes. Infusions may take longer, however, if the drug is better tolerated at a slower infusion rate. Patients will be evaluated with the following tests and procedures:

* Physical examination, assessment of drug side effects, measurement of KS lesions, and photographs of lesions once a week for the first 6 weeks of therapy, and then every 3 weeks.
* cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) cell counts and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) viral load in HIV-positive patients every 12 weeks.
* Biopsies of lesions: upon entering the study, at week 12, and at the time of a response of the tumor to therapy or at the end of treatment, if treatment ends at week 18 or later.
* Additional biopsies, if requested. (Additional biopsies are not required.)
* Other procedures, such as computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, if medically indicated.

Patients may continue bevacizumab therapy indefinitely if they are benefiting from it, as long as they have no substantial toxicity or other conditions that would cause them to stop receiving it and the protocol remains open.
Kaposi's Sarcoma|HIV Infections|HIV Seronegativity
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab
Response Rate, Percentage of participants with a complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)per the Modified AIDS Clinical Trial Group Criteria (ACTG) for HIV-KS. PR is a 50% decrease in the number and/or size of previously existing lesions for 4 weeks; or complete flattening of at least 50% of all previously raised lesions lasting for at least 4 weeks; or a 50% decrease in the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of the marker lesions lasting for at least 4 weeks; CR is the absence of any detectable residual disease, including tumor associated edema, persisting for at least 4 weeks., 36 months
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Here are the number of participants with adverse events. For the detailed list of adverse events, see the adverse event module., 70 months
BACKGROUND:

This is a phase II study to determine the activity of bevacizumab, a putative antiangiogenic agent, in Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). Bevacizumab is a humanized recombinant antibody to vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF), an important cytokine in the pathogenesis of KS.

OBJECTIVES:

To assess the antitumor effect of bevacizumab 15 mg/kg administered intravenously once every three weeks in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). Other objectives include assessment of the antitumor effect of bevacizumab 15 mg/kg administered intravenously once every three weeks in patients with classical KS; assessment of the toxicity profile of bevacizumab in HIV-infected and HIV-negative patients with KS; exploration in a preliminary fashion effect of bevacizumab on KS progression free survival; and study of a number of biochemical parameters, including stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) expression in KS lesions; human herpes virus-8 (HHV-8) viral load in peripheral blood mononuclear cells; serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels over the course of treatment; and changes in viral interleukin 6 (IL-6) levels over the course of treatment.

ELIGIBILITY:

Key eligibility parameters include HIV-associated or classical Kaposi's sarcoma, age greater than or equal to 18 years, and life expectancy greater than 6 months. Patients with HIV infection must have either KS progression on a regimen of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for at least one month, or no KS regression while on an optimized regimen of HAART for 4 months or longer.

DESIGN:

Patients will be sequentially enrolled, administered a loading dose of 15 mg/kg bevacizumab intravenously on day 1, and then administered 15 mg/kg bevacizumab intravenously every 3 weeks beginning one week after the loading dose. The drug will be temporarily discontinued for toxicity, intercurrent major surgical procedures, or other factors that would pose a safety concern. Patients will undergo a biopsy of a KS lesion at entry, on cycle 4, day 21, and at the time of a formal response or when the patient stops treatment. Patients will undergo a number of other tests as well, including blood tests and non-invasive imaging studies of KS lesions.