Feasibility and Safety of Extraperitoneal Laparoscopic Extended Retroperitoneal Lymph Node Dissection at Time of Nephroureterectomy for Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
Extended pelvic lymph node dissection in bladder carcinoma provides staging and, in selected patients, a survival beneﬁt. Recent studies showed the therapeutic beneﬁt of retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) in advanced stage of upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC). Also laparoscopic extended RPLND is still a technical challenge in urology, considering the high rate of severe complications and difﬁculties in manipulation. In Renji Hospital, laparoscopic extended RPLND at time of nephroureterectomy was performed via an extraperitoneal approach, avoiding interference with abdominal organs and achieving better exposure.The aim of the present study was to determine the safety and feasibility of performing an extraperitoneal laparoscopic extended RPLND at the time of radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) for UTUC in a prospectively collected cohort of patients.
Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: extraperitoneal laparoscopic extended retroperitoneal lymph node dissection
Perioperative complications rate, Perioperative complications were evaluated up to 90 days after surgery, and were graded by Clavien-Dindo classiﬁcation., 90 days
Operating time, Operating time, during surgery|Estimate blood loss, Estimate blood loss during surgery, during surgery|length of stay, The length of hospital stay, 1 month
Similar to urothelial carcinoma of the bladder (UCB), UTUC can follow routes of metastases to involve regional lymph nodes. Nodal metastasis is an adverse prognostic indicator and results in poor outcome, irrespective of the use of systemic chemotherapy or radiation. The ' gold standard ' treatment for UUT-UC is RNU.

Extended pelvic lymph node dissection in bladder carcinoma provides staging and, in selected patients, a survival beneﬁt. Recent studies showed the therapeutic beneﬁt of RPLND in advanced stage urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract, but there is still a lack of prospective studies. Thus, the current guideline recommends lymph node dissection for invasive UCUT on the basis of insufﬁcient evidence. But no prospective studies have standardized the ideal extent of RPLND or the optimum number of total lymph nodes that should be removed in patients with UUT-UC. Also more and more interest has been paid to establish standardized node dissection templates.

Also laparoscopic extended RPLND is still a technical challenge in urology, considering the high rate of severe complications and difﬁculties in manipulation. In Renji Hospital, laparoscopic extended RPLND at time of nephroureterectomy was performed via an extraperitoneal approach, avoiding interference with abdominal organs and achieving better exposure.

The aim of the present study was to determine the safety and feasibility of performing an extraperitoneal laparoscopic extended RPLND at the time of RNU for UTUC in a prospectively collected cohort of patients.