A Multi-Center, Open-Label Study of Surufatinib (HMPL-012) in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
Primary Objective Dose Escalation:

To evaluate the safety and tolerability of surufatinib in patients with advanced solid tumors and to determine the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) or recommended phase II dose (RP2D).

Primary Objective Dose Expansion:

To evaluate the anticancer activity of surufatinib in patients with advanced Biliary Tract Cancer (BTC), patients with advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNETs), patients with locally advanced, unresectable, metastatic extra-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (EP-NETs), and patients with soft tissue sarcomas (STS) treated at a dose of 300 mg QD.

Secondary Objective:

To evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of multiple dose surufatinib in patients with advanced solid tumors and to evaluate the anti cancer activity of surufatinib in patients with advanced solid tumors.
Tumors
DRUG: surufatinib
Dose-Escalation Phase: Number of Patients With Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A DLT was defined as any of the following toxicities determined by the Investigator to have a reasonable possibility of being related to surufatinib. Adverse events (AE) were graded using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03. Any Grade 4 non-hematological toxicity; any Grade 3 non-hematological toxicity except for nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, electrolyte imbalances, or transient hypertension downgraded within 3 days with appropriate supportive treatment; Grade 4 neutropenia lasting \>7 days; Grade 3 febrile neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count \<1.0 × 10\^9/liter (L) with a single temperature of \>38.3 degree Celsius (°C) or a sustained temperature of \>=38°C for more than 1 hour; Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or \>=Grade 3 thrombocytopenia associated with tendency to bleed; dose interruption or delay for \>14 days due to toxicity; any life-threatening complication or abnormality not covered in NCI CTCAE v. 4.03., From the first dose of study drug (Day 1) up to Day 28 of Cycle 1|Dose-Escalation Phase: Number of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment Emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs), An AE was any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a drug or other protocol-imposed drug, regardless of attribution. An SAE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: was fatal; was life threatening; required or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect in a neonate/infant born to a female patient or female partner of a male patient exposed to the study drug(s); was considered a significant medical event by the Investigator. TEAEs were defined as any AEs that started or worsened in severity on or after the first administration date of study drug and no later than 30 (+7) days after the last administration date of study drug or initiation of new anti-tumor therapy (whichever occurred first)., From the first dose of study drug (Day 1) up to approximately 90 months|Dose-Expansion Phase: Arms A and D: Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate at 16 Weeks, The tumor response was determined according to the international Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 guideline. PFS is defined as the time (in months) from the start date of study medication (Day 1) until the date of objective disease progression as defined by RECIST Version 1.1 or death (by any cause in the absence of progression), whichever occurred earlier. PFS rate probability at 16 week was estimated. Progression is defined by RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., At 16 weeks|Dose-Expansion Phase: Arms B and C: PFS Rate at 11 Months, The tumor response was determined according to the RECIST v1.1 guideline. PFS is defined as the time (in months) from the start date of study medication (Day 1) until the date of objective disease progression as defined by RECIST Version 1.1 or death (by any cause in the absence of progression), whichever occurred earlier. PFS rate probability at 11 months was estimated. Progression is defined by RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., At 11 months
Dose-Escalation and Dose-Expansion Phase: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Surufatinib, Plasma samples were collected to determine Cmax of surufatinib. The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters were determined by non-compartmental analysis., Pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 hours post-dose on Days 1 and 15 of Cycle 1|Dose Escalation and Dose-Expansion Phase: Time to Reach Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Tmax) of Surufatinib, Plasma samples were collected to determine Tmax of surufatinib. The PK parameters were determined by non-compartmental analysis., Pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours post-dose on Days 1 and 15 of Cycle 1|Dose-Escalation and Dose-Expansion Phase: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to 24 Hours (AUC0-24h) of Surufatinib, Plasma samples were collected to determine AUC0-24h of surufatinib. The PK parameters were determined by non-compartmental analysis. Data from pre-dose to 8 hours post-dose were extrapolated to obtain the AUC0-24 data., Pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours post-dose on Cycle 1 Day 1|Dose-Escalation and Dose-Expansion Phase: AUC Over the Dosing Interval (AUCtau) of Surufatinib, Plasma samples were collected to determine AUCtau of surufatinib. The PK parameters were determined by non-compartmental analysis., Pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours post-dose on Day 15 of Cycle 1|Dose-Escalation and Dose-Expansion Phase: Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR was defined as the percentage of patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as confirmed best overall response (BOR) as determined by the Investigator using RECIST v1.1. The BOR was defined as the best response recorded from the start of study treatment until documented RECIST version 1.1 progression, death, or withdrawal of consent. The CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. The PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., RECIST assessments performed at screening (within 28 days before start of study treatment), Day 1 of Cycle 2, and every 8 (+/-1 week) weeks afterwards until the occurrence of disease progression, up to a maximum of 90 months|Dose-Escalation and Dose-Expansion Phase: Disease Control Rate (DCR), The DCR was defined as the percentage of patients who achieved a CR, PR or stable disease (SD) as confirmed BOR as determined by the Investigator using RECIST v1.1. The CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. The PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum on study., RECIST assessments performed at screening (within 28 days before start of study treatment), Day 1 of Cycle 2, and every 8 (+/-1 week) weeks afterwards until the occurrence of disease progression, up to a maximum of 90 months|Dose-Escalation and Dose-Expansion Phase: Duration of Response (DoR), The DoR was defined as the time from the first time that the objective response reached CR or PR, whichever came first (and later confirmed), until the occurrence of PD or death. The CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. The PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. The PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters. The appearance of 1 or more new lesions was also considered progression., RECIST assessments performed at screening (within 28 days before start of study treatment), Day 1 of Cycle 2, and every 8 (+/-1 week) weeks afterwards until the occurrence of disease progression, up to a maximum of 90 months|Dose-Escalation Phase: Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The PFS was defined as the time from the start date of study drug until the date of objective PD as assessed by the Investigator using RECIST version 1.1 or death (by any cause in the absence of progression)., RECIST assessments performed at screening (within 28 days before start of study treatment), Day 1 of Cycle 2, and every 8 (+/-1 week) weeks afterwards until the occurrence of disease progression, up to a maximum of 53 months|Dose-Expansion Phase: Time to Response (TTR), The TTR was defined as the time from the start of study drug until first documented response (and later confirmed) according to RECIST v.1.1 for responders only., RECIST assessments performed at screening (within 28 days before start of study treatment), Day 1 of Cycle 2, and every 8 (+/-1 week) weeks afterwards until the occurrence of disease progression, up to a maximum of 53 months|Dose-Escalation and Dose-Expansion Phase: Maximum Percentage Change From Baseline in Tumor Size as Per RECIST v1.1, Percentage change in tumor size was determined for patients with measurable disease at baseline and was derived at each visit by the percentage change in the sum of the diameters of target lesions compared to baseline, mean of maximum percentage change is presented. Baseline was defined as the last evaluable tumor assessment result obtained prior to the administration of study drug (including unscheduled assessments)., RECIST assessments performed at screening (within 28 days before start of study treatment), Day 1 of Cycle 2, and every 8 (+/-1 week) weeks afterwards until the occurrence of disease progression, up to a maximum of 90 months
The study is an open-label, dose escalation and expansion clinical trial of surufatinib orally once daily (QD) in patients with advanced solid tumors.

The study consists of two phases:

Dose escalation phase - A 3+3 design will be used for this portion of the study.

* Approximately 15 to 35 evaluable patients will be enrolled. The actual number of patients depends on the Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) situation as well as the RP2D dose level reached in this trial.
* The trial will approximately evaluate five surufatinib dose levels at 50,100, 200, 300 and 400 mg/day.

Expansion phase:

Approximately 115 patients will be enrolled into one of four open-label treatment arms during this phase: at least 30 patients with advanced BTC that has progressed on standard ﬁrst-line chemotherapy will be assigned to Arm A, at least 15 patients with advanced pNET that has progressed on either everolimus, sunitinib, or both will be assigned to Arm B, at least 15 patients with advanced EP-NET that has progressed on everolimus will be assigned to Arm C, and at least 45 patients with Soft Tissue Sarcoma will be assigned to Arm D. Subjects enrolled in this phase are to be evaluated for the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics to confirm the selected surufatinib dose.

Subjects will receive surufatinib daily treatment continuously with every 28-day treatment cycle until disease progression, death, or intolerable toxicity at the investigator's discretion for a favorable benefit to risk balance.