Comparison of Erector Spinae Plane Block and Serratus Posterior Superior Intercostal Plane Block
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women. Modified radical mastectomy, a surgical procedure in the treatment of breast cancer, is one of the standard treatments. Postoperative pain can seriously reduce the quality of life in patients, and inadequately treated acute pain can trigger chronic pain syndrome. Therefore, thoracic paravertebral block and thoracic epidural block are effective in postoperative analgesia. However, the use of these blocks is limited due to complications. In recent years, less invasive blocks, such as pectoral nerve block (PECS I-II), Serratus anterior plane block (SAPB), Erector spinae plane block (ESPB), and Serratus Posterior Superior intercostal Plane Block (SPSİPB) have been applied. In this study, it was aimed to compare the analgesic effectiveness of ESPB and SPSİPB applications in patients undergoing breast surgery.
Erector Spinae Plane Block|Serratus Posterior Superior Intercostal Plane Block|Acute Pain|Postoperative Pain|Breast Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Erector Spinae Plane Block|PROCEDURE: Serratus Posterior Superior Intercostal Plane Block
Postoperative analgesia, Pain will be assessed with a visual analog scale (0-10 cm), Postoperative day 1
Postoperative tramadol consumption, The amount of tramadol consumed in the postoperative period will be recorded, Perioperative day 1|Patient satisfaction, Satisfaction will be assessed with a 5 point Likert scale (0-4 whereas 0:definitely disagree; 1:slightly agree; 3: agree; 4: strongly agree), Postoperative 24th hour
Postoperative pain will be assessed during resting and coughing with a visual analog scale (0-10 cm) and nausea and vomiting with a Postoperative Nausea Vomiting Score at the postoperative 1, 4, 8, 12, and 24 hours. The amount of tramadol consumed in the postoperative period will be recorded. Patient satisfaction will be assessed with the Likert scale at postoperative 24 hours.