Circulating DNA to Improve Outcome of Oncology PatiEnt. A Randomized Study
COPE is a biology driven protocol with 2 independent, multicentric, two-arm non-comparative randomized (2:1) phase II trials in 2 distinct populations: colorectal cancer patients and non-small-lung cancer patients.

For each phase II trial, patient will be randomized between two arms with two patients randomized in arm A for one patient randomized in arm B:

* Arm A (Experimental - initial MTB providing therapeutic recommendation based on tumor sequencing and then follow-up combining standard imaging and ctDNA analysis)
* Arm B (Standard - initial MTB providing therapeutic recommendation based on tumor sequencing and then follow-up based on standard imaging).
Colorectal Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
GENETIC: Liquid biopsy
Assessment of cancer outcome in terms of overall survival (2 distincts population), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time interval between the date of randomization and the date of death (of any cause)., 18 months
Proportion of patients with at least one actionable alteration (in 2 distincts populations), An actionable alteration is determined according to the molecular tumor board., Throughout the study: an average of 18 months|Proportion of patients treated with a targeted therapy (in 2 distincts populations), A profiling-based targeted therapy corresponds to a therapy targeting an actionable alteration, Throughout the study: an average of 18 months
Primary tumor tissue, if accessible at all, does not always provide enough information to stratify individual patients to the most promising therapy. Re-analysis of metastatic lesions by needle biopsy is possible but invasive, and limited by the known intra-patient heterogeneity of individual lesions. These hurdles might be overcome by analyzing circulating tumor DNA (liquid biopsy), which in principle might reflect all subclones present at that specific time point and allow sequential monitoring of disease evolution.

Once tumor's genetic profiling is available, patients will be discussed within a multidisciplinary tumor board (MTB) which aims at discussing the genomic profiles and at providing a therapeutic decision for each patient. This MTB involves clinical oncologists, molecular biologists and clinical or biological project manager.

All the patients carrying an actionnable alteration will be proposed to receive a matched drug or to enter in a matched clinical trial depending on the possibility of inclusion at the time of molecular report.

the investigators hypothesize that implementing sequential circulating tumor DNA analysis can improve management of patients with advanced cancer and therefore their survival.