Ph I Study of Lithium During Whole Brain Radiotherapy For Patients With Brain Metastases
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs, such as lithium, may protect normal cells from the side effects of radiation therapy. Giving lithium together with radiation therapy may allow a higher dose of radiation therapy to be given so that more tumor cells are killed.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of lithium when given together with whole-brain radiation therapy in treating patients with brain metastases from primary cancer outside the brain.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors|Cognitive/Functional Effects|Neurotoxicity|Solid Tumor
DRUG: lithium carbonate|PROCEDURE: cognitive assessment|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Feasibility of concurrent lithium carbonate and whole-brain radiotherapy as measured by safety and compliance, Safety is measured by the rate of grade 3 or worse
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the feasibility of concurrent lithium carbonate and whole-brain radiotherapy, as measured by safety and compliance, in patients with primary extracranial malignancy and brain metastases.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of lithium carbonate.

Patients receive oral lithium carbonate twice daily on days 1-7 and 2-4 times daily on days 8-21. Patients undergo whole-brain radiotherapy once daily on days 8-12 and 15-19.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of lithium carbonate until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Quality of life and mental status are assessed at baseline, on days 1, 8, and 15, at 1-month post-treatment, and then periodically thereafter.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month and then periodically thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.