Sunitinib Malate in Treating Patients With Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well sunitinib malate works in treating patients with recurrent ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. Sunitinib malate may inhibit the ability of cancers to grow blood vessels, something they need to grow. It may also shrink tumors.
Recurrent Fallopian Tube Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Stage IIIA Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIIA Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IIIA Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Stage IIIB Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIIB Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IIIB Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Stage IIIC Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIIC Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IIIC Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
DRUG: sunitinib malate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Response (Partial Response or Complete Response) as Per the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria, Partial response is defined as a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of the target lesion maintained for at least 4 weeks; complete response is defined as complete disappearance of disease and cancer related symptoms maintained for at least 4 weeks. The 95% confidence interval for response rate will be calculated. The median and range of the duration of response will be assessed., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy (response rate) of sunitinib (sunitinib malate) given orally daily in patients with advanced or metastatic previously treated epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma.

II. To assess the toxicity of sunitinib in patients with advanced or metastatic previously treated epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal carcinoma.

III. To document cancer antigen 125 (CA125) response rate, early objective progression rate, and, if objective responses are observed, response duration.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sunitinib malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.