Improving Care After Inherited Cancer Testing
The IMPACT Study seeks to refine and evaluate the effectiveness of interventions on improving guideline-adherent cancer risk management (CRM) and family communication (FC) of genetic test results for individuals with a documented pathogenic/likely pathogenic (P/LP) variant, and FC of family cancer history for individuals with a variant of uncertain significance (VUS) in an inherited cancer gene.
Inherited Cancer Syndrome|Prostate Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Endometrial Cancer|Breast Cancer
OTHER: Correlative Studies (Survey)|OTHER: Correlative Studies (Interview)|BEHAVIORAL: GeneSHARE|BEHAVIORAL: LivingLabReport|BEHAVIORAL: Standard-of-care & Adaptive Intervention|OTHER: Access to Education Materials
Change in FC of genetic test results (if P/LP variant result) or family history of cancer (if VUS result), Having at least one additional at-risk adult, living relative with whom the participant has shared their test result, information about testing, or family history of cancer for the first time or has subsequently followed up with a relative, 12 months|Change in CRM, Ongoing guideline-adherent CRM or a change towards guideline-adherent CRM per National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) CRM guidelines based on genetic test results as measured by survey data and verified through medical records where possible and/or appropriate., 12 months
Through recruitment of a racially, geographically, and socioeconomically diverse sample of patients, we will achieve the following aims:

1. Evaluate factors associated with access to genetic risk assessment, counseling, and testing services.
2. Conduct a randomized controlled trial to assess the effectiveness of interventions on improving guideline-adherent CRM and FC of genetic test results among individuals with a P/LP variant in an inherited cancer gene.
3. Conduct a pilot study to assess the effectiveness of an intervention on improving FC of family cancer history among individuals with a VUS in an inherited cancer gene.
4. Create and pilot an adaptive intervention to tailor resources to promote CRM and FC.
5. Document and compare multiple implementation outcomes across the different interventions to maximize their effectiveness and improve reach to underserved populations.