A Trial of BKM120 (a PI3K Inhibitor) in Patients With Triple Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical activity of BKM120 in patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: BKM120
Rate of Clinical Benefit, Clinical benefit rate (CBR) was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) for 4 months or longer based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is the complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD of target lesions (smallest sum LD reference), new lesions, and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Stable disease (SD) is defined as any condition not meeting the above criteria., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and every 2 cycles on treatment then every 3 months up to 2 years. Participants in this study cohort were followed for response on average approximately 2 months.
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) based on the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Participants alive without PD are censored at the date of last disease assessment. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: PD is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and every 2 cycles on treatment then every 3 months up to 2 years. Participants in this study cohort were followed for PFS on average approximately 2 months.|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from date of study enrollment until death from any cause., 2 years|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events, Maximum grade toxicity by type was first calculated. Serious AEs were defined as events with treatment-attribution of possibly, probably or definitely and grade 3 or higher per Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4., Adverse events (AEs) were assessed every 2 weeks for the first 2 cycles and every cycle thereafter. Participants were followed for AEs on average approximately 2 months.
This is a prospective, non-randomized, open-label, multicenter, single-arm exploratory study of single agent BKM120 in the treatment of metastatic triple negative breast cancer patients.

Patients will first undergo screening, tumor measurement and collection of available tumor block from the primary tumor and/or a metastatic site. Available tumor block is required in all patients per inclusion criteria. Analysis of this tumor block will be used for correlation of predictive markers and clinical response in order to define potential subpopulation that benefit from BKM120.

Following confirmation of eligibility criteria, subjects will be enrolled. BKM120 will then be administered in a 100mg dose, orally, once daily, in a continuous schedule. A treatment cycle is defined as 28 days for the purposes of scheduling procedures and evaluations.

Treatment with BKM120 will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity that precludes any further treatment, and/or discontinuation of the treatment by investigator or patient decision.