HPV Self-Test Intervention in Ohio Appalachia
This study will pilot test a culturally appropriate human papillomavirus (HPV) self-test intervention among women from Ohio Appalachia in order to determine the feasibility of HPV self-testing as a potential cervical cancer screening strategy. The intervention group will receive culturally appropriate materials and the control group will receive standard materials with their HPV self-test device.
Cervical Carcinoma|Human Papillomavirus Infection
PROCEDURE: Disease Screening|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Survey Administration
The proportion of women who return HPV-self tests, A chi-square test will be used to test for a difference between the two groups., Up to 4 weeks from kit distribution
Attendance at a follow-up health care visit after HPV testing notification letters are sent (attended or did not attend), Descriptive statistics (e.g., proportions) will be calculated for the entire sample and by study arm., Up to 2 months after notification letters are sent|Prevalence of HPV infection, Descriptive statistics (e.g., proportions) will be calculated for the entire sample and by study arm., After shipping the specimen, an expected average of 6 weeks|Specimen adequacy (whether participants self-collected an adequate specimen [yes or no] to allow for HPV testing), Descriptive statistics (e.g., proportions) will be calculated for the entire sample and by study arm., After shipping the specimen, an expected average of 6 weeks
Receipt of a Pap test (received or not received), Descriptive statistics (e.g., proportions) will be calculated for the entire sample and by study arm., Up to 2 months after receiving notification letters are sent
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of HPV self-testing as a potential cervical cancer screening strategy and obtain preliminary efficacy data of culturally appropriate materials on self-test use.

OUTLINE:

Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants receive a study kit that includes culturally appropriate instructions for using and returning the HPV self-test device and a photo story information sheet about HPV and HPV self-testing. Participants are asked to complete the HPV self-test and return the test for HPV testing.

ARM II: Participants receive a study kit that includes standard instructions for using and returning the HPV self-test device and a standard information sheet about HPV and cervical cancer. Participants are asked to complete the HPV self-test and return the test for HPV testing.

Participants are followed up at 4 weeks for return of their HPV self-test device and then for 2 months after notification letters are sent.