Mirror Grant - Toward an Understanding of Body Image Adaptation Following Surgical Treatment for Head and Neck Cancer
The goal of this research study is to understand how patients adjust to appearance and body image changes after surgery for head and neck cancer.
Head and Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Interview|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaire
Patients' Body Image Adaptation (Interviews), Patients' experiences of viewing themselves in the mirror immediately after surgical treatment for head and neck cancer. Descriptive information derived from 1 hour face-to-face interviews with qualitative methodology using Grounded Theory design and methods with use of constant comparative technique and analysis., Study period 2 years to complete face-to-face interviews
If you agree to take part in this study, you will take part in a face-to-face interview with the study staff. It should take about 1 hour to complete. You will also be asked to complete a questionnaire about your demographic information such as age and ethnicity. The interview will be done in a private research area and will be audio-recorded.

The researchers are interested in learning more about your experience of adjusting to the changes in your appearance after your surgery for head and neck cancer. You may be asked to look in a mirror and describe what you see.

If you ask for another interview, or if the interviewer would like your information made more clear, you will be scheduled for a second interview. You will be provided with an early summary of your interview, and you will be able to provide feedback over the phone or in writing on the accuracy of the information and the conclusions.

Identifying information will be removed from all data collected using participant numbers kept separately from consent forms and shared only among approved research staff. Names and other identifying information will be deleted from transcripts (write-ups of the interviews) after the first review for accuracy. Interview transcripts will be kept in locked file cabinets at MD Anderson for 3 years and can be looked at only by the study chair and staff. Recorded interviews will be destroyed 3 years after the study results are published.

This is an investigational study.

Up to 20 patients and 15 healthcare providers will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.