Pembrolizumab/Lenvatinib With and Without Healthy Donor FMT (hdFMT) in Relapsed/ Refractory (R/R) Melanoma
In this is a randomized phase II study the addition of hd-FMT (healthy donor fecal-microbiota transplant) to pembrolizumab /lenvatinib in PD-1 R/R melanoma will be evaluated over a 104-week period in patients with anti-PD-1 R/R disease. Patients with PD-1 refractory advanced melanoma are eligible to enroll, excluding patients with prior lenvatinib (or other TKI) exposure. Intestinal microbiome composition mediates response to anti-PD-1 by affecting systemic inflammatory tone.
PD-1 Refractory Advanced Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Healthy Donor Fecal Microbiota Transplantation (hdFMT)|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST v1.1, The proportion of patients with objective response to treatment assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors v1.1 (RECIST). Per RECIST v1.1: Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or nontarget) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 5 years
Incidence of Adverse Events Related to Treatment, Frequency of Adverse Events (AEs) and/or Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) (specifically ≥grade 2 irAEs) related to study treatment, per NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0., Up to 5 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR) per iRECIST, The proportion of patients Complete Response (irCR) or Partial Response (irPR) to treatment as assessed per iRECIST. irCR: Disappearance of non-nodal lesions. All pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm (short axis) (2 consecutive measurements ≥4 weeks apart); irPR:≥30% decrease from baseline (2 consecutive measurements ≥4 weeks apart). Disappearance of all non-nodal lesions. All pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm (Non-Target Lesions: Any other than disappearance of all non-nodal lesions and reduction of pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm). Baseline tumor burden: sum of single diameters (short axis for nodal lesions, longest diameter for other lesions) for target lesions. In subsequent scans, the diameters of new measurable lesions are added to the tumor burden. Re-treatment: ≤5 target lesions (=/≠ original lesions) are selected and a new baseline tumor burden will be established. (no distinct iRECIST assessment until radiographic progression per RECIST 1.1 is observed)., Up to 5 years|6-month Progression-free Survival, Percentage of patients without disease progression at 6 months after start of treatment, per RECIST v1.1. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 6 months|1-year Progression-free Survival (PFS), Percentage of patients without disease progression at 1 year after start of treatment, per RECIST v1.1. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 1 year|2-year Progression-free Survival (PFS), Percentage of patients without disease progression at 2 years after start of treatment, per RECIST v1.1. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), The median length of time from initiation of study drug(s) disease progression as defined by RECIST v1.1, or death. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 5 years|1-year Overall Survival (OS), Percentage of patients that are alive at 1 year after start of treatment., Up to 1 year|2-year Overall Survival (OS), Percentage of patients that are alive at 2 years after start of treatment., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), The median length of time that patients remain alive after treatment., Up to 5 years
Despite treatment advances, 40-60% of melanoma patients do not respond or fail to respond durably; and the management of relapsed/refractory (R/R) disease remains an important problem for the field. The importance of intact immune surveillance function in controlling outgrowth of neoplastic transformations has been known for decades. Accumulating evidence shows a correlation between tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in cancer tissue and favorable prognosis in various malignancies. In particular, the presence of CD8+ T-cells and the ratio of CD8+ effector T cells/FoxP3+ regulatory T-cells (T-regs) correlates with improved prognosis and long-term survival in solid malignancies, such as ovarian, colorectal, and pancreatic cancer; hepatocellular carcinoma; malignant melanoma; and renal cell carcinoma. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes can be expanded ex vivo and reinfused, inducing durable objective tumor responses in cancers such as melanoma. Targeting TAMs (tumor associated macrophages, which are innate immune cells of heterogeneous origins that accumulate within the tumor microenvironment (TME) as tumors progress and interfere with antitumor T cell mediated responses) via targeted depletion, inhibition of active migration, and/or promotion of activation and differentiation have been pursued as therapeutic strategies to increase efficacy of ICI therapy clinically and preclinically. The pembrolizumab/lenvatinib combination has been explored in several clinical settings and been granted approval for two indications including advanced endometrial carcinoma and RCC. In addition to tumor-intrinsic mechanisms supporting resistance to anti-PD-1, the gut microbiome is a major tumor-extrinsic regulator of responses to anti-PD-1; In this trial, that will be in the form of hdFMT (healthy donor fecal-microbiota transplant).