Comparison of Two Combination Chemotherapy Regimens in Treating Patients With Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known which combination chemotherapy regimen is more effective in treating extensive-stage small cell lung cancer.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to compare the effectiveness of two combination chemotherapy regimens in treating patients who have extensive-stage small cell lung cancer.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: G-CSF|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Topotecan
Proportion of Patients With Objective Response by Solid Tumor Response Criteria (RECIST), Per RECIST criteria, Complete response (CR)= disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions Partial response (PR)= \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions from baseline, and persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits.

Objective response = CR + PR, Assessed every 6 weeks while on treatment, and then every 3 months for patients < 2 years from study entry, every 6 months if patient is 2-3 years from study entry.
Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the period measured from the time that measurement criteria are met for complete or partial response (whichever status is recorded first) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, taking as reference the smallest measurements recorded since treatment started., Assessed every 6 weeks while on treatment, and then every 3 months for patients < 2 years from study entry, every 6 months if patient is 2-3 years from study entry.|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 1 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Evaluate the response frequency of patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer treated with topotecan, cisplatin, and etoposide and with irinotecan, cisplatin, and etoposide.
* Evaluate the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.
* Evaluate the duration of response and survival of patients treated with these regimens.

Secondary

* To investigate the occurrence of various breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) alleles in patients receiving topoisomerase 1 inhibitors and their impact on clinical response and toxicity.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I (PET): Patients receive topotecan intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1-3; etoposide IV over 60 minutes immediately followed by cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on days 8-10; and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily beginning on day 11 and continuing until blood counts recover.
* Arm II (PIE): Patients receive irinotecan IV over 90 minutes and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8 and oral etoposide twice daily on days 3 and 10.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.

ACTUAL ACCRUAL: A total of 140 patients were accrued for this study.