Metformin for the Prevention of Oral Cancer in Patients With Oral Premalignant Lesions
This phase I trial tests whether metformin works in reducing the annual transformation (development of invasive cancer) of oral precancerous lesions into cancerous lesions. Metformin is a drug approved for the treatment of diabetes, but studies have shown that it may have some anticancer properties. Giving metformin may help prevent or slow the development of oral cancer from precancerous lesions.
Erythroplakia|Leukoplakia|Oral Cavity Carcinoma|Proliferative Verrucous Leukoplakia
DRUG: Metformin|PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Transformation-free-survival, in lesion types erythroplakia and verrucous hyperplasia, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier curves as well as 95% confidence ands. Kaplan-Meier estimates of the 3-year transformation-free-survival rates will be reported with 95% confidence interval. One-sample two-sided log-rank test will be applied to all four lesions as well., Up to 3 years
Change in lesion status, Evaluated on a Likert-scale with three levels: 'worsen', 'same' and 'disappear', compared to each patient's baseline lesion status (as measured at pre-treatment and one year post initiation of treatment). The lesion size and status evaluated at 1-year post-treatment will be summarized using percentages as well as 95% Clopper-Pearson exact confidence intervals. The current spontaneous regression rates (i.e., percentage of 'disappear') will be compared against the historically documented regression rate of 35% using two-sided exact binomial test., Baseline to 1 year after treatment
Transformation-free-survival, in lesion types homogenous leukoplakia and non-homogenous leukoplakia, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier curves as well as 95% confidence ands. Kaplan-Meier estimates of the 3-year transformation-free-survival rates will be reported with 95% confidence interval. One-sample two-sided log-rank test will be applied to all four lesions as well., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the transformation-free-survival in lesion types erythroplakia (EP) and verrucous hyperplasia (VH). 'Transformation' is defined as the development of invasive cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the current spontaneous regression rates, i.e., percentages of patients having lesion disappear within 1-year post treatment, in all four lesion types and compare them with historical documented regression rate in literature.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the transformation-free-survival in lesion types homogenous leukoplakia (HL) and non-homogenous leukoplakia (NHL).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive metformin orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-3 and then PO twice daily (BID) for up to 12 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 24 months.