Study of the Combination of Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, VELCADE, and Prednisone or Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisone in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter, prospective study to compare the efficacy and safety of the combination of VcR-CAP to that of R-CHOP in participants who have newly diagnosed mantle cell lymphoma grade II, III or IV and who are ineligible to undergo bone marrow transplantation.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Rituximab 375 mg/m^2|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m^2|DRUG: Doxorubicin 50 mg/m^2|DRUG: VELCADE 1.3 mg/m^2|DRUG: Prednisone 100 mg/m^2|DRUG: Vincristine 1.4 mg/m^2
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the interval between the date of randomization and the date of progressive disease (PD) or death, whichever occurred first. PD was based on the assessment of an Independent Review Committee., Median duration of follow-up of 40 months
Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression was defined as the duration from the date of randomization until the date of first documented evidence of progressive disease (PD) or date of relapse for subjects who experienced complete response (CR) or complete response, unconfirmed (CRu). PD and response were based on the assessment of an Independent Review Committee., Median duration of follow-up of 40 months|Duration of Response, The duration of treatment response was defined as the time from the date of the first response to the date of PD or death due to PD for those participants with a best response of CR, CRu, or PR as determined by the Independent Review Committee. The duration of response for complete responders was defined as the time from the date of the first response to the date of PD or death due to PD for those participants with a best response of CR or CRu verified by bone marrow and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)., Median duration of follow-up of 40 months|Time to Next Anti-lymphoma Treatment (TTNT), The time to next anti-lymphomatreatment was measured from the date of initiation of study treatment as per protocol to the start date of new anti-lymphoma treatment. Death due to disease progression prior to subsequent therapy was considered as an event. Otherwise, time to next anti lymphoma treatment was censored at the date of death or the last date known to be alive., : Median duration of follow-up of 40 months|Treatment-free Interval (TFI), The TFI was defined as the duration from the date of last dose plus 1 day to the start date of the new treatment. Death due to disease progression prior to subsequent therapy was considered as an event. Otherwise, treatment-free interval was censored at the date of death or the last date known to be alive., Median duration of follow-up of 40 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as complete response (CR) + complete response, unconfirmed (CRu) + partial response (PR) as determined by the Independent Review Committee. Response assessment was carried out every 6 weeks for 18 weeks; thereafter, every 8 weeks until PD/initiation of alternate therapy/withdrawal from study/death., Median duration of follow-up of 40 months|Overall Complete Response (CR + CRu), Overall complete response was defined as the number of participants with complete response (CR) and those with unconfirmed complete response (CRu). Response assessment was carried out every 6 weeks for 18 weeks; thereafter, every 8 weeks until PD/initiation of alternate therapy/withdrawal from study/death., Median duration of follow-up of 40 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was measured from the date of randomization to the date of the participant's death. If the participant was alive or the vital status was unknown, OS was censored at the date that the subject was last known to be alive., Median duration of follow-up of 40 months|18-Month Survival, 18-month survival was defined as the estimated probability of survival at 18 months (Kaplan-Meier estimate)., Up to month 18 from the time of randomization|Overall Survival (OS) in Long Term Follow-up Period, OS was measured from the date of randomization to the date of the participant's death. If the participant was alive or the vital status was unknown, OS was censored at the date that the subject was last known to be alive., Up to 107.4 months|Number of Participants Experiencing an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug, whether or not considered drug related. AEs were collected from the first dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug. Treatment was administered for up to 8 cycles (24 weeks) and AEs were collected for up to 30 days following the last dose of study drug., Up to 107.4 months
The drug being tested in this study were combination of VcR-CAP and R-CHOP. Combination of VcR-CAP and R-CHOP is being tested to treat people who had mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).

The study enrolled 487 patients. Participants were randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of the two treatment groups in a 1:1 ratio:

Treatment Group A (VcR-CAP) Treatment Group B (R-CHOP)

The study included a screening phase, a treatment phase, a short-term follow-up phase, and a long-term follow-up phase. The screening phase was up to 28 days (56 days for bone marrow evaluation) prior to randomization.

This multi-center trial was conducted worldwide. The total study duration from randomization of the first patient until the last progression-free survival (PFS) event required for the final analysis was expected to be approximately 42 months (24 months for enrollment and 18 months for follow-up) and survival follow-up every 12 weeks until death.