Radiation Post-CAR T in Refractory Lymphoma
This study is evaluating the safety and efficacy of using radiotherapy in participants who have refractory lymphoma shortly after receiving CAR T cell therapy (axicel or tisacel).
Hematologic Malignancy|Refractory Lymphoma
RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE Version 5.0, Rate and severity of radiotherapy-related toxicity as per CTCAE v5.0 (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) during radiotherapy (RT) or within the first 30 days of completing RT. The number of participants who experienced radiotherapy-related toxicities are listed below., 30 days
Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the length of time between a subject's first objective response per Lugano criteria (complete response or partial response) and local disease progression per Lugano criteria, or death regardless of cause., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the incidence of either a complete response or a partial response by Lugano criteria. All subjects that do not meet the criteria for an objective response by the analysis data cutoff date will be considered non-responders., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from radiotherapy completion date to the date of disease progression per Lugano criteria or death from any cause. Subjects not meeting the criteria for progression by the analysis data cutoff date will be censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from radiotherapy completion to the date of death. Subjects who have not died by the analysis cutoff date will be censored at their last contact date., Up to 2 years
This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining this intervention after administration of CAR T cell therapy. This research study looks to systematically investigate the safety and efficacy of radiotherapy following CAR T cell therapy (axicel or tisacel) in refractory lymphoma. CAR T cell therapy involves genetically modifying T cells to target tumor cells for death. Radiotherapy is a standard treatment offered with refractory lymphoma and uses high-energy x rays, or particles, to destroy or damage cancer cells. Few have received CAR T cell therapy prior to radiation therapy and this study aims to gather more information on radiotherapy following CAR T cell therapy as a treatment option and its potential to improve participants immune system's response to cancer cells as well as its interaction with CAR T cell therapy to better treat refractory lymphoma.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, enrollment, biopsy following radiation, post-treatment period, and long-term follow-up.

* Participants will receive radiotherapy at a dose and schedule determined by the study doctor.
* Participants will be followed for up to 24 months after completion of study treatment.

It is expected that about 20 people will take part in this research study.