A Study of DM001 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
The goal of this clinical trial is to find out about the safety, efficacy, and tolerability of DM001 for patients with the advanced solid tumors. DM001 is an experimental drug which is not approved by health authorities for the treatment of advanced solid tumors.

Participants will have up to 17 visits during the study.There will be up to a 4-week Screening Period followed by a treatment period that will be divided into 3-week cycles/ Participants will have 5 study visits during Cycle 1, 3 visits during Cycles 2 and 3, and 1 visit during subsequent cycles. Participants will have an End of Treatment visit 21 days (+ 7 days) after last dose of study drug and then a follow-up visit 30 days (± 7 days) after the End of Treatment visit.
Breast Neoplasms|Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Solid Carcinoma
DRUG: DM001
Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs) of DM001, Incidence of DLTs of DM001 will be determined. A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as grade 3 neurological toxicities (e.g. chemical meningitis) or other grade 4 toxicity., 12 months|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for DM001, The MTD of DM001 will be determined. The MTD was defined as the dose where 0/3 or 1/6 patients experienced a DLT with at least two patients encountering DLT at the higher dose., 12 months
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC(0-inf), ng*h/mL), Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero extrapolated to infinity, calculated by linear up/log down trapezoidal summation., 12 months|Maximum (peak) plasma concentration (Cmax, ng/mL), Maximum concentration, obtained directly from the observed concentration versus time data., 12 months|Time to maximum (peak) concentration (Tmax, h), Time to Cmax, 12 months|Trough concentration (Ctrough, ng/mL), The lowest plasma concentration reached before the next dose., 12 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the number of patients with at least a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), based on the best objective response values while on treatment using RECIST version 1.1, 12 months
This is a Phase 1, multicenter, openlabel, first-in-human (FIH), doseescalation and dose expansion study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, and preliminary efficacy of DM001 in subjects with advanced solid tumors.

DM001, a bispecific ADC developed using fully human antibodies with a common light chain, which targets TROP2 and EGFR.

DM001 is sterile yellowish-green lyophilized powder for IV infusion.

Subjects with solid malignant tumors will be treated with DM001 on Day 1 once Q3W (dose adjustments may be required depending on the safety profile and PK data of each dose).