Efficacy/Safety Study of R-CHOP vs Bortezomib-R-CAP for Young Patients With Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma With Poor IPI.
Diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, accounting for between 30% and 50% of the patients. Although it is considered a curable disease, still at least 40 % of the patients will fail first line chemotherapy. The International Prognostic Index (IPI) score and the age adjusted IPI (aIPI) has been used since they were published to identify patients with different outcome.

There is not standard therapy for young patients with DLBCL and unfavourable IPI score. The survival of these patients remains poor, with EFS around 40%.

The combination of RCHOP with new drugs is an attractive approach to treat these patients.

The goal is to evaluate the proportion of patients with Event-Free Survival (EFS) after 2 years, with a diagnosis of DLBCL with an aIPI \> 1 or an aIPI =1 with increased levels of beta-2-microglobulin (above the Upper Limits of Normal.)
Diffuse, Large B-Cell, Lymphoma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Vincristine
Proportion of patients with Event-Free Survival at 2 years., To evaluate the proportion of patients with event-free survival at 2 years in patients diagnosed of DLBCL with aIPI \> 1 or aIPI=1 with elevated levels of beta 2-microglobulin (above UNL).

UNL= Upper Normal Limit., During treatment period, there will be assessments every 2 cycles. After end of treatment every 3 month the first year, every 6 months the second year and annually from 3rd to 5th year
Event-Free survival at 2 years in the different subtypes of DLBCL, Event-free survival at 2 years in the different subtypes of DLBCL subgroups: Germinal center B-cell-like (GCB)/non-GCB., Once the treatment is started, there will be weekly safety visits, visits before each treatment cycle, at day 60 after the sixth cycle and then follow-up visits every three months during the first 2 years and every 6 months until the 5th year|Overall survival at 2 years, Overall survival at 2 years in patients diagnosed of DLBCL with aIPI \> 1 or aIPI=1 with elevated levels of beta 2-microglobulin (above UNL), Once the treatment is started, there will be weekly safety visits, visits before each treatment cycle, at day 60 after the sixth cycle and then follow-up visits every three months during the first 2 years and every 6 months until the 5th year.|Overall response rate and complete remissions, Overall response rate and complete remissions in patients diagnosed of DLBCL with aIPI \> 1 or aIPI=1 with elevated levels of beta 2-microglobulin (above UNL)., Once the treatment is started, there will be weekly safety visits, visits before each treatment cycle, at day 60 after the sixth cycle and then follow-up visits every three months during the first 2 years and every 6 months until the 5th year.|Toxicity according to the CTC criteria, Toxicity according to the Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) (version 3.0) of the National Cancer Institute (NCI)., Once the treatment is started, there will be weekly safety visits, visits before each treatment cycle, at day 60 after the sixth cycle and then follow-up visits every three months during the first 2 years and every 6 months until the 5th year.|To evaluate the predictive value for EFS of interim PET/CT evaluation, To evaluate the predictive value for EFS of interim PET/CT evaluation after 2 and 4 cycles of chemotherapy.

The PET Network group of Grupo Español de Linfomas y Transplante Autólogo de Médula Ósea (GELTAMO), will conduct this blind central review in real-time (qualitative and quantitative, prospective central review of the PET scans performed), Before treatment, after second cycle, after fourth cycle and after treatment completion.|To identify clinical and biological prognostic factors for response and survival., To identify clinical and biological prognostic factors for response and survival., Once the treatment is started, there will be weekly safety visits, a visit before each treatment cycle, a visit at day 60 after the sixth cycle and then follow-up visits every three months the first 2 years and every 6 months until the 5th year.
Biological project, * To explore the mutational profile in a selection of these cases by massive sequencing.
* To analyze the impact of the molecular classification of DLBCL based on immunohistochemistry (IHC) (as Hans algorithms, Choi and Meyer) in the prospective series of the patients of this clinical trial.
* To explore the effect of the expression of genes, Micro-Ribonucleic Acid (miRNAs) and proteins of interest. Refine the IHC analysis with automatic quantification methods of protein expression.
* To explore the effect of frequent cytogenetic alterations in DLBCL., During recruitment period, after patient randomization.
Diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, accounting for between 30% and 50% of the patients. Although it is considered a curable disease, still at least 40 % of the patients will fail first line chemotherapy. The International Prognostic Index (IPI) score and the age adjusted IPI (aIPI) has been used since they were published to identify patients with different outcome.

CHOP chemotherapy administered every 21 days has been for years the standard therapy for advanced DLBCL achieving a long term overall survival (OS) of about 40%. Many studies show that the addition of the monoclonal antibody Rituximab improves the patients survival achieving higher rates of event-free survival in elderly patients with both,favourable and unfavourable IPI score. R-CHOP also improved survival in young patients with favourable IPI score.

There is not standard therapy for young patients with DLBCL and unfavourable IPI score. The survival of these patients remains poor, with EFS around 40%.

The combination of RCHOP with new drugs is an attractive approach to treat these patients.

The investigators propose a phase II randomized clinical trial for young patients with unfavourable IPI score DLBCL using 6 cycles of the combination of subcutaneous Bortezomib with R-CAP (RCHOP without vincristine, to avoid neuropathy) comparing with the standard immunochemotherapy regimen R- CHOP every 21 days.

The goal is to evaluate the proportion of patients with Event-Free Survival (EFS) after 2 years, with a diagnosis of DLBCL with aIPI \> 1 or aIPI =1 with increased levels of beta-2-microglobulin (above the Upper Limits of Normal).