Ivabradine in the Management of Cardiac Autonomic Dysfunction Associated With Thoracic Radiation Therapy.
This study will explore whether ivabradine lowers heart rate, and thus improves exercise capacity, in survivors of lymphoma who have an elevated resting heart rate as a side effect of prior radiation treatment.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* Ivabradine
* Placebo
Lymphoma|Autonomic Imbalance|Cancer Survivorship
DRUG: Ivabradine|DRUG: Placebo Oral Tablet
To Investigate Whether Ivabradine Lowers Resting HR, Compared To Placebo, In Survivors Of Lymphoma, Calculate the change in resting HR (from Holter monitor data) from baseline to 6 weeks for each patient in the study. Then compare the median change with ivabradine to the median change with placebo., 6 weeks
To Evaluate Whether Ivabradine Improves Exercise Duration, Compared To Placebo, In Survivors Of Lymphoma, Calculate the change in exercise duration (from exercise treadmill stress tests) from baseline to 6 weeks for each patient in the study. Then compare the median change in exercise duration with ivabradine to the median change in exercise duration with placebo., 6 weeks
To Evaluate Whether Ivabradine Improves Additional Markers of Cardiac Sympatho-vagal Balance, Compared To Placebo, In Survivors Of Lymphoma, Calculate the change in cardiac autonomic function (from cardiac autonomic function testing) from baseline to 6 weeks in one half of the patients in the study (n=30), 6 weeks|To Evaluate Whether Ivabradine Improves Health Related Quality Of Life Compared To Placebo, In Survivors Of Lymphoma, Calculate the change in health related quality of life (from SF-36 quality of life surveys) from baseline to 6 weeks for each patient in the study (n=60), 6 weeks
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining this study intervention for this particular problem.

In this research study, the investigators are studying a drug called ivabradine. The investigators are exploring whether ivabradine can be used to reduce heart rate, increase exercise duration, and improve quality of life in survivors of lymphoma who received radiation to their chest as a part of their cancer treatment.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved ivabradine for this specific disease, but it has approved the drug as an oral medication to lower heart rate in heart failure patients.

Survivors of lymphoma who were treated with neck and/or chest radiation can have an elevated resting heart rate and an abnormal rate of decline in their heart rate after exercise, also known as cardiac autonomic dysfunction. These abnormalities can limit exercise duration and worsen quality of life in some radiation treated survivors of lymphoma