FOLFOX Plus Lenvatinib Adjuvant Therapy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Post-Liver Transplantation
Liver transplantation not only removes the liver tumor (seed) but also eliminates the underlying diseased liver (soil), making it an essential therapeutic approach for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the tumor recurrence post-liver transplantation significantly jeopardizing the long-term survival of transplant recipients. Given the scarcity of donor livers, exploring effective measures to prevent tumor recurrence after liver transplantation holds significant clinical and societal value. Currently, there is no consensus on adjuvant therapy for preventing tumor recurrence post-liver transplantation for HCC, and the quantity and quality of studies on systemic chemotherapy are limited. In recent years, administration of the FOLFOX regimen combined with lenvatinib has been widely used in the treatment of advanced HCC, showing remarkable efficacy. The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of adjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX combined with lenvatinib in preventing tumor recurrence after liver transplantation for HCC beyond Milan criteria.
Liver Cancer|Liver Transplant
DRUG: FOLFOX4 regimen|DRUG: lenvatinib
2-year recurrence-free survival, From the date of transplantation to the date of tumor recurrence or the date of tumor progression otherwise, with censoring at the date of death or last contact for event-free patients., 2 years
2-year overall survival, The cumulative incidence of patients surviving the next 2 years from the start of treatment., 2 years|Adverse event and validation of adverse event incidence, The grade and incidence of adverse events (including laboratory tests, vital signs, electrocardiogram and other safety-related indicators, especially hematological system toxicity, liver transplantation function impairment, etc.) during the study, as well as the incidence of serious adverse events., 2 years
Liver transplantation not only removes the liver tumor (seed) but also eliminates the underlying diseased liver (soil), making it an essential therapeutic approach for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the tumor recurrence post-liver transplantation significantly jeopardizing the long-term survival of transplant recipients. Given the scarcity of donor livers, exploring effective measures to prevent tumor recurrence after liver transplantation holds significant clinical and societal value. Currently, there is no consensus on adjuvant therapy for preventing tumor recurrence post-liver transplantation for HCC, and the quantity and quality of studies on systemic chemotherapy are limited. In recent years, administration of the FOLFOX regimen combined with lenvatinib has been widely used in the treatment of advanced HCC, showing remarkable efficacy. The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of adjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX combined with lenvatinib in preventing tumor recurrence after liver transplantation for HCC beyond Milan criteria.