Exercise Program Among Lung Cancer Dyads
Pilot study of an exercise program among patients with all stages of lung cancer examining feasibility and acceptability. Preliminary outcomes include objective measures of physical function, depression, adherence to lung cancer treatments, Quality of Life (QOL), and social support.
Lung Cancer|Depression|Physical Activity|Quality of Life|Pain|Lung Cancer Symptoms
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Study Feasibility: Proportion enrolled, Will be measured as the number of couples who enroll out of those approached. Will evaluate using descriptive statistics., 12 weeks|Study Acceptability: Average attendance, Will be measured by the average attendance at sessions over the course of the intervention. This will be calculated as the total number of classes attended divided by the total possible they could have attended over the course of the study. Attendance will be categorized by sessions couples attended together and those where only one partner attends. Will evaluate using descriptive statistics., 12 weeks
Incidence of Depression, Will be measured using the Patient Health Questionnaire - 8 (PHQ-8). Total sum scores range from 0-24 with 0 indicating no symptoms to higher scores (\>=10) indicating major depressive symptoms., 12 weeks|Change in physical function over time: 6-minute walk, We will monitor the change in physical function over time of the participants with lung cancer in our study. Physical functioning will be measured at baseline, week 6, and week 12 of the exercise program. For this test, the participants ability to walk for 6 minutes, and the distance (meters) walked within that 6 minutes will be recorded and compared at each time point., 12 weeks|Change in physical function over time: Hand grip test, We will monitor the change in physical function over time of the participants with lung cancer in our study. Physical functioning will be measured at baseline, week 6, and week 12 of the exercise program. For the hand grip test, participants will grip a dynamometer that measures force in kg. The force of the grip will be measured and compared at each time point., 12 weeks|Change in physical function over time: Short Physical Performance Battery, We will monitor the change in physical function over time of the participants with lung cancer in our study. Physical functioning will be measured at baseline, week 6, and week 12 of the exercise program. The Short Physical Performance Battery test includes height/weight measurements, standing balance tests (semi-tandem, side-by-side, full tandem), walking speed (at 4 meters), and chair stands. Participants are assigned scores based on their ability to complete each exercise. For the Balance test, 0=incomplete, 1=complete. For the time it takes to walk 4 meters, point values of 1 to 4 are assigned. (1=8.7 sec, 2=6.21 to 8.70 sec, 3=4.82 to 6.20 sec, 4=less than 4.82 sec). For the chair stands, 1=between 16.7 sec and 60 sec, 2=13.7 sec to 16.69 sec, 3=11.2 sec to 13.69 sec, 4=11.19 sec or less. Each of these scores are then summed. The sum scores will be compared at each time point to measure change in physical function over time., 12 weeks|Quality of Life for participants with lung cancer assessed by FACT-L, Quality of life for participants with lung cancer will be measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung (FACT-L). The 36-item questionnaire uses a 5-point scale ranging from 0 (Not at all) to 4 (Very Much). We will measure the sum of all responses as well as look at sub-scales: physical, social/family, emotional, functional, and additional concerns., 12 weeks|Quality of Life for exercise partners assessed by CQOLC, Quality of life for exercise partners will be measured using the Caregiver Quality of Life Index - Cancer (CQOLC), a 35-item questionnaire about caring for loved ones with lung cancer. It uses a 5-point scale ranging from 0 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much), 12 weeks|Fatigue assessed by PROMIS Short-Form, PROMIS® (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Short-Form - Fatigue questionnaires measure the fatigue experienced in the past 7 days and its level of interference with daily activities. All participants will answer the 7-item questionnaire using a 5-point scale ranging from 0 (Never) to 4 (Always)., 12 weeks|Pain assessed by PROMIS Short-Form, PROMIS® (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Short-From - Pain questionnaires measure both pain intensity, quality, and impact on daily function experienced in the past 7 days. All participants will answer the 16 questions using a 5-point Likert scale. Scores range from 0, "no pain" to 4, "very severe"; and 0, "not at all" to 4, "very much.", 12 weeks|Sleep assessed by PROMIS Short-Form, PROMIS® (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Short-Form - Sleep questionnaire measures the sleep quality using an 8-item questionnaire on a 5-point scale, with responses ranging from 0 (Very Poor/Not at all) to 4 (Very Good/Not at all)., 12 weeks|Relationship Distress assessed by DAS-SF, Measured using the DAS-SF (Dyadic Adjustment Scale - Short Form) a 7-item scale asking about relationship satisfaction and scored using a 5-point scale ranging from 1 (Low) to 5 (High), 12 weeks|Social Support assessed by PSSS, The Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (PSSS) is a 12-item questionnaire that uses a 7 point Likert scale that measures the support one receives from friends, family, and significant others., 12 weeks|Level of exercise outside the exercise intervention assessed by GLTEQ, The Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire (GLTEQ) is a self-report questionnaire asking the patient-participant how often they engaged in mild effort, moderate exercise, strenuous exercise, and resistance (weight bearing exercise). This will be measured in three different ways: 1) total activity = vigorous + moderate + mild + resistance, 2) physical activity guidelines = moderate + (vigorous x 2), 3) moderate + vigorous., 12 weeks|Incidence of Malnutrition, Measured using a Malnutrition Screening Tool (MST). Patients with lung cancer with a score of 2 or more are considered at risk for malnutrition., 12 weeks|Subjective evaluation of PEP-LC participant experience from phone interviews, Dyads participating in the exercise intervention will complete a follow up phone interview regarding their experience in the program. They will be ask to describe their overall experience as well as indicate if they have any suggestions on making the program better, 1-2 months follow completion of program (up to 4 months)|Incidence of Relationship Strain, Partner participants will complete the Modified Caregiver Strain Index (MCSI), an 18-item questionnaire about strain caused by caretaking for a person with cancer. Uses a 5-point scale ranging from 0 (Never) to 4 (A great deal), 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the feasibility and acceptability of a progressive exercise program initiated after lung cancer diagnosis among patient partner dyads.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Examine the preliminary effects of partnered exercise on physical function, depression, adherence to lung cancer treatments, QOL and social support .

OUTLINE:

Participants attend supervised group exercises classes twice per week during weeks 1-6 and once per week during weeks 7-12. Participants also attend home-based unsupervised exercise sessions via an instructional DVD once per weeks over for 30 minutes during weeks 1-6 and twice per week during weeks 7-12.