Iberdomide Combined With Low-dose Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone
Evaluation of the effect iberdomide combined with low-dose cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Iberdomide plus low-dose cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone
Progression free survival, PFS; i.e. time from the first dose of iberdomide-cyclophosphamide-dexamethasone to progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first, up to 5 years
Overall response rate, In this analysis the investigators will consider the best response obtained during treatment according to the international myeloma working group (IMWG) criteria, up to 5 years|Safety and toxicity, defined by type, frequency and severity of adverse events as defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03, up to 5 years|Overall survival, measured from first dose of iberdomide-cyclophosphamide-dexamethasone, to time of death from any cause. Patients still alive or lost to follow up are censored at the date they were last known to be alive., up to 5 years|Time to response, defined as time from first dose of iberdomide-cyclophosphamide-dexamethasone to the first objective documentation of PR or better., up to 5 years|Duration of response, defined as time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression., up to 5 years|Time to second objective disease progression (PFS2), defined as time from first dose of iberdomide-cyclophosphamide-dexamethasone to 2nd disease progression or death from any cause., up to 5 years|Time to next treatment (TTNT), defined as the date from first dose of iberdomide- cyclophosphamide-dexamethasone to first day when subject receives another myeloma treatment. Subjects who do not start new myeloma therapy are censored at the last known alive date or first dose date, whichever is later., up to 5 years
Novel drugs such as lenalidomide (an immunomodulatory drug; IMiD) have markedly improved the prognosis of multiple myeloma patients. Over the recent years, lenalidomide is increasingly used as part of first line therapy, typically until the development of progressive disease. These lenalidomide-refractory patients can be treated with several regimens. However, these regimens frequently contain proteasome inhibitors which are associated with neuropathy (bortezomib) or cardiovascular complications (carfilzomib). These proteasome inhibitors also need to be administered subcutaneously or intravenously in the hospital, once or twice per week. Also these regimens have limited efficacy in lenalidomide-refractory patients. This indicates that there is still an unmet medical need for new treatment options for patients who develop lenalidomide-refractory disease. These new treatment regimens should be active and safe without induction of neuropathy or cardiovascular side effects Moreover, an all oral regimen is frequently preferred by patients.

Iberdomide plus low-dose cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone

Available data indicates that the Cereblon E3 ligase modifying drug (CELMoD) iberdomide (CC220) is pharmacologically distinct from lenalidomide and pomalidomide with a higher potency against Cereblon, leading to differentiated antitumor and immunostimulating effects. Since iberdomide plus dexamethasone is active and well-tolerated in heavily pretreated patients including those with lenalidomide/pomalidomide-refractory disease, this two-drug regimen forms a new platform to which other agents can be added. The combinations of bortezomib, carfilzomib, or daratumumab plus iberdomide and dexamethasone are currently being evaluated.

Investigators have shown that low-dose cyclophosphamide can be effectively combined with the IMiDs lenalidomide and pomalidomide. These combinations are effective and are well-tolerated.

To address the unmet medical need for new treatment options for lenalidomide-refractory MM patients, the investigators aim at further improving the efficacy of IMiD/CELMoD plus dexamethasone combination therapy in terms of response and progression-free survival, by adding low-dose cyclophosphamide to the iberdomide-dexamethasone backbone (IberCd). This all-oral regimen will be tested in a lenalidomide-refractory patient population with 2-4 prior lines of therapy. The goal of this trial is to investigate the efficacy and safety of the IberCd combination in multiple myeloma patients who have refractory disease or a relapse after prior treatment with lenalidomide. Besides, various correlative studies will be performed during this trial including immune monitoring.