Trial of Best Supportive Care and Either Cisplatin or Paclitaxel to Treat Patients With Primary Ovarian Cancer, Primary Peritoneal Cancer or Fallopian Tube Cancer and Inoperable Malignant Bowel Obstruction
The best way to treat MBO in patients with ovarian cancer has not been studied enough by trials that assess how more than one treatment arm (surgical, chemotherapeutic, supportive care approaches) affects clinical outcomes like resolution of bowel obstruction, survival, and quality of life. To improve patient outcomes, we must assess which patients will do better with palliative surgery, chemotherapy, or best supportive care. This study will gather safety information, and how reasonable it is to give chemotherapy and BSC to patients with advanced ovarian cancer and MBO who are non-surgical candidates. This study will also look into the effects of chemotherapy and BSC on the quality of life and resolution of bowel obstruction, in hopes to perform future studies that lead to the best management of MBO.
Ovarian Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Bowel Obstruction
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Overall Safety Profile, Type, frequency, severity (NCI CTCAE v.3.0.1) and relationship to trial treatment of adverse events and laboratory abnormalities. Frequency and severity of adverse events will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest., Day 1 of treatment until resolution of symptoms|Quality of Life Scores at Baseline, Day 30 and Day 90, Quality of life scores will be tabulated using counts and summary statistics. We hypothesize that at 30 days from treatment, there may be no improvement in quality of life scores compared to baseline. We hypothesize that at 90 days from treatment, there will be an improvement in quality of life scores from baseline by one third standard deviation. Paired T test and Mixed model will be used to make the comparison over different time period., Day 1 of treatment until resolution of symptoms|Time to Resolution of Bowel Obstruction, Time to resolution of bowel obstruction and time to recurrence of bowel obstruction will be assessed using summary statistics including mean, median, counts and proportion, to summarize the patients., Day 1 of treatment until resolution of symptoms
Survival, Survival: 30-day(all cause and disease-specific), 60-day(all cause and disease-specific), and 90-day mortality (all cause and disease-specific).

Summary statistics will be used to summarize the patients. Survival estimates will be computed using Kaplan-Meier method. Variable association will be measured using Pearson correlation coefficients, chi-square tests, one- or two-sample t-tests or logistic regression analyses. Non-parametric tests may be substituted if necessary. Results will be illustrated using figures and plots using 95 percent confidence intervals., 30 days, 60 days, and 90 days from treatment start date|Evaluation of Toxicity, All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time they sign consent., Time of consent until resolution of symptoms
The optimal management of MBO in patients with ovarian cancer has not been defined by proper prospective randomized control trials evaluating the impact of defined multidisciplinary treatment arms (surgical, chemotherapeutic, supportive care approaches) on important clinical outcomes including resolution of bowel obstruction, survival endpoints and validated quality of life outcomes. In order to improve patient outcomes, we must define which patients will benefit from palliative surgery, which patients are appropriate candidates for chemotherapy and which patients will benefit most from best supportive care. This study will determine the safety, feasibility of chemotherapy and BSC in patients with advanced ovarian cancer presenting with MBO who are initially deemed non-surgical candidates and will identify the impact of chemotherapy and BSC on quality of life and resolution of bowel obstruction, in preparation for future prospective randomized studies to determine the optimal management of MBO.