Anti-GARP Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy for the Treatment of Recurrent Grade III or IV Gliomas
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of anti-glycoprotein-A repetitions predominant (GARP) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy and how well it works in treating patients with grade III or IV gliomas that have come back after a period of improvement (recurrent). CAR T-cell therapy is a type of treatment in which a patient's T cells (a type of immune system cell) are changed in the laboratory so they will attack tumor cells. T cells are taken from a patient's blood. Then the gene for a special receptor that binds to a certain protein, such as GARP, on the patient's tumor cells is added to the T cells in the laboratory. The special receptor is called a CAR. Large numbers of the CAR T cells are grown in the laboratory and given to the patient by infusion for treatment of certain tumors. Giving anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating patients with recurrent grade III or IV gliomas.
Recurrent Malignant Glioma|Recurrent WHO Grade 3 Glioma|Recurrent WHO Grade 4 Glioma|WHO Grade 2 Glioma|WHO Grade 3 Glioma|WHO Grade 4 Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-GARP Chimeric Antigen Receptor-T Cells|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|PROCEDURE: Pheresis|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure
Dose limiting toxicities, The rate, frequency and severity will be defined using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5. Will be summarized by descriptive statistics. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Up to 30 days after the first dose
Incidence of adverse events, The rate, frequency and severity will be defined using CTCAE v 5. Will be summarized by descriptive statistics. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Cytokine levels and immunophenotype in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), During and following therapy, assessed up to 15 years|Duration of anti-glycoprotein-A repetitions predominant (GARP) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell persistence and phenotype in CSF, Up to 15 years|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be calculated and exact binomial 95% confidence interval (CI) will be provided., Up to 15 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate PFS with 95% CI., From initiation of therapy to the time of progression or death, assessed up to 15 years|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate OS with 95% CI., From initiation of therapy to death, assessed up to 15 years|Correlation of GARP expression levels with outcomes, Relative GARP expression in tumor tissue will be summarized using descriptive statistics., At pre- and post-treatment, assessed up to 24 months|Frequency and phenotype of anti-GARP CAR T cells in tumor tissue, The level and phenotype of anti-GARP CAR T in tumor tissue will be summarized using descriptive statistics., At progression, assessed up to 15 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the safety and feasibility of a CAR T targeting GARP for glioma by defining rate, frequency, and severity of dose limiting toxicities (DLT) following intracavity administration to patients with recurrent glioma, to determine recommended phase II dose (RP2D).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the adverse event profile of anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy. II. To describe the cytokine levels and immunophenotype in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) during and following anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy.

III. To describe the duration of anti-GARP CAR T cell persistence and phenotype in CSF.

IV. To describe anti-tumor activity of anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy based on objective response rate (ORR), as measured by established radiological criteria.

V. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients receiving anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy.

VI. For research participants with tumor specimens from primary resections and/or autopsy, describe GARP expression levels pre- and post-treatment and correlate with outcomes.

VII. To describe the frequency and phenotype of anti-GARP CAR T cells and describe GARP expression in resected post-treatment tumor tissue at progression (for patients in whom surgical resection is indicated).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess peripheral blood (mononuclear cells, plasma) and CSF for biomarkers that may be associated with response to anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy.

II. To assess archival tissues (primary resection), recurrent tumor, and/or autopsy specimens for biomarkers that may be associated with response to anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy.

III. To assess baseline genetic markers that may be associated with response to anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy.

OTHER EFFICACY OBJECTIVES:

I. Best overall response, determined via response assessment in neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria.

II. Clinical benefit rate that includes all subjects receiving 5 doses of anti-GARP CAR T cell therapy who demonstrate a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) of at least 6 months duration.

III. Duration of response, calculated as the time from which a response is first observed (CR or PR) until progression or death, whichever occurs first.

IV. Overall survival (OS), calculated from first administration of study drug until death for up to two years after receiving the drug.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients undergo apheresis on day -14 and undergo surgery and placement of CSF reservoir on day 0. Patients receive anti-GARP CAR T intracavitary infusion on day 14, 21, 28, 35 and 42 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicities. Additionally, patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) at screening and collection of CSF and blood samples, lumbar puncture, chest x-ray and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks then at 3, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 24 months then annually for at least 15 years.