Study of TSR-033 With an Anti-programmed Cell Death-1 Receptor (PD-1) in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a multicenter, open-label, first-in-human Phase 1 study evaluating the anti-lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) antibody TSR-033 alone, in combination with the anti-PD-1 antibody dostarlimab, and in combination with dostarlimab, modified folinic acid (FOL)/leucovorin, 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin (OX) (mFOLFOX6) or FOL/leucovorin, 5-fluorouracil and irinotecan (IRI) (FOLFIRI), and bevacizumab in participants with advanced solid tumors in a broad range of solid tumors. Participants with disease types selected for evaluation in this study are expected to derive clinical benefit with addition of an anti-PD-1. The study will be conducted in two parts with Part 1 consisting of dose escalation to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of TSR-033 as a single agent (Part 1a) and in combination with dostarlimab (Part 1c). RP2D decisions will be based on the occurrence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), pharmacokinetics (PK), as well as pharmacodynamics (PDy) data. Part 2A of the study will investigate the anti-tumor activity of TSR-033 and dostarlimab in combination in participants with advanced or metastatic microsatellite stable colorectal cancer (MSS-CRC). Part 2B of the study will investigate the safety and anti-tumor activity of TSR-033 and dostarlimab in combination with chemotherapy (Cohort B1: mFOLFOX6 and Cohort B2: FOLFIRI) and bevacizumab in participants with advanced or metastatic MSS-CRC.
Neoplasms
DRUG: TSR-033|DRUG: Dostarlimab|DRUG: mFOLFOX6|DRUG: FOLFIRI|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Part 1A: Number of Participants Experiencing Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), DLTs were assessed based on common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v5.0 included drug-related AEs like grade\>=2 uveitis, eye pain, or blurred vision that does not resolve with topical therapy within 2 weeks, grade ≥2 immune-related endocrine toxicity that required hormone replacement, grade 2 or 3 colitis or diarrhea that persisted without resolution to grade\<=1 for \>=7days despite adequate immune suppressive therapy, grade 3 or 4 immune-related AEs (irAE) without resolution to grade\<=1 or baseline within 8 days despite adequate immune suppressive therapy, any grade clinically significant (CS) irAE requiring treatment discontinuation, other grade\>=3 non-hematologic toxicity, any CS grade\>=3 non-hematologic laboratory abnormality, any CS hematologic toxicity and any death that is not clearly attributed to the underlying disease or extraneous causes. CTCAE defines Grade 0 as normal, 1 as mild, 2 as moderate, 3 as severe and Grade 4 as life-threatening consequences., Up to 28 days|Part 1C: Number of Participants Experiencing DLT, DLTs were assessed based on common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v5.0 included drug-related AEs like grade\>=2 uveitis, eye pain, or blurred vision that does not resolve with topical therapy within 2 weeks, grade ≥2 immune-related endocrine toxicity that required hormone replacement, grade 2 or 3 colitis or diarrhea that persisted without resolution to grade\<=1 for \>=7days despite adequate immune suppressive therapy, grade 3 or 4 immune-related AEs (irAE) without resolution to grade\<=1 or baseline within 8 days despite adequate immune suppressive therapy, any grade clinically significant (CS) irAE requiring treatment discontinuation, other grade\>=3 non-hematologic toxicity, any CS grade\>=3 non-hematologic laboratory abnormality, any CS hematologic toxicity and any death that is not clearly attributed to the underlying disease or extraneous causes. CTCAE defines Grade 0 as normal, 1 as mild, 2 as moderate, 3 as severe and Grade 4 as life-threatening consequences., Up to 42 days|Part 2B: Number of Participants Experiencing DLT, DLTs were assessed based on common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v5.0 included drug-related AEs like grade\>=2 uveitis, eye pain, or blurred vision that does not resolve with topical therapy within 2 weeks, grade ≥2 immune-related endocrine toxicity that required hormone replacement, grade 2 or 3 colitis or diarrhea that persisted without resolution to grade\<=1 for \>=7days despite adequate immune suppressive therapy, grade 3 or 4 immune-related AEs (irAE) without resolution to grade\<=1 or baseline within 8 days despite adequate immune suppressive therapy, any grade clinically significant (CS) irAE requiring treatment discontinuation, other grade\>=3 non-hematologic toxicity, any CS grade\>=3 non-hematologic laboratory abnormality, any CS hematologic toxicity and any death that is not clearly attributed to the underlying disease or extraneous causes. CTCAE defines Grade 0 as normal, 1 as mild, 2 as moderate, 3 as severe and Grade 4 as life-threatening consequences., Up to 30 days|Part 1: Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs)and Immune-related AEs (irAEs), SAEs are any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is an important medical event that may jeopardize the participant or may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the other outcomes listed before. TEAEs are defined as any new AE that begins, or any pre-existing condition that worsens in severity, after at least 1 dose of study treatment administration. Immune-related adverse events of interest (irAEs) are defined as any \>= Grade 2 AEs based on a pre-specified list. CTCAE defines Grade 0 as normal, 1 as mild, 2 as moderate, 3 as severe and Grade 4 as life-threatening consequences., Up to approximately 51 months|Part 2B: Number of Participants With SAEs, TEAEs and irAEs, SAEs are any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is an important medical event that may jeopardize the participant or may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the other outcomes listed before. TEAEs are defined as any new AE that begins, or any pre-existing condition that worsens in severity, after at least 1 dose of study treatment administration. Immune-related adverse events of interest (irAEs) are defined as any \>= Grade 2 AEs based on a pre-specified list. CTCAE defines Grade 0 as normal, 1 as mild, 2 as moderate, 3 as severe and Grade 4 as life-threatening consequences., Up to approximately 29 months|Part 1: Number of Participants With Grade Shift From Baseline in Hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of hematology parameters and each parameter was graded according to national cancer institute (NCI)-common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Grade 0: normal, Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline was defined as the most recent non-missing measurement prior to the first administration of study drug. Data has been presented for the number of participants with hematology grade shifts from baseline grade to grade 3 and 4 for each parameter., Up to 51 months|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Grade Shift From Baseline in Hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of hematology parameters and each parameter was graded according to national cancer institute (NCI)-common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Grade 0: normal, Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline was defined as the most recent non-missing measurement prior to the first administration of study drug. Data have been presented for the number of participants with hematology grade shifts from baseline grade to grade 3 and 4 for each parameter. WBC is white blood cells., Up to 29 months|Part 1: Number of Participants With Grade Shift From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of clinical chemistry parameters and each parameter was graded according to national cancer institute (NCI)-common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Grade 0: normal, Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline was defined as the most recent non-missing measurement prior to the first administration of study drug. Data have been presented for the number of participants with clinical chemistry grade shifts from baseline grade to grade 3 and 4 for each parameter., Up to 51 months|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Grade Shift From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of clinical chemistry parameters and each parameter was graded according to national cancer institute (NCI)-common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Grade 0: normal, Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline was defined as the most recent non-missing measurement prior to the first administration of study drug. Data have been presented for the number of participants with clinical chemistry grade shifts from baseline grade to grade 3 and 4 for each parameter., Up to 29 months|Part 1: Number of Participants With Grade 3 and 4 Toxicities in Clinical Chemistry Parameters - Creatinine, Bilirubin, Alkaline Phosphatase, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of clinical chemistry parameters and each parameter was graded according to national cancer institute (NCI)-common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Grade 0: normal, Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Data have been presented for the number of participants with clinical chemistry grade3 and 4 toxicities each parameter., Up to 51 months|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Grade 3 and 4 Toxicities in Clinical Chemistry Parameters - Alanine Aminotransferase, Aspartate Aminotransferase, Creatinine, Bilirubin, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of clinical chemistry parameters and each parameter was graded according to national cancer institute (NCI)-common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Grade 0: normal, Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline was defined as the most recent non-missing measurement prior to the first administration of study drug. Data have been presented for the number of participants with clinical chemistry grade 3 and 4 toxicities each parameter., Up to 29 months|Part 1: Number of Participants With Post Baseline Abnormal Electrocardiogram (ECG) Results, 12-lead ECG were obtained using an ECG machine. Participants were in supine or a semi-recumbent position (about 30 degrees of elevation) and rested for approximately 2 minutes before ECGs are recorded. ECG results included QT interval corrected for heart rate according to Bazett's formula (QTcB), QT interval corrected for heart rate according to Fridericia's formula (QTcF), QRS interval, PR Interval and Heart rate., Up to 51 months|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Post Baseline Abnormal ECG Results, 12-lead ECG were obtained using an ECG machine. Participants were in supine or a semi-recumbent position (about 30 degrees of elevation) and rested for approximately 2 minutes before ECGs are recorded. ECG results included QT interval corrected for heart rate according to Bazett's formula (QTcB), QT interval corrected for heart rate according to Fridericia's formula (QTcF), QRS interval, PR Interval and Heart rate., Up to 29 months|Part 2A: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST)v1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 30 months
Part 1ab: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to Last Measurable Concentration (AUC [0-last]) of TSR-033, Blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously as monotherapy. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96 and 168 hour|Part 1c: AUC (0-last) of TSR-033 and Dostarlimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously in combination with dostarlimab. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96, 168, 336 and 504 hour|Part 1ab: AUC Extrapolated From Time Zero to Infinity (AUC [0-inf]) of TSR-033, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously as monotherapy. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96 and 168 hour|Part 1c: AUC (0-inf) of TSR-033 and Dostarlimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously in combination with dostarlimab. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96, 168, 336 and 504 hour|Part 1ab: AUC Over a Dosing Interval at Steady State (AUCtau) of TSR-033, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously as monotherapy. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96 and 168 hour|Part 1c: AUCtau of TSR-033 and Dostarlimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously in combination with dostarlimab. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96, 168, 336 and 504 hour|Part 1ab: Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of TSR-033, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously as monotherapy. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96 and 168 hour|Part 1c: Cmax of TSR-033 and Dostarlimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously in combination with dostarlimab. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96, 168, 336 and 504 hour|Part 1ab: Clearance (CL) of TSR-033, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously as monotherapy. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96 and 168 hour|Part 1c: CL of TSR-033 and Dostarlimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously in combination with dostarlimab. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96, 168, 336 and 504 hour|Part 1ab: Volume of Distribution at Steady State (Vss) of TSR-033, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously as monotherapy. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96 and 168 hour|Part 1c: Vss of TSR-033 and Dostarlimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously in combination with dostarlimab. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96, 168, 336 and 504 hour|Part 1ab: Terminal Half-life (t1/2) of TSR-033, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously as monotherapy. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96 and 168 hour|Part 1c: t1/2 of TSR-033 and Dostarlimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis of TSR-033 when administered intravenously in combination with dostarlimab. PK parameter was determined using standard non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose and post-dose 15 minute, 30 minute, 1, 1.5, 3, 24, 48, 96, 168, 336 and 504 hour|Part 1ab: Number of Participants With Anti-TSR-033 Antibodies, Serum samples will be collected and tested for the presence of antibodies to TSR-033., Up to 51 months|Part 1c: Number of Participants With Anti-TSR-033 Antibodies, Serum samples will be collected and tested for the presence of antibodies to TSR-033., Up to 29 months|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Anti-TSR-033 Antibodies, Serum samples will be collected and tested for the presence of antibodies to TSR-033., Up to 29 months|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Anti-TSR-033 Antibodies, Serum samples will be collected and tested for the presence of antibodies to TSR-033., Up to 29 months|Part 1ab: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST)v1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all target \& non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 51 months|Part 1c: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST)v1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all target \& non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 29 months|Part 2B: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST)v1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all target \& non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 29 months|Part 2A: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from first documentation of CR or PR by RECIST v1.1 until the time offirst documentation of PD per RECIST v1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all target \& non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 29 months|Part 2B: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from first documentation of CR or PR by RECIST v1.1 until the time offirst documentation of PD per RECIST v1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all target \& non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 29 months|Part 2A: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) as assessedby the investigator per RECIST v1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all target \& non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to 29 months|Part 2B: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) as assessedby the investigator per RECIST v1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all target \& non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to 29 months
This is a multicenter, open-label, first-in-human Phase 1 study evaluating the anti-lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) antibody TSR-033 alone, in combination with the anti-PD-1 antibody dostarlimab, and in combination with dostarlimab, modified folinic acid (FOL)/leucovorin, 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin (OX) (mFOLFOX6) or FOL/leucovorin, 5-fluorouracil and irinotecan (IRI) (FOLFIRI), and bevacizumab in participants with advanced solid tumors in a broad range of solid tumors. Participants with disease types selected for evaluation in this study are expected to derive clinical benefit with addition of an anti-PD-1. The study will be conducted in two parts with Part 1 consisting of dose escalation to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of TSR-033 as a single agent (Part 1a) and in combination with dostarlimab (Part 1c). RP2D decisions will be based on the occurrence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), pharmacokinetics (PK), as well as pharmacodynamics (PDy) data. Part 2A of the study will investigate the anti-tumor activity of TSR-033 and dostarlimab in combination in participants with advanced or metastatic microsatellite stable colorectal cancer (MSS-CRC). Part 2B of the study will investigate the safety and anti-tumor activity of TSR-033 and dostarlimab in combination with chemotherapy (Cohort B1: mFOLFOX6 and Cohort B2: FOLFIRI) and bevacizumab in participants with advanced or metastatic MSS-CRC.