Epidemiological and Molecular Colorectal Cancer Registry
This is a Registry that invites patients undergoing colorectal surgery for colorectal cancer. Epidemiological data is collected. The Registry includes tumor tissue and blood banks for analyzing different genetic mutations and disease-specific biomarkers.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Colorectal Cancer
Overall survival, Patient overall survival at 5 years., 5 years|Disease-free survival, The time free of disease recurrence will be estimated in the whole cohort and according to colorectal cancer stages and molecular profiles., 5 years
Molecular characteristics of colorectal adenocarcinoma., At initial diagnosis, molecular tumor markers will be determined in the tissue samples., 0
This is a Registry that invites patients undergoing colorectal surgery for colorectal cancer. Epidemiological data is collected. The Registry includes tumor tissue and blood samples banks used to studied different genetic variants and disease-specific biomarkers present in patients with Lynch syndrome and others hereditary cancers.

The aim of this registry is to set up the necessary resources to help basic and clinical research projects on colorectal cancer (CRC) within the Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires (HIBA) and promote scientific collaborations between the HIBA and other institutions within and outside the country.

To make this project, the following specific goals are proposed:

Objective 1: Establishment of an efficient algorithm to enroll patients diagnosed with CRC from HIBA, through collaboration between the services of Surgery, Gastroenterology, Pathology, Oncology, Institute of Translational Medicine and Biomedical Engineering (IMTIB), Medical Clinic and Medical Informatics.

Objective 2: Development of logistics for the connection and expansion of the bank of biological samples (DNA, serum) and tumor samples (tissue fixed in formalin, frozen tissue) to the CRC.

Objective 3: Development of computer software to record data about patient enrolled in a dynamic way.

Objective 4: Development of pipelines and create a supervisory committee to regulate the future of samples and data obtained through the registry, accord the current standards of ethical code, and improve the current collaborations with foreign researchers.