Molecular Characteristics of Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma (MOCHA): A Prospective Feasibility Study
Researchers are looking to further our knowledge on disease biology and treatment selection for gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. The purpose of this study is to see how useful it is to look for changes and characteristics in your genes (molecules that contain instructions for the development and functioning of the cells) and the genes within the tumour. These characteristics may be useful in choosing treatments for patients for the future.
Esophagogastric Adenocarcinoma
GENETIC: Molecular Profiling
GEA sequencing data and molecular profiling, Feasibility of obtaining timely sequencing data to guide treatment for patients progressing on 1st line treatment., 2 years to recruit all patients|Establishment of GEA treatment algorithms, Feasibility of using ctDNA, metabolome, immune profiling and other emerging technologies to guide treatment of GEA, 2 years|Establishment of personalized GEA treatment protocols, Feasibility to establish a program of personalized care for GEA patients in terms of pre-treatment assessment (Physiological and Frailty Risk Assessment, QOLQ, Sarcopenia and Adiposity measurements) and treatment based on clinical-genomic correlations., 2 years|GEA BioBank repository, Establishment of a repository of annotated, high quality blood, tumour and microbiome samples from patients with GEA. These archived specimens can be used in future research studies that aim to increase our understanding of GEA cancer and discover new ways of diagnosing and managing disease., 2 years|GEA PDO and PDX models, Establishment of robust patient derived tumour organoids (PDO) and Xenograft (PDX) models, and then assess feasibility of using models to identify drug sensitivity to guide treatment decisions., 2 years
There will be two study arms:

1. patients with suspected or diagnosed localized gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma (GEA) and
2. patients diagnosed with de novo metastatic gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. Fresh tumour, adjacent normal tissue materials, and blood samples will be acquired and utilized to generate molecular data. Stool or rectal swab samples will also be acquired for microbiome analysis. Physiologic, quality of life, epidemiologic, frailty, and other clinical data will be systematically collected as standard of care to serve as clinical correlates for the molecular data.

Arm 1 Primary Objectives

1. Feasibility to produce a potential molecular signature in a clinically meaningful time point in patients with locally advanced GEA
2. Study the molecular characteristics of GEA in patients with localized and resectable disease and identify predictive signatures of response to induction therapy and the development of novel treatment regimens
3. To validate previously identified mutational signatures that defined subgroups of GEA

Arm 2 Primary Objectives

1. Feasibility to produce a potential molecular signature in a clinically meaningful time point for patients with advanced GEA on 1st line chemotherapy
2. Use of genotypes and genomic analyses to define therapies, and develop predictive and prognostic models
3. Assess the feasibility of prospectively identifying distinct genomic characteristics which associate with response to systemic therapy and survival

STUDY ENDPOINTS:

1. Feasibility of obtaining timely sequencing data (8-12 weeks) to guide treatment for patients progressing on 1st line treatment
2. Feasibility of using ctDNA, metabolome, immune profiling and other emerging technologies to guide treatment
3. Establish a program of personalized care for GEA patients in terms of pre-treatment assessment (Physiological and Frailty Risk Assessment, QOLQ, 4. Sarcopenia and Adiposity measurements) and treatment based on clinical-genomic correlations
4. Establishment of repository of biospecimens (tumour, blood and microbiome)
5. Establishment of robust preclinical models of GEA: PDO and PDX models
6. Assess the feasibility of using PDO models to identify drug sensitivity to guide treatment decisions