Fludarabine and Total Body Irradiation 800 Centigray (cGy) or 1125 cGy For Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant Using Graft Versus Host Disease Prophylaxis With Post-Transplant Cyclophosphamide and Tacrolimus, Without Mycophenolate Mofetil
This is a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility, safety and potential benefits of removing one immune suppressive drug called mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) from the standard allogenic stem cell transplant treatment protocol.

MMF will be omitted from the transplant regimen in 60 eligible patients with hematologic malignancies. Participants will be followed for up to 2 years post standard of care transplant at Cedars-Sinai.
Hematologic Neoplasms
OTHER: Omission of the drug mycophenolate mofetil
Engraftment failure, Evaluate the feasibility of eliminating the drug Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) from the transplant regimens as determined by an acceptable rate of engraftment failure (\<10%). Engraftment failure is when the blood-forming cells received on transplant day do not start to grow and make healthy blood cells., 60 days post-transplant
Time to neutrophil and platelet engraftment, Days to neutrophil and platelet engraftment since transplant., 60 days post-transplant|Rate of severe acute GVHD by day +100., Proportion of patients with severe acute GVHD at day 100 post-transplantation.

* Acute GVHD is when the donated stem cells attack the body within the first 100 days post-transplant.
* The modified Keystone criteria will be used for acute GVHD staging and grading., 100 days post-transplant|Treatment-related mortality, Rate of treatment-related mortality, 5 days post- transplant to 2-years|Rate of severe chronic GVHD at 1 year, Proportion of patients with severe chronic GVHD at day 365 post-transplantation.

-Chronic GVHD is when the donated stem cells attack the body after 100 days post-transplant. Chronic GVHD is defined by NIH Consensus Criteria for chronic GVHD., 1-year post-transplant|Relapse, Relapse rate at 1 and 2 years, 1 year post-transplant and 2 years post-transplant|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival at 1 and 2 years, 1-year post-transplant and 2-years post-transplant|Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD)-free, Relapse Free Survival, Rate of GVHD-free, Relapse Free Survival, 1-year post- transplant and 2-years post-transplant
This is a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility, safety and potential benefits of removing one immune suppressive drug called mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) from the standard allogenic stem cell transplant treatment protocol.

MMF will be omitted from the transplant regimen in 60 eligible patients with hematologic malignancies. Participants will be followed for up to 2 years post standard of care transplant at Cedars-Sinai.