Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Bevacizumab Compared With Bevacizumab Alone in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer That Has Been Previously Treated
Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab in treating patients who have advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer that has been previously treated. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies such as bevacizumab can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Combining monoclonal antibody therapy with combination chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known if bevacizumab is more effective with or without combination chemotherapy in treating colorectal cancer
Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Stage III Colon Cancer|Stage III Rectal Cancer|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: fluorouracil
Overall survival, From the date of entry on study, assessed up to 5 years
Response defined using RECIST criteria, Up to 5 years|Progression free survival, From the date of entry on the study to the appearance of new metastatic lesions or objective tumor progression, assessed up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the response, time to progression, and overall survival of patients with previously treated advanced or metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma treated with oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil with or without bevacizumab versus bevacizumab only. (Arm III closed to accrual as of 03/11/2003).

II. Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance status (0 vs 1 or 2), and prior radiotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Patients also receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil (5-FU) IV over 22 hours on days 1 and 2.

Arm II: Patients receive oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and 5-FU as in arm I.

Arm III: Patients receive bevacizumab as in arm I. (Arm closed to accrual as of 03/11/2003).

Courses in all arms repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a complete response may receive 2 additional courses.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.