Assessments and Recommendations for the Implementation of Advance Directives in Oncology
Legitimized by the Leonetti law of April 22, 2005, advance directives (AD) appear in various places of care that alongside the end of life, and even tend to be generalized to all areas related to health care in general. In this context, a prospective study to assess how the patient will seize the AD and identify the different problems writing these AD will be conducted. From this study, it will establish recommendations for the implementation of AD in the Multidisciplinary Oncology Department and Therapeutic Innovations service and in oncology in general. They will be asked patients if they choose to write their AD, complete and sign the AD pre-written in the book or not to draft their AD. The choice of the patients, but also the reasons they associate thereto and, where appropriate, their AD written will be collected. The patient will also inform its demographic and socio the case report (clinical data) should be completed by the investigator. During the first part of research, the use of AD by patients and will be assessed and analyzed in connection with the characteristics of these patients (history of the disease, course of care, socio-demographic) and the reasons they set out to explain their choice. For those who write their AD, they will, in a second step, subject to thematic content analysis to identify the main aspects that the subject convened to consider its end of life.This research therefore lead to the definition of the contours of a user device AD in oncology in general. This study was qualified biomedical research because of the sensitive nature of the study population and bring the patient to personal preoccupations when filling the questionnaire on the choice of directing advance directives and their contents.
Patient Having a Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Choosing to write advance directives
Evaluation the rate of use of advance directives, survey, 24 months
Legitimized by the Leonetti law of April 22, 2005, advance directives (AD) appear in various places of care that alongside the end of life, and even tend to be generalized to all areas related to health care in general. In this context, a prospective study to assess how the patient will seize the AD and identify the different problems writing these AD will be conducted. From this study, it will establish recommendations for the implementation of AD in the Multidisciplinary Oncology Department and Therapeutic Innovations service and in oncology in general. They will be asked patients if they choose to write their AD, complete and sign the AD pre-written in the book or not to draft their AD. The choice of the patients, but also the reasons they associate thereto and, where appropriate, their AD written will be collected. The patient will also inform its demographic and socio the case report (clinical data) should be completed by the investigator. During the first part of research, the use of AD by patients and will be assessed and analyzed in connection with the characteristics of these patients (history of the disease, course of care, socio-demographic) and the reasons they set out to explain their choice. For those who write their AD, they will, in a second step, subject to thematic content analysis to identify the main aspects that the subject convened to consider its end of life.This research therefore lead to the definition of the contours of a user device AD in oncology in general. This study was qualified biomedical research because of the sensitive nature of the study population and bring the patient to personal preoccupations when filling the questionnaire on the choice of directing advance directives and their contents.