A Study on Tumor Budding Guiding Individualized Surgical Planning of Early-stage Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma.
The purpose of this study is to determine whether cervical lymph node dissection is necessarily performed in the presence of early-stage oral squamous cell carcinoma.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell
PROCEDURE: Resection for primary lesion and cervical lymph node dissection|PROCEDURE: Resection for primary lesion only
Five-year survival rate, The time from the first operation to death was recorded, After the first year, review every three months at a time；The next four years, review every six months at a time.|Disease free survival, The time from the start of surgery to the discovery of the first cervical lymphatic metastases, After the first year, review every three months at a time；The next four years, review every six months at a time.
Recurrence rate, To investigate the local recurrence rate and the recurrence rate of cervical lymphatic metastasis., After the first year, review every three months at a time；The next four years, review every six months at a time.|Evaluation of quality of life, Complete the University of Washington Quality of Life Form (UW-QOL) To understand the quality of life of patients after surgery., After the first year, review every three months at a time；The next four years, review every six months at a time.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma is the most common malignant tumor of oral and maxillofacial region, and prone to early cervical lymph node metastases. Lymphatic spread is associated with increased risk of loco-regional recurrence, therefore, the identification of lymph node metastases preoperatively is very important for the optimal surgical therapy. Recently, cervical lymph node dissection(CLND) is performed in the presence of oral squamous cell carcinoma. However, whether cervical lymph node dissection is necessarily performed in the presence of early-stage oral squamous cell carcinoma is still controversial. CLND will represent over-treatment in some case of early-stage oral squamous cell carcinoma. Therefore, How to accurately predict whether a patient should be performed CLND is important. Our previous study show that tumor budding is closely related to lymphatic spread in the oral squamous cell carcinoma. The purpose of this study is to find that whether the tumor budding guide the individualized surgical planning of early-stage oral squamous cell carcinoma.