Study on Safety and Efficacy of NMS-01940153E in Adult Patients With Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) Previously Treated With Systemic Therapy
This is a Phase I/II, open-label, non-randomized, multicenter study to explore safety, tolerability and antitumor activity of NMS-01940153E as single agent in adult patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) previously treated with systemic therapy.

The Phase I portion is designed as a dose-escalation study in sequential cohorts of patients aimed to obtain the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) that is defined based on the dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) observed in the first cycle of treatment.

The Phase II portion is designed as a two-stage study with an interim analysis for futility and stopping criteria for unacceptable toxicity to assess the antitumor activity of NMS-01940153E in adult patients with unresectable HCC previously treated with systemic therapy measured as objective response rate.
Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
DRUG: NMS-01940153E
Phase I Drug Related Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), All 12 Phase I treated patients were evaluable for DLT (Dose-Limiting Toxicity Evaluable Set) and included 6 patients treated at each of the two dose levels explored (i.e., 100 mg/m2/week and 135 mg/m2/week) who received at least 66% of the study drug in the first 28-day cycle of treatment and underwent a DLT assessment within the DLT window.

Participants who experienced DLTs are presented., Phase I: From screening to end of first 28-day cycle (17 months)|Phase II Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate (ORR) was calculated as the proportion of evaluable patients who achieved, as best overall response (BOR), confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) measured by investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1 (Phase II)., Phase II: From Phase II start to Study Completion (23 months)
Treatment-emergent Adverse Events by Maximum CTC Grade, The maximum Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) grade (graded using National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] Version 5.0) experienced by each participant is presented. If an AE was reported for a participant more than once during treatment, the worst CTC Grade is presented here. Phase 2 started before Phase 1 completed.

Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living.

Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care activities of daily living.

Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated., Phase I: From the Study Start Date to Phase I Completion (32 months) - Phase II: From Phase II start to Study Completion (23 months)|Treatment-emergent Adverse Events Related to NMS-01940153E, The number of treatment-emergent adverse events related to NMS-01940153E by maximum CTC grade experienced (graded using NCI CTCAE Version 5.0). Whether the the AE was related or not was assessed by the investigator. If an AE was reported for a participant more than once during treatment, the worst CTC Grade is presented.

Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated.

Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living.

Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care activities of daily living.

Grade 4 Life-threatening. Phase 2 started before Phase 1 completed., Phase I: From the Study Start Date to Phase I Completion (32 months) - Phase II: From Phase II start to Study Completion (23 months)|Hematology: Overall Treatment-emergent Abnormalities by Dose Level and Maximum CTC Grade, Number of treatment emergent abnormalities (at any grade) at all dose levels are presented.

CTC = Common Terminology Criteria WBC = white blood cells, From screening to 28 days follow-up, an average 6 months|Neutrophils Count Decrease: Time to First Occurrence of >=Grade 3 and Time to Recovery to Grade 1, The mean days to first occurrence of neutrophil count decrease are presented for all dose levels.

Grade 0: ≥2,000/mm3 Grade 1: ≥1,500-\< 2,000/mm3 Grade 2: ≥1,000- \< 1,500/mm3 Grade 3: ≥500- \< 1,000/mm3 Grade 4: \<500/mm3

* G3 = Time (days) to Treatment Start to First Occurrence of Neutrophil Count Decrease \>=Grade 3
* G3 to Recovery to G1 = Time (days) to First Occurrence of Neutrophil Count Decrease \>= Grade 3 to Recovery to Grade 1, From screening to 28 days follow-up, an average 6 months|Blood Chemistry: Treatment-emergent Abnormalities by Dose Level, Treatment-emergent abnormalities in blood chemistry at any grade are presented by dose level.

ALP = Alkaline phosphatase ALT = Alanine aminotransferase AST = Aspartate aminotransferase GGT = Gamma-glutamyl transferase LDH = Lactate dehydrogenase, From screening to 28 days follow-up, an average 6 months|Blood Chemistry and Coagulation: Treatment-emergent Abnormalities, Treatment Emergent abnormalities by dose Level are presented for blood chemistry and coagulation parameters.

INR = international normalized ratio LNL = lower normal limit NL = normal limit ULN = upper limit of normal, From screening to 28 days follow-up, an average 6 months|Electrocardiogram Abnormalities, The number of participants who experienced electrocardiogram abnormalities are presented., From screening to 28 days follow-up, an average 6 months|Tmax and Tlast of NMS-01940153E, Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of NMS-01940153E were characterized on Day 1 and 15 of the first Cycle after infusion.

Tmax = Time to maximum observed plasma concentration Tlast = Time of last detectable concentration, Day 1 to Day 15|Cmax and Clast of NMS-01940153E, Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of NMS-01940153E were characterized on Day 1 and 15 of the first Cycle after infusion.

Cmax = Maximum observed plasma concentration Clast = Last detectable concentration, Day 1 to Day 15|AUClast, AUCweekly, and AUCinf of NMS-01940153E, Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of NMS-01940153E were characterized on Day 1 and 15 of the first Cycle after infusion. Infusions occurred on Days 1, 8, and 15.

AUClast = Area under the interpolated observed plasma time-concentration curve from infusion start to the last observed plasma concentration AUCweekly = Area under the interpolated observed plasma time-concentration curve from infusion start to 168 hours AUCinf = Area under the interpolated observed plasma time-concentration curve from infusion start extrapolated to infinity based on the last observed plasma concentration, From Days 1 to 21 (168 hours after the Day 15 infusion)|t½,z of NMS-01940153E, Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of NMS-01940153E were characterized on Day 1 and 15 of the first Cycle after infusion.

t½,z = Half-life of the terminal phase of observed plasma concentration, Day 1 to Day 15|CL and CLss of NMS-01940153E, Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of NMS-01940153E were characterized on Day 1 and 15 of the first Cycle after infusion.

CL = Clearance based on last observed concentration and extrapolation to infinity CLss = Clearance calculated for a dosing period of 168 h either after a single dose or in steady-state, Day 1 to Day 15|Vss and Vss,SS of NMS-01940153E, Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) PK profiles of NMS-01940153E were characterized on Day 1 and 15 of the first Cycle after infusion.

Vss = Volume of distribution at steady state based last observed concentration extrapolated to infinity and Clearance calculated for a dosing period of 168 h either after a single dose or in steady-state Vss,SS = Volume of distribution at steady state based last observed concentration extrapolated to infinity and clearance based on last observed concentration and extrapolation to infinity, Day 1 to Day 15|RA AUCweekly and RA Cmax of NMS-01940153E, Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) PK profiles of NMS-01940153E were characterized on Day 1 and 15 of the first Cycle after infusion. Infusions occurred on Days 1, 8, and 15.

RA AUCweekly = Accumulation ratio Day 1 to 15 calculated using area under the interpolated observed plasma time-concentration curve from infusion start to 168 hours RA Cmax = Accumulation ratio Day 1 to 15 calculated using maximum observed plasma concentration, Day 21 (168 hours after the Day 15 infusion)|FE of NMS-01940153E, Urine pharmacokinetic profiles of NMS-01940153E were characterized on Day 1 and 15 of the first Cycle after infusion.

FE = Molar fraction of excreted compound relative to the administered molar dose calculated using urine concentration and volume data, Day 1 to Day 15|Phase I Objective Tumor Response (Partial and Complete Response), Phase I any dose level, objective response and best overall tumor response are presented, as measured by investigator assessed RECIST 1.1 (Phase I).

The objective response rate was calculated as the proportion of evaluable patients who achieved best overall response (BOR), confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., Phase I: From the Study Start Date to Phase I Completion (32 months)|Phase II Objective Response Rate as Measured by Investigator-assessed mRECIST, Objective response rate as measured by investigator-assessed mRECIST in Phase II., Phase II: From Phase II start to Study Completion (23 months)|Phase I: Duration of Response (DoR) as Measured by Investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1, Duration of response (DoR) as measured by investigator-assessed Response evaluation criteria in solid tumours (RECIST) 1.1.

Duration of Response (months): was time in months from response start date to either date of disease progression/death due to progression of disease. It was calculated only for participants with complete response or partial response as best overall response., Phase I: From the Study Start Date to Phase I Completion (32 months)|Phase II: Duration of Response (DoR) as Measured by Investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1. and Investigator-assessed mRECIST, Duration of response (DoR) as measured by investigator-assessed Response evaluation criteria in solid tumours (RECIST) 1.1 and investigator-assessed modified RECIST (mRECIST).

Duration of Response (months): was time in months from response start date to either date of disease progression/death due to progression of disease. It was calculated only for participants with complete response or partial response as best overall response., Phase II: From Phase II start to Study Completion (23 months)|Progression Free Survival, as Measured by Investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1, in Phases I and II, Progression Free Survival as measured by investigator assessed RECIST 1.1, for all treated participants in Phase I and Phase II.

Phase 2 started before Phase 1 completed., Phase I: From the Study Start Date to Phase I Completion (32 months) - Phase II: From Phase II start to Study Completion (23 months)|Overall Survival in Phases I and II, Overall Survival for all treated participants in Phases I and II. The estimates are based on the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method.

Phase 2 started before Phase 1 completed., Phase I: From the Study Start Date to Phase I Completion (32 months) - Phase II: From Phase II start to Study Completion (23 months)
This is a Phase I/II, open-label, non-randomized, multicenter study to explore safety, tolerability and antitumor activity of NMS-01940153E as single agent in adult patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) previously treated with systemic therapy.

The Phase I portion is designed as a dose-escalation study in sequential cohorts of patients aimed to obtain the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) that is defined based on the dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) observed in the first cycle of treatment.

The Phase II portion is designed as a two-stage study with an interim analysis for futility and stopping criteria for unacceptable toxicity to assess the antitumor activity of NMS-01940153E in adult patients with unresectable HCC previously treated with systemic therapy measured as objective response rate.