Study to Evaluate Safety and Tolerability of BF-200 ALA (Ameluz®) for Photodynamic Therapy in the Treatment of the Expanded Field of Actinic Keratosis on Face and Scalp
The aim of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of PDT for treatment of mild to severe actinic keratosis on the face and scalp in the expanded treatment field using 3 tubes of BF-200 ALA 10% gel (Ameluz®) in conjunction with the BF-RhodoLED® XL PDT lamp.
Actinic Keratosis|Keratosis, Actinic|Keratosis
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: BF-200 ALA and red light LED lamp
Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events (AEs), Serious AEs (SAEs), and Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs)., TEAEs are defined as all AEs with onset or worsening after treatment with IMP up to Visit 5 (Final Visit). TEAEs are considered being related to IMP or medical device, if causal relationship between IMP or medical device and the TEAE is at least possible or relationship assessment is missing. If an AE occurs in different treatment areas (face, scalp, face and scalp), it is reported separately for each treatment area. Thus, some AEs are counted more than once., Through study completion, on average 6 weeks|Duration of TEAEs Including the Breakdown of Severity Category (Mild, Moderate, Severe)., The duration of TEAEs related to IMP and/or medical device which occurred in at least two subjects and with complete start and stop dates was analyzed. In addition, the proportion of the duration by severity was analyzed. Duration of severity per subject and preferred term is calculated in days counting all days and all episodes of one severity category together. Calculation is done referring to all subjects with occurrence of respective preferred term. If a severity category of a preferred term does not occur in a subject, the duration of this category is set to 0. If an AE occurs in different treatment areas, it is reported separately for each treatment area (face, scalp, face and scalp). Thus, some AEs are counted more than once for the analysis., From treatment day (day 1, Visit 2) up to Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Assessment of New Lesions (AK, NMSC Such as BCC, SCC or Bowens Disease, and Melanoma) if They Occur Inside the Treatment Field, Assessed were newly occuring lesions of actinic keratosis (AK), non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) such as basal cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or Bowens disease, and melanoma inside the treatment field. Cumulative number of lesions is reported., From treatment day (day 1, Visit 2) up to Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Assessment of New Lesions (AK, NMSC, and Melanoma) if They Occur Around the Treatment Field at a Distance of <10 cm, Assessed were newly occuring lesions of actinic keratosis (AK), non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) such as basal cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or Bowens disease, and melanoma inside the treatment field. Cumulative number of lesions is reported., From treatment day (day 1, Visit 2) up to Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Application Site Skin Reactions During and Post PDT, Assessed by the Investigator, Application site skin reaction categories: discharge, erosion, erythema, exfoliation, fissure, induration, oedema, scabbing, skin flaking, ulceration, vesicles, other; severity of AE: mild, moderate or severe, From treatment day (day 1, Visit 2) up to Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Application Site Discomfort During and Post PDT, Reported by the Subjects, Application site discomfort categories: burning, hyperaesthesia, pain, paraesthesia, pruritus, stinging, warmth, other; severity of AE: mild, moderate or severe, From treatment day (day 1, Visit 2) up to Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Application Site Pain During Illumination, Assessed by the subjects using an 11-point numeric rating scale (NRS), where a score of 0 means "no pain" and a score of 10 means "worst imaginable pain"., At treatment day (day 1, Visit 2) after end of illumination|Changes in Blood Pressure (Systolic and Diastolic), Change from baseline is presented. The first measurement at Visit 2 (arrival at site) was considered as baseline value for all following measurements. Blood pressure was measured in mmHg. At Visit 2, photodynamic therapy was performed., All visits through study completion after Visit 1: Visit 2, baseline, treatment day; Visit 3, approx. 7 days post treatment; Visit 4, approx.14 days post treatment; Visit 5, approx. 28 days post treatment|Changes in Pulse Rate, Change from baseline is presented. The first measurement at Visit 2 (arrival at the site) was considered as baseline value for all following measurements. Pulse rate was measures in beats/min. At Visit 2, photodynamic therapy was performed., All visits through study completion after Visit 1: Visit 2, baseline, treatment day; Visit 3, approx. 7 days post treatment; Visit 4, approx.14 days post treatment; Visit 5, approx. 28 days post treatment|Changes in Body Temperature, Change from baseline is presented. The first measurement at Visit 2 (arrival at site) was considered as baseline value for all following measurements. Body temperature was measured in °F and was converted to °C in the electronic Case Report Form. At Visit 2, photodynamic therapy was performed., All visits through study completion after Visit 1: Visit 2, baseline, treatment day; Visit 3, approx. 7 days post treatment; Visit 4, approx.14 days post treatment; Visit 5, approx. 28 days post treatment|Investigation of Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Findings which differ from reference range and are considered to be clinically significant are to be reported. Clinical chemistry parameters include glucose, creatinine, total bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanineaminotransferase (ALT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), alkalinephosphatase (AP),gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), potassium, sodium, calcium, total protein, albumin., At screening (Visit 1, up to 14 days before treatment) and at Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Investigation of Hematology Parameters, Findings which differ from reference range and are considered to be clinically significant are to be reported. Hematology parameters include hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count, leukocyte count (white blood cells(WBC)) with differential count (neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, basophils), and platelet count., At screening (Visit 1, up to 14 days before treatment) and at Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Investigation of Urinalysis Parameters, Findings which differ from reference range and are considered to be clinically significant (CS) are to be reported, At screening (Visit 1, up to 14 days before treatment) and at Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Physical Examination of Head, Neck, Skin, Lymph Nodes, Thorax Including Heart and Lungs, Abdomen, and Musculoskeletal, Peripheral Vascular and Nervous System Status, Abnormal findings, considered to be clinically significant (CS), are to be reported, At screening (Visit 1, up to 14 days before treatment) and at Visit 5 (approx. 28 days post treatment)|Memory Tests, Including picture- and question-based memory tasks; abnormal findings that are considered clinically significant will be documented, At screening (Visit 1, up to 14 days before treatment) and at Visit 2 (treatment day 1)|Neurological Investigations, Including investigation of pupils (equality), coordination (finger-nose test), gait (balance), and sensitivity (cheeks, arms, legs); abnormal findings that are considered clinically significant (CS) will be documented, At screening (Visit 1, up to 14 days before treatment) and at Visit 2 (treatment day 1)
The aim of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of PDT for treatment of mild to severe actinic keratosis on the face and scalp in the expanded treatment field using 3 tubes of BF-200 ALA 10% gel (Ameluz®) in conjunction with the BF-RhodoLED® XL PDT lamp.