Testing the Addition of an Anti-Cancer Drug, Abemaciclib, to the Usual Chemotherapy Treatment (5-Fluorouracil) for Metastatic, Refractory Colorectal Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of abemaciclib in combination with 5-fluorouracil and how well it works in treating patients with colorectal cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic) and that has not responded to treatment (refractory). Abemaciclib, a type of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, blocks certain proteins, which may help keep tumor cells from growing. 5-fluorouracil, a type of antimetabolite, stops cells from making deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and may kill tumor cells. Giving abemaciclib in combination with 5-fluorouracil may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating patients with metastatic and refractory colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Microsatellite Stable Colorectal Carcinoma|Refractory Microsatellite Stable Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Abemaciclib|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Fluorouracil|PROCEDURE: Radiologic Imaging Procedure
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Will be tabulated using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0 for each dose level., Within first cycle (cycle length = 28 days)|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), MTD will be the dose for which the isotonic estimate of the toxicity rate is closest to the target toxicity rate., Up to completion of dose-escalation phase|Incidence of adverse events, Will be evaluated using CTCAE v 5.0 and will be tabulated for each dose level., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as the addition of complete response and partial response. Response will be assessed based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v 1.1. The probability of ORR will be estimated with exact 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 6 months post-treatment|Clinical benefit rate, Will be assessed using RECIST v 1.1., Up to 6 months post-treatment|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method, along with 95% confidence interval., From the start of treatment to time of progression or death up to|Ribonucleic acid sequencing of death receptor 5, Pre-post comparisons will be made within patients being biopsied, using a non-parametric paired test, at a significance level (alpha) of 0.05., At pre-treatment on cycle 1 day 16|Apoptosis by Pharmacodynamics Assay Development & Implementation Section lab, Pre-post comparisons will be made within patients being biopsied, using a non-parametric paired test, at a significance level (alpha) of 0.05., At pre-treatment cycle 1 day 16|Whole exome sequencing of archival tissue, Will look for mutations in genes relevant to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage repair, signaling and (fluoropyrimidine) metabolism and in a descriptive manner evaluate any relations with peculiar response and/or toxicity., Up to cycle 1 day 1 pre-dose|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of abemaciclib and possibly active metabolites M2, M20, and M18 in plasma and tumor tissue, Abemaciclib PK will be evaluated and compared descriptively with historical data., At pre-dose on cycle 1 days 1, 2, 8, 15, and 21 and at cycle 2 day 15|PK of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), Will be evaluated by area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) and be compared descriptively with historical data., At cycle1 day 1 pre-dose and cycle 1 day 2 (22-26 hours post start of 5-FU infusion)
Abemaciclib AUC and trough levels 5-FU AUC, Will be exploratorily correlated with toxicity and response with non-parametric tests at a significance level of 0.05 (PK endpoints in patients with versus without presence of toxicity or response endpoints). Abemaciclib tissue exposure and tissue to plasma ratios will be descriptively reported., At cycle1 day 1 pre-dose and cycle 1 day 2 (22-26 hours post start of 5-FU infusion)|Change in variant allele frequencies (VAF) of tumor mutations in circulating tumor DNA, The detectable VAFs will be assessed and trended during the course of treatment. VAF change will be assessed categorically for each patient (increased or decreased at start of cycle 3 as compared to baseline). The association of VAF change with objective response will be tested using the Fisher's test, where p \< 0.05 will be considered statistically significant., At baseline and at start of cycle 3 (cycle length = 28 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability, maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of abemaciclib in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the anti-tumor activity of abemaciclib in combination with 5-FU. II. To determine the pharmacodynamics (PD) of abemaciclib in combination with 5-FU (death receptor 5 \[DR5\] dynamics and apoptosis).

III. To identify molecular subpopulations particularly sensitized to abemaciclib and 5-FU.

IV. To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of abemaciclib and 5-FU.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore exposure-response relationships for abemaciclib and 5-FU. II. To evaluate circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) as a predictor for treatment response to therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of abemaciclib in combination with 5-FU followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and 5-FU intravenously (IV) over 46 hours on days 1 and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection and radiologic imaging throughout the study and may additionally undergo a tissue biopsy before treatment and on cycle 1 day 16.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 6 months.