Functional Monitoring for Motor Pathway in Brain Tumor Surgery Within Eloquent Area
Resection of brain tumors in eloquent areas involves the risk of postoperative motor deficits. For brain tumors within or adjacent to the eloquent area, maximizing tumor resection while preserving motor function is crucially important.we used DTI-based tractography to visualize the spatial relationship between brain lesions and the nearby pyramidal tract(PT) in patients with malignant brain tumors and confirmed functional connections of the illustrated PT by direct electrical stimulation. We evaluated the reliability of DTI-based tractography for PT mapping using intraoperative subcortical stimulation ) and the usefulness of the combination of two techniques.
Glioma, Motor Pathway
PROCEDURE: diffusion tensor tractography neuronavigation and intraoperative subcortical stimulation
Extent of Tumor Resection, Volumetric analysis was performed both before and after surgery by calculating the tumor volume on the images of enhanced 3-D MP-RAGE sequence for high-grade gliomas and FLAIR sequence for low-grade gliomas. The extent of tumor resection was the ratio of pre-op tumor volume over post-op tumor volume. Gross total resection refers to a 100% resection of the tumor volume; near-total resection refers to 95% to 100% resection; subtotal resection refers to 90% to 95% resection; partial resection refers to 75% to 90% resection; and biopsy refers to ,75% resection of the tumor volume for histological diagnosis., within 3 days
Postoperative Motor Function and Long-time Functional Status, Motor function was assessed early postoperatively (within 72 hours after the operation), and 1 month after discharge. The muscle strength of each subject was graded for both the upper and lower extremities with the Medical Research Council Scale. Grade 5: Muscle contracts against full resistance; Grade 4: Strength reduced, but contraction can still move joint against resistance; Grade 3: Strength further reduced such that joint can be moved only against gravity with examiner's resistance completely removed. Grade 2: Muscle can onlly move if resistance of gravity is removed. Grade 1: Only a trace or flicker of movement is seen or felt, or fasciculations are observed; Grade 0:No movement., 3 days to 6 months after surgery
The Specificity, Sentitivity of DTI Tractography and Accordance Rate of DTI With DsCS Results, The sensitivity of DTI tractography for PT mapping was calculated as the ratio between the number of subjects with positive DsCS results in the positive DTI zone (true positive) and the total number of subjects with positive DsCS results (true positive plus false negative). The specificity was measured as the ratio between the number of subjects with negative DsCS results in the negative DTI zone (true negative) and the total number of subjects with negative DsCS results (true negative plus false positive). The accordance rate of DsCS and DTI was measured as the ratio between the number of subjects with either a true-positive or true-negative DsCS result and the total number of subjects., During the operation
Adverse effects caused by electrical stimulation during the operation were recorded. All subjects adopted early postoperative MRI examinations (within 3 days) to evaluate both the extent of tumor resection and the integrity of the PTs. Muscle strength was assessed preoperatively and postoperatively.The Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) was adopted for grading functional status at the 6-month evaluation. Further tumor progression interval and survival analysis was conducted for each subject with high-grade glioma (HGG)