Phase II/III of Randomized Controlled Clinical Research on IRE Synchronous Chemotherapy for LAPC
Previous studies have shown that irreversible electroporation (IRE) preoperative induction chemotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy after IRE can reduce the local recurrence rate of locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) and benefit the survival of patients. According to the technical principle of electroporation therapy (EPT), when the cell membrane is electroporated, the resistance of cell membrane decreases instantaneously, which promotes the drug to enter tumor cells and significantly increases its cytotoxicity and killing effect on tumor tissue. The purpose of study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of simultaneous gemcitabine administration and IRE for treating LAPC. In order to provide new ideas for the treatment of LAPC.
Locally Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: Irreversible electroporation|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Overall survival, The time of patient from randomization to death caused by any cause, 3 years
Time to progression, Time from randomization to radiological progression. Definition of progression is based on the RECIST amendments. Deaths during follow-up without evidence of radiological progression are censored., 3 years|Time to local recurrence, Time from randomization to local radiological progression. Definition of progression is based on the RECIST amendments. Deaths during follow-up without evidence of radiological progression are censored., 3 years
Progression-free survival, Composite endpoint. Time from randomization to either radiological progression or death. Patients alive and free of progression at the end of follow-up are censored., 3 years|Response rate, Definition of response is based on the RECIST amendments., 3 years
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a highly malignant digestive tract tumor that is projected to become the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in both the United States and Germany by 2030. The majority of patients have locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) or metastatic pancreatic cancer (MPC) at initial diagnosis; in fact, less than 20% of newly diagnosed patients are eligible for surgical resection . The 5-year relative survival rate for PC is 8%, and for those cases diagnosed at a distant stage, the 5-year survival is 3%. For LAPC, chemotherapy, such as FOLFIRINOX (5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin), gemcitabine plus albumin-bound paclitaxel, or gemcitabine monotherapy, is considered first-line therapy.

However, chemotherapy has been shown to have little effect on the survival rate of those with PC, leading to the evaluation of new interventions. Recently, radiofrequency, microwave, cryoablation, and other minimally invasive therapies have been proven to be effective in the treatment of LAPC. However, these temperature-dependent ablation methods may damage peripancreatic vessels, the duodenum, and the bile and pancreatic duct, leading to high morbidity and mortality. Irreversible electroporation (IRE) is a new, nonthermal local ablation method for solid tumors. It utilizes targeted delivery of millisecond electrical pulses that induce permeabilization of cell membranes, resulting in unrecoverable nanoscale perforation and apoptotic cell death without damaging the structural components of tissues.

IRE has recently been found to have unique advantages and effectiveness in the treatment of PC. There are different proportions of exposed cells in the IRE zone and the reversible electroporation (RE) zone with a standard default electric field intensity of 1500 V per cm . In the RE zone, the permeability of the cell membranes caused by electroporation can promote the diffusion of drugs into the cells and increase cytotoxicity , which might further increase tumor treatment efficacy. Indeed, a preclinical experiment has proven that IRE may potentially reduce local recurrence by allowing increased gemcitabine tissue delivery in the RE zone.

With the above in mind, this randomized, controlled clinical trial combined systemic chemotherapy and IRE for the treatment of LAPC. The aim of this study was to assess the progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR) and adverse events after combined therapy, with a view of achieving a more effective treatment method for LAPC.