Azacitidine and Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase II trial studies the side effects of azacitidine and pembrolizumab and to see how well they work in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. Azacitidine may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving azacitidine and pembrolizumab may work better at treating myelodysplastic syndrome.
High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome|IPSS Risk Category Intermediate-1|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Azacitidine|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Defined as Complete Response + Partial Response + Hematological Improvement, Will estimate the ORR for the experimental treatments, along with the 95% credible intervals. The association between ORR and patient's clinical characteristics will be examined by Wilcoxon's rank sum test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate., Up to 2 years 4 months|Event Free Survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests., Up to 4 years|Overall Survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests. Overall Survival will be presented by median survival, which is the time point at which the cumulative survival drops below 50%. If there is no median survival (not reached), it means the cumulative survival was more than 50%., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of the combination of azacitidine and MK3475 (pembrolizumab) in patients with higher risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

II. To explore the clinical activity (response, survival effect) of the combination of azacitidine with MK-3475 in patients with higher risk MDS.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the biological effects of the combination of azacitidine and pembrolizumab in patients with MDS treated on this study.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) over 10-40 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7, and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 3 weeks. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days, every 12 weeks for 1 year, then annually thereafter.