Prevalence of Helicobacter Pylori Infection and Gastric Cancer in the West Indies
Estimating the prevalence of Helicobacter Pylori infection in newly diagnosed stomach cancers in the West-Indies will help to understand the epidemiology of this cancer, which is over-incident in the West Indies compared to France. In addition, the constitution of a biobank (tumor tissues, healthy tissues and serum) will allow to set up in a second time etiological studies to identify other risk factors in particular in connection with the exposure to environmental pollutants to adapt the prevention measures.
Stomach Neoplasms|Gastric Neoplasms|Helicobacter Pylori
BIOLOGICAL: Helicobacter Pylori detection
Estimation of the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori, Helicobacter Pylori has detected by immunohistochemistry in the stomach of patients with gastric cancer., At baseline
In the Antilles-Guyana, gastric cancer affects approximately 80 men and women each year in Guadeloupe and Martinique, and 20 in French Guiana. It is more frequent than in France and represents 4.5% of cancers in men in Martinique, 5.3% in Guadeloupe and 5.7% in French Guyana. It is the 3rd most common cancer site in men in Guadeloupe and Martinique, and the 4th in French Guiana. In women, it is the 3rd most frequent cancer in Martinique and the 4th in Guadeloupe, whereas it is less frequent in French Guiana.

Studies are needed to estimate this prevalence in the general population and in cancer patients. The prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection is not well known in the general population in the Caribbean and when gastric cancer is diagnosed, the bacterium is rarely tested.

Dietary habits in our regions are characterized by a high consumption of salt (salted), meat and smoked fish. These dietary habits, common to some Southeast Asian countries, could partly explain the high incidence of stomach cancer observed. But environmental risk factors could also be involved.

Patients referred to gastroenterology with a suspected endoscopic diagnosis of gastric cancer will be offered to participate in the study after the fibroscopy has been performed and their consent will be obtained for the use of diagnostic specimen remains for research purposes.