The Seven Trial: Exploiting the Unfolded Protein Response
The goal of this investigator initiated interventional study is to improve the response to the anticancer treatments (chemotherapy) in people who have previously untreated metastatic pancreas cancer. The main question it aims to answer is:

• Do new types of immune-based therapies, called botensilimab, and balstilimab, when given in combination with chemotherapy consisting of nab-paclitaxel + gemcitabine + cisplatin, and oral medications of chloroquine and celecoxib help patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic cancer?

Participants will be administered two immune-based therapies:

* Botensilimab (also referred to as AGEN1811)
* Balstilimab (also referred to as AGEN2034)

Patients will be evaluated when given in combination with:

* Triple chemotherapy (nab-paclitaxel + gemcitabine + cisplatin), plus two oral medications:
* chloroquine
* celecoxib
Pancreatic Cancer Metastatic|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Metastatic
DRUG: Botensilimab|DRUG: Balstilimab|DRUG: Chloroquine Phosphate|DRUG: Celecoxib|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of botensilimab when given in combination with balstilimab + triplet chemotherapy regimen (consisting of nab-paclitaxel + gemcitabine + cisplatin) + chloroquine + celecoxib to be used in Part 2-Dose Expansion. MTD will be defined at the dose of botensilimab at which no more than 1 of 6 evaluable patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)., 12 months|Safety and Tolerability of botensilimab in combination with balstilimab + triplet + chloroquine + celecoxib. Treatment-related toxicities as per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (NCI-CTC AE V5.0)., To evaluate the safety and tolerability of botensilimab in combination with balstilimab + triplet + chloroquine + celecoxib. Treatment-related toxicities as per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (NCI-CTC AE V5.0)., End of Study (up to 2 years)
Complete Response (CR), To determine the preliminary efficacy of botensilimab at the MTD + balstilimab + triplet + chloroquine + celecoxib in patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic cancer. Complete Response (CR) rate as defined by CT scan using RECIST 1.1 criteria, the overall response rate (ORR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)., End of Study (up to 2 years)|Overall Response Rate (ORR), To determine the preliminary efficacy of botensilimab at the MTD + balstilimab + triplet + chloroquine + celecoxib in patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic cancer. Complete Response (CR) rate as defined by CT scan using RECIST 1.1 criteria, the overall response rate (ORR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)., End of Study (up to 2 years)|Progression free survival (PFS), To determine the preliminary efficacy of botensilimab at the MTD + balstilimab + triplet + chloroquine + celecoxib in patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic cancer. Complete Response (CR) rate as defined by CT scan using RECIST 1.1 criteria, the overall response rate (ORR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)., End of Study (up to 2 years)|Overall Survival (OS), To determine the preliminary efficacy of botensilimab at the MTD + balstilimab + triplet + chloroquine + celecoxib in patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic cancer. Complete Response (CR) rate as defined by CT scan using RECIST 1.1 criteria, the overall response rate (ORR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)., End of Study (up to 2 years)|Disease Control Rate (CR), Partial Response (PR), and Stable Disease (SD), To evaluate the disease control rate (CR, PR, and SD at 12 weeks) at the MTD of botensilimab + balstilimab + triplet + chloroquine + celecoxib in patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic cancer. Disease control rate (CR, PR, and SD at 12 weeks) using RECIST 1.1 criteria., 12 Weeks|CA 19-9 (or CA 125, or CEA if not expressers of CA 19-9), To evaluate the change in carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9) (or cancer antigen 125 \[CA 125\], or carcinoembryonic antigen \[CEA\] if not expressers of CA 19-9) in this patient population. Change from start of treatment CA 19-9 (or CA 125, or CEA if not expressers of CA 19-9).

Rates of normalization of CA 19-9 (or CA 125, or CEA if not expressers of CA 19-9)., End of Study (up to 2 years)
Quality of Life: MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI-GI), To evaluate the participant's self-reported quality of life during this study. Participant's self-reported quality of life and pain levels during this study utilizing the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI-GI). This questionnaire asks about severity of symptoms using numbers (0 = not present to 10 = as bad as you can imagine)., through study completion (up to 3 years)|Pain Levels: Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), To evaluate the participant's self-reported pain levels during this study. Participant's self-reported quality of life and pain levels during this study utilizing the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). This form asks about severity of pain using numbers (0 = not present to 10 = as bad as you can imagine)., through study completion (up to 3 years)|Determination of the Effects of the regimen - ER stress (unfolded protein response) level assessment, Doubling of levels (over baseline) of 78 KDa Glucose regulated protein (GRP78) stress response marker in plasma., through study completion (up to 3 years)|Determination of the Effects of the regimen - Molecular Response assessment, Measuring the decrease in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) mutational markers in patients who become minimal residual disease (MRD) negative., through study completion (up to 3 years)|Baseline neutrophil lymphocyte ratio (NLR), To compare the survival rates based on baseline neutrophil lymphocyte ratio (NLR). NLR ≤5 versus NLR \>5.

Survival is defined as the time from enrollment to date of death., through study completion (up to 3 years)
This Investigator Initiated Trial (IIT) is proposed based on our experience of obtaining high response rates with chemotherapy or chemotherapy + Programmed cell death protein 1 (PD1) checkpoint inhibitor in patients with previously untreated stage 4 pancreatic adenocarcinoma. However, investigators have hit a barrier as they have not been able to improve the complete response rate above 20% nor improve the 64% 2-year survival rate. For the most part ultimately, the patient's tumor progresses.

Pancreatic cancer relies upon unfolded protein response (UPR) to for survival. The endoplasmic reticulum has stress stressors with a variety of proteins that when activated during stress promote proteostasis and homeostasis which prevents apoptosis. While the UPR is able to achieve homeostasis, under prolonged and unresolved stress, the signaling pathway will lead to apoptosis. In pancreatic cancer, the UPR does play a role as it is upregulated to allow for greater survival. Prior cancer research has been focused on mitigating UPR in cancer through agents such as HSP90 inhibitors but this has not been successful. The hypothesis of this study is that by increasing ER stress and thus UPR that apoptosis occurs in pancreatic cancer by the use of these agents and improve the survival in individuals with advanced pancreatic cancer.

Visually it looks like this with three possibilities when tumor cells are under stress:

1. They survive
2. They go into dormancy
3. They undergo apoptosis

Investigators seek to increase ER stress (UPR) to drive that system to apoptosis. To achieve the apoptosis, the investigators seek the maximum treatment approach with maximum chemo immunotherapy to stress the tumor cells (increase of ER stress /UPR) and use 2 agents to help block escape routes a) block autophagy via chloroquine and b) block microenvironment inflammation via celecoxib.