A Phase II Trial of Neoadjuvant Laparoscopic Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy (HIPEC) With Chemoradiation
Stomach cancer is the fifth most common digestive cancer and third main cause of death from cancer in the world. Modern management of Gastric cancer involves a multi-disciplinary approach involving surgical oncologists, medical oncologists, gastroenterologists and oncological radiologists. The most common clinical approach to Gastric adenocarcinoma is to begin with staging, which usually involves CT scan/ MRI combined with endoscopic US for more accurate T, N staging. Once the patient is deemed to have locally advanced gastric cancer (T3/T4,N0/+), a staging laparoscopy is recommended to rule out obvious or microscopic peritoneal metastatic disease. Additionally, neoadjuvant chemotherapy is initiated and followed by surgery +/- adjuvant radiation and chemotherapy.This protocol involves the addition of neoadjuvant HIPEC at the time of diagnostic laparoscopy as well as neoadjuvant radiation therapy for improved local and systemic control. The goal of this phase II clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy of a multi-modality approach to treating patients with locally advanced Gastric cancer by incorporating diagnostic laparoscopy with HIPEC, neo-adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy, followed by surgical resection and adjuvant chemotherapy. The trial aims to assess this multi-modality approach in inducing pathological complete response; decreased rates of disease progression during neoadjuvant therapy; and increased overall, disease-free, and peritoneal disease-free survival.
Gastric Cancer|Stomach Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Diphenhydramine|DRUG: Famotidine|DRUG: Palonosetron|RADIATION: 3D conformal or intensity modulated radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Surgical resection|RADIATION: Adjuvant Chemotherapy
Pathological Response, The pathological complete response (the lack of all signs of cancer in tissue samples), at the time of surgical resection. This will be determined using a four-category tumor regression score system that evaluates the response of the cancer cells to the treatment. RECIST - Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) Progressive Disease (PD), and Stable Disease (SD), at time of surgical resection
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to the date of death (whatever the cause)., 6 years|Disease-free Survival, The length of time after treatment ends that the patient survives without any signs or symptoms., 6 years|Peritoneal Disease-free Survival, The length of time after treatment ends that the patient survives without any peritoneal signs or symptoms., 6 years
Stomach cancer is the fifth most common digestive cancer and third main cause of death from cancer in the world. Modern management of Gastric cancer involves a multi-disciplinary approach involving surgical oncologists, medical oncologists, gastroenterologists and oncological radiologists. The most common clinical approach to Gastric adenocarcinoma is to begin with staging, which usually involves CT scan/ MRI combined with endoscopic US for more accurate T, N staging. Once the patient is deemed to have locally advanced gastric cancer (T3/T4,N0/+), a staging laparoscopy is recommended to rule out obvious or microscopic peritoneal metastatic disease. Additionally, neoadjuvant chemotherapy is initiated and followed by surgery +/- adjuvant radiation and chemotherapy.This protocol involves the addition of neoadjuvant HIPEC at the time of diagnostic laparoscopy as well as neoadjuvant radiation therapy for improved local and systemic control. The goal of this phase II clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy of a multi-modality approach to treating patients with locally advanced Gastric cancer by incorporating diagnostic laparoscopy with HIPEC, neo-adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy, followed by surgical resection and adjuvant chemotherapy. The trial aims to assess this multi-modality approach in inducing pathological complete response; decreased rates of disease progression during neoadjuvant therapy; and increased overall, disease-free, and peritoneal disease-free survival.