Study With Nelfinavir and Combined Radiochemotherapy for Glioblastoma
The objectives of the trial are:

To assess safety, tolerability and activity of nelfinavir given neo-adjuvant and concomitant to chemoradiotherapy with temozolomide in patients with a newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme.

To describe the possible effect of nelfinavir on functional imaging To describe the activity of nelfinavir in vivo on blocking the AKT pathway.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: nelfinavir
Fase I: To determine the MTD of nelfinavir as an adjuvant in the radiochemotherapy treatment in primary glioblastoma patients. Fase 2: Progression free survival at 6 months, Fase 1: after treatment; fase 2: 6 months after treatment
Fase 1/2: Incidence of acute toxicity; OS; Metabolic ratios of SUV of serial 18F-FDG: assessed by PET-CT.Fase 1:6-months PFS; Relative blood flow measurement by perfusion MRI. Fase 2: PFS at 12 months; Phosphorylation of AKT in tumour tissue., fase 1: 6 months after treatment; fase 2: 12 months after treatment
Glioblastoma multiforme is the most malignant and common, about 50%, variant of all primary brain tumours. The treatment strategies for this disease have not changed appreciably for many years consisting of a surgical intervention (biopsy or tumour resection) and post-operative local radiotherapy until several years ago. Combined chemoradiotherapy with temozolomide is at the moment the standard medical practice after results of the joint EORTC-NCIC phase III study randomizing between radiotherapy alone and combined chemoradiotherapy with temozolomide showed a significant improvement in 2-years survival from 8% to 24% for the combined treatment arm (Stupp 2005). Given the poor prognosis of these patients and the still poor treatment response, further therapeutic improvement will remain the most challenging topic for the future. The next step to further improve survival for this patient group would be the addition of biological modifying and/or antiangiogenic therapies. These strategies are motivated by the fact that glioblastomas often express very high levels of vascular endothelial growth factor which is a key mediator of blood vessel growth as high expression of EGFR, which upregulates the downstream PI3K-AKTpathway. (Fischer I, Carmeliet P, Koul D) One possible candidate is nelfinavir, a protease inhibitor interfering with Akt activity downstream of EGFR and upstream of VEGF. (Geng L, Gorski D, HLu B)