A Prospective, Open, Multicenter Single-arm Clinical Studie of Docetaxel, Carboplatin Combined With Inetetamab and Pyrotinib in the Treatment of Local-advanced HER2-positive Breast Cancer
This study is a prospective, open, multi-center, single arm trial. The treatment group will receive six cycles of docetaxel, carboplatin combined with Inetetamab and Pyrotinib before surgery. By focusing on tpCR (ypT0/is, ypN0) evaluated by pathology, the efficacy of docetaxel, carboplatin combined with Inetetamab and Pyrotinib in the preoperative treatment of locally advanced HER2-positive breast cancer will be evaluated. During long-term follow-up, event-free survival (EFS), disease-free survival (DFS), distant metastasis-free survival (DDFS), overall survival (OS), central nervous system disease-free survival (CNSDFS) under this treatment regimen will be evaluated, and the efficacy-related biomarkers will be explored. The cardiotoxicity of Inetetamab and Pyrotinib in the treatment of breast cancer is also be evaluated.
Breast Neoplasm Female
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Inetetamab|DRUG: Pyrotinib
tpCR, total pathological complete response, Approximately 5 months from randomization following surgery or early withdrawal, whichever occurred first (Surgery was performed within 2 weeks after Cycle 6)
EFS, Event-free survival, Randomization up to a maximum of 329 weeks|DFS, Disease-free survival, Randomization up to a maximum of 329 weeks|DDFS, Distant disease free survival, Randomization up to a maximum of 329 weeks|OS, Overall survival, Up to 2 years|CNS-DFS, Central nervous system disease-free survival, Randomization up to a maximum of 329 weeks
This study is a prospective, open, multi-center, single arm trial. The treatment group will receive six cycles of docetaxel, carboplatin combined with Inetetamab and Pyrotinib before surgery. By focusing on tpCR (ypT0/is, ypN0) evaluated by pathology, the efficacy of docetaxel, carboplatin combined with Inetetamab and Pyrotinib in the preoperative treatment of locally advanced HER2-positive breast cancer will be evaluated. During long-term follow-up, event-free survival (EFS), disease-free survival (DFS), distant metastasis-free survival (DDFS), overall survival (OS), central nervous system disease-free survival (CNSDFS) under this treatment regimen will be evaluated, and the efficacy-related biomarkers will be explored. The cardiotoxicity of Inetetamab and Pyrotinib in the treatment of breast cancer is also be evaluated.