Phase III Trial Comparing Capecitabine in Combination With Sorafenib or Placebo in the Treatment of Locally Advanced or Metastatic HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
The objective of this phase-III trial is to compare the efficacy and safety of sorafenib in combination with capecitabine versus capecitabine in combination with placebo in the treatment of subjects with locally advanced or metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer who are resistant to or have failed prior taxane and an anthracycline or for whom further anthracycline therapy is not indicated. After signing consent there can be up to 28 days before starting the treatment during which time a number of tests will be carried out which will include tumor evaluations and medical history. The following tests and evaluations will have to be done within 7 days of the start of treatment,on Day 1 of every cycle and at the end of study: Electrocardiogram, blood tests, patient quality of life questionnaires and a complete physical exam and vital signs. Treatment will be given in 21 day cycles with sorafenib/placebo to be taken every day for 21 days and capecitabine to be taken for the first 14 days. Patients will come in weekly for the first 6 weeks and then on Day1 for every cycle after the first 2 cycles. During the weekly visits the subjects will be check for any side effects and blood draws will happen for the study on Day 1 of each cycle. Subjects will be followed for overall survival.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib (Nexavar, BAY43-9006)|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Capecitabine
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Assessed by the Independent Review Panel According to Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, PFS was defined as the time from date of randomization to disease progression, radiological or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST version 1.1, progressive disease was determined when there was at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of the target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest sum on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest sum on trial). In addition to a relative increase of 20%, the sum had demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of new lesions and unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions was also interpreted as progressive disease. Participants without progression or death at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of evaluable tumor evaluation. Median and other 95% confidence intervals (CIs) computed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., From randomization of the first participant until approximately 3 years or until disease radiological progression
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from date of randomization to death due to any cause. Participants still alive at the time of analysis were censored at their last known alive date. Median and other 95% CIs computed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., From randomization of the first participant until approximately 3 years later|Time to Progression (TTP) by Central Review, TTP was defined as the time from date of randomization to disease radiological progression by central review. Per RECIST version 1.1, progressive disease was determined when there was at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of the target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest sum on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest sum on trial). In addition to a relative increase of 20%, the sum had demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of new lesions and unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions was also interpreted as progressive disease. Participants without progression or death at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of evaluable tumor evaluation. Median and other 95% confidence intervals (CIs) computed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., From randomization of the first participant until approximately 3 years later or until disease radiological progression|Objective Response Rate (ORR) by Central Review, ORR was defined as the best tumor response (Complete Response \[CR\] or Partial Response \[PR\]) observed during treatment or within 30 days after termination of study treatment, assessed according to the RECIST version 1.1. CR=all target lesions disappeared, and any pathological lymph node, whether target or non-target, had a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. If any residual lesion was present, cyto-histology was made available to unequivocally document benignity. PR=at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. ORR=CR+PR. CR and PR were confirmed by another scan at least 4 weeks later., From randomization of the first participant until approximately 3 years later or until disease radiological progression|Disease Control Rate (DCR) by Central Review, DCR was defined as the proportion of participants whose best response was CR, PR, stable disease (SD) or Non-CR/Non-PD. Per RECIST version 1.1, CR=all target lesions disappeared, any pathological lymph node, target/non-target, a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR=at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline sum diameters. PD=at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of the target lesions, taking as a reference smallest sum on study. Appearance of new lesions and unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. SD=neither sufficient shrinkage qualified for PR nor sufficient increase qualified for PD, taking smallest sum of diameters as a reference. Non-CR/Non-PD=persistence of 1/more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above normal limits. DCR=CR+PR+SD or Non-CR/Non-PD. CR and PR confirmed by another scan at least 4 weeks later. SD and Non-CR/Non-PD documented at least 6 weeks after randomization., From randomization of the first participant until approximately 3 years later or until disease radiological progression|Duration of Response (DOR) by Central Reader, DOR was defined as the time from date of first response (CR or PR) to the date when PD is first documented, or to the date of death, whichever occurred first according to RECIST version 1.1. CR=all target lesions disappeared, and any pathological lymph node, whether target or non-target, had a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. If any residual lesion was present, cyto-histology was made available to unequivocally document benignity. PR=at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Participants still having CR or PR and have not died at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of tumor evaluation. DOR defined for confirmed responders only (that is, CR or PR). 'NA' indicates that value could not be estimated due to censored data. Median and 95% CIs were computed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., From randomization of the first participant until approximately 3 years later or until disease radiological progression
Patient Reported Outcomes: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast Symptom Index (8 Item) (FBSI-8), The FBSI-8 was an 8-item questionnaire. Participants responded to each item using a 5-point Likert-type scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). A total scale score was calculated (range from 0 to 32), with higher scores indicating low symptomatology and reflecting a better Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL). The results on the analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) of time-adjusted area under curve (AUC) for the FBSI-8 score were reported. The time-adjusted AUC was calculated by dividing the AUC by duration (in days) over the period of interest, and reported as 'scores on a scale'., Day 1 of Cycles 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 16, 19, 22, 25, 28, 31, 34, 37, and end of treatment (EOT, 21 days after last dose of study drug)|Patient Reported Outcomes: Euroqol-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) - Index Score, The EQ-5D was a generic Quality of life (QoL) based instrument validated in cancer populations. EQ-5D questionnaire contained a 5-item descriptive system of health states (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression) and visual analogue scale (VAS). A single HRQoL score ranging from -0.59 to 1 was generated from standard scoring algorithm developed by the EuroQoL was the EQ-5D index score, higher scores represent better health status. A change of at least 0.10 to 0.12 points was considered clinically meaningful. The results on the ANCOVA of time-adjusted AUC for the EQ-5D - Index Score were reported. The time-adjusted AUC was calculated by dividing the AUC by duration (in days) over the period of interest, and reported as 'scores on a scale'., Day 1 of Cycles 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 16, 19, 22, 25, 28, and EOT (21 days after last dose of study drug)|Patient Reported Outcomes: Euroqol-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) - Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) Score, The EQ-5D was a generic QoL preference based instrument and has been validated in the cancer populations. VAS was generated from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state). This VAS score was referred to as the EQ-5D self-reported health status score. The results on ANCOVA of time-adjusted AUC were reported. The time-adjusted AUC was calculated by dividing the AUC by duration (in days) over the period of interest, and reported as 'scores on a scale'., Day 1 of Cycles 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 16, 19, 22, 25, 28, and EOT (21 days after last dose of study drug)|Maximum Observed Drug Concentration (Cmax) of Capecitabine and 5-fluorouracil, Maximum observed drug concentration, directly taken from analytical data. Geometric mean and percentage geometric coefficient of variation (%CV) were reported. In the listed categories below, 'N' signifies the number of evaluable participants for the drug administered., Pre-dose and 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 hours after capecitabine dosing at Cycle 2, Day 14|Area Under Curve From Time Zero to Last Quantifiable Concentration (AUC[0-tlast]) of Capecitabine and 5-fluorouracil, AUC(0-tlast) is defined as AUC from time 0 to the last data point, calculated up by linear trapezoidal rule, down by logarithmic trapezoidal rule. Geometric mean and percentage geometric coefficient of variation (%CV) were reported. In the listed categories below, 'N' signifies the number of evaluable participants for the drug administered., Pre-dose and 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 hours after capecitabine dosing at Cycle 2, Day 14|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Grade 3 and 4 Laboratory Abnormalities, Hematological (anemia, hemoglobin, international normalized ratio \[INR\], lymphocyte, neutrophil, platelet, white blood cell \[WBC\]), biochemical (ALT \[alanine aminotransferase\], AST \[aspartate aminotransferase\], GGT \[gamma-glutamyl-transferase\], lipase, hypoalbuminemia, hypocalcemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia) evaluations were done. Common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 4-Grade 3: Severe or medically significant; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization and CTCAE version 4-Grade 4: life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention were indicated., From the start of study treatment up to 30 days after the last dose
Research summary (NRES, UK):

Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women and the leading cause of cancer-related death among women worldwide.

However, despite advances in treatment of the early-stage disease, about 25-40% of patients will develop recurrence or spread to other parts of the body that is largely incurable. The average survival of patients with breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastasis) is 2 to 3 years after diagnosis, and although a number of treatment options are available, including various chemotherapy agents, no single standard of care exists.

The study drug (Sorafenib) works by inhibiting certain pathways in the body that contribute to tumour growth and the formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis). Angiogenesis plays an important role in the development, transformation and spread of breast cancer. Capecitabine is an approved chemotherapy drug for patients whose breast cancer has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) and is not responsive to other classes of chemotherapy drugs.

Data from a Phase IIb clinical study suggests that there is a role for the combination of Sorafenib and Capecitabine to treat locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

Patients in this confirmatory Phase III study will be randomly assigned to receive either:

* Capecitabine + Sorafenib
* Capecitabine + placebo ("dummy medication" with no active drug)

Participants will continue to receive treatments until there is radiographic or clinical progression of disease, side effects which require them to withdraw, pregnancy, protocol non-compliance or withdrawal of consent. Therefore length of participation will vary for individuals. This study is expected to close 31 March 2013.

This is a multicentre study which will take place across Europe, North and South America, Asia, Australia and South Africa. It is anticipated that approximately 519 participants will be recruited worldwide.