Defining Inflammation Related to Peritoneal Carcinomatosis in Women With Ovarian or Colon Cancer.
Inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of peritoneal carcinosis. Patients with elevated levels of different inflammation cytokines show a worse prognosis at the time of diagnosis. In women, ovarian and colon cancer are the main causes of peritoneal carcinosis and a comparison of these two different types of peritoneal invasion have not been conducted yet. We found interesting studying the role of immune response, in particular tumour-associated antigens (TAA) that modulate the metastatic process. We will investigate also mitochondrial defects, such as mutations in mt-DNA, potentially involved in carcinogenesis.
Peritoneal Carcinomatosis|Ovarian Cancer|Colon Cancer
PROCEDURE: Cytoreductive surgery
Immune biomarkers level, Serum level of different immune related biomarkers (such as CD4, CD8, CUZD1, LAG3, PD1, PDL1, IMP1 and p62/IMP2) will be determined using ELISA., Each patients will be assessed at baseline|Metastatic mediators level, Peritoneal expression of cytokines related to metastatic process (such as IL6, IL2, TNFα, TGFβ1, VEGF, CD68, FGFR1, CCL2/MCP-1, CD73) will be determined using real time-PCR., Each patients will be assessed at baseline|P2X7R-inflammasome activity, Peritoneal expression of NLRP3-ASC will be determine using RT-PCR, Each patients will be assessed at baseline
At the time of hospitalization all the patients will undergo a complete clinical evaluation with determination of biochemical parameters such as fasting blood glucose, blood count, hs-CRP, AST and ALT, uric acid, creatinine and BUN. An extra blood aliquot will be collected to assess the serum biomarkers under investigation.

During surgery two samples of peritoneal tissue macroscopically undamaged will be collected. On those samples will be executed separation of adipocytes cells, RNA and protein extraction for measuring of inflammatory and neoplastic biomarkers, determination of P2X7R-inflammasome activity and mitochondrial DNA analyse.