Clinical Response and Toxicity of Hypo-fractionated Chemoradiotherapy in Cervix Cancer
Uterine cervix cancer can be treated definitively with concurrent chemoradiation (external beam radiotherapy and chemotherapy) followed by high dose rate brachytherapy. Treatment duration can be shortened by increasing the dose per fraction of treatment which can reduce costs and patient exposure. The aim of our study is to determine the non-inferiority of hypofractionated radiotherapy compared with conventional treatment.
Cervix Uteri Cancer
RADIATION: Hypofractionated EBRT|RADIATION: Standard EBRT
Early toxicity, Early treatment-related toxicity within 3 months after completion of treatment as defined by CTCAE 5.0., 3 months after completion of treatment|Early response, Early response to treatment at 3 months after treatment completion based on dynamic contrast-enhanced pelvic MRI findings, 3 months after completion of treatment
Late toxicity, Late treatment-related toxicity within 1 and 3 years after completion of treatment as defined by CTCAE 5.0., 1 and 3 years after completion of treatment|Progression-free survival, Time from randomization to progression(based on MRI and physical examination), death, or last follow up; whichever that occurs first, 5 years|Disease-specific survival, Time from randomization to death from cervical cancer or last follow-up; whichever that occurs first., 5 years|Overall survival, Time from randomization to death from any reason or last follow-up; whichever that occurs first., 5 years
In this study we aim to determine if clinical response and toxicity of radiotherapy hypofractionation is non-inferior to the conventional treatment. We will enroll 60 eligible patients with cervical cancer stage IB to IIIC and randomly allocate them into the intervention (hypofractionation) group or the control (standard) groups. The patients in the intervention group will receive external beam radiotherapy(EBRT) to a total dose of 40 Gy in 15 fractions within 3 weeks concurrently with weekly chemotherapy with cisplatin 40mg/m2 (total of 3 cycles). Whereas, the control group will receive EBRT to a total dose of 45 Gy in 25 fractions within 5 weeks concurrently with weekly chemotherapy with cisplatin 40mg/m2 (total of 5 cycles). All patients from both groups will undergo high dose rate brachytherapy one week after completion of EBRT to a total dose of 28 Gy per 4 weekly sessions. Patients will be evaluated regarding early and late toxicities as described by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 at the completion of brachytherapy, and at 3 months, 6 months, and 3 years from completion of treatment. Also, clinical response will be evaluated through dynamic contrast enhanced pelvic MRI 3 months, 1 year, and 3 years after completion of brachytherapy.