ZEN003694 Combined with Talazoparib in Patients with Recurrent Ovarian Cancer
This Phase 2, open label, study with safety lead in of oral talazoparib in combination with ZEN003694 given daily in 28-day cycles will enroll patients with recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal carcinoma.
Ovarian Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer
DRUG: ZEN003694|DRUG: Talazoparib
Objective Response, Confirmed complete response or partial response by RECIST 1.1. Per RECIST v1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 48 months
Adverse events at least possibly related to treatment, Adverse Events which occur from first day of treatment, characterized by type, grade and relatedness to treatment according to CTCAE v5.0, considered to be possibly, probably or definitely related to study treatment., Up to 48 months|Duration of Response, Time from start of response to documented disease progression by RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause. Progression as defined by RECIST v1.1 for target lesions: Progressive Disease (PD): smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). For non-target lesions:

Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 48 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Time from first response to to treatment until documented disease progression by RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause. Progression as defined by RECIST v1.1 for target lesions: Progressive Disease (PD): smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). For non-target lesions:

Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 6 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS), defined as time from first dose of study treatment until death due to any cause., Up to 6 years
This study aims to determine how effective the combination of ZEN003694 and talazoparib is based on how patients respond. ZEN003694 (and developed by Zenith Epigenetics Ltd.) has shown promising activity in the treatment of solid tumors and hematologic (blood) cancers by reducing the multiplication of cancer cells. Talazoparib is an extremely effective drug being developed for the treatment of a variety of human cancers. Talazoparib kills cancer cells by inhibiting and trapping the enzyme PARP, which is known to be involved in the development of many types of cancers. These two drugs are not FDA approved in the treatment of ovarian cancer.