Dose-Adjusted EPOCH Chemotherapy and Rituximab (CD20+) in Previously Untreated Aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
5-Drug Combination Chemotherapy with Hematologic Toxicity Attenuation. EPOCH: Etoposide, VP-16, NSC-141540; Prednisone, PRED, NSC-10023; Vincristine, VCR, NSC-67574; Cyclophosphamide, CTX, NSC-26271; Doxorubicin, DOX, NSC-123127; with Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor (Amgen), G-CSF, NSC-614629....
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)|Primary Mediastinal Large B-cell Lymphoma|Burkitt Lymphoma|Anaplastic Large-Cell Lymphoma|Gray Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: EPOCH|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Overall response and PFS, The Dixon-Simon method will be used to determine whether large B-cell lymphomas expressing BCL-2 (+) patients may experience an improved progression free survival with EPOCH-R compared to EPOCH alone, and to obtain a concurrent, precisely determined measure of progression free survival., Time of progression
Safety and Toxicity, the proportion of patients with adverse events leading to discontinuation of therapy, Initiation of study drug until 30 days after treatment
Background:

The treatment of the intermediate and aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas in adults and children commonly induces complete responses in a sizable fraction of the treated population, and about 2/3 of the complete responders appear to have prolonged disease-free survival.

The present study assesses the activity and tolerability in previously untreated patients of a regimen of etoposide phosphate, prednisone, vincristine sulfate (Oncovin), cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin hydrochloride (hydroxydaunorubicin)(EPOCH) infusional chemotherapy given intensively with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) support.

Objectives:

Primary:

Assess complete response (CR) and progression-free survival (PFS) of dose-adjusted EPOCH-Rituximab (DA-EPOCH-R) with G-CSF in aggressive B-cell lymphomas.

Eligibility:

Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas in the following categories: mediastinal gray zone lymphoma (MGZL) and primary mediastinal B cell lymphoma (PMBL).

Patients greater than or equal to 12 years old.

Any Stage for PMBL and MGZL.

No prior systemic chemotherapy.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) negative.

Design:

This study will estimate the complete response rate of a group of previously untreated patients and the extent to which EPOCH infusional drug delivery accompanied by a hematopoietic growth factor can increase the dose intensity of treatment.

Patients receive prednisone orally for 5 days, a 96-hour infusion of vincristine, doxorubicin, and etoposide, and a bolus of cyclophosphamide on day 5.

Cycles are repeated every 21 days for a total of 6-8 cycles.

Patients with cluster of differentiation 20 (CD20) expressing tumors (i.e., mature B-cell lymphomas) will also receive rituximab, the humanized monoclonal antibody against the CD20 receptor on day 1 of each cycle.

A total of 348 patients will be enrolled on this protocol.