TAS-102 (Lonsurf) in Metastatic or Locally Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Post First Line Chemotherapy (UF-STO-PANC-003)
This is an open-label, non-randomized, sequentially enrolling single arm phase II trial to evaluate the activity of TAS-102 in previously treated metastatic and locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer after progression through or intolerance to first or second line chemotherapy. Trial therapy will consist of TAS-102 (Lonsurf®) 35 mg/m2 to be given orally twice daily on days 1-5 and 8-12 with cycles repeating every 28 days. The primary endpoint is to determine the progression free survival (PFS) in subjects with unresectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: TAS-102
Progression Free Survival (PFS), To determine the progression free survival (PFS), which is defined as the duration of time from study entry to disease progression, death, or the date of last contact, whichever occurred first. Subjects were not included in the data for this outcome measure if they went off study for reasons other than disease progression, death or being lost to follow-up., up to 54 weeks
Objective Response Rate (ORR), To determine the objective response rate (ORR) by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria) v1.1 criteria. ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects who attained either a complete or partial response (CR + PR) by RECIST v1.1 criteria. RECIST v1.1 criteria defines a partial response (PR) as a decrease of the sum of the largest diameters of each target lesion by at least 30%. A complete response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions (except lymph nodes, whose short axis must measure 10 mm or less)., 6 months|Clinical Benefit Rate, To determine the Clinical Benefit Rate, defined as the percent of evaluable subjects who achieved either a complete or partial response or stable disease per RECIST v1.1 criteria. RECIST v1.1 criteria defines a partial response as a decrease of the sum of the largest diameter of each target lesion by at least 30%. A complete response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions (except lymph nodes, whose short axis must measure 10 mm or less). By RECIST v1.1 criteria, a subject is considered to have stable disease when the sum of the largest diameter of the target lesions has neither decreased enough to qualify as a partial response not increased enough to qualify as progressive disease., 6 months|Time to Progression (TTP), To determine the time to progression (TTP), defined as the duration of time from study entry to disease progression, up to 54 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), To determine overall survival (OS), defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death., up to 84 weeks
This is an open-label, non-randomized, sequentially enrolling single arm phase II trial to evaluate the activity of TAS-102 in previously treated metastatic and locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer after progression through or intolerance to first or second line chemotherapy. Trial therapy will consist of TAS-102 (Lonsurf®) 35 mg/m2 to be given orally twice daily on days 1-5 and 8-12 with cycles repeating every 28 days. The primary endpoint is to determine the progression free survival (PFS) in subjects with unresectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma.