Neuropharmacokinetics of Eribulin Mesylate in Treating Patients With Primary or Metastatic Brain Tumors
This pilot trial studies the brain concentration of eribulin mesylate in treating patients with primary or metastatic brain tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as eribulin mesylate, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Collecting small samples of brain fluids may help determine how well eribulin mesylate concentrates into the brain tumor.
Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Adult Brain|Primary Brain Tumor
PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|DRUG: Eribulin Mesylate|PROCEDURE: Microdialysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Time of maximum concentration observed (Tmax) for eribulin mesylate, Pharmacokinetic data will be summarized by using descriptive statistics and graphical methods. The pharmacokinetic parameters will be calculated on the log scale along with means and 95% confidence limits based on a t distribution., Baseline, at 5, 15, 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours and then 1 week after the infusion of eribulin mesylate|Maximum concentration observed (Cmax) for eribulin mesylate, Pharmacokinetic data will be summarized by using descriptive statistics and graphical methods. The pharmacokinetic parameters will be calculated on the log scale along with means and 95% confidence limits based on a t distribution., Baseline, at 5, 15, 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours and then 1 week after the infusion of eribulin mesylate|Area under the curve (AUC) for eribulin mesylate, Pharmacokinetic data will be summarized by using descriptive statistics and graphical methods. The pharmacokinetic parameters will be calculated on the log scale along with means and 95% confidence limits based on a t distribution., Baseline, at 5, 15, 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours and then 1 week after the infusion of eribulin mesylate|Half-life (t1/2) for eribulin mesylate, Baseline, at 5, 15, 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours and then 1 week after the infusion of eribulin mesylate|Ratio of AUC of eribulin mesylate in dialysate to plasma, Baseline, at 5, 15, 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours and then 1 week after the infusion of eribulin mesylate
Toxicity profile of eribulin mesylate graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Will be summarized in tabular form by adverse event category, grade, and attribution., Up to 30 days|Clinical benefit rate defined as tumor response on brain MRI results, Clinical benefit rate and associated 95% confidence limits will be calculated based on data from participants that receive at least 2 courses of eribulin mesylate., Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the neuropharmacokinetic (nPK) profile of eribulin (eribulin mesylate) using intracerebral microdialysis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare concentrations of eribulin in tumor (enhancing tissue) and normal brain (non-enhancing tissue) when technically feasible to place two microdialysis catheters in a study patient.

II. To describe the intracerebral clinical benefit (defined as stable disease, partial response, or complete response) of eribulin in study patients who continue to be treated with eribulin after completing the microdialysis portion of the study.

III. To document the toxicity of eribulin in the cohort of patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo tumor resection or biopsy and have microdialysis catheter placed on day 0. Beginning at least 24 hours later, patients receive eribulin mesylate intravenously (IV) over 2-5 minutes on day 1. Serial brain fluid samples are collected for approximately 72 hours and the microdialysis catheter is then removed. Beginning at least 2 weeks after tumor resection or biopsy, patients may continue to receive eribulin mesylate IV over 2-5 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.