Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Rare Tumors That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery or Are Metastatic
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating patients with rare tumors that cannot be removed by surgery or have spread to other parts of the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may block specific proteins found on white blood cells which may strengthen the immune system and control tumor growth.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Carcinoma of Unknown Primary|Metastatic Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Metastatic Kidney Medullary Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Paraganglioma|Metastatic Penile Carcinoma|Metastatic Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Adrenal Cortex Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Adrenal Cortex Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Penile Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Unresectable Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Unresectable Paraganglioma|Unresectable Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Unresectable Solid Neoplasm|Vascular Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Non-progression Rate (NPR) at 27 Weeks by irRECIST, Non-progression rate (NPR) at 27 weeks was defined as the percentage of efficacy evaluable patients who were alive and progression-free at 27 weeks as assessed by irRECIST

Progression is defined using immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST), as an increase ≥ 20% (minimum 5 mm) in total measured tumor burden compared with nadir or progression of non-target lesions or new lesion, At 27 weeks
Evaluation of Tumor Size (Objective Response by irRECIST) to PD-L1 Status (CPS ≥1), Immune-related ORR is defined as the percentage of patients achieving a irCR or irPR based on irRECIST criteria. PD-L1 positivity was defined as Combined Positive Score ≥1. Evaluated objective response in PD-L1 positive patients

Per irRECIST: Immune-related (ir) Complete Response (irCR), disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, nodal short axis diameter \<10 mm, no new lesions; irPartial Response (irPR), decrease of ≥30% in tumor burden relative to baseline, non-unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, no new lesions., Baseline and every 9 weeks thereafter. After 6 months, every 12 weeks at the physician's discretion, if patient has had CR, PR, or SD > 27 weeks, an average of 4 years.|Number of Patients Who Experienced Treatment-related Adverse Event (TRAE), Per protocol, the number and percentage of patients with any treatment-related AE was summarized for all study patients combined. Patients were monitored for AE from the first day of administration of study medication through 30 days following last dose. Each AE (as defined by NCI CTCAE v4.03) was counted only once for a given subject. In the event a patient experienced repeated episodes of the same AE, then the event with the highest severity and/or strongest causal relationship to study treatment was used for purposes of tabulations., First day of administration of study medication through 30 days following last dose, an average of 4 years.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, ORR is defined as the percentage of patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria., Baseline and every 9 weeks thereafter. After 6 months, every 12 weeks at the physician's discretion, if patient has had CR, PR, or SD > 27 weeks, an average of 4 years.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) Using RECIST v1.1, CBR is defined as the percentage of patients achieving a CR or PR, or stable disease (SD) ≥4 months based on RECIST 1.1 criteria., Baseline and every 9 weeks thereafter. After 6 months, every 12 weeks at the physician's discretion, if patient has had CR, PR, or SD > 27 weeks, an average of 4 years.|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Using RECIST v1.1, PFS was defined as the time from administration of the first dose to the first documented disease progression according to RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Patients who were alive and had not experienced disease progression at the time of data cutoff were censored., Baseline and every 9 weeks thereafter. After 6 months, every 12 weeks at the physician's discretion, if patient has had CR, PR, or SD > 27 weeks, an average of 4 years.|Immune-related ORR Using Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST), Immune-related ORR is defined as the percentage of patients achieving a irCR or irPR based on irRECIST criteria., Baseline and every 9 weeks thereafter. After 6 months, every 12 weeks at the physician's discretion, if patient has had CR, PR, or SD > 27 weeks, an average of 4 years.|Immune-related Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) Using irRECIST, Immune-related CBR is defined as the percentage of patients achieving a irCR or irPR, or irSD ≥4 months based on irRECIST criteria, First day of administration of study medication through 30 days following last dose, an average of 4 years.|Immune-related Progression-free Survival (PFS) Using irRECIST, Immune-related PFS was defined as the time from administration of the first dose to the first documented disease progression according to irRECIST or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Patients who were alive and had not experienced disease progression at the time of data cutoff were censored., Baseline and every 9 weeks thereafter. After 6 months, every 12 weeks at the physician's discretion, if patient has had CR, PR, or SD > 27 weeks.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain early indication of efficacy by evaluation of non-progression rate (NPR) at 27 weeks as defined as the percentage of patients who are alive and progression-free at 27 weeks as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 or immune-related(ir)RECIST or method of tumor evaluation criteria best suitable and accepted for the tumor type evaluated in patients with advanced tumor types receiving pembrolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate efficacy by evaluation of tumor size to programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) status among patients with advanced tumor types receiving pembrolizumab.

II. To evaluate safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in patients with advanced tumors.

III. To evaluate the percentage of patients with objective response (complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\]), clinical benefit (CR, PR, or stable disease \[SD\] \>= 4 months), progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and duration of response (DOR) as assessed by RECIST v1.1 in patients with advanced tumor types receiving pembrolizumab.

IV. To evaluate the percentage of patients with objective response (CR or PR), clinical benefit (CR, PR, or SD \>= 4 months), PFS, and DOR as assessed by irRECIST in patients with advanced tumor types receiving pembrolizumab.

V. To correlate the NPR at 27 weeks (9 cycles), objective response (CR or PR), clinical benefit CR, PR, or SD \>= 4 months), PFS, OS, and DOR to PD-L1 status among patients with advanced tumor types receiving pembrolizumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the potential role of tumor-associated immune biomarkers for prediction of therapy effectiveness in patients with advanced tumor types receiving pembrolizumab.

II. To correlate the potential role of tumor-associated immune biomarkers for prediction of therapy effectiveness to PD-L1 status among patients with advanced tumor types receiving pembrolizumab.

III. To identify imaging characteristics associated with immunological changes in tumor following treatment with pembrolizumab.

IV. To compare tumor mutation burden and serial assessment of mutation status in biopsies obtained at baseline and progression in patients with advanced tumor types receiving pembrolizumab.

V. To evaluate patient-reported outcomes (PRO) utilizing the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Patient-Reported Outcomes of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) questionnaires.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or toxicity. Patients with clinical response or disease stabilization may continue treatment for up to an additional 12 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks.