Trial of Amrubicin as Treatment for Patients With HER2-Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
Doxorubicin has been an integral part of the treatment of women with breast cancer for many years. Since amrubicin may have more activity than doxorubicin, as well as less cardiotoxicity, evaluation of amrubicin in the treatment of advanced breast cancer should be a priority. In this Phase II study, the investigators propose an evaluation of single-agent amrubicin as second- or third-line treatment for women with metastatic breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Amrubicin
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) of MTD/Phase II Patients, Progression-free survival is measured from Day 1 of study drug administration to disease progression as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, or death on the study. Progression is defined in RECIST v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. This outcome measure is reported for all patients treated at the same dose level and is not separated into Phase I and Phase II. The phase I and phase II results are not separated as the timing of enrollment (early in phase 1 or later phase II) is not relevant to the outcome measure., every 6 weeks until progressive disease
Number of Patients With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Assessments will be made through analysis of the reported incidence of treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and non-serious adverse events (AEs)., every 6 weeks until treatment discontinuation, up to 43 months|Overall Survival (OS) of MTD/Phase II Patients, Measured from Day 1 of study drug administration to date of death due to any cause. This outcome measure is reported for all patients treated at the same dose level and is not separated into Phase I and Phase II. The phase I and phase II results are not separated as the timing of enrollment (early in phase 1 or later phase II) is not relevant to this outcome measure., every 6 weeks until treatment discontinuation, up to 43 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), The number of patients with observed complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\]. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. This outcome measure is reported for all patients treated at the same dose level and is not separated into Phase I and Phase II. The phase I and phase II results are not separated as the timing of enrollment (early in phase 1 or later phase II) is not relevant to the outcome measure., every 6 weeks until treatment discontinuation, up to 43 months
This will be a phase I/II study where phase I will evaluate the maximum tolerated dose of amrubicin, and phase II will assess the progression free survival of patients with HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer using the dose established in the phase I portion.