Study of the Anti-Angiogenesis Agent Axitinib in Patients With Stage III Malignant Melanoma
The purpose of this research study is to determine the efficacy of Axitinib in treating individuals with Stage III melanoma.
Melanoma|Malignant Melanoma|Stage IIIA Melanoma|Stage IIIB Melanoma|Stage IIIC Melanoma
PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|DRUG: Axitinib|OTHER: pharmacological study
Overall Response Rate, Defined as the Percentage of Patients With a Confirmed Clinical Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), The response rate (CR or PR according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) will be provided with an exact 95% 2-sided confidence interval calculated using a method based on the F distribution., Up to 1 year
Progression-free Survival (PFS), An estimate of the PFS curve from the Kaplan-Meier method will be presented. Median event time and a 2-sided 95% confidence interval for the median will be provided., From the date of first dose of axitinib to the first date that criteria for progression were met or the patient died, assessed up to 1 year|Duration of Overall Response, Estimates of duration of overall response from the Kaplan-Meier method will be presented. Median event time (if appropriate) and a 2-sided 95% confidence interval for the median will be provided. The number of CR and PR patients may be small and thereby limit use of the Kaplan-Meier method to provide reliable information. In this case, descriptive statistics or listings will be provided., From the day the criteria for PR or CR were met to the first day criteria for progression occurred, assessed up to 1 year|Survival, An estimate of the survival time curve from the Kaplan-Meier method will be presented. Median event time and a 2-sided 95% confidence interval for the median will be provided., From the day of first dose of axitinib to the day of death, until at least one year after the initial dose for the last treated patient.|Frequencies of Patients Experiencing at Least One Adverse Event (AE), Will be displayed by body system and preferred term according to Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) terminology. Detailed information collected for each AE will include: description of the event, duration, whether the AE was serious, intensity, relationship to study drug, action taken, and clinical outcome. Intensity (severity) of the AEs will be graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to at least 28 days after the last dose of study drug, on average of 1 year.
The American Cancer Society estimates that there will be about 68,720 new cases of melanoma (29,900 in men and 25,200 in women) annually in the United States, and about 8,650 people will die from this cancer. The systemic therapy of advanced disease remains palliative until new agents are found that might improve the survival of patients with stage III melanoma.

Melanomas are often vascular, and a decrease in the number of blood vessels that supply the tumor may starve it of needed nutrients. An approach to blocking the growth of blood vessels that supply the tumor is to inhibit the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase (VEGFR TK) signaling pathway. Axitinib (AG 013736) is a VEGFR TK inhibitor.

Because of the poor prognosis of patients with stage III melanoma and indications that anti-angiogenesis compounds might have clinically meaningful activity in this disease, a Phase 2 trial of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase (VEGFR TK) inhibitor Axitinib (AG 013736) is warranted.