Venetoclax and Sequential Busulfan, Cladribine, and Fludarabine Phosphate Before Donor Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Acute Myelogenous Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This randomized phase II trial studies how well venetoclax and sequential busulfan, cladribine, and fludarabine phosphate before donor stem cell transplant work in treating patients with acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome. Giving chemotherapy before a donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps kill cancer cells in the body and helps make room in the patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells) to grow. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into a patient, they may help the patient's bone marrow make more healthy cells and platelets and may help destroy any remaining cancer cells.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Cladribine|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Venetoclax
Progression free survival, The method of Kaplan and Meier will be used to estimate distribution of progression free survival., At 6 months|Disease free survival (DFS), Will test whether there is strong evidence that DFS differs between the two arms using a stratified log-rank test. Will use the Lan-DeMets alpha spending approach with an O'Brien-Fleming stopping boundary to compare the two arms., Up to 2.5 years
Incidence of toxicity of these regimens, Up to 2.5 years|Cumulative incidence of acute graft versus host disease (GVHD), Will use the method of Gooley et al to estimate the cumulative incidence of acute GVHD. Will use the method of Fine and Gary to fit regression models to the cumulative incidence outcomes., Up to 2.5 years|Cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD, Will use the method of Gooley et al to estimate the cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD. Will use the method of Fine and Gary to fit regression models to the cumulative incidence outcomes., Up to 2.5 years|Overall survival, The method of Kaplan and Meier will be used to estimate the distribution of overall survival. Cox proportional hazards regression analysis will be used to model the association between overall survival and covariates of interest., Up to 2.5 years|Time to neutrophil engraftment, The method of Kaplan and Meier will be used to estimate time to neutrophil engraftment., Up to 2.5 years|Time to platelet engraftment, The method of Kaplan and Meier will be used to estimate time to platelet engraftment., Up to 2.5 years|Cumulative incidence of relapse, Will use the method of Gooley et al to estimate the cumulative incidence of relapse. Will use the method of Fine and Gary to fit regression models to the cumulative incidence outcomes., Up to 2.5 years|Non-relapse mortality, Will use the method of Gooley et al to estimate the cumulative incidence of non-relapse mortality. Will use the method of Fine and Gary to fit regression models to the cumulative incidence outcomes. Logistic regression will be used to model the association between 100-day NRM and clinical and demographic covariates of interest., Up to 2.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare progression free survival of two schedules of venetoclax, timed sequential busulfan, cladribine and fludarabine conditioning regimen in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare overall survival between the two schedules. II. Compare non relapse mortality between the two schedules. III. Compare neutrophil and platelet engraftment between the two schedules. IV. Compare acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) between the two schedules.

V. Compare cumulative incidence of relapse between the two schedules. VI. Compare grade III/IV toxicity between the two schedules.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study chemotherapy resistance. II. To study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage. III. To study immune recovery and cytokines (both in plasma and cells). IV. To study BCL-2 family expression, stem cell surface markers and intracellular signaling markers in AML cells at the time of relapse.

OUTLINE:

PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -22 to -3 and busulfan intravenously (IV) over 3 hours on days -13 and -12. Patients then receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 1 hour, cladribine IV over 2 hours, and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6 to -3.

ARM II: Patients receive venetoclax PO QD on days -22 to -3 and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -20 and -13. Patients then receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 1 hour, cladribine IV over 2 hours, and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6 to -3.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2.5 years.