Cetuximab, Leucovorin, Oxaliplatin, and Fluorouracil With or Without Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Resectable Liver Metastases From Colorectal Cancer
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab and bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving cetuximab together with combination chemotherapy and bevacizumab before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Giving these treatments after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well giving cetuximab together with leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil works with or without bevacizumab in treating patients with resectable liver metastases from colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: oxaliplatin|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy|PROCEDURE: conventional surgery|PROCEDURE: neoadjuvant therapy
Response rate (preoperative response rate)|Safety (rate of perioperative safety findings)
Progression-free survival|Pathological resection rate|Overall survival
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the safety and activity of neoadjuvant and adjuvant cetuximab, leucovorin calcium, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil with vs without bevacizumab in patients with resectable liver metastases secondary to colorectal cancer.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study. Patient are stratified according to participating center and planned liver resection (major \[≥ 3 segments\] vs minor \[\< 3 segments\]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours (FOLFOX) beginning on day 1. Patients also receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Between 3-5 weeks after completion of FOLFOX and cetuximab, patients undergo liver resection. Beginning between 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients receive another 6 courses of FOLFOX and cetuximab as in neoadjuvant therapy.

* Arm II: Patients receive FOLFOX and cetuximab as in arm I and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses\* in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*Patients do not receive bevacizumab during course 6

Between 3-5 weeks after completion of FOLFOX, cetuximab, and bevacizumab, patients undergo liver resection. Beginning between 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients receive another 6 courses of FOLFOX, cetuximab, and bevacizumab as in neoadjuvant therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for at least 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study.