Evaluating Harms and Benefits of Endocrine Therapy in Patients ≥70 Years of Age With Lower Risk Breast Cancer
The current standard of care for stage 1 hormone receptor-positive (HR+) breast cancer consists of breast-conserving surgery followed by adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) and endocrine therapy (ET) for at least 5 years. The benefit of adjuvant ET for older patients is mitigated because of their increase risk of death from other causes and shorter time horizon to live. Clinical and pathological factors such as low-intermediate grade, tumor size ≤2 cm, and older age have been used in a few studies to identify patients with a lower risk of recurrence that might benefit from adjuvant therapy de-escalation, i.e. omission of RT or ET. Since there is no dedicated randomized clinical trial (RCT) conducted to evaluate the omission of ET, there is clinical equipoise as to whether we can omit adjuvant ET in older patients with lower-risk early-stage breast cancer. Therefore, we propose a randomised, multicentre trial evaluating harms and benefits of endocrine therapy in patients ≥70 years of age with lower risk breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: No endocrine therapy|OTHER: Endocrine therapy
Accrual of 100 participants across 8 centres within 2 years, The accrual of at least 100 participants at 8 centres within 2 years., 2 years after study initiation|Participation rate of at least 60%, A participation rate of at least 60% among participants approached., 2 years after study initiation|90% treatment allocation rate, At least 90% of enrolled participants receive treatment as per their allocated intervention for at least 4 weeks, 4 weeks after study enrolment
Significant adverse events, Significant adverse events (e.g. bone fracture, stroke/transient ischemic attack, thromboembolic event, cardiac event, second cancer, hospitalization and death), Baseline, 12 weeks, 26 weeks, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years after study enrolment|Endocrine therapy related toxicity, Endocrine therapy (ET) related toxicity based upon Common Terminology for Adverse Events version 5 (CTCAEv5), Baseline, 12 weeks, 26 weeks, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years after study enrolment|Health-related quality of life scores, Health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) scores measured by the Cancer and Aging Research Group geriatric assessment (patient-tool) and the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Endocrine Symptom Subscale (FACT-B plus ES). The Cancer and Aging Research Group geriatric assessment tool (patient-tool) is utilized to capture information about a patient's medical history as well as functional, cognitive and psychosocial status. The FACT-B plus ES is used to measure the side effects and putative benefits of hormonal treatment given in breast cancer., Baseline, 12 weeks, 26 weeks, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years after study enrolment|Rate of treatment discontinuation, The rate of endocrine therapy treatment discontinuations and reasons why the endocrine therapy treatment was discontinued., 5 years after study enrolment
The current standard of care for stage 1 hormone receptor-positive (HR+) breast cancer consists of breast-conserving surgery followed by adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) and endocrine therapy (ET) for at least 5 years. The benefit of adjuvant ET for older patients is mitigated because of their increase risk of death from other causes and shorter time horizon to live. This population is also more likely to have additional comorbidities which can lead to higher treatment-related adverse events impacting quality of life and precipitating functional decline. Clinical and pathological factors such as low-intermediate grade, tumor size ≤2 cm, and older age have been used in a few studies to identify patients with a lower risk of recurrence that might benefit from adjuvant therapy de-escalation, i.e. omission of RT or ET. The body of evidence from small prospective studies, mathematical modelling study and retrospective analyses would suggest that the omission of ET in older patients with favourable HR+ breast cancer who had optimal local therapy (i.e. breast conserving surgery followed by adjuvant radiotherapy) does not compromise locoregional and survival outcomes. Since there is no dedicated randomized clinical trial (RCT) conducted to evaluate the omission of ET, there is clinical equipoise as to whether we can omit adjuvant ET in older patients with lower-risk early-stage breast cancer. Therefore, we propose a randomised, multicentre trial evaluating harms and benefits of endocrine therapy in patients ≥70 years of age with lower risk breast cancer.