Combination Chemotherapy, Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation, and Biological Therapy in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors or Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill more tumor cells. Biological therapies such as interleukin-2 use different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop cancer cells from growing.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy, peripheral stem cell transplantation, and interleukin-2 in treating patients who have solid tumors or lymphoma.
Lymphoma|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific|Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
BIOLOGICAL: aldesleukin|BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|DRUG: busulfan|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: thiotepa|PROCEDURE: bone marrow ablation with stem cell support|PROCEDURE: in vitro-treated peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the toxicity of sargramostim (GM-CSF) and filgrastim (G-CSF)-mobilized interleukin-2(IL-2)-incubated autologous peripheral blood stem cells and sequential IL-2 in patients with solid tumors or lymphoma.
* Determine the ability of cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel followed by GM-CSF and G-CSF to mobilize adequate numbers of CD34+ cells and immune cells in these patients.
* Determine the time to neutrophil and platelet engraftment in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the overall and disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1-2 hours on day 1 and paclitaxel IV over 4 hours on day 2. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) alone on days 3-9 and GM-CSF and filgrastim (G-CSF) SC beginning on day 10 and continuing until leukapheresis is completed.

Patients receive high-dose chemotherapy comprising oral busulfan every 6 hours on days -8 to -6, melphalan IV on days -5 and -4, and thiotepa IV on days -3 and -2. Autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are treated ex vivo with interleukin-2 (IL-2) on day -1. Patients undergo IL-2-treated autologous PBSC transplantation on day 0.

Beginning 4 hours after PBSC transplantation, patients receive IL-2 IV continuously for 5 days. IL-2 therapy repeats every 7 days for 4 courses.

Patients are followed on days 60-80, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.