Alleviation of Alopecia in Breast Cancer Patient Using Synbiotics Formula
This study aims to explore the efficacy and safety of a synbiotic formula (BLHK03) in alleviating chemotherapy-induced alopecia (CIA) in breast cancer patients and the compositional and functional changes in the gut microbiome of breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy and treatment with BLHK03.
Breast Cancer|Hair Loss
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: BLHK03|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Active placebo
The proportion of subjects with a score of ≤ 2 on the Dean scale (corresponding to hair loss ≤ 50%) 2 months after the final dose of chemotherapy, The change of Dean scale (corresponding to hair loss) after chemotherapy compared to baseline. Score 0 means no hair loss and score 4 means all hair is fallen down., Baseline to 2 months after the final dose of chemotherapy
Gut microbial change at 2 months after the final dose of chemotherapy, The change of gut microbiota composition at 2 months after the final dose of chemotherapy compared to baseline, Baseline to 2 months after the final dose of chemotherapy|Adverse event rates related to the study during the study period, The adverse events reported throughout the study, Baseline to 2 months after the final dose of chemotherapy
In a mice study, it was shown that oral administration of a probiotic isolated from healthy faeces, B. longum HK003, has protective effects against alopecia related to chemotherapy. Mice were treated with 100 mg/kg cyclophosphamide (CYP) once monthly, for 4 months. The CYP-treated mice were then treated with B. longum HK003 for 14 days. Results showed that B. longum treatment significantly enhanced skin thickness histologically. In the subcutis, the quantity and size of anagen follicles were increased, whilst the quantity of atrophic follicles were decreased.

Currently, there is no documentation of potential probiotic-drug interactions in breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. A previous randomized controlled trial reported no adverse event associated with the use of synbiotics in breast cancer patients during the treatment period(9). Beneficial effects on chemotherapy-induced fatigue and abnormal stool consistency were also observed in subjects receiving synbiotics(9).

Biotin is a water-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in some food and available as a dietary supplement for healthy hair and nails due to its role in keratin production. Most healthy individuals achieve adequate intake of biotin through a well-balanced diet. Current recommendation for biotin by the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) at the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine stated that the daily adequate intake (AI) for adults is 30 mcg/day. Although biotin has been widely used as dietary supplement, data on the actual benefit of its effect on hair growth is limited(10).

The use of B. longum HK003 in alleviating chemotherapy-induced alopecia in breast cancer patients has not been explored. This pilot, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial aims to explore on the efficacy and safety of a synbiotic formula (BLHK03) in alleviating chemotherapy-induced alopecia (CIA) in breast cancer patients.