Electroacupuncture (EA) Promotes Gastrointestinal Functional Recovery After Radical Colorectal Cancer Surgery
The goal of this clinical trial is to verify the efficacy of electroacupuncture in accelerating the recovery of gastrointestinal function after colorectal cancer surgery. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Whether electroacupuncture can accelerate the recovery of gastrointestinal function in patients after colorectal cancer surgery.
* Whether electroacupuncture intervention is safe for postoperative colorectal cancer patients.

Participants will be randomized into 3 groups:

The conventional control group will receive postoperative rehydration and nutritional support, correction of acid-base imbalance and electrolyte disturbance, anti-infection, hemostasis and other symptomatic treatments.

In the electroacupuncture group, acupuncture will be performed within 6 hours after surgery on the basis of the conventional control group. Acupoint: bilateral Hegu (LI4), Zhigou (SJ6), Zusanli (ST36), Shangjuxu (ST37). Both after obtaining Qi, and unilaterally connected to the electroacupuncture instrument for electrical stimulation, the current frequency is continuous wave 5 Hz, the intensity of stimulation was as the patient tolerated, each time lasting 30 min. Acupuncture stimulation was given every 12 h. The course of treatment was terminated postoperatively until the fourth postoperative day (d0-d4) or until the patient showed the first postoperative anal exhaust or continued until the fourth day.

The sham acupuncture group will based on the conventional control group, using a blunt-tipped needle tip that do not pierce the adhesive pad.
Colorectal Cancer|Gastrointestinal Dysfunction
DEVICE: Electroacupuncture group|OTHER: Sham EA group
Time of first postoperative exhaust, The time between the patient's first exhaust and the end of surgery will be recorded., up to 4 days after surgery.
Time of first postoperative defecation, Patients self-report their defecation and doctors record the time., up to 4 days after surgery.|Length of recovery of bowel sounds after surgery ( Yueyang Hospital records only), Monitoring by continuous auscultation recorder of bowel sounds immediately at the end of surgery; Determination of recovery of postoperative bowel sounds: the time point when regular bowel sounds are observed and greater than 4 times/minute, calculate its time until the end of surgery (h), this outcome is only used in our center., up to 4 days after surgery.|Time of first postoperative intake of water, The time when the patient first entered water after surgery was recorded separately., up to 4 days after surgery.|Number of Postoperative nausea and vomiting episods, During the postoperative hospitalization, whenever nausea, vomiting and abdominal distension occur, patients or their family members use the uniform tabulation to record the occurrence time by themselves and inform the medical staff in time, and the medical staff keep records at the same time. The time until the end of the operation and the number of postoperative episodes will be calculated before discharge., up to 4 days after surgery.|Quality of life scale 1, Version 3.0 European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), standard score, range from 0 to 100, higher scores mean a better outcome., baseline, discharge 1 day, 1 month after surgery.|Quality of life scale 2, Short Form 12 scale (Chinese version). (Short Form 12 scale consists of eight scaled scores, which are the weighted sums of the questions in their section. Each scale is directly transformed into a 0-100 scale on the assumption that each question carries equal weight. The lower the score the more disability. The higher the score the less disability)., baseline, discharge 1 day, 1 month after surgery.|Visual Analog Scale (VAS) of Pain, Visual analogy score (0 to 5, higher scores mean a worse outcome), up to 4 days after surgery.|Postoperative hospitalization days, Calculate and record the number of days from the day of surgery to the day of patient discharge., up to 4 days|Biochemical indexes 1, Hypersensitive C-reactiveprotein (hs-CRP), μg/L., 1 hour postoperatively, 12 hours postoperatively, 72 hours postoperatively.|Biochemical indexes 2, Interleukin-6 (IL-6), μg/L., 1 hour postoperatively, 12 hours postoperatively, 72 hours postoperatively.|Biochemical indexes 3, serum albumin (ALB), g/L., baseline, discharge 1 day.
Adverse Event Assessment, Any adverse events in the study., up to 4 days
Colorectal cancer is the most common and predominant malignancy, and radical resection surgery, as the main method of current treatment for colon and gastrointestinal cancers, is performed on a large number of patients each year. Clinically, abdominal surgery causes the highest frequency of gastrointestinal dysfunction and the longest relative duration of dysfunction. A condition in which gastrointestinal function has not fully recovered after abdominal surgery is called gastrointestinal dysfunction. The common symptoms of postoperative gastrointestinal dysmotility are abdominal distension, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, diminished or even absent bowel sounds, loss of anal discharge, loss of bowel movements, and even secondary symptoms such as fever and pulmonary infection. It will adversely affect patients' postoperative quality of life to varying degrees, weaken their gastrointestinal barrier capacity, and severe gastrointestinal dysfunction can lead to complications such as electrolyte disorders, intestinal adhesions, intestinal obstruction, anastomotic fistula, and abdominal wall incision dehiscence in patients, as well as increase the social burden and the economic burden of patients. Some clinical reports show that acupuncture has good efficacy on gastrointestinal dysfunction, and acupuncture has effects on the gastrointestinal tract such as promoting gastrointestinal motility and reducing the inflammatory response of the gastrointestinal tract. In this study, a multicenter, randomized, blinded, sham acupuncture-controlled clinical design will be used to verify the efficacy of postoperative electroacupuncture in accelerating the recovery of gastrointestinal function after colorectal cancer surgery.

Participants will be randomized into 3 groups:

The conventional control group will receive postoperative rehydration and nutritional support, correction of acid-base imbalance and electrolyte disturbance, anti-infection, hemostasis and other symptomatic treatments.

In the electroacupuncture group, acupuncture will be performed within 6 hours after surgery on the basis of the conventional control group. Acupoint: bilateral Hegu (LI4), Zhigou (SJ6), Zusanli (ST36), Shangjuxu (ST37). Both after obtaining Qi, and unilaterally connected to the electroacupuncture instrument for electrical stimulation, the current frequency is continuous wave 5 Hz, the intensity of stimulation was as the patient tolerated, each time lasting 30 min. Acupuncture stimulation was given every 12 h. The course of treatment was terminated postoperatively until the fourth postoperative day (d0-d4) or until the patient showed the first postoperative anal exhaust or continued until the fourth day.

The sham acupuncture group will based on the conventional control group, using a blunt-tipped needle tip that do not pierce the adhesive pad. In other words, the electroacupuncture instrument show the state of being connected, but it is not actually energized; the acupuncture points, acupuncture time points, frequency, retention time and treatment duration were the same as those of the intervention group.