AST-VAC2 Vaccine in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This clinical study is looking at a vaccine called AST-VAC2 in adult patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The main aim of the study: If the dose can be given safely to patients, learn more about the potential side effects of the vaccine and how they can be managed and also what happens to AST-VAC2 inside the body.
Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: AST-VAC2
Frequency and Causality of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Non-Serious Adverse Events (NSAEs) and Grade ≥3 Adverse Events (AEs) to AST-VAC2, Number of SAEs, NSAEs and Grade ≥3 AEs overall and number of SAEs, NSAEs and Grade ≥3 AEs related to AST-VAC2. AEs categorised according to Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) version (v) 25.0 and graded for severity according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.02 or protocol specific grading system for injection site reactions (ISRs; Section 9.8 of protocol). AEs assessed by the reporting study doctors for a causal relationship to AST-VAC2. Related are those AEs with a causality of possible, probable or highly probable. All AEs and SAEs were collected until 30 days post last vaccination but only related AEs and SAEs were collected thereafter., From the time of informed consent up to 2 years from the first dose of AST-VAC2, a median (range) of 402.5 days (101-770).|Number of Participants Experiencing ISRs by Grade, Number of participants experiencing ISRs Grade 1 to 4 according to protocol-specific grading of ISRs (protocol section 9.8); Grade 1: minimal effect on activities of daily living, Grade 2: restricts activities of daily living, Grade 3: prevents/severely limits activities of daily living, Grade 4: life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Participants may have had ISRs of different grades at different vaccinations and are counted once for each grade of ISR reported., From the time of informed consent up to 2 years from the first dose of AST-VAC2, a median (range) of 402.5 days (101-770).
Number of Participants Showing a Durable Peripheral Immune Response, Immunological response in whole blood (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) by human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) specific T cells measured by enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT), with a durable peripheral immune response defined as a change in one validated assay at two time points after at least two vaccinations (where a change is defined as 2.5 fold change over baseline \[after removal of background\], assay control and \>35 spots/10\^6 cells)., Screening, vaccination weeks 3, 4 and 6; 2 weeks post last vaccination and 3, 6 and 12 months post first vaccination.|Mean Fold Change in hTERT Specific T Cells Over Baseline by Timepoint: hTERT Peptide Pool 1 Assay (p1-387), Immunological response in whole blood (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) by hTERT specific T cells measured by ELISPOT and presented as mean fold change in spots/10\^6 cells (after removal of background) from baseline to each timepoint assessed. Mean (full range) data are reportable data from the participants analysed at each timepoint. Non-reportable data and timepoints where no participants had reportable data are not shown., Screening, vaccination weeks 3, 4 and 6; 2 weeks post last vaccination and 3, 6 and 12 months post first vaccination.|Mean Fold Change in hTERT Specific T Cells Over Baseline by Timepoint: hTERT Peptide Pool 2 Assay (p377-763), Immunological response in whole blood (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) by hTERT specific T cells measured by ELISPOT and presented as mean fold change in spots/10\^6 cells (after removal of background) from baseline to each timepoint assessed. Mean (full range) data are reportable data from the participants analysed at each timepoint. Non-reportable data and timepoints where no participants had reportable data are not shown., Screening, vaccination weeks 3, 4 and 6; 2 weeks post last vaccination and 3, 6 and 12 months post first vaccination.|Mean Fold Change in hTERT Specific T Cells Over Baseline by Timepoint: hTERT Peptide Pool 3 Assay (p753-1132), Immunological response in whole blood (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) by hTERT specific T cells measured by ELISPOT and presented as mean fold change in spots/10\^6 cells (after removal of background) from baseline to each timepoint assessed. Mean (full range) data are reportable data from the participants analysed at each timepoint. Non-reportable data and timepoints where no participants had reportable data are not shown., Screening, vaccination weeks 3, 4 and 6; 2 weeks post last vaccination and 3, 6 and 12 months post first vaccination.|Tumour Response According to Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC) Post Vaccination, Number of participants with complete response, partial response, stable disease, progressive disease or who were not evaluable at radiological disease assessment (computerised tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging) at the End of Vaccination visit according to irRC (Appendix 3 of protocol)., Radiological disease assessment at Baseline and End of Vaccination visit (30 days post last vaccination), up to 94 days.|Overall Survival at 2 Years Post First Vaccination, Number of participants alive at 2 years post their first vaccination., From first AST-VAC2 vaccination to 2 years post first vaccination.
This clinical study is looking at a vaccine called AST-VAC2. AST-VAC2 has been designed to potentially help the immune system attack the cancer. This is a new vaccine which looks promising in laboratory studies but it has never been tested in man.

Dendritic cells occur naturally in your body as part of the immune system however these dendritic cells have a special role in finding proteins in the body which are associated with cancer and it is hoped that the vaccine will train the immune system to recognise these proteins and attack the cancer.

Some cancers tend to have more of a certain type of protein (part of the body's building blocks that make up cells) called 'hTERT' and it has been shown in laboratory studies (and also studies in patients using a similar type of vaccine), that targeting hTERT can lead to destruction of cancer cells by the immune system. AST-VAC2 will target the hTERT protein.

Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) is another type of protein. An HLA pre-screening test will be able to show if a person is positive or negative for a specific HLA protein (AST-VAC2 can only work with some types of HLA), as being positive for the protein may mean there is a better chance of the vaccine attacking the cancer. Patients who are positive for the specific HLA type will be asked to consent to the vaccine. Those patients who are negative for the HLA type will not be eligible for the trial.