Bortezomib, Paclitaxel, Carboplatin and Radiation Therapy for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I/II trial (phase I closed to accrual as of 09/29/2009) is studying the side effects and best dose of bortezomib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin when given with radiation therapy and to see how well they work in treating patients with stage IIIA or stage IIIB non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Bortezomib may increase the effectiveness of paclitaxel and carboplatin by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drugs. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Giving bortezomib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy|DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: carboplatin
The Primary Endpoint of This Trial is the Proportion of Patients Alive at 1 Year. Phase II Patients Only., The primary endpoint of this trial is the proportion of patients alive at 1 year (i.e., 365 days) after study registration. Proportion of successes, defined as the number of patients alive at one year divided by the total number of evaluable patients., At 1 year
Confirmed Tumor Response, Response was assessed using the RECIST v1.1 criteria. Patients were evaluated at 4 weeks post-RT, 3 months post-RT, every 3 months for 1 year post-RT, and every 6 months thereafter for a maximum of 5 years from time of registration. A Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. A Partial Response (PR) is defined as at least a 20% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions from baseline. A confirmed response is defined as a CR or PR as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart., Up to 5 years|Time to Progression, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From study registration to date of disease progression or date of last follow-up, up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, The distribution of progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from registration to the time of progression or death, whichever comes first. The PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From study registration to the first of either death due to any cause or progression, up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as the time from registration to the time to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, up to 5 years|Frequency and Severity of Observed Toxicity, Graded by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Toxicity was reported after the first 21 days of treatment and after each 28 day cycle thereafter. Events were graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0. The number of patients reporting grade 3 and higher are tabulated., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin when administered with fractionated radiotherapy in patients with unresectable stage IIIA or IIIB non-small cell lung cancer. (Phase I) (closed to accrual as of 09/29/2009) II. Determine the 1-year survival of patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the tolerability of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II) II. Determine the response rate, progression-free survival, and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II) III. Correlate p27 expression in tumor tissue with survival, time to progression, and response in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I (closed to accrual as of 09/29/2009), dose-escalation study of bortezomib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: (closed to accrual as of 09/29/2009) Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Patients also receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 2. Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bortezomib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients receive bortezomib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin as in phase I at the MTD. Patients also undergo radiotherapy as in phase I. Patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years from the time of registration.