Gene Therapy-Treated Stem Cells in Treating Patients Undergoing Stem Cell Transplant for Intermediate-Grade or High-Grade AIDS-Related Lymphoma
This pilot clinical trial studies biological therapy in treating patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related lymphoma undergoing stem cell transplant. Giving chemotherapy before a stem cell transplant stops the growth of cancer cells by stopping them from dividing or killing them. After treatment, stem cells are collected from the patient's blood and stored. The stem cells are then returned to the patient to replace the blood-forming cells that were destroyed by the chemotherapy. Giving biological therapy as part of the stem cell transplant may be more effective in treating patients with AIDS-related lymphoma
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: lentivirus vector rHIV7-shI-TAR-CCR5RZ-transduced hematopoietic progenitor cells|DRUG: carmustine|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: etoposide|PROCEDURE: autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
Safety of treatment using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) hematologic Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, The toxicities observed after each stem cell infusion will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as ANC), severity (by NCI CTCAE version 3 and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures), time of onset (i.e., course number), duration, and reversibility of outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by course., 15 years post stem cell infusion|Survival of shI-TAR-CCR5RZ-marked cells in the peripheral blood, demonstrated by presence of transgene by Q-PCR using primers specific for rHIV7-shI-TAR-CCR5RZ in serial samples of peripheral blood, 24 months post stem cell infusion|Determination of RNA transgene expression in samples of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) or marrow before and after infusion, analyzed by Northern blotting/hybridization, For detection of the shRNA, we will use a quantitative real-time PCR assay., Day 1 post stem cell infusion|Analysis of vector rescue by HIV, Integration analysis will be performed only if there is a clinical syndrome that suggests clonal expansion of hematopoietic cells. In that situation, the method of insertion site location will use a linear amplification mediated (LAM)-PCR technique. If positive vector sequences are found in the plasma, confirmation of vector rescue will be done by isolation of HIV and subsequent HIV sequencing., 15 years post stem cell infusion|Ability to obtain suitable numbers of lentiviral vector treated HPC-A, The number and type of cells will be determined by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis of the final cell product. Target number for untransduced cells in the final therapeutic cell product is 2.5 x 10\^6 CD34+ cells/kg. Minimum target number of CD34+ cells for transduction is 5 x 10\^6/kg and in the final transduced cell product, the number of CD34+ cells must be \>= 2.0 x 10\^6 CD34+ cells/kg with total viability \>= 70%. The relative or absolute number of transduced CD34+ cells will be determined., Day 2 post apheresis|Determination of replication competent lentivirus (RCL) and HIV-1/vector recombination, 15 years post stem cell infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and feasibility of using lentivirus-transduced hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) (lentivirus vector rHIV7-shI-TAR-CCR5RZ-transduced hematopoietic progenitor cells) in the setting of autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) for treatment of AIDS related lymphoma. The safety of the of the genetically modified product used in the transplant procedure will be assessed by monitoring each subject for adverse events (procedure related toxicity); absolute neutrophil count (ANC)/platelet engraftment (sustained recovery); and evidence of replication competent vector or vector recombination with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) quasi-species present in the patient.

II. To determine the quantity and duration of vector-marked peripheral blood cells and to characterize: the duration and level of gene marking and expression of the anti-HIV ribonucleic acids (RNAs) in these transduced cells, and the characterization of the integration sites of vector sequences in circulating cells if there is a clinical syndrome suggestive of a clonal expansion of hematopoietic cells. In addition, the feasibility of the process will be assessed based on the results of the release testing of the transduced cells prior to injection into the patient.

III. To determine whether the design of the vector prevents vector mobilization and rescue by wild-type HIV-1. IV. To measure the effect of HIV infection on the presence of HIV-resistant blood cells as measured by genetic marking for vector sequences before and after antiviral treatment interruption.

OUTLINE:

CONDITIONING: Patients receive carmustine intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours on days -7 to -5, etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4, and cyclophosphamide IV on day -2.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation comprising lentivirus vector rHIV7-shI-TAR-CCR5RZ-transduced hematopoietic progenitor cells and non-bound cluster of differentiation (CD)34+ cells IV on day 0. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 weeks for 3 months; at 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 18, and 24 months; every 6 months for 3 years; and then annually for 10 years.