Exploring the Effect of Colonic J-pouch in Anorectal Preservation Surgery for Ultra-low Rectal Cancer.
The occurrence of colorectal cancer has increased from the third most common cancer in 2018 to the second most common cancer in 2023. The practice of anal preservation surgery for ultra-low rectal cancer is being adopted gradually. Ultra-low rectal cancer patients who have undergone anal preservation are at an increased risk of developing significant bowel complications. The objective of this study was to examine the relationship between the type of bowel reconstruction following anal preservation surgery, and the subsequent outcomes of bowel function, quality of life and complication rates in patients with ultra-low rectal cancer.
Rectum Cancer|Faecal Incontinence|Faecal Incontinence with Faecal Urgency|Low Anterior Resection Syndrome|Leakage, Anastomotic
PROCEDURE: J-pouch anastomosis|PROCEDURE: direct anastomosis
LARS score, The LARS scale has five questions with a total score of 42. A score of 0-20 lacks diagnostic value for LARS, while a score of 21-29 indicates mild LARS and a score above 29 indicates major LARS., From 1 month postoperatively to 12 months postoperatively|FIQL, The FIQL is a specific quality-of-life assessment scale applicable to the symptoms of colorectal cancer patients. It comprises 29 items, which are divided into four dimensions: lifestyle (10 items), coping/behavior restriction(9 items), depression/self-perception (7 items), and embarrassment (3 items)., From 1 month postoperatively to 12 months postoperatively|Vaizey score, The Wexner scale has five parts with a total score of 20, while the Vaizey scale is further refined on the basis of Wexner and has seven parts with a total score of 24. Higher scores on these scales indicate poorer anal functioning., From 1 month postoperatively to 12 months postoperatively|Wexner score, The Wexner scale has five parts with a total score of 20, while the Vaizey scale is further refined on the basis of Wexner and has seven parts with a total score of 24. Higher scores on these scales indicate poorer anal functioning., From 1 month postoperatively to 12 months postoperatively
Surgical complications, Records post-operative anastomotic fistula, infection, bleeding, etc., From 1 month postoperatively to 12 months postoperatively
The occurrence of colorectal cancer has increased from the third most common cancer in 2018 to the second most common cancer in 2023. The practice of anal preservation surgery for ultra-low rectal cancer is being adopted gradually. Ultra-low rectal cancer patients who have undergone anal preservation are at an increased risk of developing significant bowel complications. The objective of this study was to examine the relationship between the type of bowel reconstruction following anal preservation surgery, and the subsequent outcomes of bowel function, quality of life and complication rates in patients with ultra-low rectal cancer.