Efficacy of Regorafenib Combined With Best Supportive Care as Maintenance Treatment in High Grade Bone Sarcomas Patients
This is a multicenter phase II study concerning patients with high-grade bone sarcoma (HGBS) without complete remission after standard treatment at diagnosis or at relapse.

Patients will be treated with regorafenib + best supportive care (BSC) for a maximum of 12 months as maintenance therapy after standard line therapy completion.

Progression free rate (PFR) data will be collected and analysed for all included patients to evaluate if regorafenib + BSC can be considered as an interesting treatment for further investigations in this indication.
Bone Sarcoma|Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Treatment by regorafenib and best supportive care
Progression-Free Rate at 4 months (4m-PFR), The Progression-Free Rate at 4 months (4m-PFR) will be defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response, a partial response or stable disease, confirmed on tumour assessments according to the RECIST V1.1 at 4 months (16 weeks) after the date of regorafenib + BSC treatment initiation.

Patients with a non-progressive disease at 16 ± 2 weeks after the date of regorafenib + BSC treatment initiation will be considered as "success" patients.

Patients with a progressive disease and patients who died from any cause at 16 ± 2 weeks after the date of regorafenib + BSC treatment initiation will be considered as "failure" patients.

At the time of analysis, if at least 18 "successes" are observed among the 36 analyzed patients, the regorafenib + BSC treatment will be considered as interesting for further investigations in this indication., Up to 16 weeks after the date of regorafenib + BSC treatment initiation
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be described from date of regorafenib + BSC treatment initiation to the date first documented disease progression according to RECIST V1.1 or the date of death due to any cause.

Patients alive without progression at the time of data cut-off will be censored at the time of latest tumour evaluation., Up to 3 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The Objective Response Rate (ORR) will be defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (RECIST V1.1), Up to 3 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR) at 2 months, The Disease Control Rate (DCR) will be defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of CR, PR or Stable Disease (SD) (RECIST V1.1) 2 months after randomization, 2 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) at 4 months, The Disease Control Rate (DCR) will be defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of CR, PR or Stable Disease (SD) (RECIST V1.1) 4 months after randomization, 4 months|Overall Survival (OS), The Overall Survival (OS) will be defined as the time from date of regorafenib +BSC treatment initiation to the date of death, from any cause. Patient not known to have died at the time of analysis will be censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive., Up to 3 years|Quality of Life (QoL), The patient's Quality of Life (QoL) will be assessed using the EORTC Quality Of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 file. Scores will be calculated at each time point according to the scoring manuals. Descriptive statistics will be used to evaluate baseline scores and evolution of scores from baseline to each time point. Data will be compared between arms using the Student's t-test. The QoL data will also be presented graphically if deemed relevant., Up to 1 year|Tolerance profile of treatment, The safety will be described mainly on the frequency of adverse events (AE) coded using the common toxicity criteria (NCI-CTCAE v5.0) grade. Descriptive statistics will be provided for characterizing and assessing patient tolerance to treatment. AE will be coded according to the MedDRA®., Up to 3 years
This is a multicenter phase II study.

Patients with evaluable unresectable residual disease will be accrued after they completed standard of care, consisting of:

* At diagnosis: standard multimodal treatment based on histological subtype
* At relapse: chemotherapy

Patients who meet the eligibility criteria will receive regorafenib + best supportive care (BSC) as maintenance treatment for a maximum 12 months period.

After their eligibility has been confirmed, patients will receive regorafenib until disease progression, or for a maximum of 12 months, or unacceptable toxicity or willingness to stop, whichever occurs first.

After the completion of the maintenance therapy (12 months) patients will be followed-up until the first radiological disease progression, unless a premature disease progression occurred. All patients will be followed-up until the data cut-off (12 months after the last inclusion).

The vital status will be updated once for all patients at 24 months after the last inclusion, based on patient's medical file.