AI Models to Predict Thyroid Cartilage Invasion in Laryngeal Carcinoma
This retrospective study was to develop and verify CT-based AI model to preoperatively predict the thyroid cartilage invasion of laryngeal cancer patients, so as to provide more accurate diagnosis and treatment basis for clinicians. In addition, the researchers investigated the prediction of survival outcomes of patients by the above optimal models.
Laryngeal Carcinoma|Thyroid Cartilage
OTHER: AI
Area under the curve, AUC, Area under the curve(AUC) is a metric widely used in machine learning and medical research to evaluate the performance of models in binary classification problems. It reflects the ability of a model to identify true positives (True Positives) while avoiding falsely classifying negative examples as positive (False Positives)., Through study completion, an average of 6 months
Disease-Free-Survival, DFS, Disease-Free Survival (DFS) refers to the time from the start of randomization (usually the starting point of a clinical trial) to the recurrence of the disease or death of the patient due to disease progression. DFS is an important clinical and statistical indicator used to evaluate the long-term effects of cancer treatment., The date of surgery and the occurrence of events such as disease progression, the date of the last follow-up, or death from any cause, and the follow-up time was at least 3 years
Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC), as one of the most common head and neck tumors, is the eighth leading cause of cancer-associated death worldwide. The treatment decisions has a profound impact on both tumor control and functional prognosis of LSCC patients. And these decisions are primarily based on tumor staging, with the invasion of the thyroid cartilage serving as a crucial determinant. Consequently, the presence of thyroid cartilage invasion indicates an advanced stage (T3 or T4) diagnosis for the LSCC patients. For patients without thyroid cartilage invasion, partial laryngectomy may be considered to preserve laryngeal function. However, for patients with advanced laryngeal carcinoma and thyroid cartilage invasion extending beyond the larynx, total laryngectomy is often necessary to completely remove the tumor and extend survival time. Therefore, accurate assessment of thyroid cartilage invasion is vital for treatment decision-making and prognosis evaluation for LSCC patients.