Assessment of Quality of Life in Patients With Symptomatic Chemotherapy-induced Anaemia
This is a multicenter, international, prospective, observational study of patients who are receiving systemic chemotherapy for solid tumour cancers (breast, colorectal, ovarian, prostate, lung, bladder, endometrial, renal, pancreatic, esophageal or gastric) and who are receiving darbepoetin alfa (Aranesp®) or other erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) to treat symptomatic anaemia.

Quality of Life will be assessed electronically with the aim of estimating improvement in quality of life for those patients receiving darbepoetin alfa (Aranesp®) who also have an increase in haemoglobin (Hb) of ≥1 g/dL
Anemia|Breast Cancer|Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Lung Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Solid Tumors|Bladder Cancer|Endometrial Cancer|Renal Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
Percentage of Participants Receiving Darbepoetin Alfa With Improvement in Patient Perceived Fatigue (PPF) and Increase in Hemoglobin ≥ 1 g/dL, Improvement in PPF was defined as improvement at Week 9 in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue (FACT-F) score of ≥ 3.5 points from Baseline (the minimally important difference \[MID\]), and an increase in hemoglobin was defined as ≥ 1 g/dL increase from Baseline. The FACT-F MID was determined by the mean FACT-F change score (between Baseline and Week 9) for participants who had an improvement in the fatigue visual analog scale (VAS) score of 5 ± 3 points. The FACT-F subscale consists of 13 fatigue-related items that are a subset of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Anaemia (FACT-An) questionnaire. Participants indicate how they feel in response to 13 statements on a scale from 0 for "Not at all" to 4 for "Very much". Total scores for the FACT-F subscale range from 0 to 52; the higher the score the better the quality of life. The fatigue-VAS is a 100-point scale, where fatigue-levels are rated from 0 (least fatigue) to 100 (worst possible fatigue)., Baseline to Week 9 (Treatment Day 57). Due to the observational nature of the study and variation in ESA dosing schedules, assessments closest to day 57 and within Days 43 to 70 (inclusive) were used to calculate the Week 9 visit results.
Percentage of Participants by Tumor Type With Improvement in Patient Perceived Fatigue (PPF) and Increase in Hemoglobin ≥ 1 g/dL, Improvement in PPF was defined as improvement at week 9 in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue (FACT-F) score of ≥ 3.5 points from Baseline (the minimally important difference \[MID\]), and an increase in hemoglobin was defined as ≥ 1 g/dL increase from Baseline. The FACT-F MID was determined by the mean FACT-F change score (between Baseline and Week 9) for participants who had an improvement in the fatigue visual analog scale (VAS) score of 5 ± 3 points. The FACT-F subscale consists of 13 fatigue-related items that are a subset of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Anaemia (FACT-An) questionnaire. Participants indicate how they feel in response to 13 statements on a scale from 0 for "Not at all" to 4 for "Very much". Total scores for the FACT-F subscale range from 0 to 52; the higher the score the better the quality of life. The fatigue-VAS is a 100-point scale, where fatigue-levels are rated from 0 (least fatigue) to 100 (worst possible fatigue)., Baseline to Week 9|Mean Change From Baseline in FACT-F Score for Participants With a VAS Improvement of 5 ± 3 Points, The FACT-F subscale consists of 13 fatigue-related items (statements) that are a subset of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Anaemia (FACT-An) questionnaire. Participants are asked to indicate how they feel in response to each of the 13 statements on a scale from 0 for "Not at all" to 4 for "Very much". Total scores for the FACT-F subscale can range from 0 to 52; the higher the score the better the quality of life. A positive change (\>0) from baseline score constitutes an improvement in fatigue between Baseline and Week 9. The fatigue-visual analog scale (VAS) is a 100-point scale where fatigue-levels are rated from 0 (least fatigue) to 100 (worst possible fatigue)., Baseline and Week 9|Time to First Increase in Hemoglobin, Time from Baseline to first increase in hemoglobin of ≥ 1 g/dL, From Baseline until Week 9|Percentage of Participants With Improvement in Patient-perceived Fatigue (PPF) at Any Time, The percentage of participants with iimprovement in PPF at any time from Day 2 until the end-of-study assessment (Week 13). Improvement in PPF was defined as improvement in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue (FACT-F) score of ≥ 3.5 points from Baseline (the minimally important difference \[MID\]). The FACT-F MID was determined by the mean FACT-F change score (between Baseline and Week 9) for participants who had an improvement in the fatigue visual analog scale (VAS) score of 5 ± 3 points. The FACT-F subscale consists of 13 fatigue-related items that are a subset of the FACT-An questionnaire. Participants indicate how they feel in response to 13 statements on a scale from 0 for "Not at all" to 4 for "Very much". Total scores for the FACT-F subscale range from 0 to 52; the higher the score the better the quality of life. The fatigue-VAS is a 100-point scale, where fatigue-levels are rated from 0 (least fatigue) to 100 (worst possible fatigue)., From Baseline to Week 13|Percentage of Participants With Increase in Hemoglobin ≥ 1 g/dL at Any Time, The percentage of participants with increase in hemoglobin (≥ 1 g/dL) at any time from Day 2 until the end-of-study assessment (Week 13)., From Baseline to Week 13
Before enrolling participants, each country was assigned to either cohort 1 (patients receiving only darbepoetin alfa) or cohort 2 (patients receiving any ESA). Cohort 2 was assigned only to those countries in which local regulations did not permit observational study participation by patients receiving a specific agent in a drug class.