Hyperthermia Combined Brachytherapy in CCU
The aim of this randomised trial was to investigate whether hyperthermia (HT) combined with interstitial brachytherapy (ISBT) has any influence on local control (LC), disease-free survival (DFS), or acute and late side effects in patients with advanced cervical cancer. Vaginal symptoms were assessed by SOMA score, bladder and rectum symptoms by EORTC/RTOG score. Following the completion of radiochemotherapy, consecutive patients with cervical cancer (FIGO stage II - III) were randomly assigned to two treatment groups, either ISBT alone or ISBT combined with interstitial hyperthermia (ISHT). A total of 205 patients were included in the statistical analysis. Once a week, HT, at a temperature above 42.5°C, was administered for 45 minutes before and during the HDR BT. Follow-up examinations were scheduled at 6 weeks after the completion of BT, every 3 months during the first 2 years, and every 6 months throughout the next 3 years. If relapse was suspected, biopsies were obtained from these patients.
Cervical Cancer
OTHER: hyperthermia
LC, When local relapse was suspected, biopsy was obtained., Follow up was scheduled every 3 months. Preliminary results after 3 years.
Late side effects, EORTC\\ERTOG scale for rectum and bladder and SOMA scale for vagina, Follow up was scheduled every 3 months. Preliminary results after 3 years.|Early complications of BT procedure, Reporting the episodes of perforation and bleeding., 24 hours after BT procedure|DFS, CT, RTG, MRJ, SCC are performed to detect metastases., Follow up was scheduled every 3 months. Preliminary results after 3 years.
The aim of this randomised trial was to investigate whether hyperthermia (HT) combined with interstitial brachytherapy (ISBT) has any influence on local control (LC), disease-free survival (DFS), or acute and late side effects in patients with advanced cervical cancer. Vaginal symptoms were assessed by SOMA score, bladder and rectum symptoms by EORTC/RTOG score. Following the completion of radiochemotherapy, consecutive patients with cervical cancer (FIGO stage II - III) were randomly assigned to two treatment groups, either ISBT alone or ISBT combined with interstitial hyperthermia (ISHT). A total of 205 patients were included in the statistical analysis. Once a week, HT, at a temperature above 42.5°C, was administered for 45 minutes before and during the HDR BT. Follow-up examinations were scheduled at 6 weeks after the completion of BT, every 3 months during the first 2 years, and every 6 months throughout the next 3 years. If relapse was suspected, biopsies were obtained from these patients.