Palliative Hepatectomy Combined With Targeted Therapy and Immunotherapy for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignant tumors and the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Surgical resection has always been the best hope for long-term survival of patients with HCC. However, due to the fact that most patients are already in the middle and late stages of treatment, only about 20% of patients have the opportunity to undergo surgical resection. Palliative cytoreductive surgery has been used in the treatment of a variety of malignant tumors, but it is not recommended for the treatment of HCC. Under the premise of targeted therapy and immunotherapy, palliative hepatectomy can reduce tumor burden and may further improve the therapeutic effect of HCC. The aim of this study is to explore whether palliative hepatectomy combined with targeted therapy and immunotherapy can improve the therapeutic effect of advanced HCC, ultimately prolong the survival time of patients, and provide a new treatment direction for patients with advanced HCC.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Palliative Hepatectomy|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR refers to the proportion of patients whose tumors shrink to a certain amount and maintain for a certain period of time (6 weeks after first dose of Durvalumab), including CR+PR cases. CR (complete response): disappearance of all target lesions, PR (partial response): reduction of the sum of the length and diameter of the baseline lesions by ≥30%., 6 weeks after first dose of Durvalumab
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as time from diagnosis to death from any cause or the last follow-up, through study completion, an average of 2 year|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS refers to the time from subject enrollment to disease progression according the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECISTv1.1) or death, 18 months
This study is a prospective, multicenter, single-arm clinical study aimed at evaluating targeted therapy and immunotherapy combined with palliative hepatectomy for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Patients who have been assessed as stage B or C of Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) will receive local treatment (transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) or transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (HAIC)) or 90Y-SIRT (yttrium-90 selective internal radiation therapy) combined with Lenvatinib and Durvalumab. After receiving three months of combined treatment, patients in the stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) stage who have poor efficacy evaluated by imaging will undergo palliative hepatectomy; patients in the complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) stage after imaging evaluation will be excluded and continue to receive systematic treatment. Patients need to discontinue targeted therapy and immunotherapy one week before surgery.