Mapping Psychosocial Screening to Services for Children With Cancer
Children with cancer are vulnerable to symptoms of anxiety and depression. Although screening for psychosocial distress is a standard of care for children with cancer, there is a limited knowledge
Cancer
OTHER: Psychosocial Navigator|OTHER: Communication of Summary Profile
Feasibility pertaining to recruitment, Rate of recruitment as measured by percentage of participants who consent to participation as compared to those who are eligible and do not consent, 12 months|Feasibility pertaining to retention, Rates of completed questionnaires at all time points, 12 months|Satisfaction with Enhanced Intervention as assessed by questionnaire at completion of study, 5 - point likert scale satisfaction questionnaire with 6 questions pertaining to usefulness and overall satisfaction with the enhanced intervention. The minimum score is 6 (low satisfaction) and the maximum score is 30 (high satisfaction)., 12 months|Satisfaction with Enhanced Intervention as assessed by semi-structured interview at completion of study, Semi-structured interview with 6 questions including "What were your expectations about being in this study?"; "Were your expectations of the study met?"; "Do you have any additional comments/suggestions for the study?", 12 months
Distress, Pediatric and Adult Distress Thermometer (self-report) measures participant distress on a visual analog scale of 1 to 10, with a score of 10 indicating high distress, Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient generic quality of life based on self report, Pediatric Quality of Life - generic. (Child/teen self-report). Measures perceived quality of life of child with cancer based on self perception - on everyday items (for children who do not have cancer). Miinimum score is 0. Maximum score is 100. Higher score indicates better perceived quality of life., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient generic quality of life based on caregiver report, Pediatric Quality of Life - generic. (Caregiver-report). Measures perceived quality of life of child with cancer based on caregiver perception - on everyday items (for children who do not have cancer). Miinimum score is 0. Maximum score is 100. Higher score indicates better perceived quality of life., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient quality of life as it relates to cancer, based on self-report, Pediatric Quality of Life-Cancer (Child/teen self-report). Measures perceived quality of life of child with cancer based on self-perception. Miinimum score is 0. Maximum score is 100. Higher score indicates better perceived quality of life., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient quality of life as it relates to cancer, based on caregiver report, Pediatric Quality of Life-Cancer (Caregiver report). Measures perceived quality of life of child with cancer based on caregiver perception. Miinimum score is 0. Maximum score is 100. Higher score indicates better perceived quality of life., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient anxiety and depression - child/teem self report, Pediatric Index of Emotional Distress. Minimum score is 0. Maximum score is 42. Lower score indicates lower levels of anxiety and depression., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient anxiety (child/teen self-report), Patient-reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - pediatric anxiety questionnaire - short form (child/teen self-report). Minimum score is 8. Maximum score is 40. Lower score indicates lower level of anxiety., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient depression (child/teen self-report), Patient-reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - pediatric depression questionnaire - short form (child/teen self-report). Minimum score is 8. Maximum score is 40. Lower score indicates lower level of depression., Change from baseline to 12 months|Caregiver post-traumatic stress related to child's cancer diagnosis, Impact of Events scale - Revised (IES-R) (caregiver self-report). Mimimum score is 0. Maximum score is 88. Lower scores indicate lower levels of post-traumatic stress., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient post-traumatic stress related to own cancer diagnosis, Impact of Events scale - Revised (IES-R) (child/teen self-report). Mimimum score is 0. Maximum score is 88. Lower scores indicate lower levels of post-traumatic stress., Change from baseline to 12 months|Caregiver coping with stress of child's cancer diagnosis, Responses to Stress Questionnaire - Cancer Version (caregiver self-report). Minimum score is 0. Maximum score is 1. A higher score indicates more engagement with active coping strategies., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient's own coping with stress of cancer diagnosis, Response to Stress Questionnaire - Cancer Version (patient self-report). Minimum score is 0. Maximum score is 1. A higher score indicates more engagement with active coping strategies., Change from baseline to 12 months|Psychosocial risk, Psychosocial Assessment Tool (PAT) (caregiver report). Minimum score is 0. Maximum score is 3. Lower score indicates lower level of psychosocial risk., Change from baseline to 12 months|Financial impact of pediatric cancer diagnosis and treatment on families., Financial burden questionnaire (caregiver report). Minimum score is 22. Maximum score is 88. Higher score indicates lower level of financial impact on families., Change from baseline to 12 months|Caregiver depression, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Depression Questionnaire (caregiver self-report). Minimum score is 6. Maximum score is 30. Lower scores indicate lower levels of depression., Change from baseline to 12 months|Caregiver anxiety, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Anxiety Questionnaire (caregiver self-report). Minimum score is 6. Maximum score is 30. Lower scores indicate lower levels of anxiety., Change from baseline to 12 months
Sleep duration and quality of sleep of patient and caregiver, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. (Caregiver and patient self-report). Minimum value is 0. Maximum value is 21. Lower scores indicate better sleep quality., Change from baseline to 12 months|Caregiver emotional support, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Emotional Support Questionnaire (caregiver self-report). Minimum score is 6. Maximum score is 30. Higher scores indicate higher levels of emotional support., Change from baseline to 12 months|Caregiver Fatigue, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue Questionnaire (caregiver self-report). Minimum score is 6. Maximum score is 30. Lower scores indicate lower levels of fatigue, Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient Peer Relationships, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Perceived Quality of Peer Relationships (child/teen self-report). Minimum score is 8. Maximum score is 40. Higher scores indicate higher levels of perceived peer relationship quality., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient Fatigue, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue Questionnaire (child/teen self-report). Minimum score is 10. Maximum score is 50. Lower scores indicate lower levels of fatigue., Change from baseline to 12 months|Patient emotional support, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Emotional Support Questionnaire (child/teen self-report). Minimum score is 7. Maximum score is 35. Higher scores indicate higher levels of emotional support., Change from baseline to 12 months
Background: Approximately 3 000 children and adolescents are diagnosed with cancer in Canada each year \[Canadian Cancer Society\]. Children with cancer experience higher rates of anxiety and depression symptoms relative to healthy controls \[Pinquart \& Shen, 2011\], and a subgroup are vulnerable to marked levels of psychological distress \[Kurtz \& Abrams, 2011\]. One standard for psychosocial care in pediatric cancer that is starting to be implemented across the United Stated and Canada is the systematic screening for psychosocial distress, using the Psychosocial Assessment Tool (PAT) \[Kazak, Schneider, Didonato, Pai, 2015; Pai et al., 2008; Barrera et al., 2014; McCarthy et al., 2009; Sint Nicolaas et al., 2016\]. However, a dearth of literature exists on how to bridge screening for psychosocial distress and the delivery of appropriate evidence-based mental health resources. The current study is a randomized controlled pilot intervention project which aims to test the feasibility and effects of introducing a psychosocial navigator who will coordinate the delivery of psychosocial resources to children with cancer and their families based on early screening and follow-up for psychosocial distress. Specific Objectives: 1) To determine the feasibility and utility of conducting psychosocial screening and providing an Enhanced Psychosocial Intervention (EPSI). 2) To examine the effects of EPSI, as compared to treatment as usual (TAU+), on the mental health, quality of life, coping, and social relationships of children with cancer. Methods: A randomized controlled feasibility intervention trial, with a TAU+ control group, will be conducted with newly diagnosed children with any type of cancer. Participants will be 10-18 years of age, medically suitable for participation, in active treatment, and the primary caregiver. Forty-eight child-caregiver dyads (24 in the intervention and 24 in the control group) will be enrolled. The EPSI will have two components: 1) Information about the psychosocial risk of the family and mental health of the child (e.g., depression) and 2) the Psychosocial Navigator (PSN) as resource for tailoring psychosocial resources to child-family distress, linking with the treating team. Measures of feasibility (recruitment, acceptability) will be documented throughout; initial screening using the PAT will be conducted 2-4 weeks post diagnosis (baseline); and using the distress thermometer, follow-up will be done at specific periods depending on the disease (leukemia/lymphoma, solid tumors, brain tumors). The primary psychosocial outcome (depression), and secondary outcomes (post-traumatic stress, pain, fatigue, coping, sleep quality, time and financial cost, social support and quality of life) will be completed at baseline and 12 months later. Descriptive statistics (frequency and percentage rates) will be provided for feasibility measures and PAT psychosocial risk categories. Means, standard deviations, and ranges will be provided for the primary and secondary outcomes. Preliminary analyses of group comparisons will also be performed via independent t tests and chi square tests. Further, analyses of covariance (ANCOVAs) will be conducted on the primary and secondary outcomes to test group differences at post-test while controlling for pretest scores.

Significance: The proposed intervention project will assess and address the psychosocial needs of newly diagnosed pediatric cancer patients and families. This intervention aims to improve the triaging of resources and enhance the effectiveness of psychosocial intervention for children with cancer. The enhanced intervention is expected to improve children's and adolescents' coping with disease-related stressors such as pain and uncertainty, improve their mood, and enhance social engagement with peers.