Effect of Exercise Mode in Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema
Gaining a greater understanding of how each exercise mode affects lymphedema, as well as other health-related outcomes will improve exercise prescription guidelines relevant to this specific lymphedema. Therefore, the purpose of this work was to compare the effects of Xbox kinect rehabilitation and resistance exercises on limb volume, symptoms severity, physical function, and quality of life in women with Breast cancer-related lymphedema.
Breast Cancer Lymphedema|Quality of Life
OTHER: Virtual Reality|OTHER: Resistance Exercise
Limb volume measurement, assessed by circumference measurements using a non-elastic tape. Measures started just distal to the metacarpal-phalangeal joints and were taken at 4-cm intervals up the arm until the base of the axilla., at baseline|Limb volume measurement, assessed by circumference measurements using a non-elastic tape. Measures started just distal to the metacarpal-phalangeal joints and were taken at 4-cm intervals up the arm until the base of the axilla., after 8 weeks|Limb volume measurement, assessed by circumference measurements using a non-elastic tape. Measures started just distal to the metacarpal-phalangeal joints and were taken at 4-cm intervals up the arm until the base of the axilla., after 12 weeks|Health-related quality of life, Medical Outcomes Study short-form (SF-36), assessed using the Medical Outcomes Study short-form (SF-36). Outcomes of physical functioning, role-physical, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning, role emotional and mental health domains were reported as norm-based scores., at baseline|Health-related quality of life, Medical Outcomes Study short-form (SF-36), assessed using the Medical Outcomes Study short-form (SF-36). Outcomes of physical functioning, role-physical, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning, role emotional and mental health domains were reported as norm-based scores., after 8 weeks|Health-related quality of life, Medical Outcomes Study short-form (SF-36), assessed using the Medical Outcomes Study short-form (SF-36). Outcomes of physical functioning, role-physical, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning, role emotional and mental health domains were reported as norm-based scores., after 12 weeks
Shoulder range of motion, Active flexion and abduction of the shoulder were assessed with the elbow extended in the supine position. External rotation was measured while the shoulder was adducted and in neutral position with the forearm in neutral supination and pronation while sitting on a chair., at baseline|Shoulder range of motion, Active flexion and abduction of the shoulder were assessed with the elbow extended in the supine position. External rotation was measured while the shoulder was adducted and in neutral position with the forearm in neutral supination and pronation while sitting on a chair., after 8 weeks|Shoulder range of motion, Active flexion and abduction of the shoulder were assessed with the elbow extended in the supine position. External rotation was measured while the shoulder was adducted and in neutral position with the forearm in neutral supination and pronation while sitting on a chair., after 12 weeks|Visual analogue scale, used to quantify the severity of perceived pain, heaviness, and tightness. Participants rated their symptom severity from no pain/no discomfort (score = 0) to very severe pain/worst imaginable discomfort (score = 10), at baseline|Visual analogue scale, used to quantify the severity of perceived pain, heaviness, and tightness. Participants rated their symptom severity from no pain/no discomfort (score = 0) to very severe pain/worst imaginable discomfort (score = 10), after 8 weeks|Visual analogue scale, used to quantify the severity of perceived pain, heaviness, and tightness. Participants rated their symptom severity from no pain/no discomfort (score = 0) to very severe pain/worst imaginable discomfort (score = 10), after 12 weeks|Muscle strength, The affected upper extremity flexion, abduction, and external rotation muscle strength were measured during maximal voluntary isometric muscle contraction with the J Tech Commender Muscle Tester (Salt Lake City, Utah, USA) handheld dynamometer according to reported positions., at baseline|Muscle strength, The affected upper extremity flexion, abduction, and external rotation muscle strength were measured during maximal voluntary isometric muscle contraction with the J Tech Commender Muscle Tester (Salt Lake City, Utah, USA) handheld dynamometer according to reported positions., after 8 weeks|Muscle strength, The affected upper extremity flexion, abduction, and external rotation muscle strength were measured during maximal voluntary isometric muscle contraction with the J Tech Commender Muscle Tester (Salt Lake City, Utah, USA) handheld dynamometer according to reported positions., after 12 weeks
Breast cancer-related lymphedema is a common and debilitating side effect of cancer treatment. This study compared the effect of Xbox kinect rehabilitation and resistance exercises on breast cancer-related lymphedema volume and severity, as well as participant's physical function and quality of life. Women diagnosed with unilateral breast cancer related lymphedema were randomly divided into two groups: the kinect based rehabilitation group KBRG and resistance exercise group REG. woman in The KBRG received virtual reality therapy using Xbox Kinect-based games, the REG received resistance training in addition both groups received complex decongestive physiotherapy. The intervention was five sessions per week for 8 weeks. The outcome measures included limb volume, symptoms severity, physical function (muscle strength and range of motion) and quality of life. All these outcomes were assessed at pretreatment (baseline) and after the end of treatment at week eight (W8).