Cost and Effectiveness of Pressurized Intraperitoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy in Patients With Peritoneal Carcinoma.
The presence of peritoneal carcinomatosis indicates a neoplastic disease evolved. Without intervention, the prognosis is poor with survival of only a few months. Standard treatment is based on systemic chemotherapy, however, the pharmacokinetics of drug delivery to the peritoneum is poor, with limited efficacy compared to other metastatic sites such as the liver or lung. When the carcinomas are is resectable, selected patients can benefit from targeted therapeutic approaches combining peritonectomy and Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy (HIPEC), offering a significant improvement in survival. A new surgical technique has been developed for patients with unresectable Chemotherapy intraperitoneal aerosol spray (PIPAC). The objective is to improve the survival time, quality of life but can also make PC resectable and therefore accessible to complete excisional surgery. The cost of this treatment is not yet fully assessed in France. The main objective of this study is to assess the real cost of PIPAC in order to allow its dissemination.
Evaluate the Cost of a PIPAC Procedure and the Associated Hospital Stay in France
PROCEDURE: PIPAC
Evaluate the cost of a PIPAC, Evaluate the cost of a PIPAC procedure and the associated hospital stay, 90 Days
The presence of peritoneal carcinomatosis indicates a neoplastic disease evolved. Without intervention, the prognosis is poor with survival of only a few months. Standard treatment is based on systemic chemotherapy, however, the pharmacokinetics of drug delivery to the peritoneum is poor, with limited efficacy compared to other metastatic sites such as the liver or lung. When the carcinomas are is resectable, selected patients can benefit from targeted therapeutic approaches combining peritonectomy and Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy (HIPEC), offering a significant improvement in survival. A new surgical technique has been developed for patients with unresectable Chemotherapy intraperitoneal aerosol spray (PIPAC). The objective is to improve the survival time, quality of life but can also make PC resectable and therefore accessible to complete excisional surgery. The cost of this treatment is not yet fully assessed in France. The main objective of this study is to assess the real cost of PIPAC in order to allow its dissemination.