S0526: Pemetrexed Disodium in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as pemetrexed disodium, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Pemetrexed disodium may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well pemetrexed disodium works in treating patients with stage III or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: pemetrexed
Overall Survival, Measured from date of registration to date of death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., 0 - 3 years
Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined as any one or more of the following: 20% increase in the sum of longest diameters of target measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease during therapy) using the same techniques as baseline; Unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease in the opinion of the treating physician (an explanation must be provided); Appearance of any new lesion/site; Death due to disease without prior documentation of progression and without symptomatic deterioration. Symptomatic deterioration is defined as globabl deterioration of health status requiring discontinuation of treatment without objective evidence of progression. Progression-free survival is measured from date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive and progression-free are censored at date of last contact., 0 - 3 years|Response (Confirmed and Unconfirmed, Complete and Partial), Complete response (CR) is complete disappearance of all measurable and non-measurable disease. No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Normalization of markers and other abnormal lab values. Partial Response (PR) is greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of longest diameters of all target measurable lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease. No new lesions. Confirmation of CR or PR means a repeat scan at least 4 weeks apart documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration., Assessed at weeks 7 and 13 while on treatment. After off treatment prior to disease progression, disease assessment takes place every 3 months for a maximum of 3 years.|Number of Patients With Grade 3 Through 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drug, Adverse Events (AEs) are reported by the CTCAE (NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 3.0. For each patient, worst grade of each event type is reported. Grade 3 = Severe, Grade 4 = Life-threatening, Grade 5 = Fatal., Patients were assessed for adverse events 4 weeks after starting treatment. Assessments for adverse events continued after every cycle of treatment (every 3 weeks) for the duration of protocol treatment.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Assess overall survival of patients with selected stage IIIB or IV bronchoalveolar carcinoma treated with pemetrexed disodium.

Secondary

* Evaluate the progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.
* Evaluate the response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, partial and complete) in the subset of patients with measurable disease treated with this drug using standard RECIST criteria and computer assisted image analysis.
* Evaluate frequency and severity of toxicities in patients treated with this drug.
* Perform molecular correlative studies on patient tissue to investigate potential predictors of efficacy. (This will not be completed as this study was closed due to poor accrual.)

OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to prior treatment with gefitinib or erlotinib (yes vs no).

Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenous (IV) on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 99 patients will be accrued for this study.