Stress and Coping in Caregivers of Younger Patients With Cancer
This research trial studies stress and coping in caregivers of younger patients with cancer. Learning how caregivers of children with cancer experience and cope with chronic stress may help to develop effective programs for reducing caregiver stress.
Anxiety|Depression
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Physiologic Testing|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Level of Caregiver Distress as measured by multiple regressions analysis, To examine whether coping styles alone predict psychosocial outcomes, a simple multiple regressions will be conducted with coping styles (approach and avoidant positive emotion coping strategies) as the predictors and the psychosocial outcomes as dependent variables. To examine whether treatment status moderates the impact of coping style on psychosocial outcomes, a multiple regressions with treatment status will be conducted, each coping style individually, and an interaction term of treatment status coping style in predicting each of the psychosocial outcomes., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine how the experience of distress and use of positive emotion coping strategies by pediatric cancer caregivers differs from caregivers of children with no chronic illnesses.

II. To determine how relationships between positive coping strategies and caregiver distress change during the different phases of a child's illness.

III. To explore how chronic caregiver stress affects physiological reactivity to and recovery from an acute laboratory stressor.

IV. To explore how different positive coping mechanisms help chronically stressed caregivers recover from acute stressors and how these efficacies change during the different phases of the child's illness.

OUTLINE:

PART I:

Participants complete a questionnaire that measures several psychological constructs including stress, anxiety, depression, coping mechanisms, uncertainty, positive and negative emotions, and life satisfaction over 15-30 minutes.

PART II:

Participants undergo a Trier Social Stress Test during a laboratory session over 1.5 hours.