Panitumumab, Regorafenib, or TAS-102, in Treating Patients With Metastatic and/or Unresectable RAS Wild-Type Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well retreatment with panitumumab works compared to standard of care regorafenib or trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride (TAS-102) in treating patients with colorectal cancer that is negative for RAS wild-type colorectal cancer has spread to other places in the body (metastatic), and/or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable), and is negative for resistance mutations in blood. Treatment with panitumumab may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Some tumors need growth factors to keep growing. Growth factor antagonists, such as regorafenib, may interfere with the growth factor and stop the tumor from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as TAS-102, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving panitumumab may work better in treating patients with colorectal cancer than with the usual treatment of regorafenib or TAS-102.
Metastatic Colon Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Metastatic Rectal Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Colon Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Colorectal Carcinoma|Unresectable Rectal Adenocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Regorafenib|DRUG: Trifluridine and Tipiracil Hydrochloride
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the Time from randomization to death from any cause. The distribution of overall survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Overall survival will be compared between the 2 treatment arms using the un-stratified log-rank test will be used., 2 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever is first. If the patient did not have any disease evaluation post randomization, PFS will be censored at one day after randomization. The distribution of progression free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression free survival will be compared between the 2 treatment arms using the log-rank test which is used for the primary endpoint analysis., 1 year|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the number of patients with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (as defined by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1) divided by the number of evaluable patients in each arm. ORR will be compared between the 2 treatment arms. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Clopper and Pearson., 2 years|Clinical Benefit Rate, Defined as the number of patients with a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease for \>= 4 months (as defined by the RECIST 1.1) divided by the number of evaluable patients in each arm. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Clopper and Pearson., 4 months|Incidence of Adverse Events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient in each cycle. The number of patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse events will be compared using Chi-Square or Fisher's Exact tests., 2 years|Patient-reported Quality of Life, Patients reported quality of life (QOL) outcomes will be collected using the Linear Analog Self-Assessment (LASA) Questionnaire. Data will be collected each cycle. Mean values of the first question (regarding overall QOL) at each cycle will be plotted, and stratified by arm. Additional analyses using data collected from the LASA questionnaire may be performed. Score from 0-10, 0 is worse and 10 is better., 2 years
Cell Free Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (cfDNA), A report will be generated for each clinical specimen, which may include (but not limited to) the presence or absence of relevant gene mutations or amplifications, along with the allele frequency. Mutations of interest include KRAS and NRAS exons 2, 3, and 4, BRAF, PIK3CA, EGFR, AKT, PTEN, MAP2K1, and MET. Amplifications of interest include MET, EGFR, KRAS, and ERBB2. Genes and alterations analyzed will be based on best available science at the time of analysis., Baseline, at restaging, and at disease progression|Circulating Protein Studies, Plasma samples will be analyzed for multiple soluble protein analytes, which may include (but not limited to) HGF, c-MET, EGF, HBEGF, TGF-alpha, EGFR, HER2, and CD73., Up to 3 years|Tumor Tissue Studies, Comprehensive mutational analysis will be performed on archived formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tumor samples. This analysis may include, but is not limited to Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) and IHC where appropriate., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the overall survival (OS) in molecularly selected patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) receiving panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or regorafenib).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the progression free survival (PFS) in molecularly selected patients with metastatic CRC receiving panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or regorafenib).

II. To define the objective response rate (ORR) in patients receiving panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or regorafenib).

III. To define the clinical benefit rate (CBR = complete response + partial response + stable disease \>= 4 months) in patients receiving panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or regorafenib).

IV. To compare the safety and tolerability of panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or regorafenib).

V. To compare quality of life (QOL) between panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or regorafenib) as measured by the linear analogue self-assessment (LASA) questionnaires.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess plasma pharmacodynamics biomarkers of response and resistance to therapy.

II. To explore any correlation between tissue and blood based biomarkers and clinical outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a maximum of 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5 and 8-12, or regorafenib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21, at the discretion of the treating physician. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a maximum of 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for up to 3 years after randomization.