Recurrence Risk Factors of Early-Stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma After Radio Frequency Ablation
The aim was to investigate the efficacy of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) with a multiple-electrode switching system (MESS) in the treatment of early hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and to evaluate the patterns and risk factors of intrahepatic recurrence of HCC after RFA.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: MESS-RFA
Technical success, Complete ablation rate, up to 5 years
LTP, local tumor progression, up to 5 years|IDR, intrahepatic distant recurrence, up to 5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival rates, up to 5 years|IDR-free survival, IDR-free survival rates, up to 5 years
RFA complications, Complication rate, up to 5 years
Percutaneous RFA has become a particularly promising treatment for patients with early HCC. For HCC with a diameter less than 3cm, RFA is becoming an effective topical method for the goal of a complete cure. Although RFA is successful for small HCCs, for HCCs with a diameter larger than 3 to 5 cm, the complete ablation rate is reported to range from 61.3% to 82.5%. These results may be obsolete due to the further development of RFA techniques and instruments. For example, the use of clustered electrodes and an improved motor can provide a higher power, and the multiple-electrode switching system RFA (MESS-RFA) uses various methods to create a sufficient ablation zone, the investigators need to further update the management strategy of the RFA treatment of early HCC.

However, HCC recurrence after RFA is still a significant problem . the investigators divide the intrahepatic recurrence after RFA into local tumor progression (LTP) and intrahepatic distant recurrence (IDR); each type of recurrence has a different pathogenic mechanism and is thought to occur relatively independently . Understanding the pattern and risk factors of recurrence is very important for the development of RFA and its clinical application.

The objective of our multicenter prospective study was to evaluate the efficacy of MESS-RFA as a primary method for treating early HCC, to assess the pattern of intrahepatic recurrence according to the types of recurrence, and to determine the risk factors associated with tumor recurrence and survival.