CAELYX® as Adjuvant Treatment in Early Stage Luminal B Breast Cancer BREAST CANCER
A single-center, phase II, single-arm, feasibility study to evaluate PLD (Caelyx®) as an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen in patients with early-stage luminal B breast cancer.

The primary endpoint will be to evaluate the feasibility of adjuvant PLD (Caelyx®) for each individual subject. The regimen will be considered feasible if that subject is able to achieve relative dose intensity (RDI) of at least 85% of the 8 cycles of treatment.

Caelyx® should be administered intravenously at a dose of 20 mg/m2 once every two weeks for 8 courses.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Caelyx®
Feasibility of adjuvant PLD (Caelyx®), The regimen will be considered feasible if that subject is able to achieve relative dose intensity (RDI) of at least 85% of the 8 cycles of treatment, 4 months
Adverse event, Grading for all side effects will be according to the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, 4 months|percent of patient completing treatment (tolerability), percent of patients treated according to the protocol and completing the adjuvant program, and percent protocol treatment received, 4 month|Breast cancer free interval (BCFI), BCFI is defined as the time from registration to local (including recurrence restricted to the breast after breast conserving treatment), regional, or distant relapse, or contralateral breast cancer., 5 years|Disease Free Survival (DFS), DFS is defined as the time from registration to disease recurrence (includes second malignancies and deaths), 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS defined as the time from registration to death from any cause, 5 years
In the 2011 St Gallen Consensus Conference, the Panel considered that both anthracyclines and taxanes should be included in the chemotherapy regimen for 'Luminal B' disease1. However, several patients are reluctant to receive a "strong" chemotherapy because of the fear of its toxic effects, and usually ask for a somehow "less intensive" approach, even accepting a possible reduction in the treatment efficacy.

One of the reasons why patients refuse chemotherapy more often is the fear of alopecia. Few dermatologic conditions carry as much emotional distress as chemotherapy-induced alopecia. Hair loss negatively affects a patient's perception of appearance, body image, sexuality, and self- esteem.

We decided to conduct a single-center, phase II, single-arm, feasibility study to evaluate PLD (Caelyx®) as an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen in patients with early-stage luminal B breast cancer.

The primary endpoint will be to evaluate the feasibility of adjuvant PLD (Caelyx®) for each individual subject. The regimen will be considered feasible if that subject is able to achieve relative dose intensity (RDI) of at least 85% of the 8 cycles of treatment.

Secondary endpoints will include:

* Adverse events
* Tolerability (treatment completion)
* Breast cancer free interval (BCFI; events are reappearance of invasive breast cancer at any site including contralateral disease)
* Disease Free Survival (DFS) (includes second malignancies and deaths)
* Overall survival (OS) Caelyx® should be administered intravenously at a dose of 20 mg/m2 once every two weeks for 8 courses.