Palbociclib in Combination With Chemotherapy in Treating Children With Relapsed Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) or Lymphoblastic Lymphoma (LL)
AINV18P1 is a Phase 1 study where palbociclib will be administrated in combination with a standard re-induction platform in pediatric relapsed Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) and lymphoblastic lymphoma (LL). LL patients are included because the patient population is rare and these patients are most commonly treated with ALL regimens. The proposed palbociclib starting dose for this study will be 50 mg/m\^2/day for 21 days.
Leukemia, Lymphocytic|Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|T-cell Lymphoma|T-cell Leukemia|Recurrent Disease|Acute Leukemia
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Hydrocortisone|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Prednisolone|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Pegaspargase|DRUG: Hydrocortisone|DRUG: Prednisone
Frequency of Dose Limiting Toxicities of Palbociclib, The frequency (%) of patients experiencing a cycle 1 dose limiting toxicity at least possibly attributable to Palbociclib by study part and dose level., Up to 32 days|Frequency of Adverse Events of Palbociclib, The frequency (%) of patients experiencing adverse events at least possibly attributable to Palbociclib by study part and dose level., Up to 26 months|Area Under the Drug Concentration Curve of Palbociclib, The median (min, max) of the area under the drug concentration curve for Palbociclib determined by measures at 0, 1, 2, 4, 8, and 24 hours post-dose on day 11 by study part and dose level., Up to 11 days|Half-life of Palbociclib, The median (min, max) of the half-life of Palbociclib determined by measures at 0, 1, 2, 4, 8, and 24 hours post-dose on day 11 by study part and dose level., Up to 11 days|Maximum Serum Concentration of Palbociclib, Median (min, max) of the maximum serum concentration of Palbociclib determined by measures at 0, 1, 2, 4, 8, and 24 hours post-dose on day 11 by study part and dose level, Up to 11 days|Time to Reach Maximum Serum Concentration of Palbociclib, Median (min, max) of the maximum time to reach serum concentration of Palbociclib determined by measures at 0, 1, 2, 4, 8, and 24 hours post-dose on day 11 by study part and dose level, Up to 11 days|Clearance of Palbociclib, Median (min, max) of the clearance of Palbociclib determined by measures at 0, 1, 2, 4, 8, and 24 hours post-dose on day 11 by study part and dose level, Up to 11 days
Number of Participants With at Least Partial Response to Palbociclib, Frequency (%) of patients with at least partial response to Palbociclib per leukemia/lymphoma specific response criteria: Complete Response (CR), M1 marrow (\<5% blasts) and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) at least 500/uL and platelet count at least 50000/uL without transfusion for 7 days; Complete response with incomplete recovery (CRi), M1 marrow (\<5% blasts), ANC\<500uL, platelet count \<50,000uL; Partial Response (PR), Complete disappearance of circulating blasts and achievement of M2 marrow status if M3 originally, without new sites of extramedullary disease, and with ANC ≥ 500/µL. Complete response in the marrow without resolution of extramedullary sites. Overall Response (OR) = CR+CRi+PR, up to 26 months|Absolute Peripheral Blast Count of Palbociclib, Median (min, max) of absolute peripheral blast count of palbociclib by study part and dose level, Up to 3 days|Radiographic Response of Palbociclib in Patients With LL Patients, Number of LL patients with radiographic response by study part and dose level. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all disease; Partial Response (PR): 50% decrease in SPD (the sum of the products of the largest diameter and the perpendicular diameter for a tumor mass). Total responders = CR+PR, Day 32|RB1 Expression of Palbociclib, Median (min,max) of RB1 expression of palbociclib by study part and dose level, Up to 4 days|Phospho-RB1 Expression of Palbociclib, Median (min,max) of Phospho-RB1 expression of palbociclib by study part and dose level, Up to 4 days|Cyclin D3 Expression of Palbociclib, Median (min,max) of Cyclin D3 expression of palbociclib by study part and dose level, Up to 4 days|CDK4 Expression of Palbociclib, Median (min,max) of CDK4 expression of palbociclib by study part and dose level, Up to 4 days|CDK6 Expression of Palbociclib, Median (min,max) of CDK6 expression of palbociclib by study part and dose level, Up to 4 days|p27Kip1 Expression of Palbociclib, Median (min,max) of p27Kip1 expression of palbociclib by study part and dose level, Up to 4 days|Ki67 Biological Activity of Palbociclib, Median (min,max) of CD1a biological activity of palbociclib, Up to 32 days|DAPI Biological Activity of Palbociclib, Median (min,max) of DAPI biological activity of palbociclib by study part and dose level, up to 26 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of palbociclib administered in combination with re-induction chemotherapy in pediatric patients with relapsed B- or T-lineage ALL/LL.

II. To define and describe the toxicities of palbociclib administered on this schedule.

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of palbociclib in pediatric patients with relapsed B- or T-lineage ALL/LL.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To preliminarily define the antitumor activity of palbociclib in combination with chemotherapy for children with relapsed ALL/LL within the confines of a Phase 1 study.

II. To assess the biologic activity of palbociclib in this patient population.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Palbociclib PO (or via NG-tube) once daily on Days 1-21; Intrathecal cytarabine (IT ARAC) on Day 1, Doxorubicin IV push or infusion over 1-15 min on Day 4; Prednisone or prednisolone PO on days 4-31; Vincristine IV push or mini-bag per institutional policy on Days 4, 11, 18, and 25; and Pegaspargase IV over 1-2 hours on Days 5, and 18. If CNS3 leukemia is present, patients receive Intrathecal Triple Therapy (ITT) on days 4, 11,18, and 25. If CNS1 or 2 disease status, patients receive Methotrexate (IT MTX) on Days 18 and 32. Patients known to be CNS3 at study entry may receive ITT on Day 1 rather than IT ARAC. Treatment will be given for one cycle, 32 days, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.