iMOVE: Virtual Reality PT Versus Traditional PT
This pragmatic, crossover, randomized controlled study evaluates the efficacy of virtual reality assisted physical therapy (VRPT) for improving the physical activity of hospitalized children as compared to traditional physical therapy. This is a pilot study that will be used to identify patient populations that can benefit the most from VRPT and estimate this effect for future studies.

Patients with a significant neurological condition, major developmental disability, active infection of the face or hand, history of severe motion sickness, history of seizures caused by flashing light or had a major surgery within the last 48 hours will be excluded.
Physical Health
BEHAVIORAL: Virtual Reality Physical Therapy|BEHAVIORAL: Traditional Physical Therapy
ActiGraph data points, Compare the total Metabolic Equivalent of Task (METs) rate of pediatric oncology patients when undergo virtual reality assisted physical therapy and traditional physical therapy measured by ActiGraph watch, During physical therapy session
Total exercise time spend in moderate-vigorous activity, Compare the difference in total exercise time in moderate-vigorous activity of pediatric oncology patients when undergo virtual reality assisted physical therapy and traditional physical therapy measured by ActiGraph watch, During physical therapy session|Total exercise time spend in sedentary activity, change in total exercise time in sedentary activity of pediatric oncology patients when undergoing virtual reality assisted physical therapy compared to traditional physical therapy measured by ActiGraph watch. For this measure, both absolute change and difference in the proportion of time spent will be evaluated., During physical therapy session|Total exercise time spend in light activity, change in the total exercise time in light activity of pediatric oncology patients when undergoing virtual reality assisted physical therapy compared to traditional physical therapy measured by ActiGraph watch. For this measure, both absolute change and difference in the proportion of time spent will be evaluated., During physical therapy session|Change in OMNI RPE survey scores, Patients will self-report fatigue according to the Adult OMNI-Walk/Run RPE Scale (OMNI RPE) scale after both the VR and standard of care portion. The OMNI RPE is an 11-categories perceived exertion rating scale with a numerical rating from 0 to 10 (0= Not Tired at All, 10= Very, Very Tired)., immediately after the physical therapy session|Feasibility and Usability Survey (Parent), Tabulate the self -formulated Feasibility and Usability Survey. This questionnaire consists of 12 items, including 5 Likert questions, 6 yes/no questions and 1 open-end question. Measures are to be graded using a 1-10 scale, from 1=not at all, to 10=very much., immediately after the physical therapy session|Acceptability of Intervention Measure (AIM) survey, This questionnaire consists of 4 items. Measures are to be graded using a 1-5 scale, from 1=completely disagree, to 5= completely agree, immediately after the physical therapy session|Intervention Appropriateness Measure (IAM) survey, This questionnaire consists of 4 items. Measures are to be graded using a 1-5 scale, from 1=completely disagree, to 5= completely agree, immediately after the physical therapy session|Feasibility of Intervention Measure (FIM) survey, This questionnaire consists of 4 items. Measures are to be graded using a 1-5 scale, from 1=completely disagree, to 5= completely agree, immediately after the physical therapy session
Childhood cancer is a significant health concern worldwide. Despite improved 5-year survival rates (80%-85%), children undergoing treatment face physiological and psychosocial challenges, including chronic pain, limited mobility, muscle loss, low bone density, and mental distress. To mitigate negative therapy-related adverse health outcomes and improve quality of life, supportive care measures are emphasized during cancer treatments. The US Department of Health \& Human Services advises Pediatric oncology patients to engage in 30 minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity, 3 times a week, for a healthy lifestyle. Regular exercise during and after treatment profoundly impacts a child's physical, psychological, and social well-being. Inpatient and outpatient physical therapy is commonly suggested for patients. Yet, traditional physical therapy is usually monotonous and repetitive, leading to boredom and decreased adherence. Limited exercise variation may fail to captivate attention and provide motivation for consistent participation.

Virtual reality physical therapy (VRPT) provides dynamic and interactive exercise, overcoming traditional therapy's boredom. Exergaming offers fun and excitement through engaging virtual environments and gameplay. It enhances motivation, sustains interest, and encourages longer exercise. Personalized and adaptive interventions in virtual reality target individual needs and allow progress tracking.