Telemonitoring After Surgery to Preserve Limb Function in Optimizing Mobility in Cancer Survivors With Skeletal Metastases
This randomized pilot trial studies telemonitoring after surgery to preserve limb function in optimizing mobility in cancer survivors with cancer spread to the bone. The use of mobile devices for telemonitoring may improve the delivery of cost-effective, high-quality, standardized surveillance of cancer survivors.
Bone Metastases|Cancer Survivor|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone
OTHER: Monitoring Device|OTHER: Physical Activity Measurement|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Standard Follow-Up Care|OTHER: Survey Administration
Inter-Rater Agreement on the Physician Assessed Score, Inter-rater agreement on the physician assessed score defined as less than 10% difference between the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) scores evaluated using video vs. face-to-face follow ups., 7 months
Completion of Follow-Up Assessments, Participant considered having completed the follow-up assessments if the three outcomes are documented for the 2-, 6-, 12, and 24-week evaluations. Follow-up assessment information taken from Musculoskeletal Tumor Society Scores (MSTS), Timed "Up and Go" test (TUG), and Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)., Up to 25 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To develop and evaluate the feasibility of a method that enhances surveillance in cancer survivors by using mobile devices in addition to face-to-face visits following surgery for bone metastases.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate how well the face-to-face follow-up format can be adapted to using mobile devices for remote surveillance.

II. Limited efficacy testing of the remote surveillance program. III. To obtain information on acceptability of the mobile surveillance format by patients and clinicians.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I (CONTROL): Patients undergo standard face-to-face follow up visits at 2, 6, 12, and 24 weeks after surgery. Patients also undergo a physical activity assessment over 15 minutes.

GROUP II (MOBILE SURVEILLANCE): Patients undergo standard face-to-face follow up visits as in Group I. Patients also undergo mobile surveillance comprising use of a mobile device application to send photos and videos to study staff and engage in video conferences at 3, 7, 13, and 25 weeks after surgery.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 24-25 weeks.