Post Marketing Surveillance of Nintedanib in Indian Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) After First-line Therapy
This active surveillance aims to collect the safety data of 100 NSCLC patients treated with nintedanib per the approved Indian label within 2 years from the date of commercial availability of the drug in India (23rd January 2017). The objective is to look at the safety of nintedanib in the real world setting.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Incidence of All Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs) in Nintedanib and Docetaxel Treated Patients, Incidence of all Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) in nintedanib and docetaxel treated patients.

An Adverse Event (AE) was considered as an Adverse drug reaction (ADR) if either the physician who reported the AE or the sponsor assessed its causal relationship as 'related'.

The incidence rate were calculated using number of patients with respective events divided by time at risk expressed as \[100 pt -yrs\]., From first drug administration until 28 days after the last drug administration, up to 586 days.|Incidence Rate of All Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) in Nintedanib and Docetaxel Treated Patients, Incidence rate of all Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) in nintedanib and docetaxel treated patients.

All Adverse Events (AEs) that occurred between the first intake of nintedanib plus docetaxel and within 28 days (inclusive) after the last intake were considered 'treatment emergent'.

The incidence rate were calculated using number of patients with respective events divided by time at risk expressed as \[100 pt -yrs\]., From first drug administration until 28 days after the last drug administration, up to 586 days.
Percentage of Patients Who Required Nintedanib Dose Reductions, Percentage of patients who required nintedanib dose reductions., From first drug administration until 28 days after the last drug administration, up to 586 days.|Number of Patients Who Discontinued Study Drug Permanently Due to Adverse Events, Number of patients who discontinued study drug permanently due to adverse events., From first drug administration until last drug administration, up to 558 days.
This active surveillance aims to collect the safety data of 100 NSCLC patients treated with nintedanib per the approved Indian label within 2 years from the date of commercial availability of the drug in India (23rd January 2017). The objective is to look at the safety of nintedanib in the real world setting.