ForeCYTE Breast Aspirator for Sample Collection and Cytological Testing of Nipple Aspirate Fluid
The purpose of this study is to measure the performance characteristics for the collection, fixation and transportation of clinical nipple aspirate fluid (NAF) specimens of the ForeCYTE Breast Aspirator across 3 independent labs and the National Reference Laboratory for Breast Health (NRLBH). The study hypothesis is that each lab will have a specimen acceptability rate of at least 90%. If it is assumed that the true level of acceptability testing is approximately 96%, then the lower bound of a one-sided 95% confidence interval is expected to be at least 90%.
Breast Neoplasms
DEVICE: ForeCYTE Breast Aspirator
Specimen Acceptance Rate, A specimen collected, fixated, shipped and received by the reference lab per specification, and rated by the receiving lab as acceptable for cytological testing and interpretation, is deemed acceptable., Within 2 weeks after specimen collection
Safety / Investigational Device Adverse Effects, Investigational Device Adverse Effects, Day of specimen collection
A) NAF Collection at physician's office: The Principle Investigator identified and qualified the study subjects. He and the assigned study coordinator from his clinic completed all entries in the Study Case Report Form related to the collection site. He collected the NAF specimens at the Physician Office Collection Sites in accordance with the Instructions for Use.

B) NAF Processing at physician's office: The Principle Investigator's designate processed the NAF specimens for shipment to the selected laboratories in accordance with the Instructions for Use.

C) NAF Transport from physician's office to laboratory: The patient specimen collection membranes were placed in resealable pouches, packed in shipping boxes (provided) and transported by Federal Express to the participating Independent Clinical Laboratories. The Federal Express packaging was pre-labeled for the PI within each of the four laboratories and the specimens were sent in the order in which they were collected to each of the laboratories. Left and right breast specimen from the same subject were sent to the same lab, but in a subject based sequence. The shipments will be shipped serially to lab ABCD, ABCD, ABCD, ABCD, etc. So specimens from subject 1 went to laboratory A, specimens from subject 2 to lab B, specimens from subject 3 to lab C, specimens from subject 4 to lab D, specimens from subject 5 to lab A, etc. The PI completed the Testing Facility Shipping and Receiving Tracking Form for all specimens.

D) NAF Processing at laboratory: The NAF was processed at the clinical cytology laboratories in accordance with the Instructions for Use that accompanied each patient kit.

E) NAF Cytology Classification: A trained, board-certified pathologist read the slides. The data was reported in the Case Report Form according to the format recommended by the College of American Pathologists. The criteria for reading and interpreting the slides are contained in Table 2 and were adapted from King, et al. The laboratory portion of the Case Report Form was completed for each patient.