Nimotuzumab Plus AG in Pancreatic Cancer With Liver Metastasis
This is a prospective, open-label, single arm clinical study. The main purpose of the study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of Nimotuzumab combined with AG in the treatment of pancreatic cancer with liver metastasis. Patients will receive Nimotuzumab plus AG as conversion therapy, and imaging assessments (according to RECIST V.1.1 criteria) will be performed every two cycles (every two months) of conversion therapy. The main endpoint is R0 resection rate. Additional end points included resection rates, overall survival (OS), objective response rate (ORR), safety, etc.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Nimotuzumab|DRUG: AG
R0 resection rate, The Proportion of patients who achieved R0 resection (incisal edge\>1cm), Up to 6 months
resection rate, The proportion of patients who underwent surgery., Up to 18 months|overall survival (OS), The time from the beginning of treatment to death due to any cause., Up to 18 months|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR), including complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Up to 18 months|tumor-related markers, To explore the influence of tumor-related markers (such as CA199,EGFR) on prognosis., Up to 18 months|adverse events, Frequency and severity of adverse events., Up to 30 days after last administration
This clinical study is designed as a prospective, open-label, single arm study to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of Nimotuzumab combined with AG (gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel) in the treatment of pancreatic cancer with liver metastasis. Patients will receive Nimotuzumab plus AG as conversion therapy, and imaging assessments (according to RECIST V.1.1 criteria) will be performed every two cycles (every two months) of conversion therapy. The resectability of the primary pancreatic lesion and liver metastases will be judged based on NCCN guidelines and will be determined by a multidisciplinary team of experts. The main endpoint is R0 resection rate. Additional end points included resection rates, overall survival (OS), objective response rate (ORR), safety, etc.