Developing Culturally-Tailored Information-Based Support Groups for Chinese Immigrants With Breast Cancer
There are few breast cancer support groups that focus on the specific needs of Chinese women. The purpose of this study is to learn about two different ways of providing support groups to help women of Chinese descent cope with the difficulties of a diagnosis of breast cancer and its treatment. The investigators want to learn about how best to support Chinese women with breast cancer by providing two different types of groups: an in-person support group and a virtual (online/phone) support group.
Chinese Immigrants With Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: in-person support group|BEHAVIORAL: virtual support group
feasibility, To pilot and evaluate the feasibility of information-based, culturally-tailored in-person and virtual support groups for Chinese patients with breast cancer. The feasibility of participation in the in-person and virtual support groups will be measured by documenting patient accrual to the pilot study and attendance at the support groups., 1 year
To compare the impact of participation, in the in-person versus virtual support groups on quality of life (QOL), pain, psychosocial outcomes (distress, depression, anxiety, self-efficacy in coping with cancer), and perceived social support. These outcomes will be measured through a baseline and exit Outcomes Survey., 1 year|To assess satisfaction with the support groups, All participants will complete the Brief Support Group Survey at the end of each support meeting to assess satisfaction with and to provide feedback on the usefulness of the meeting and the information presented, ease of understanding and cultural appropriateness of the information, effectiveness of the facilitator, and suggestions for change or improvement., 1 year|To assess Internet use, among support group participants. All patients approached for study participation will complete the Screening Tool, which includes questions related to Internet use. The Screening Tool will be used for all eligible patients (patients refusing to participate will still be asked to complete the screening tool)., 1 year
There are few breast cancer support groups that focus on the specific needs of Chinese women. The purpose of this study is to learn about two different ways of providing support groups to help women of Chinese descent cope with the difficulties of a diagnosis of breast cancer and its treatment. The investigators want to learn about how best to support Chinese women with breast cancer by providing two different types of groups: an in-person support group and a virtual (online/phone) support group.