Radiomics and Molecular Classification in Endometrial Cancer
Molecular/genomic profiling is the most accurate method to assess the prognosis of endometrial cancer patients. Interestingly, the adoption of radiomics showed important results, across various oncologic specialties. Radiomic allows extracting mineable high-dimensional data from clinical images, thus providing a number of noteworthy information of the tumor tissues. We aim to correlate radiomic features obtained from ultrasound images with the molecular/genomic profiling to identify new hallmarks for stratification of endometrial cancer patients into different classes of risk The central hypothesis is that combining radiomic features might allow identifying various classes of risk for endometrial cancer. The rationale for the proposed research is that once validated, radiomics applied to ultrasonographic images would be an effective, innovative, and cheap method for tailor operative and postoperative treatment modality in endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Cancer|Uterine Cancer|Endometrium Tumor
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Radiomics
To detail the mechanism by which radiomic features predict the classification of endometrial cancer into various classes of risk., 1-18 months|Determinate the scaled impact of radiomic features assessed on ultrasonographic images of endometrial tumors., 1-36 months
Assess the intraobserver and interobserver reproducibility of radiomic features on ultrasonographic images of endometrial tumors, 19-36 months
Molecular/genomic profiling is the most accurate method to assess the prognosis of endometrial cancer patients. Interestingly, the adoption of radiomics showed important results, across various oncologic specialties. Radiomic allows extracting mineable high-dimensional data from clinical images, thus providing a number of noteworthy information of the tumor tissues. We aim to correlate radiomic features obtained from ultrasound images with the molecular/genomic profiling to identify new hallmarks for stratification of endometrial cancer patients into different classes of risk The central hypothesis is that combining radiomic features might allow identifying various classes of risk for endometrial cancer. The rationale for the proposed research is that once validated, radiomics applied to ultrasonographic images would be an effective, innovative, and cheap method for tailor operative and postoperative treatment modality in endometrial cancer.