Binary Oncolytic Adenovirus in Combination With HER2-Specific Autologous CAR VST, Advanced HER2 Positive Solid Tumors
This study is a first in human Phase 1 study that involves patients with a type of cancer called HER2 (Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2) positive cancer.

This study asks patients to volunteer to take part in a research study investigating the safety and efficacy of using special immune cells called HER2 chimeric antigen receptor specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (HER2 specific CAR T cells), in combination with intra-tumor injection of CAdVEC, an oncolytic adenovirus that is designed to help the immune system including HER2 specific CAR T cell react to the tumor.

The study is looking at combining these two treatments together, because we think that the combination of treatments will work better than each treatment alone. We also hope to learn the best dose level of the treatments and whether or not it is safe to use them together.

In this study, CAdVEC will be injected into participants tumor at one tumor site which is most easiest to reach. Once it infects the cancer cells, activation of the immune response will occur so it can attack and kill cancer cells. (This approach may have limited effects on the other tumor sites that have not received the oncolytic virus injection, so, patients will also receive specific T cells following the intratumor CAdVEC injection.) These T cells are special infection-fighting blood cells that can kill cells infected with viruses and tumor cells.

Investigators want to see if these cells can survive in the blood and affect the tumor. Both CAdVEC and HER2-specific autologous CAR T are investigational products. They are not approved by the FDA.
Bladder Cancer|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Cancer of the Salivary Gland|Lung Cancer|Breast Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Esophageal Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: CAdVEC
Number of patients with dose limiting toxicity (DLT) by CTCAE 5.0, Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of CAdVEC intratumoral injection in combination with HER2.CAR AdVST cells in patients with advanced refractory HER2 positive solid tumors., 4 weeks after the HER2.CAR AdVST infusion or 4 weeks + 3 days after the CAdVEC injection.
Overall Response Rate (ORR) according to RECIST1.1 criteria, Overall response rate is defined as the number of patients experiencing PR or better (i.e. PR + CR) divided by the number evaluable for efficacy. Tumor regression or progression will be evaluated accordingly with RECIST 1.1 criteria., 13 weeks|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate is defined as as the number of patients experiencing SD or better (i.e. SD+PR+CR) divided by the number evaluable for efficacy. Tumor regression or progression will be evaluated accordingly with RECIST 1.1 criteria., 13 weeks|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival is defined as the time from start of treatment to disease progression or death., 15 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment to death due to any cause., 15 years|Number of treatment related adverse events with grade 3 or greater severity by CTCAE 5.0, Treatment related adverse events with grade 3 or greater severity by CTCAE 5.0, 30 days
Treatment with CAdVEC:

On the first day of treatment, participants will receive an injection of CAdVEC into their tumor.

A blood sample will be obtained from the participant before the CAdVEC intratumor injection . Depending on the location of the tumor, different techniques can be used for the injection into your tumor. The most common route of injection is ultrasound-guided percutaneous (needle puncture in the skin) injection, but endoscopic (using a lighted, flexible instrument called an endoscope) ultrasound-guidance will be used for some patients as appropriate. Prior to percutaneous injection, participants may receive an anti-anxiety medicine to calm them down, to relieve muscle spasms, and provide sedation. If the participants tumor is injected during an endoscopic procedure, the procedure may be done under sedation.

Treatment with HER2- specific autologous T Cells:

The participant will have given blood earlier for us to make HER2 targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (HER2- specific autologous T Cells). These cells are grown in the lab and frozen for participants. Investigators make the cells by combining dendritic cells (DCs) or monocytes with the T cells in the presence of produced mixtures of adenoviral proteins. Investigators then put a new gene in to those T cells to make them specifically attract to and kill HER2 positive tumors. As the T cells grow, they are cultured by adding adenoviral proteins for stimulation and expansion. Investigators call those T cells: HER2- targeting T cells (HER2- specific autologous T Cells).

This study looks at different doses of HER2- specific autologous T Cells. The decision about the dose participants receive is determined when enrolled on the study.

Five dose levels will be evaluated. Cohorts of size 3 will be enrolled at each dose level until 9 evaluable patients have been studied at a single dose. Each patient will receive an intratumoral injection of CAdVEC alone on Day 1 or combined with an injection of HER2.CAR T cells on Day 4.

CAdVEC intratumoral injection will be given as a single injection to a single appropriate tumor site by direct, endoscopic, or image-guided injection on Day 1. After receiving the CAdVEC injection participants will be observed for 2-4 hours before leaving the hospital. During that time the study team will monitor vital signs and watch for any side-effects from the treatment. Participants will also be contacted by telephone about 24 hours after receiving the CAdVEC injection.

HER2.CAR T cells will be given intravenously on day 4 after CAdVEC injection, with a 3 day window (until day 7).

Before receiving the T cell infusion, participants may be given Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and Tylenol (acetaminophen). Tylenol and Benadryl are given to prevent a possible allergic reaction to the T cell administration. After receiving the infusion of HER2-specific autologous T cells participants will be observed for at least 3 hours before they may leave the hospital. Additionally, participants must plan to remain in the Houston area for at least 3 weeks after the infusion.

Standard medical tests before treatment:

Before being treated, participants will receive a series of standard medical tests and procedures as well as research blood draws.

Standard Medical tests during and after treatment:

During treatment, participants will receive standard medical tests and procedures as well as research blood draws.

Study specific evaluations:

Investigators will follow participants closely after treatment for any side effects for at least 2 years after the last infusion.

To learn more about the way the T cells are working in the body, an extra blood sample will be taken before the CAdVEC injection, before the CAR T cell infusion, and at week 1, 2, 4 , 6, months 3, 6, 9 and 12 after CAR T cell infusion. Thereafter every 6 months up to 5 years and then yearly for 15 years. Investigators will use this blood to see how long the T cells last and to look at the immune response to the cancer. Investigators may also obtain a tumor tissue biopsy before CAdVEC injection, between days 5 and 10 after infusion of the HER-2 CAR-T cells, and at the time tumor recurs. Urine will be collected before CAdVEC injection, Days 2, 4 (or the day of CAR T-cell infusion), weeks 1 and 2 after CAR T cell infusion.