Coenzyme Q10 in Relieving Treatment-Related Fatigue in Women With Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Coenzyme Q10 is a vitamin that may be effective in relieving fatigue and depression in women who are undergoing chemotherapy for breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well coenzyme Q10 works in relieving treatment-related fatigue in women with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Fatigue
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: CoQ10 & Vitamin E|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo & Vitamin E
Effects of Coenzyme Q10 on Fatigue (as Measured by POMS-F) 24 Weeks Following Randomization, POMS-F is the Profile of Mood States - fatigue scale. It ranges from 0 to 28; higher values indicate greater fatigue., 24 weeks
Effects of Coenzyme Q10 on Quality of Life (as Measured by FACT-B) 24 Weeks Following Randomization, FACT-B stands for Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast. It measures quality of life. It is the total of the FACT subscales (emotional, social, functional, and physical) and the Breast subscale. Scores range from 0 to 144; higher scores reflect better overall quality of life., 24 weeks|Effects of Coenzyme Q10 on Depression (as Measured by CES-D Short-form) 24 Weeks Following Randomization, CES-D is the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Form. It consists of 20 questions. The total score ranges from 0 to 60. Higher scores indicate greater depression., 24 weeks
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the effect of coenzyme Q_10 on cancer treatment-related fatigue in women with breast cancer.

Secondary

* Determine the effect of this drug on overall quality of life of these patients.
* Determine the effect of this drug on depression in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are stratified according to planned radiotherapy (yes vs no) and type of chemotherapy (anthracycline vs non-anthracycline). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Beginning on the first day of chemotherapy treatment, patients receive oral coenzyme Q_10 and oral vitamin E three times daily.
* Arm II: Beginning on the first day of chemotherapy treatment, patients receive oral vitamin E and an oral placebo three times daily.

Treatment in both arms continues for 24 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life, fatigue, and depression are assessed at baseline and at 8, 16, and 24 weeks.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 101-236 patients will be accrued for this study.