Belantamab Mafodotin in Newly Diagnosed Transplant Eligible Multiple Myeloma Patients
This is a multicenter, open label clinical trial evaluating the safety of the combination of belantamab mafodotin + the combination treatment VRd (bortezomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone) in newly diagnosed (ND) transplant eligible multiple myeloma (MM) patients.

Eligible patients will be included in the study and they will receive three induction cycles with belantamab mafodotin (8-week cycles) and six induction cycles with VRd (4-week cycles). Immediately after the fourth VRd cycle, and in the absence of progression or unacceptable toxicity, mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells with G-CSF and subsequent apheresis will take place. Then, patients will receive one additional induction cycle with belantamab mafodotin (8-week cycle) and two additional induction cycles with VRd (4-week cycles) followed by intensification with high-dose melphalan (200mg/m2) and the autologous stem cell transplant. Three months after transplantation, and as long as clinical and hematological conditions allow, patients will receive one cycle of consolidation with belantamab mafodotin (8-week cycle) and two additional cycles of consolidation with VRd (4-week cycles) at the same doses as during induction and, subsequently, patients will receive maintenance treatment with lenalidomide (continuously until disease progression, patient withdrawal, unacceptable toxicity, loss to follow up, end of study or death) and belantamab mafodotin (for 2 years).
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Belantamab mafodotin|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|PROCEDURE: Autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT)
Incidence of deaths, Number of patients that are exitus after start of the study treatment, Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Number of patients experiencing AEs, either treatment or non-treatment related, classified according to severity and graded according to NCTCAE V4.0, Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Incidence of analytical alterations, Changes in laboratory analytes from the hematology and blood chemistry panel after start of the study experimental treatment, Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Incidence of ocular events, Number of patients experiencing ocular alterations after start of the study experimental treatment., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The percentage of participants with a confirmed partial response (PR) or better (PR, Very good partial response (VGPR), Complete response (CR), stringent complete response (sCR)). Assessed Q4W during induction, three months after ASCT, after consolidation, q4W during maintenance until PD, unacceptable toxicity, death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up or end of the study., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Complete Response Rate (CRR), The percentage of participants with a confirmed complete response (CR) or better (stringent complete response (CR, sCR)). Assessed Q4W during induction, three months after ASCT, after consolidation, q4W during maintenance until PD, unacceptable toxicity, death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up or end of the study., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) negativity rate, The percentage of participants who are MRD negative by next-generation flow cytometry (NGF). MRD will be evaluated after each phase of treatment (induction, autologous stem cell transplant, consolidation and once a year during maintenance). If there is suspect of CR at any time different of those previously specified, the MRD should be evaluated at the suspicion of CR. Assessed Q4W during induction, three months after ASCT, after consolidation, q4W during maintenance until PD, unacceptable toxicity, death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up or end of the study., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Time to Response (TTR), The time from the date of inclusion and the first documented evidence of response (PR or better) among participants who achieve confirmed PR or better., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Duration of Response (DoR), The time from first documented evidence of PR or better until progressive disease (PD) or death due to PD among participants who achieved PR or better., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The time from the date of inclusion until the earliest date of documented disease progression or death due to any cause., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Progression-Free Survival 2 (PFS2), The time from inclusion to disease progression after initiation of new anti-cancer therapy or death from any cause, whichever is earlier. If disease progression after new anti-cancer therapy cannot be measured, a PFS event is defined as the date of discontinuation of new anti-cancer therapy, or death from any cause, whichever is earlier., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Overall Survival (OS), Defined as the time from the date of inclusion until the date of death due to any cause., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Efficiency of hematopoietic stem cell collection, Number of CD34 cells collected after 2 induction cycles of treatment of belantamab mafodotin + 4 induction cycles of treatment of VRd., After cycle 4 of induction, 4 months after inclusion.
This is a multicenter, open label clinical trial evaluating the safety of the combination of belantamab mafodotin + the combination treatment VRd (bortezomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone) in newly diagnosed (ND) transplant eligible multiple myeloma (MM) patients.

The study comprise the following phases:

Induction: Cycles 1-6

Cycles will be of 8 weeks of duration for belantamab mafodotin and 28 days of duration for VRd:

* Belantamab mafodotin will be administered at the dose of 2.5 mg/kg/every 8 weeks on day 1, intravenously.
* Bortezomib will be given subcutaneously, at 1.3 mg/m2, on days: 1, 4, 8 and 11 of every 28-day cycle.
* Lenalidomide will be given as an oral drug, in the dose of 25 mg/day on days 1-21.
* Dexamethasone will be given as an oral drug, in the dose of 20 mg on days: 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11 and 12.

Peripheral stem cell harvest will be performed after the fourth cycle of treatment to prevent mobilization failure.

Intensification with high-dose melphalan (200 mg/m2) and autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) will be performed as per routine practice. Mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) will be carried out using high-dose G-CSF after the fourth induction cycle with VRd. The dose of G-CSF used will be at the discretion of each site according to the local rules. Apheresis will be initiated on day 4-5 of stimulation, once the number of CD34+ cells in peripheral blood have reached the minimum to proceed with the collection. The minimum number of CD34+ cells needed to carry out the transplant will be determined at the discretion of each site, although a minimum of 2 x106 CD34+/Kg is recommended, as well as cryopreservation, storage, defrosting and infusion of HSCs. If mobilization fails using G-CSF alone, the recommended action is to utilize plerixafor during the same procedure in order to save this time. Sites should administer plerixafor in accordance with their own established procedures. If this second attempt fails, the site can proceed to a third mobilization attempt using cyclophosphamide plus G-CSF.

Consolidation: Cycles 6-8

At day +90, after autologous stem cell transplant patients will receive consolidation treatment with 1 additional cycle of belantamab mafodotin + 2 additional cycles of VRd following the same scheme as in the induction:

* Belantamab mafodotin will be administered at the dose of 2.5 mg/kg/every 8 weeks on day 1, intravenously.
* Bortezomib will be given subcutaneously, at 1.3 mg/m2, on days: 1, 4, 8 and 11 of every 28-day cycle.
* Lenalidomide will be given as an oral drug, in the dose of 25 mg/day on days 1-21.
* Dexamethasone will be given as an oral drug, at the dose of 20 mg on days: 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11 and 12 of every 28-day cycle.

Maintenance:

After completion of the consolidation treatment, all the responding patients will receive maintenance treatment with Lenalidomide (10 mg/day) + belantamab mafodotin (2.5 mg/kg/every 8 weeks, intravenously). Lenalidomide will be administered continuously until disease progression, patient withdrawal, unacceptable toxicity loss to follow up, end of study or death. Belantamab mafodotin will be administered for 2 years until disease progression, patient withdrawal, loss to follow up, unacceptable toxicity, end of study or death.

The trial has the following objectives:

Objectives:

Primary objective

● To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of belantamab mafodotin + VRd in newly diagnosed transplant eligible multiple myeloma patients.

Secondary objectives ● To assess the efficacy of belantamab mafodotin in combination with VRd in terms of response rate focusing on complete response and MRD.

• Efficiency of hematopoietic stem cell collection after 2 induction cycles of treatment of belantamab mafodotin + 4 induction cycles of treatment of VRd.