Anetumab Ravtansine and Atezolizumab in Treating Participants With Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose and side effects of anetumab ravtansine when given together with atezolizumab and how well they work in treating participants with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as anetumab ravtansine and atezolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Mesothelin Positive|Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Anetumab Ravtansine|BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) (Phase I), Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of anetumab ravtansine combined with atezolizumab defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 6 new patients) (Phase I), Up to 21 days|Rate of Confirmed Response (Phase II), Defined as a patient who has achieved a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) on two consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart. Will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., 6 months
Clinical Activity (Phase I), Will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population., Up to 6 months|Incidence of Adverse Events According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (Phase I), The number and severity of all adverse events (overall and by dose-level) will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population., Up to 21 days after last dose|Overall Survival (Phase II), Defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The distribution of overall survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival (Phase II), Defined as the time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause. The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan Meier. Will also report the 1-year progression free survival (PFS) rate for the combination of anetumab ravtansine and atezolizumab in 2nd-line non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)., 1 year and up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify the recommended phase II dose of anetumab ravtansine combined with atezolizumab in advanced MSLN+ non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). (Phase I) II. To determine the confirmed response rate for the combination of anetumab ravtansine and atezolizumab in MSLN+ 2nd line NSCLC. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe adverse events and toxicities of the combination treatment of anetumab ravtansine and atezolizumab. (Phase I) II. To identify preliminary evidence of clinical activity (i.e. response, timed endpoints, etc.) (Phase I) III. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) and the 1-year PFS rate for the combination of anetumab ravtansine and atezolizumab in 2nd-line NSCLC. (Phase II) IV. To determine the overall survival of anetumab ravtansine combined with atezolizumab in second-line therapy of NSCLC. (Phase II) V. Adverse events will also be summarized as well. (Phase II)

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine using flow cytometry the levels of Bcl-2 interacting mediator of cell death (BIM) in circulating CD8+ CD11a+ PD-1+ T-cells, in peripheral blood samples collected from patients prior to initiation of therapy (baseline) and correlating these with confirmed response rate during and following treatment with the combination regimen.

II. To determine tissue MSLN and PD-L1 expression and correlate with response to combination therapy with atezolizumab and anetumab ravtansine.

III. To correlate baseline serum soluble PDL-1 (sPDL-1) with response to therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of anetumab ravtansine followed by a phase II study.

Participants receive anetumab ravtansine intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes and atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years.