Aldesleukin with Nivolumab and Standard Chemotherapy for Treatment of Gastric Cancer with Peritoneal Metastasis
This phase Ib trial test effects of aldesleukin in combination with nivolumab and standard chemotherapy in treating patients with gastric cancer that has spread to the tissue lining of the abdomen (peritoneal metastasis). Aldesleukin is similar to a protein that naturally exists in the body that stimulates the immune system to fight infections. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving aldesleukin in combination with nivolumab and standard chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with gastric cancer with peritoneal metastasis.
Clinical Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC V8|Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Gastric Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Peritoneum
BIOLOGICAL: Aldesleukin|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Diagnostic Laparoscopy|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Change of reduction in the peritoneal carcinomatosis index, About 90 days after last dose of aldesleukin (IL-2)|Incidence of adverse events, About 90 days after last dose of aldesleukin (IL-2)
Histological response of the peritoneal metastasis, Will be assessed using the peritoneal regression grading score. Will be reported descriptively, including reporting of frequencies, percentages and 95% confidence intervals., About 90 days after last dose of aldesleukin (IL-2)|Progression free survival, Summary statistics, including the median and other various timepoints will be reported as well as 95% confidence intervals., From study entry to the first of either disease progression or death, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival, Summary statistics, including the median and other various timepoints will be reported as well as 95% confidence intervals., From date of study entry to date of death or last follow up, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the reduction in the peritoneal carcinomatosis index (PCI) after completion of the study treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate histological response of the peritoneal metastasis to study treatment using the peritoneal regression grading score (PRGS).

II. Assess overall survival (OS). III. Assess progression-free survival (PFS). IV. Assess safety and tolerability of the study regimen.

TERTIARY AND CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the number and percentage of patients that successfully undergo complete cytoreductive surgery after treatment.

II. Evaluate for helper T cell, cytotoxic T cell, natural killer (NK) cells as well as T-reg cells in blood and peritoneal fluid.

III. Evaluate the neutrophilic, lymphocytic, and eosinophilic infiltration of tumor using a standardized classification.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive aldesleukin intraperitoneally (IP) over at least 40 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Patients also receive standard of care nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1, and flurouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1-3 for each cycle. Cycles repeat every 14 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo diagnostic laparoscopy with biopsy, positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) or PET/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and collection of blood and tissue samples throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients follow up at 30 days, 90 days then every 3 months for up to 3 years.