The TMS Treatment for Postoperative Headache in GH Tumor
Headache is a very common main complaint of patients with GH pituitary tumor, which has seriously affected the normal work and life of patients. Although the current surgery and drugs have a certain effect on patients with headache, the overall effect is not satisfied. However, the use of COX-2 inhibitors, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and other analgesics are only effective for some patients with headaches, and long-term use has adverse reactions. Therefore, it is necessary to seek new treatments for postoperative headaches in patients with GH pituitary tumors. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) modulates the excitability of the underlying cerebral cortex by applying a rapidly changing magnetic field on the surface of the scalp. It is a relatively simple and safe method. It is currently approved for treating depression, migraine, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and Alzheimer's disease. Several small clinical studies have proven that rTMS can be used to prevent and treat Headache. Therefore, this study aims to observe the efficacy and safety of TMS in the treatment of postoperative headache in patients with GH pituitary tumors.
Headache|Pituitary Tumor|Acromegaly
DEVICE: Transcranial magnetic stimulation|DRUG: Acetaminophen
changes in the degree of headache, The degree of headache will be measured by the Visual Analog Scale VAS and the scores change before and after 6 months of intervention will be compared among 3 groups, 6 months|the improvement of quality of life(QOL), Migraine Defect Assessment Questionnaire MIDAS will be used to evaluate QOL. The QOL will be assessed before and after 6 months of intervention and the changes of MIDAS scores will be compared among 3 groups, 6 months
The decrease of using acetaminophen, During the experiment, patients will be required to record the dosage of acetaminophen they used. Our anticipated secondary outcome is the decreased usage of painkiller in the rTMS treated patients.The total dosage of acetaminophen used in 1st month and the 6th month during the study will be recorded and the changes of the dosage will be compared among the 3 groups., 6 months
Headache is a very common main complaint of patients with GH pituitary tumor, which has seriously affected the normal work and life of patients. Although the current surgery and drugs have a certain effect on patients with headache, the overall effect is not satisfied. However, the use of COX-2 inhibitors, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and other analgesics are only effective for some patients with headaches, and long-term use has adverse reactions. Therefore, it is necessary to seek new treatments for postoperative headaches in patients with GH pituitary tumors. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) modulates the excitability of the underlying cerebral cortex by applying a rapidly changing magnetic field on the surface of the scalp. It is a relatively simple and safe method. It is currently approved for treating depression, migraine, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and Alzheimer's disease. Several small clinical studies have proven that rTMS can be used to prevent and treat Headache. Therefore, this study aims to observe the efficacy and safety of TMS in the treatment of postoperative headache in patients with GH pituitary tumors.