Metformin Hydrochloride as First-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Metformin hydrochloride may make some enzymes active. These enzymes may block other enzymes needed for cell growth and stop the growth of tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the safety of giving metformin hydrochloride as first-line therapy in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Metformin
Progression-free survival (PFS) at 12 weeks, PFS is defined as the absence of disease progression or death at 12 weeks after start of treatment., at 12 weeks
PFS at 24 weeks, PFS is defined as the absence of any disease progression or death at 24 weeks after start of treatment, at 24 weeks|Clinical benefit rate, Clinical benefit is defined as SD by imaging and symptoms - with or without PSA progression, at 12 weeks and 24 weeks|Adverse events, All AEs will be assessed according to NCI CTCAE v4.0, from start of treatment until progression or death of any cause|Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response, 50 % PSA response is defined as a decrease in PSA level of at least 50 % (compared to baseline PSA).

30 % PSA response is defined as a decrease in PSA level of at least 30 % (compared to baseline PSA).

Best response is defined as the percentage of change in PSA from baseline to the maximum decline in PSA at any point under treatment at 12 weeks or later. If there is a steady increase after baseline, the best response is defined as the percentage of change in PSA from baseline to the minimum increase in PSA at any point under treatment at 12 weeks or later., (50% and 30%, best and at 12 weeks)|Changes in PSA doubling time, PSA-DT is calculated from the natural log of 2 divided by the slope of the relationship between the log of PSA and the time of PSA measurement for each patient., after 12 weeks, after 24 weeks and at best PSA response|Tumor response of measurable disease according to RECIST v 1.1 criteria, For patients with measurable disease at baseline RECIST v1.1 will be used to define CR, PR, SD and PD., after 12 weeks of treatment|Tumor assessment of bone lesions, Bone metastases can be assessed by radionuclide bone scan., at 12 weeks|Overall survival, OS will be calculated from registration until death, from registration until death
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine the activity and safety of metformin hydrochloride as first-line therapy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral metformin hydrochloride twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Previously collected and post-treatment tumor tissue may be analyzed for PTEN status and PI3kinase-dependent pathway activation via immunohistochemistry. Blood samples may also be collected periodically and analyzed for biomarkers, pharmacogenetics, pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months.