Combining Stellate Ganglion and T2 and T3 Radiofrequency Ablation on Post-mastectomy Complex Regional Pain Syndrome
The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the combination of Ultra Sound (US) guided radiofrequency stellate ganglion block (SGB) and radiofrequency Thoracic Paravertebral block (TPVB) comparing to US-guided SGB or TPVB alone on the post-mastectomy pain syndrome (PMPS).
Stellate Ganglion|Radiofrequency Ablation|Complex Regional Pain Syndromes|Mastectomy
PROCEDURE: Radiofrequency stellate ganglion block using ultrasound guidance (SGB)|PROCEDURE: Radiofrequency thoracic (T2, T3) paravertebral block under fluoroscopic guidance (TPVB)|PROCEDURE: Combined radiofrequency of stellate ganglion block plus thoracic T2, T3 paravertebral block
The degree of pain relief, Pain relief is assessed by the change in Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) score at 1st day then 1 and 3 months after intervention.

Complete response VAS 0-3. • Partial response VAS 4-6. • No response VAS 7-10., 3 months after intervention
Patient satisfaction, Patient satisfaction by patient satisfaction score (0 very satisfied and 10 dissatisfied), 3 months after intervention|Oxycodone consumption, The analgesic concomitant medications (oxycodone) consumption will be assessed prior to the block and at 1st day, 1,3 months., 3 months after intervention|Pregabalin consumption, The analgesic concomitant medications (pregabalin) consumption will be assessed prior to the block and at 1st day, 1,3 months., 3 months after intervention|neuropathic pain, Neuropathic pain will be evaluated according to the Grading System for Neuropathic Pain (GSNP).

Positive neuropathic cases are those with GSNP 3 (probable) or GSNP 4 (definite) .

The grading system for neuropathic pain (GSNP) is as follows: Grade 1 (unlikely), Grade 2 (possible), Grade 3 (probable), and Grade 4 (definite), 3 months|Patient's Quality of life, Patient's Quality of life according to WHOQOL(who measure quality of life), 3 months
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among females, with an incidence of about 2.1 million women each year. It is the most common cause of cancer-related deaths among women. Modified Radical Mastectomy (MRM) is one of the main surgical treatments for breast cancer. It accounts for 31% of all breast surgery cases. Nearly 40-60% of breast surgery patients experience severe acute postoperative pain, with severe pain persisting for 6-12 months in almost 20-50% of patients (post-mastectomy pain syndrome.

Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a clinical diagnosis with a highly variable presentation and prognosis. CRPS type I, previously known as reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD), is not associated with direct nerve injury. CRPS type II, or causalgia, is associated with direct injury of a specific nerve, often from surgical intervention or trauma. Symptoms include severe pain, sensitivity to light touch, burning, sweating, skin discoloration, edema, temperature changes, loss of motor function, and decreased range of motion of the affected limb. The mechanism of CRPS is not fully understood with central and peripheral sensitization involved.