Liposuction for Arm Lymphedema Following Breast Cancer Surgery
The purpose of this study is to determine if a less invasive procedure such as liposuction can be used to effectively reduce arm lymphedema (swelling of the arm) resulting from breast cancer treatment. The standard surgery involves the removal of large portions of skin and tissue leaving a large scar. This less invasive procedure (liposuction) uses 3 to 4 tiny puncture sites and a vacuum tube leaving minimal scars.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Liposuction|OTHER: Quality of Life Questionnaires
Number of Participants With Desired Response, Investigators plan to show the efficacy of liposuction as a treatment for lymphedema. Investigators will contrast the arm volume at 3 months with the baseline value using a paired t-test. Because the change in volume is likely to be proportional to the baseline value, the logarithm of the volumes will be used. With α = .05 and n = 34, we will have 80% power to detect an effect size of 0.5 (that is, a change of 0.5 standard deviations between the baseline and 3-month mean volumes). However since this is a pilot study with limited funding the study will initially open for 7 patients to assess safety and feasibility., 3 months post last off treatment date
Number of Participants With Durable Response, Durability will be tested for equivalence, by comparing the 3-month and 12-month arm volumes. Five year follow-up is necessary to demonstrate the lasting effect of liposuction in reducing arm lymphedema., Post follow-up period - up to 5 years post treatment|Number of Participants Who Develop an Infection, Measures to reduce skin infections will be implemented in this study but observance of infections will be an important study endpoint., 12 months per participant
The purpose of this study is to determine if a less invasive procedure such as liposuction can be used to effectively reduce arm lymphedema (swelling of the arm) resulting from breast cancer treatment. The standard surgery involves the removal of large portions of skin and tissue leaving a large scar. This less invasive procedure (liposuction) uses 3 to 4 tiny puncture sites and a vacuum tube leaving minimal scars.