Levofloxacin in Preventing Infection in Young Patients With Acute Leukemia Receiving Chemotherapy or Undergoing Stem Cell Transplantation
This randomized phase III trial studies how well levofloxacin works in preventing infection in young patients with acute leukemia receiving chemotherapy or undergoing stem cell transplant. Giving antibiotics may be effective in preventing or controlling early infection in patients receiving chemotherapy or undergoing stem cell transplant for acute leukemia. It is not yet known whether levofloxacin is effective in preventing infection.
Acute Leukemias of Ambiguous Lineage|Bacterial Infection|Diarrhea|Fungal Infection|Musculoskeletal Complications|Neutropenia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Other Myeloid Malignancies
DRUG: levofloxacin
Comparison of the Percentage of Patients Having Bacteremia Incidence Between Levofloxacin vs. No Prophylaxis Arms, A bacteremia incidence is defined as an occurrence of at least 1 episode of true (centrally reviewed) bacteremia among Acute Leukemia (AL) and Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) patients., Up to 60 days after enrollment or receiving levofloxacin
Comparison of the Percentage of Patients Having Antibiotic Exposures Between Arms, Exposure to antibiotics was considered during the infection observation period(s) was defined a priori as follows: Gram positive agents = vancomycin, linezolid, daptomycin or quinupristin/dalfopristin; Aminoglycosides = amikacin, gentamicin or tobramycin; Third or fourth generation cephalosporins = cefepime, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone or cefotaxime; Empiric antibiotics for fever and neutropenia = imipenem, meropenem, cefepime, ceftazidime or piperacillin/tazobactam, Up to 60 days after enrollment or receiving levofloxacin|Comparison of the Percentage of Patients Having Incidence of Fever and Febrile Neutropenia Between Arms, Fever and febrile neutropenia defined as Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) \< 1000/mm3 with a single temperature of \>38.3 degrees C (101 degrees F) or a sustained temperature of \>= 38 degrees C (100.4 degrees F) for more than one hour., Up to 60 days after enrollment or receiving levofloxacin|Comparison of the Percentage of Patients Having Severe Infection Between Arms, Severe infection defined as any grade 4 or 5 CTCAE catheter-related infection, enterocolitis, lung infection, sepsis, small intestine infection and other infections or infestations, Up to 60 days after enrollment or receiving levofloxacin|Comparison of the Percentage of Patients That Died Due to Bacterial Infection Between Arms, Up to 60 days after enrollment or receiving levofloxacin|Comparison of the Percentage of Patients Having Incidence of Musculoskeletal Adverse Events Including Tendinopathy (Tendonitis and Tendon Rupture) Between Arms, Musculoskeletal conditions included at least one occurrence of arthralgia, arthritis, gait abnormality or tendinopathy., Enrollment, 2 months and 12 months post infection observation period|Comparison of the Percentage of Patients Having Incidence of CDAD Between Arms, Clostridium Difficile Associated Disease (CDAD) is defined as a positive C. difficile toxin assay result and diarrhea, CTCAE version 4, grade 2 and higher., Up to 60 days after enrollment or receiving levofloxacin
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether levofloxacin given prophylactically during periods of neutropenia to patients being treated with chemotherapy for acute leukemia (AL) or undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) will decrease the incidence of bacteremia.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of prophylactic levofloxacin on resistance patterns of bacterial isolates from all sterile site cultures, and the evolution of antimicrobial resistance from peri-rectal swab isolates of Enterobacteriaceae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Streptococcus mitis.

II. To determine the effect of levofloxacin prophylaxis on total number of days of antibiotic administration (prophylactic, empiric, and treatment) in children undergoing therapy for AL or HSCT.

III. To determine whether levofloxacin prophylaxis reduces the incidence of fever with neutropenia, severe infection, and death from bacterial infection.

IV. To assess the safety of levofloxacin prophylaxis, with specific attention to musculoskeletal disorders including tendinopathy and tendon rupture.

V. To assess the impact of prophylactic levofloxacin on the incidence of Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD), and the incidence of microbiologically documented invasive fungal infections (IFI).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive levofloxacin orally (PO) or intravenously (IV) over 60-90 minutes once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) beginning on day 3 during 2 consecutive courses of chemotherapy or beginning on day -2 during HSCT and continuing until blood counts recover.

ARM II: Patients receive established standard of care and receive chemotherapy or HSCT as patients in Arm I.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 1 year.