A Study of LP-300 with Carboplatin and Pemetrexed in Never Smokers with Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma
The goal of this clinical trial is to determine clinical advantages for LP-300 in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed in the never smoker patient population. The primary objectives of this study are to determine progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in the study-defined patient population when LP-300 is co-administered with the standard of care chemotherapy drugs carboplatin and pemetrexed compared to carboplatin and pemetrexed alone. This has been designed as a multicenter, open label, phase II trial with 90 patients to be enrolled in the United States.
Adenocarcinoma of Lung|Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: LP-300|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Carboplatin
Progression-free survival (PFS), Number of days or months from the date of randomization to the earliest of the documented disease progression based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) V1.1 criteria, Through study completion, an average of 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Number of days or months between the randomization date and the date of death from all causes, Through study completion, an average of 2 years
Objective response rate (ORR), Proportion of patients with the best overall response of complete response or partial response, Through study completion, an average of 2 years|Duration of objective response (DOR), Time when the complete response/partial response criteria are met (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is documented, Through study completion, an average of 2 years|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), Proportion of patients with the best overall response of complete response or partial response or stable disease for at least 120 days, Through study completion, an average of 2 years|Safety of LP-300 in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin, Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE), version 5.0, and changes in clinical laboratory parameters, vital signs and electrocardiograms (ECGs)., From initiation of study treatment to 30-days after the last dose of study drug.
Patients who are never smokers with lung adenocarcinoma and have relapsed after treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) will be eligible for enrollment. The trial will proceed in two stages. In the safety lead-in stage, 6 patients will be enrolled and treated with the LP-300 co-administered in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed. In the absence of any safety signals in these patients, the second stage of the trial protocol will begin. This second stage consists of randomizing patients in a 2:1 allocation ratio to one of two arms: investigational arm of carboplatin, pemetrexed, and LP-300 or the standard of care arm of carboplatin and pemetrexed. Treatment of both groups will be on Day 1 of a 21-day cycle. A total of 4 to 6 treatment cycles are planned (number of cycles determined by PI discretion), with the possibility of patients going into a pemetrexed maintenance phase afterwards.