Programmed Death-1(PD-1) Inhibitor Combined With Progesterone Treatment in Endometrial Cancer
We want to make a comparison of PD-1 inhibitor combined with progesterone versus progesterone alone in the treatment of early stage endometrial cancer patients who want to preserve fertility.
Endometrial Cancer Stage I
DRUG: PD-1 inhibitor combined progesterone|DRUG: progesterone
Pathologic complete remission rate of endometrial curettage tissues, Hysteroscopy was performed 6 months after treatment. If the pathological results are normal, it is considered to be complete remission, 6 months|Pathologic partial remission rate of endometrial curettage tissues, Hysteroscopy was performed 6 months after treatment. If the pathological results showed hyperplasia, it is considered to be partial remission, 6 months
adverse effects, side effects was evaluated every 2 weeks during treatment, up to 1 year after treatment|pregnancy rate, pregnancy rate was recorded after treatment, up to 2 years after treatment
Approximately 63,400 new cases of endometrial cancer are diagnosed annually in China. While the initial treatment for early-stage disease is surgical staging with lymphadenectomy, it is apparently inappropriate for young patients who want to preserve fertility. Currently the standardize treatment for these patients are high-dose progesterone, which will be effective in approximately 40\~70% patients. Mirena have been used recently as a new available treatment option, however, no concrete evidence shows it is more effective than the traditional progesterone treatment.

PD-1 inhibitor has been utilized as a salvage treatment in many cancers including ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, lung cancer, gastric cancer and endometrial cancer. As endometrial cancer showed high microsatellite instability-high/deficient mismatch repair (MSI-H/dMMR) rates, it is assumed to be highly responsive to PD-1 inhibitor treatment. Published clinical trial results showed that PD-1 inhibitor treatment was effective in 6/24 late-stage endometrial cancer patients, with little or mild side effects. Here we want to investigate the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitor combined with progesterone in early stage endometrial cancer patients who want to preserve fertility.