Talking Pictures Social Media Intervention in Reducing Depressive Symptoms and Improving Spiritual Well-Being and Quality of Life in Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Patients
This clinical trial studies how well Talking Pictures social media intervention works in reducing depressive symptoms and improving spiritual well-being and quality of life in adolescent and young adult cancer patients. Talking Pictures social media intervention may help doctors better learn how to most effectively provide psychosocial support to adolescent and young adult cancer patients.
Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Weekly photo task completion rate, The observed completion rate will be described using the binomial completion proportion and its 2-sided 95% Jeffries confidence interval., At 10 weeks|Project participation rates, Study will be deemed feasible it least 11 of 30 participants demonstrate completion of assignments, At 10 weeks|Impact of intervention on depressive symptoms as assessed by Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) total score, A series of repeated questionnaires will be conducted., Up to 2 months post intervention|Impact of intervention on spiritual well-being as assessed by Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Spiritual Well-Being (FACIT-Sp) total score, A series of repeated questionnaires will be conducted., Up to 2 months post intervention|Impact of intervention on psychosocial quality of life as assessed by Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory-Adolescent and Young Adult (PedsQL-AYA) psychosocial health score, A series of questionnaires will be conducted., Up to 2 months post intervention
Participant satisfaction rating, Satisfaction Questionnaire to be conducted, At 10 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility and acceptability of a 10-week application (app)-based intervention.

II. To assess the impact of the intervention on depressive symptoms, spiritual well-being and quality of life.

III. To examine the content of participants recorded narratives for salient themes related to weekly content areas (e.g. identity, meaning-making, hopes, fears) in order to better understand the unique experiences and challenges of adolescent and young adult (AYA) patients.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo Talking Pictures social media intervention for 10 weeks, receiving weekly assignments via email with requirements to use the Pixstori app to take and upload photographs with verbal narratives attached to a website. Participants can then share their pixstories to a group page and view and respond to others' pixstories.

After completion of study, participants are followed up at 2 months.