Testing the Addition of the Anti-cancer Drug, Tazemetostat, to the Usual Treatment (Dabrafenib and Trametinib) for Metastatic Melanoma That Has Progressed on the Usual Treatment
This phase I/II trial investigates the best dose, possible benefits and/or side effects of tazemetostat in combination with dabrafenib and trametinib in treating patients with melanoma that has a specific mutation in the BRAF gene (BRAFV600) and that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Tazemetostat, dabrafenib, and trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving tazemetostat in combination with dabrafenib and trametinib may stabilize BRAFV600 mutated melanoma.
Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Dabrafenib Mesylate|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Tazemetostat Hydrobromide|DRUG: Trametinib Dimethyl Sulfoxide
Recommended phase 2 dose (Phase I), Data analysis will be descriptive in nature, and will be determined using the standard 3+3 algorithm. Toxicities by grade, number of cycles administered, and response to treatment will be listed for each dose level., Up to 30 days|Median progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), Median PFS in each arm will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier product limit methods and the randomized arms will be compared using log-rank test (at 0.15 one-sided significance level) when 36 PFS events are observed., At 6 and 12 months
Overall response rates (complete response, partial response), Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1, and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated in each arm using Kaplan-Meier product limit methods, and its 95% confidence interval will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity evaluation will be descriptive, and standard toxicity definitions and criteria will be used as outlined in the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The number and percentage of subjects experiencing each type of adverse event will be tabulated by severity. If appropriate, confidence intervals will be used to characterize the precision of the estimate. A complete listing of adverse events will also be tabulated, and will provide details including severity, relationship to treatment, onset, duration, and outcome. Laboratory data measured on a continuous scale will be characterized by summary statistics (mean and standard deviation)., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify a maximum tolerated dose for the EZH2 inhibitor, tazemetostat hydrobromide (tazemetostat), when used in combination with dual BRAF inhibitor (dabrafenib mesylate \[dabrafenib\]) and MEK inhibitor (trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide \[trametinib\]) therapy in BRAF/MEK inhibitor-resistant, BRAF\^V600-mutated metastatic melanoma. (Phase 1) II. To determine if the addition of the EZH2 inhibitor, tazemetostat, to BRAF and MEK inhibitor therapy improves progression-free survival over single-agent EZH2 inhibitor therapy in patients with BRAF/MEK inhibitor-resistant, BRAF\^V600-mutated melanomas harboring an EZH2 alteration. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase 1) II. To determine the overall response rate of single-agent EZH2 inhibitor therapy (tazemetostat) and triplet EZH2 inhibitor (tazemetostat), BRAF inhibitor (dabrafenib) and MEK inhibitor (trametinib) therapy in patients with BRAF/MEK inhibitor-resistant BRAF\^V600-mutated melanomas harboring an EZH2 alteration. (Phase 2)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore alterations in the gene expression profile (ribonucleic acid \[RNA\]-sequencing), H3K27 methylome (immunohistochemistry \[IHC\], chromatin immunoprecipitation \[ChIP\]-Sequencing), and open chromatin landscape (assay for transposase accessible chromatin \[ATAC\]-sequencing) with EZH2 inhibition in fresh clinical or patient derived xenograft (PDX)-derived tumor samples, which may reveal underlying transcriptional/epigenetic pathways mediating response to treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation trial of tazemetostat followed by a phase II trial. Patients in the phase I trial receive treatment as in Arm 2. Patients in the phase II trial are randomized to Arm 1 or Arm 2.

ARM 1: Patients receive tazemetostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study. At the time of progression, patients may crossover to Arm 2 after completion of radiation therapy.

ARM 2: Patients receive tazemetostat PO BID, dabrafenib PO BID, and trametinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo tumor biopsy, CT scan, MRI, and multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) or echocardiography (ECHO) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then annually thereafter.