Multiple Myeloma/Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Coach RCT
The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness of evidence-informed mobile apps, Myeloma Coach and CLL Coach. These apps have been developed to help manage the physical and emotional symptoms experienced by multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia survivors. This study hopes to determine if a mobile app is a useful tool to help people manage commonly reported symptoms related to Multiple Myeloma (MM) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
Multiple Myeloma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
OTHER: Myeloma Coach or CLL Coach Mobile App|OTHER: Springboard Beyond Cancer informational website
Change in Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS), The ESAS is a validated 10 item survey index used to assessed symptoms. The total ranges from 0 to 60, with a higher score indicating higher physical symptom burden., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Change in NCCN Distress Thermometer, The NCCN Distress Thermometer (DT) is a one-item, 11-point Likert scale represented on a visual graphic of a thermometer that ranges from 0 (no distress) to 10 (extreme distress), with which patients indicate their level of distress over the course of the week prior to assessment., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Change in PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Short Form Global Health, This validated 10 item survey captures a person's self assessment of their global physical and global mental health. The possible score ranges from 0 to 20 points in each case. 0 points represent the patient's most severe physical and/or mental impairment, while 20 points represent the best possible state of health., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Change in severity of PTSD related symptoms as measured by PTSD Checklist (PCL5), This validated 20 item measure has been used extensively in research. Scores consist of a total symptom severity score (from 0 to 80) from four subscales: Re-experiencing (items 1-5 - max score = 20), Avoidance (items 6-7 - max score = 8), Negative alterations in cognition and mood (items 8-14 - max score = 28), and Hyper-arousal (items 15-20 - max score = 24). Higher scores represent higher severity., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks
The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness of evidence-informed mobile apps, Myeloma Coach and CLL Coach. These apps have been developed to help manage the physical and emotional symptoms experienced by multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia survivors. This study hopes to determine if a mobile app is a useful tool to help people manage commonly reported symptoms related to Multiple Myeloma (MM) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).