Elective Level Ib Irradiation in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Patients Based on the International Guidelines
Currently, nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) patients who had level II involvement with extracapsular extension (ECE), and/or had a maximum nodal axial diameter (MAD) of greater than 2cm in level II will be recommended to receive level Ib-covering IMRT according to the International Guidelines. Our previous study, which retrospectively analyzed a cohort of 390 patients, indicated that it should be safe and feasible for patients who only had at least one of the above two radiological features. Thus, the investigators conduct this non-inferior phase 3, randomized trial to further determine the feasibility of sparing level Ib in patients who had level II involvement with ECE, and/or had a MAD of greater than 2cm in level II.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
RADIATION: level Ib-covering IMRT|RADIATION: level Ib-sparing IMRT
Regional relapse-free survival, The regional relapse-free survival rate will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method for each arm from the date of randomization to the date of nodal relapse or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Their differences will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test., 3 year|level Ib recurrence rate, The level Ib recurrent rate will be calculated by the ratio of mumbers of patients relapsed in level Ib and the numbers of cases in the whole group., 3 year
Local relapse-free survival, The local relapse-free survival rate will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method for each arm from the date of randomization to documented local relapse or death from any cause. Their differences will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test., 3 year|Distant metastasis-free survival, The distant metastasis-free survival rate will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method for each arm from the date of randomization to documented distant metastasis or death from any cause. Their differences will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test., 3 year|Overall survival, The overall survival rate will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method for each arm from the date of randomization to death from any cause. Their differences will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test., 3 year|Patient's quality-of-life: dry mouth, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Head and Neck 35 items (QLQ-H\&N35) version 1.0 questionnaires will be used to assess quality-of-life. All items pointing to this domain are averaged and then transformed to a scale of 0-100 according to the EORTC scoring manual. Higher scores on the symptom scales indicate more severe symptoms., 3 year|Patient's quality-of-life: sticky saliva, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Head and Neck 35 items (QLQ-H\&N35) version 1.0 questionnaires will be used to assess quality-of-life. All items pointing to this domain are averaged and then transformed to a scale of 0-100 according to the EORTC scoring manual. Higher scores on the symptom scales indicate more severe symptoms., 3 year
Currently, nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) patients who had level II involvement with extracapsular extension (ECE), and/or had a maximum nodal axial diameter (MAD) of greater than 2cm in level II will be recommended to receive level Ib-covering IMRT according to the International Guidelines. Our previous study, which retrospectively analyzed a cohort of 390 patients, indicated that it should be safe and feasible for patients who only had at least one of the above two radiological features. Thus, the investigators conduct this non-inferior phase 3, randomized trial to further determine the feasibility of sparing level Ib in patients who had level II involvement with extracapsular extension (ECE), and/or had a maximum nodal axial diameter (MAD) of greater than 2cm in level II.