Early Clinical Evaluation of 18F-LY3546117 in Tumor Imaging
Immuno-Oncology (IO) therapies have revolutionized cancer therapy and are becoming the standard of care for many cancers. Monitoring how well IO therapies work against cancer is difficult due to the complexity of the immune system and the fact that an immune response may initially increase, rather than decrease, the size of a tumor. An early response marker would be beneficial to determine which patients should remain on a given treatment or combination of treatments, and which patients should seek other treatment options. 18F-LY3546117 is a radiolabeled tracer that binds to a specific protein (Granzyme B) that is found in the human immune system and is thought to trigger programmed cell death. It is thought that imaging Granzyme B activity in tumors and elsewhere in the body using a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan will allow doctors to monitor the progress of IO therapy.
Neoplasms|Neoplasms Malignant
DRUG: 18F-LY3546117 Injection|PROCEDURE: PET Scan
Cohort 1: Uptake of 18F-LY3546117 in tumor foci and other organs of the body, Visual uptake in the tumor as assessed by sponsor expert reader (Yes/No), Day 14 up to Day 42 of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy|Cohort 2: Uptake of 18F-LY3546117 in tumor foci and other organs of the body, Visual uptake in the tumor as assessed by sponsor expert reader (Yes/No), At immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment response (Day 42 up to 6 months post-treatment)
Immuno-Oncology (IO) therapies have revolutionized cancer therapy and are becoming the standard of care for many cancers. Monitoring how well IO therapies work against cancer is difficult due to the complexity of the immune system and the fact that an immune response may initially increase, rather than decrease, the size of a tumor. An early response marker would be beneficial to determine which patients should remain on a given treatment or combination of treatments, and which patients should seek other treatment options. 18F-LY3546117 is a radiolabeled tracer that binds to a specific protein (Granzyme B) that is found in the human immune system and is thought to trigger programmed cell death. It is thought that imaging Granzyme B activity in tumors and elsewhere in the body using a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan will allow doctors to monitor the progress of IO therapy.