SOM 230 and Gemcitabine in Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if the study drug SOM 230 in addition to standard therapy of gemcitabine can shrink or slow the growth of pancreatic cancer. The safety and tolerability of different doses of SOM 230 will also be studied. The participants' physical state, changes in the size of the tumor, and laboratory findings taken while on-study will help us (the study doctor and Moffitt Cancer Center) decide if SOM 230 is safe and effective.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: SOM 230 LAR|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events, Safety / Tolerability (type, frequency, severity, and relationship of adverse events to study drug), The end of each participant's 28 day cycle
Number of Participants With Progression Free Survival (PFS), Frequency counts and percentage will be used to summarize the progression-free survival (PFS) in 3 months period., 3 months|Number of Participants With Tumor Response, Tumor response according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Objective tumor response will be summarized using frequency counts and percentage., 6 months|Number of Participants With Overall Survival (OS), Frequency counts and percentage will be used to summarize the overall survival (OS) in 6 months period., 6 months
This is a single-arm, open-label, phase I study of combination therapy with SOM 230 LAR and standard treatment with gemcitabine. We will utilize a staggered, sequential dose-escalation design to define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of SOM 230 LAR when combined with standard doses of gemcitabine. Cycle will be defined as 28 days.

Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis. Gemcitabine is administered by IV infusion. The dose should be based on the patient's actual baseline body weight; the dose will be recalculated if there is a weight change of \> 10% from baseline. The dose of gemcitabine will be given over 30 minutes, weekly every 3 weeks followed by 1 week rest period. SOM 230 LAR will be administered as an intramuscular dose determined by the dosing schema, every month.