Axitinib Monotherapy With Early Dynamic Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound Monitoring in Chemorefractory Third Line Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is a study of Axitinib versus placebo as monotherapy for people with colorectal cancer who have liver metastases and who have relapsed within 6 months of their last chemotherapy regime. The research will also look at the potential of CEHPI (Contrast Enhanced Hepatic Perfusion Index) reduction, a technique developed for this research to measure the changes in how the blood vessels pump blood into the different liver metastases (tumours) and therefore to assess and predict response to treatment.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Axitinib|DRUG: Placebo
Overall survival, Difference in median overall survival between patients in the Axitinib arm who achieve a reduction in CEHPI index of at least 20% from baseline and those who do not achieve in both Axitinib and placebo arms, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Imaging, Comparison of disease progression in patients who fail to display reduction in CEHPI at weeks according to RECIST V1.1, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Objective response rate, Best objective response rate in Axitinib versus placebo groups, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Objective response rate, Best objective response rate in CEHPI responders versus non-responders, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Monitoring of adverse reactions, Adverse events graded by Chemotherapy toxicity criteria (CTC) V4 grading, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Progression free survival, Progression free survival and 6 and 9 month survival percentages and 'duration on treatment' between Axitinib and placebo, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Progression free survival secondary outcome, Progression free survival and 6 and 9 month survival percentages and 'duration on study treatment' between CEHPI responders and non-responders, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Monitoring dose reductions and the reasons behind them, Minimum dose of Axitinib required to reduce CEHPI significantly, in responders and in patients who require dose reductions due to toxicity, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Colorectal cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in the UK with an average 5-year survival of 50%. There is a lack of classical chemotherapy response in metastatic colorectal cancer with the approved drugs currently on the market, which has prompted the investigation of angiogenesis inhibitors as a new chemotherapeutic agent. Pre-clinical use of angiogenesis inhibitors with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy has shown to have more effect, but so far these results have not been replicated in human studies. Furthermore, the toxicity profiles for these drugs when combined with chemotherapy has so far outweighed any benefit they may hold for patients. With this in mind, are we perhaps not dosing correctly? Would changing the dosing schedule optimise the balance between efficacy versus toxicity?

AXMUS-C is a phase II randomised, placebo-controlled study testing the efficacy of the VEGF inhibitor, Axitinib, as monotherapy for patients with chemo-refractory colorectal cancer with liver metastases.

A-013736 (Axitinib) is a selective inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors 1, 2 and 3, and is therefore classed as an angiogenesis inhibitor with VEGF receptors effectively being blocked and thus cannot stimulate the signalling pathway responsible for cell proliferation resulting in the growth of blood vessels to feed the tumour. Several studies in other solid tumours have shown that when taken orally the main side effect of Axitinib is fatigue, with 51% of subjects reporting varying grades of severity. Axitinib has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after failure of one prior systemic therapy. It has not been approved for colorectal cancer.

Additionally, the research will also assess the potential for early CEHPI (Contrast Enhanced Hepatic Perfusion Index) reduction to predict response to therapy with Axitinib, with the hypothesis being that patients with an early ≥20% reduction in CEHPI will have improved overall survival, compared to those who do not. Early relative reductions of over 20% has previously been shown to correlate with conventional stable disease and partial response by RECIST. \[CEHPI\] has been developed with the idea that it can identify responders to the anti-VEGF therapy much earlier than the conventionally used established RECIST method. It is a technique that measures the changes in how the blood vessels pump blood into the different liver metastases (tumours) and therefore can be used to assess and predict response to treatment, as it is known that arterialisation support the growth of malignant tumours in the liver whereas usually the portal vein supplies 70% of the blood to normal liver parenchyma. Contrast enhanced ultrasound differ from the standard ultrasound with the intravenous injection of 2mL of SonoVue before the Philips iu22 platform and a C5-1 transducer are used to record a one-minute cine loop.