A Cancer Vaccine (Labvax 3(22)-23) and GM-CSF Alone or in Combination With Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Advanced Stage Adenocarcinoma
This phase 1/2 trial tests the safety and effectiveness of a cancer vaccine called Labvax 3(22)-23 and GM-CSF alone or in combination with pembrolizumab in treating adenocarcinoma that has spread to other places in the body (advanced stage). Labvax 3(22)-23 is designed to target a specific antigen (labyrinthin), which is a protein found on the surface of adenocarcinoma tumor cells. Labyrinthin is a protein that is not expressed on normal cells in the skin, lungs, salivary glands, pancreas, nor other tissues. In adenocarcinoma, the tumor cells produce too much labyrinthin causing them to express this protein on the surface of the tumor cells. One way to control the growth of these tumor cells is to teach the immune system to generate an immune response against the labyrinthin protein by vaccination against labyrinthin. GM-CSF, or sargramostim, is a protein that acts as a white blood cell growth factor. It has also been shown to stimulate immune system. Thus, administration of GM-CSF may help to boost the immune system response when given together with the vaccine. This study may improve the general knowledge about Labvax 3(22)-23 and how the body may generate an immune response to kill adenocarcinoma tumor cells. In the second phase of the study, participants will also receive pembrolizumab, which may improve anti-cancer activity when given with Labvax 3(22)-23 and GM-CSF.
Advanced Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Antineoplastic Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Sargramostim|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Phase 1: Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), Will be assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (V)5.0. The type, grade, frequency and proportion of toxicities noted during the treatment period will be reported, along with associated 95% two-sided exact confidence interval of proportion. All adverse events noted by the investigator will be tabulated according to the affected body system., First LabVax 3(22)-23 injection through 14 days following the second LabVax 3(22)-23 injection|Phase 1: Adverse events (AEs), Will be assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (V)5.0. The type, grade, frequency and proportion of toxicities noted during the treatment period will be reported, along with associated 95% two-sided exact confidence interval of proportion. All adverse events noted by the investigator will be tabulated according to the affected body system., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment|Phase 2: Objective response rate (ORR), Will be assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (V)1.1 guidelines. The fractions will be reported along with 95% two-sided exact confidence intervals. Comparisons between arms will be performed by Fisher's Exact tests. Investigators will also characterize the proportion who remain that either respond or have stable disease, compared to those who progress., Up to 12 months after last dose of study treatment
Phase 1: Objective response rate (ORR), Will be assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (V)1.1 guidelines. The fractions will be reported along with 95% two-sided exact confidence intervals. Comparisons between arms will be performed by Fisher's Exact tests. Investigators will also characterize the proportion who remain that either respond or have stable disease, compared to those who progress., Up to 12 months after last dose of study treatment|Phase 2: Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), Will be assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (V)5.0. The type, grade, frequency and proportion of toxicities noted during the treatment period will be reported, along with associated 95% two-sided exact confidence interval of proportion. All adverse events noted by the investigator will be tabulated according to the affected body system., Up to 30 days after the last LabVax 3(22)-23 vaccination|Phase 2: Adverse events (AEs), Will be assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (V)5.0. The type, grade, frequency and proportion of toxicities noted during the treatment period will be reported, along with associated 95% two-sided exact confidence interval of proportion. All adverse events noted by the investigator will be tabulated according to the affected body system., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment|Phase 2: Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be calculated as the time from initiation of immunotherapy to first documented evidence of disease progression or death, whichever comes first. Alive patients who have not been documented to have progression will be censored at the date of the latest clinical assessment that documented as being free of progression., Up to 12 months after last dose of study treatment|Phase 2: Overall survival (OS), OS will be calculated as the time from diagnosis to death. Alive patients will be censored at the date of the latest follow-up visit., Up to 12 months after last dose of study treatment
Phase 1: Up to 10 participants with advanced/ metastatic or recurrent adenocarcinoma of any primary site will be enrolled. Participants will be given LabVax 3(22)-23 (intradermally) and adjuvant GM-CSF (subcutaneously) on weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12. Participants will be evaluated for 16 weeks, which include a follow-up exam 4 weeks after the last injection of vaccine or last injection, if injection(s) are stopped earlier. The study will be terminated if one death or two subjects have ≥3 adverse events that are at least possibly related to the study treatment. \[Note: Phase 1 enrollment was completed as of December 2022\]

Phase 2: Up to 67 participants with advanced/ metastatic or recurrent lung adenocarcinoma (Cohort A) or non-lung adenocarcinomas (Cohort B). Pembrolizumab will be given intravenously every 3 weeks for up to 12 cycles on Day 1 of Weeks 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19, 22, 25, 28, 31, and 34. Subjects will be given LabVax 3(22)-23 (intradermally) and adjuvant GM-CSF (subcutaneously) on weeks 7, 8, 10, 14, and 18. Participants will receive study treatment over 34 weeks if tolerating the treatment without tumor progression; a safety follow-up visit will occur 30 days post-last dose of study treatment. The participant's chart will be reviewed for up to 12 months post-last dose of study treatment. The study will be terminated if safety is insufficient following the lead-in period or if response is insufficient in Cohort A following the first expansion.