Quality of Life Improvement During Chemotherapy
This study is a randomized controlled trial, taking place at the University Hospital Basel (CH). It aims at the alleviation of breast cancer patients' life quality during chemotherapy.

The intervention group will participate in 10 sessions of structured hypnotherapy during the course of chemotherapy in addition to the standard of care. The control group will have access to the standard of care without any additional treatment. The main goal of the study is to investigate whether quality of life is higher among patients in the intervention group. Additionally, it will be analyzed if the interventions have a positive effect on chemotherapy side effects, symptoms of anxiety and depression and the immune system. Finally, the relative dose intensity (RDI) as well as treatment schedule adherence will be assessed.

There are no risks to be expected from the intervention itself. In the case of positive findings, the standard of psycho-oncological care can be updated by integrating structured hypnotherapeutic interventions into the treatment of patients with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer Female|Chemotherapy Effect
BEHAVIORAL: Structured Hypnotherapy
Average Summary Score of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), The outcome measure will be the average of all 6 time points on the EORTC QLQ-C30 summary score. The summary score ranges from 0 to 100 with higher scores representing a better quality of life. In the statistical analysis this average summary score will be corrected for values of the summary score at T0., 6 times within 18 weeks + baseline at day 1
Summary Score of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), Summary score of the EORTC QLQ-C30 on all 7 time points including baseline. The summary score ranges from 0 to 100 with higher scores representing a better quality of life. In the statistical analysis the summary score will be compared between all time points to see the development of life quality throughout the chemotherapy., 7 times within 18 weeks|Side Effects of Chemotherapy, Side effects of chemotherapy will also be captured with the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). It contains three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting) and single items assessing additional symptoms commonly reported by cancer patients (dyspnoea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea and financial problems). All symptom scales range from 1-4 with higher values representing higher levels of symptoms., 7 times within 18 weeks|Hamilton Anxiety and Depression Scale - German Version (HADS-D), The HADS-D has two sub-scales for anxiety and depression. Each sub-scale ranges from 0 to 21 with higher values representing more severe symptoms of depression and anxiety respectively.

\<= 7 unproblematic

8 - 10 threshold

\>= 11 problematic, 7 times within 18 weeks|Immune Factors, Count of cells per micro-liter (μL) of:

1. Natural killer cells (NK)
2. CD4 (also called T-helper cells)
3. CD8 (marker for cytotoxic T-cells), 3 times within 18 weeks|Interleukin-6, Counts of picogram per milliliter (pg/mL) of IL-6 (interleukin-6), 3 times within 18 weeks|Tumor Marker CA 15-3, Counts of international units per milliliter (IU/mL) of tumor marker CA 15-3, 3 times within 18 weeks|Relative Dose Intensity (RDI), RDI = % dose x (planned days / used days). Reference values: \>85% effective treatment, \<=85% ineffective and significantly decreased survival chances., 18 weeks|Schedule Modification: Delayed Cycles, Delayed cycles. Reference value \>=2. The less cycles are delayed, the more efficient is the chemotherapy. If two or more cycles have been delayed, we consider it a significant decrease in schedule adherence., 18 weeks|Schedule modification: Delayed Days, Delayed days. Reference value \>=14. The less days are delayed, the more efficient is the chemotherapy. If 14 or more days have been delayed, we consider it a significant decrease in schedule adherence., 18 weeks
Exploratory Analysis of the Correlation between Quality of Life, Anxiety, Depression and Immunfaktors and Tumor Marker, Individual correlations between quality of life, side effects of chemotherapy, anxiety and depression (specified as outcome measures 2 - 4) and each of the immune factors and tumor marker (outcome measures 5 - 7). Due to lack of pre-existing evidence, we make no predictions about direction and magnitude of the effects., 18 weeks
Background:

Breast cancer patients who undergo chemotherapy are likely to experience lower life quality, side effects like nausea and vomiting and symptoms of anxiety or depression. At the same time their immune system is down regulated by a stress reaction following cancer diagnosis and also by the chemotherapy itself. Decrease of several immune factors is associated with lower survival expectancy.

Hypnotherapy uses methods like relaxation, symptom-control techniques, imagination and working with inner resources. They can be used to bring positive change for patients both mentally as well as physically. Self-hypnosis techniques are used to bring back a feeling of self-efficacy which is impaired in most cancer patients who report to lose control over their body.

Emerging evidence shows the effectiveness of hypnotherapy in reducing side-effects of medical treatments and improve mental health and quality of life of cancer patients. It was shown that hypnotherapy has a positive effect on several immune factors. But up to now it is not clear if there is also a positive effect on the immune system during chemotherapy.

During Chemotherapy it is important that patients adhere as much as possible to the treatment schedule and to the optimal dosage. Due to chemotherapy side-effects or other reasons it happens regularly that treatment needs be delayed or dosage reduced which in turn lowers the efficiency of the chemotherapy.

Objectives:

This study is designed to evaluate if hypnotherapy has a positive effect on quality of life, side-effects of chemotherapy, symptoms of anxiety and depression, the immune system and the relative dose intensity (RDI) of female breast cancer patients during the course of chemotherapy.

Study Flow:

After patients have been diagnosed with primary breast cancer and were assigned to either adjuvant or neo-adjuvant chemotherapy they are asked if they want to participate in the study and are given all the necessary information and consent form. If they agree, they will be randomly assigned to either the control group or the intervention group following a computer generated randomization list. Before the first session of hypnotherapy they will be given the first questionnaires (T0). Those assigned to the intervention group will be contacted by a therapist to fix a date for the first session, if possible before the first chemotherapy cycle or shortly after the first cycle, when the side effects are not yet present. During 4,5 months, patients will receive 6 cycles of chemotherapy and 10 session of hypnotherapy. They will have access to the standard of psycho-oncological care during the study. The control group will not receive any Hypnotherapy but also has access to the standard of psycho-oncological care.

Measurement Points:

T0 (Baseline) = After diagnosis and before the first chemotherapy cycle

T1 = First cycle of chemotherapy

T2 = Second cycle

T3 = Third cycle

T4 = Fourth cycle

T5 = Fifth cycle

T6 = Sixth cycle

The duration of one cycle will be approx. 3 weeks, depending on the individual chemotherapy regimen.This means that the total time for the chemotherapy of one patient will last around 18 weeks.

There are no risks to be expected from the intervention itself. In the case of positive findings, the standard of psycho-oncological care can be updated by integrating structured hypnotherapeutic interventions into the treatment of patients with breast cancer.