Metronomic Capecitabine, Oxaliplatin and UGT1A1 Genotype-directed Irinotecan in Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer Patients
This is a single-centre, non-randomized, open label phase II trial to be conducted at the National Cancer Centre, Singapore (NCCS). Patients diagnosed with metastatic PDAC will be eligible to enrol.

The investigators hypothesize the anticancer activity of low dose OXIRI (LD-OXIRI) regimen comprising of metronomic oxaliplatin (O) and metronomic capecitabine (xeloda; X) in combination with UGT1A1-directed dosing of irinotecan (IRI) to be a tolerable regimen in patients with advanced PDAC and will lead to a favourable response rate.

Patients will be prospectively enrolled in two stages - In stage 1, patients will be recruited and evaluated for response and toxicity. In stage 2, more patients will be recruited for further evaluation of response and toxicity.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Low Dose OXIRI (LD-OXIRI)
Overall Response Rate (ORR)., The proportion of patients who have a partial or complete response as specified in RECIST 1.1., Up to 3 years.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR)., The percentage of advanced cancer patients who achieve complete response, partial response, or at least six months of stable disease as specified in RECIST 1.1., Up to 3 years.|The Grade 3-5 Toxicity Rate., The proportion of patients who have adverse event(s) with Grade 3-5 toxicity as defined in CTCAE 5.0., Up to 3 years.
Maximum plasma concentration [(Cmax)] of low dose Capecitabine and its intermediary metabolites (5'-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine [DFCR] and 5'- deoxy-5-fluorouridine [DFUR]) and 5FU., Maximum plasma concentration \[(Cmax)\] of low dose capecitabine and its intermediary metabolites (5'-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine \[DFCR\] and 5'- deoxy-5-fluorouridine \[DFUR\]) and 5FU at Cycle 1 Day 1., At predose, 1 hr, end of irinotecan infusion on Cycle 1 Day 1 (each cycle is 21 days)|Trough concentration of low dose capecitabine and its intermediary metabolites and 5FU., Trough concentration of low dose capecitabine and its intermediary metabolites (5'-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine \[DFCR\] and 5'- deoxy-5-fluorouridine \[DFUR\]) and 5FU., At predose of Cycle 2 Day 1 and Cycle 3 Day 1 (each cycle is 21 days)|Immunophenotyping from extracted peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) - measurement of cytokine and chemokine concentrations in picograms per milliliters using multiplex flow cytometry., Immunophenotyping from extracted peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) - measurement of cytokine and chemokine concentrations in picograms per milliliters using multiplex flow cytometry at these time-points: at predose, end of oxaliplatin infusion, end of irinotecan infusion on Cycle 1 Day 1 (each cycle is 21 days); at predose of Cycle 2 Day 1 and at disease progression (up to three years)., Up to 3 years.|Genomic analysis of circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA)., Genomic analysis of circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) from whole blood at these time-points: at predose of every two cycles (Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1, etc - each cycle is 21 days) and at disease progression (up to three years)., Up to 3 years.|Identification of exosomal proteins secreted by extracellular vesicles from plasma., Identification of exosomal proteins secreted by extracellular vesicles from plasma using mass spectrometry, at the following time-points: at predose, end of oxaliplatin infusion, end of irinotecan infusion on Cycle 1 Day 1 (each cycle is 21 days); at predose of Cycle 2 Day 1 and at disease progression (up to three years)., Up to 3 years.|Progression-free survival (PFS)., Time from first dose of treatment to disease progression or death, whichever comes first., Up to 3 years.|Overall survival (OS)., Time from first dose to death., Up to 3 years.
Eligible patients will be recruited from the National Cancer Centre, Singapore (NCCS). Patients will be referred for assessment by the primary physician to a study investigator for screening. Informed written consent for entry into the trial will be obtained from the patient by a delegated investigator.

All patients eligible for study entry will receive the LD-OXIRI regimen at the National Cancer Centre, Singapore. All concomitant medication taken during the study must be recorded. If a drug is administered prophylactically, this must be noted. The patients will not receive any other investigational drugs while on this study.

There will be a screening period of 28 days, a treatment period till disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, and a post-treatment follow up period of up to 24 months.