Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy, Excision And Observation vs Chemoradiotherapy For Rectal Cancer
This study is being done to answer the following questions: Is the chance of rectal cancer responding the same if chemotherapy alone is given before limited surgery compared to chemotherapy and radiation therapy given together before limited surgery? If radiation therapy is not given, is quality of life better?
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Fluoruracil|DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: Radiation
Clinical response rate upon re-staging, 6 years|Quality of Life defined using the LARS score, 6 years
Total Mesorectal Excision (TME) Free Survival, Defined as time from randomization to the time of TME attempt or performance, local recurrence after complete clinical response (cCR), or death from any cause, 6 years|Disease Free Survival, Defined as time from randomization to local recurrence/regrowth after cCR that cannot be salvaged with an R0 TM, M1 recurrence, or death, 6 years|Rate of downstaging to ypTO/1N0/X, 6 years|Bowel function assessed by Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) Score, 6 years|Bladder function assessed by EORTC QLQ-CR29 urinary frequency and urinary incontinence subscales, 6 years|Sexual function assessed by EORTC QLQ-CR29 sexual interest (men), and sexual interest (women) subscales, 6 years|Other QoL functions assessed by subscales of FIQL, 6 years|Other QoL functions assessed by subscales of EORTC QLQ-C30, 6 years|Other QoL functions assessed by subscales of subscales of EORTC QLQ-CR29, 6 years|Number and severity of adverse events utilizing CTCAE v5.0, 6 years|Validate the magnetic resonance tumour regression grade (MR-TRG) in patients with T1 and T2 rectal cancer, 6 years
This study is being done to find out if this approach is better or worse than the usual approach for early rectal cancer. The usual approach is defined as care most people get for early rectal cancer.

The usual approach for patients who are not in a study is surgery to remove the rectum or treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy, followed by surgery. There are several chemotherapy drugs approved by Health Canada that are commonly used with radiation therapy. For patients who get the usual approach for this cancer, about 90 out of 100 are free of cancer after 5 years.

If a patient decides to take part in this study, they will either get a combination of chemotherapy drugs called FOLFOX or CAPOX for up to 12 weeks or will get chemotherapy with radiation therapy for up to 6 weeks.

After finishing treatment, and even if treatment is stopped early, the study doctor will watch for side effects and determine which type of surgery would be best. After surgery, patients will be asked to come in every 4 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for an additional year. Then will be checked every year for 2 years. This means seeing the study doctor for up to 5 years after surgery. Patients may be seen more often if your study doctor thinks it is necessary.