NUTRI-HAB - Posttreatment Rehabilitation of Nutrition Impact Symptoms in Head and Neck Cancer Survivors
The study is a randomised controlled trial that aims to test the effect of a residential rehabilitation program with a focus on eating problems after treatment in head and neck cancer survivors. The study will furthermore investigate whether selected nutrition screening and assessment tools can be used to identify head and neck cancer survivor who benefit from the program.
Head and Neck Cancer
OTHER: NUTRI-HAB
Percentage change in body weight from baseline to follow up, Body weight will be measured with a calibrated scale at baseline and at follow up. Measurements will be performed by trained health professionals and standardised protocols will be followed. The change in percent will be calculated for each individual participant and be used as the primary outcome., Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months
Change in health-related quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30) from baseline to follow up, Health-related quality of life (QOL) is measured using the generic EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire for cancer patients. Questionnaires will be scored according to EORTC's scoring manual, and changes from baseline to follow-up in the QOL-subscales will be calculated for each individual participant.

The questionnaire consist of 30 items that are further divided into 15 subscales/items: a global health status/QOL scale; the functional scales: physical functioning, role functioning, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning, social functioning and the symptom scales/items: fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain, dyspnoea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhoea, financial difficulties.

All scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high score represents a higher response level. Thus a high score for a functional scale or global QOL represents a high level of functioning/QOL whereas a high score on a symptom scale represents a high level of symptoms., Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months|Change in health-related quality of life (EORTC QLQ-H&N35) from baseline to follow up, Health-related quality of life (QOL) is measured using the questionnaire EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 specific for head and neck cancer. Questionnaires will be scored according to EORTC's scoring manual, and changes from baseline to follow-up in the QOL-subscales will be calculated for each individual participant.

The EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 consists of 35 items that are further divided into the following symptom scales/items: pain, swallowing, sensory problems, speech problems, trouble with social eating, trouble with social contact, less sexuality, teeth, opening mouth, dry mouth, sticky saliva, coughing, felt ill, pain killers, nutritional supplements, feeding tube, weight loss, weight gain.

All scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high score represents a higher response level. Thus a high score for symptom scale represents a high level of symptoms., Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months|Change in health-related quality of life (EQ-5D-5L) from baseline to follow up, Health-related quality of life (QOL) is measured using EQ-5D-5L. Questionnaires will be scored according to manual, and changes from baseline to follow-up in the QOL-subscales will be calculated for each individual participant., Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months|Percentage change in hand grip strength from baseline to follow up, Hand grip strength will be measured with a calibrated hand dynamometer at baseline and at follow up. Measurements will be performed by trained health professionals and standardised protocols will be followed. Three measurements will be performed for each participant and the mean will be calculated. The change in percent will be calculated for each individual participant., Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months|Percentage change in '30 seconds sit-to-stand-test' from baseline to follow up, '30 seconds sit-to-stand-test' will be performed at baseline and follow-up. Measurements will be performed by trained health professionals and standardised protocols will be followed. The change in percent will be calculated for each individual participant., Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months|Percentage change in '6 minutes walk test' from baseline to follow up, '6 minutes walk test' will be performed at baseline and follow-up. Measurements will be performed by trained health professionals and standardised protocols will be followed. The change in percent will be calculated for each individual participant., Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months|Percentage change in mouth opening from baseline to follow up, Mouth opening will be measured at baseline and follow-up with TheraBite® Range-Of-Motion ROM Scale. The Therabite® ROM Scale is a disposable paper scale that measures the distance (in millimeters) between the upper and lower front teeth on maximal mouth opening. Lower values indicates trismus and increase indicates improvement. Measurements will be performed by trained health professionals and standardised protocols will be followed. The change in percent will be calculated for each individual participant., Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months|Change in symptoms of anxiety and depression from baseline to follow up, Symptoms of anxiety and depression is measured with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, Difference between measurements at baseline and at follow-up after 3 and 6 months
This study is a randomised controlled trial with following objectives:

1. To test the effect of a targeted residential rehabilitation program with focus on the physical, psychological and social aspects of eating problems on body weight, health-related quality of life and physical function in curatively treated head and neck cancer survivors 1-5 years after completion of radiation therapy
2. To test whether a potential effect of the program is associated with/dependent of the participants' score in Scores Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment Short Form (PG-SGA-SF), Nutrition Risk Screening 2002 (NRS 2002) or M.D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) at baseline