IMPAACT P1085: Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Type-Specific Antibody
This study is being done to evaluate how long the immune response from the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) vaccine you / your child received persists. The immune response occurred after immunization and is what protects you/your child from HPV disease. You / your child received this vaccine as part of an earlier study (P1047). The vaccine is called Human Papillomavirus Vaccine (QHPV Vaccine, also known as GARDASIL®). The study will check to see if the protective effects (called "antibodies") produced by the vaccine have lasted, and for how long these effects will continue to last. You will not be given any medications or vaccines as part of this follow-up study.
Papilloma Virus, Human
To determine the HPV-type specific antibody levels at 2, 3.5, and 5 years after completion of the QHPV vaccine schedule for each of the arms in P1047, To determine the HPV-type specific antibody levels at 2, 3.5, and 5 years after completion of the QHPV vaccine schedule for each of the arms in P1047 and compare them to published levels of QHPV-induced antibody levels present in age-similar children IMPAACT P1085 without HIV infection at these time intervals after QHPV vaccination., 208 weeks (4 Years)
Comparing the decline over the study interval in HPV type-specific antibody in subjects who received four doses of QHPV (Arm A) with those who received three doses of vaccine (Arm B) in P1047., To compare the decline over the study interval in HPV type-specific antibody in subjects who received four doses of QHPV (Arm A) with those who received three doses of vaccine (Arm B) in P1047., 4 years|Determining the magnitude of HPV-specific antibody at different times after QHPV vaccination as a function of immune status (as defined by CD4 count and CD4 percent) and plasma HIV viral load., To determine the magnitude of HPV-specific antibody at different times after QHPV vaccination as a function of immune status (as defined by CD4 count and CD4%) and plasma HIV viral load., 4 years|Determining the persistence of HPV-specific CMI at 2, 3.5, and 5 years after completion of the QHPV schedule for each of the arms in P1047., To determine the persistence of HPV-specific CMI at 2, 3.5, and 5 years after completion of the QHPV schedule for each of the arms in P1047., 5 years after completion|Evaluating potential associations of HIV plasma RNA, lymphocyte immunophenotypes, HPV-specific memory B cell lymphocytes and HPV-specific CMI with the decay of anti-HPV antibody titers., To evaluate potential associations of HIV plasma RNA, lymphocyte immunophenotypes, HPV-specific memory B cell lymphocytes and HPV-specific CMI with the decay of anti-HPV antibody titers., 4 years
Genital Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) infection is the most common sexually transmitted infection (STI) in the United States and worldwide. Over 50% of sexually active adolescents will become infected with HPV. HPV infection is strongly associated with the development of anogenital dysplasias and invasive cancers. Because HPV is a STI, optimal prevention in women will depend on prevention in their partners as well. Males remain a significant reservoir of HPV and vaccinating them will be essential for rapidly preventing transmission of HPV in the community.

P1085 is a sub study of P1047, which investigated the safety and immunogenicity of Quadrivalent HPV (QHPV) in HIV-infected girls and boys, age 7 to \<12 years of age. This study was a placebo-controlled trial that compared a recommended three dose schedule of QHPV in one study arm (Arm A) with an arm that received placebo (Arm B). P1047 has thus far demonstrated that QHPV can be safely administered to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected boys and girls and will stimulate seroconversion in more than 95% of vaccinees. However, these antibody levels were 30-50% lower than those achieved in children without HIV infection. Since levels of vaccine-induced antibodies decline with time after vaccination, it is uncertain if vaccine-induced immunity will be life-long. This concern is supported by some evidence that naturally acquired HPV-specific antibody might decline to a level that will permit re-infection. Comparative persistence data for HPV-specific antibody is available for 5-6 years after vaccination of almost 1000 children without HIV infection (manufacturer's data, unpublished), but there is no such information available from HIV-infected vaccinees.

We seek to determine the long-term durability and kinetics of the vaccine-induced HPV-type-specific antibody and CMI responses in HIV-infected children that were, and are being, immunized in P1047. These subjects are a unique cohort that will allow us to approach this specific clinical issue.