A Phase Ib/II Clinical Study of GH21 Capsules Combined With Osimertinib Mesylate Tablets in Patients With NSCLC
This study, including phase Ib , phase IIa and phase IIb, aims to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK profile, efficacy and to determine the RP2D of GH21 capsules combined with Osimertinib mesylate tablets in NSCLC patients with EGFR mutations.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With EGFR Mutation
DRUG: GH21|DRUG: Tagrisso
Number of Participants with Dose Limiting Toxicities, Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in the dose escalation phase. A DLT is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications that occurs within the first treatment cycle. (phase Ib), 2 years|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, All patients participating in this study will be assessed for incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) and serious AEs, including changes in laboratory values, vital signs, electrocardiograms, cardiac imaging and ophthalmological assessments (phase Ib/ IIa), 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Based on RECIST 1.1 Criteria, PFS is defined as the interval of time between the date of first treatment to the earliest date of disease progression or death which occurs first. (phase IIb), 2 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on RECIST 1.1 Criteria, ORR is defined as the proportion of participants with complete response or partial response (CR+PR). (phase Ib/IIa/IIb), 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR) Based on RECIST 1.1 Criteria, DOR is defined as the time from the participant's initial objective response (CR or PR) to study drug therapy, to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. (phase Ib/IIa/IIb), 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Based on RECIST 1.1 Criteria, DCR is defined as the proportion of patients in a clinical trial whose cancer shrinks or remains stable over a certain period., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the interval of time between the date of first treatment until death, loss to follow up or termination of the study by the sponsor (phase Ib/IIa/IIb), 2 years|Plasma Peak Concentration (Cmax), Highest observed plasma concentration of GH21 and Osimertinib. (phase Ib/IIa/IIb), 2 years|Time to Cmax (Tmax), Time of highest observed plasma concentration of GH21 and Osimertinib. (phase Ib/IIa/IIb), 2 years|Area under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve (AUC), Area under the plasma concentration time curve of GH21 and Osimertinib. (phase Ib/IIa/IIb), 2 years
Phase Ib: Classic "3+3" design used for Phase 1b to select the putative RDEs. Four dose groups are preset in phase Ib of this study, which including QD groups and BIW groups. Subjects will be enrolled in parallel cross into the group.

Phase IIa: Two cohorts are preset in this stage, Cohort 1: GH21 RDE1 QD + Osimertinib 80 mg QD, Cohort 2: GH21 RDE2 D1D2-BIW + Osimertinib 80 mg QD, Cohort 1 and Cohort 2 are enrolled in parallel.

Phase IIb: Phase IIb preset 1 cohort. The investigator and sponsor will comprehensively evaluate safety, efficacy, and PK data from Phases Ib and IIa to determine the dose level for Phase IIb.