A Quality of Life Intervention for Young African American Breast Cancer Survivors in Treatment
This clinical trial studies the use of a quality of life intervention called Y-AMBIENT to help young African American with stage I-III breast cancer manage daily life. Y-AMBIENT is a four-month, telephone-based intervention that includes three themed education sessions with three follow-up sessions, written materials, and videos. The Y-AMBIENT intervention may improve quality of life and other health-related outcomes in young African American breast cancer survivors.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Proportion of screen-eligible patients enrolled by consent, Descriptive statistics will be used to compute the proportion of screen-eligible patients enrolled by consent. Proportions will be computed, along with 95% confidence intervals, to indicate the precision of the point estimate., Up to 2 years|Proportion of patients that complete all (seven) study contacts of intervention, Descriptive statistics will be used to compute proportion of patients that complete all (seven) study contacts of the intervention. Proportions will be computed, along with 95% confidence intervals, to indicate the precision of the point estimate., Up to 2 years|Acceptability/Relevance of Intervention Sessions, Will use qualitative interview to assess participants' perceptions of its acceptability/relevance of each of the six study contacts, using a Likert scale 0 to 10 with 0 being not at all satisfied/useful and 10 being completely satisfied/useful and an open ended question to understand why each score was provided. A composite score will be determined, where higher scores equate to higher acceptability/relevance. Descriptive statistics will be computed, along with 95% confidence intervals, to indicate the precision of the point estimate. Qualitative responses will be analyzed for content., Up to 2 years|Participation in aspects of protocol, Will use qualitative interview to assess participants' engagement by review of task completion to participate in aspects of the protocol (as an indicator of participant burden). There are a total of six sessions to complete and seven videos to review. Descriptive statistics will be used to compute the proportion of participant self-reported effectiveness of each intervention via the logs. Completion of tasks indicates greater willingness to participate., Up to 2 years|Use of proposed self-management strategies and perceived effectiveness, Will use qualitative interview to assess participants' engagement by review of use of proposed self-management strategies and their perceived effect on quality of life concerns using a Likert scale 0 to 10 with 0 being not at all effective and 10 being most effective. Descriptive statistics will be used to compute the proportion of participant self-reported effectiveness of each intervention via the logs. Qualitative responses will be analyzed for content., Up to 2 years|Medical Outcomes Survey Short-Form (SF-36), The SF-36 is a well-established measure of health status in cancer survivors. SF-36 includes one multi-item scale assessing eight health concepts: limitations in physical activity, social activity, role activity, bodily pain, psychological distress, limitations in social activity due to emotional distress, vitality, and general health perceptions. The scale ranges from 0-100. Higher scores indicate better functioning.

Will use mixed-effects linear modeling for repeated measures to (a) test the fixed effect of time, intervention group, and their interaction; (b) derive within-group and between-group contrast estimates on the change from baseline at each follow-up., Baseline up to 1 month post-intervention|PROMIS Global Health10, The PROMIS Global Health 10 is a well-established measure of health status in cancer survivors. It assesses health and functioning including overall physical health, mental health, social health, pain, fatigue, and overall perceived quality of life. Higher scores indicate better functioning.

Will use mixed-effects linear modeling for repeated measures to (a) test the fixed effect of time, intervention group, and their interaction; (b) derive within-group and between-group contrast estimates on the change from baseline at each follow-up., Baseline up to 1 month post-intervention|(Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Spiritual Well-Being (FACT-Sp 12), The FACIT-SP-12 is the most widely used measure of spiritual well-being among those with cancer. Its subscales measure faith, meaning, and peace. Higher scores reflect higher well-being.

Will use mixed-effects linear modeling for repeated measures to (a) test the fixed effect of time, intervention group, and their interaction; (b) derive within-group and between-group contrast estimates on the change from baseline at each follow-up., Baseline up to 1 month post-intervention|MOS Modified Social Support Survey, MOS assesses dimensions of social support with four functional support scales: emotional/informational, tangible, affectionate, and positive social interaction. The scale ranges from 0-100. Higher scores indicate greater social support.

Will use mixed-effects linear modeling for repeated measures to (a) test the fixed effect of time, intervention group, and their interaction; (b) derive within-group and between-group contrast estimates on the change from baseline at each follow-up., Baseline up to 1 month post-intervention|COmprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity [COST]-Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy [FACIT], COST-FACIT is a measure of financial toxicity and/or concerns related to cost of cancer care. Lower COST scores indicate higher financial toxicity.

Will use mixed-effects linear modeling for repeated measures to (a) test the fixed effect of time, intervention group, and their interaction; (b) derive within-group and between-group contrast estimates on the change from baseline at each follow-up., Baseline up to 1 month post-intervention|PROMIS Applied Cognition - General Concerns short form (8- item), This instrument measures working memory, speed of processing, and executive control of cognitive functioning. Higher scores reflect higher perceived cognitive functionality.

Will use mixed-effects linear modeling for repeated measures to (a) test the fixed effect of time, intervention group, and their interaction; (b) derive within-group and between-group contrast estimates on the change from baseline at each follow-up., Baseline up to 1 month post-intervention|Perceived Stress, This instrument measures the perception of stress.

The PSS was designed for use in community samples with at least a junior high school education. The items are easy to understand, and the response alternatives are simple to grasp. This study will be using a short scale version of the scale, which uses four of the questions (2,4,5, and 10) of the questionnaire., Baseline up to 1 month post-intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate feasibility and acceptability of Y-AMBIENT and enhanced usual care among young African American breast cancer survivors.

II. Explore the degree to which the Y-AMBIENT versus (vs.) enhanced usual care affects preliminary health-related outcomes among young African American (AA survivors).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (Y-AMBIENT): Patients receive three themed education sessions over 1 hour each, written materials, and videos at month 1. Patients also participate in 3, 20 minutes telephone reinforcement calls to discuss how they are doing and discuss any concerns that they are still managing at months 2, 3, and 4.

ARM II (ENHANCED USUAL CARE): Patients receive usual care at month 1. Patients also participate in 3, 20 minutes telephone reinforcement calls to discuss their chemotherapy regimen at months 2, 3, and 4.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1 month.