Lenalidomide Safety/Efficacy in Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) Associated With a Deletion (Del)(5q) Cytogenetic Abnormality
This study is a multicenter, single-arm, open-label study of oral lenalidomide monotherapy administered to red blood cell (RBC) transfusion-dependent subjects with low- or intermediate-1-risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) associated with a del (5q31-33) cytogenetic abnormality. Screening procedures will take place within 28 days of the first day of lenalidomide treatment. Subjects will receive lenalidomide in 28-day cycles for up to 6 cycles, or until bone marrow disease progression or progression/relapse following erythroid hematologic improvement is documented. Study visits will occur every cycle (every 28 days) and laboratory monitoring to assess hematological parameters will occur every 14 days. Safety and efficacy assessments to be performed during the study are outlined in the Schedule of Study Assessments.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: lenalidomide
Participants Who Achieved Red Blood Cell (RBC) -Transfusion Independence, Number of participants who achieved RBC-transfusion independence, which was defined as the absence of an intravenous infusion of any RBC transfusion during any consecutive "rolling" 56 days during the treatment period (eg, Days 1 to 56, Days 2 to 57, Days 3 to 58, etc), and accompanied by at least a 1 g/dL increase from screening/baseline in hemoglobin., Up to 2 years
Participants With Adverse Experiences, Counts of study participants who had adverse events (AEs) during the study. A participant with multiple occurrences of an adverse event within a category is counted only once in that category. Adverse events were evaluated by the investigator.

The National Cancer Institute (NCI)'s Common Toxicity Criteria for AEs (NCI CTC) was used to grade AE severity. Severity grade 3= severe and undesirable AE. Severity grade 4= life-threatening or disabling AE., Up to 2 Years|Participants With a >= 50% Decrease From Baseline in Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusion Requirements Over Any Consecutive 56 Days During Study, A participant was categorized as having a transfusion reduction response if there was a ≥ 50% decrease from pretreatment transfusion requirements (before the start of the study mediation) compared to any consecutive 56 days during the study (i.e. post treatment)., Baseline (Day -54 to Day 0), During study (Day 1 up to 2 years)|Time to Transfusion Independence, Transfusion independence was defined as the absence of an intravenous infusion of any RBC transfusion during any consecutive "rolling" 56 days during the treatment period (e.g., Days 1 to 56, Days 2 to 57, Days 3 to 58, etc.), and accompanied by at least a 1 g/dL increase from screening/baseline in hemoglobin. Time to transfusion independence was defined as the day of the first dose of study drug to the first day of the first 56-day RBC transfusion-free period., up to 2 years|Participants Who Relapsed or Maintained Their Transfusion Independence After Achieving Transfusion Independence During the Study, Transfusion independence was defined as the absence of an intravenous infusion of any RBC transfusion during any consecutive "rolling" 56 days during the treatment period (e.g., Days 1 to 56, Days 2 to 57, Days 3 to 58, etc.), and accompanied by at least a 1 g/dL increase from screening/baseline in hemoglobin. Participants who relapsed required a transfusion after the period of transfusion independence. Participants who maintained transfusion independence did not require a transfusion during the remainder of the study., up to 2 years|Kaplan Meier Estimate for Duration of Transfusion Independence Response, Duration of response is measured from the first of the consecutive 56 days during which the participant was free of RBC transfusions to the date of the first RBC transfusion after this period. Duration of response was censored at the date of last visit for participants who maintained transfusion independence., up to 2 years|Change in Hemoglobin Concentration From Baseline to Maximum Value During Response Period for Responders, The change from baseline in hemoglobin for participants who became RBC-transfusion independent. The maximum hemoglobin value obtained during the response period is used in the calculation of change from baseline., Baseline (Day -54 to Day 0), During study (Day 1 up to 2 years)|Participant Counts of Cytogenetic Response, Participants deemed evaluable by the central cytogenetic review had their cytogenetic response categorized as major or minor. A major cytogenetic response was defined as ≥ 20 metaphases recorded at baseline, and at least

1 post baseline evaluation with ≥ 20 metaphases analyzed with no abnormal metaphases observed. A minor cytogenetic response was defined as ≥ 20 metaphases analyzed at baseline, and at least 1 post baseline evaluation with ≥ 20 metaphases analyzed with a ≥ 50% reduction in the proportion of hematopoietic cells with cytogenetic abnormalities compared with baseline., up to 2 years|Participant Counts of Platelet Response, Major platelet response: participants with a minimum pretreatment platelet of \<100,000/mm\^3 in all values within 56 days of start of treatment, an absolute increase of ≥30,000/mm\^3 sustained for ≥56 consecutive days. In platelet transfusion-dependent participants, a major response was stabilization of platelet counts and platelet transfusion independence.

Minor platelet response: participants with a minimum pretreatment platelet of \<100,000/mm\^3, a ≥ 50% increase in platelet count with a net increase \>10,000/mm\^3 for a consecutive 56-day period in the absence of platelet transfusions., up to 2 years|Participant Counts of Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) Response, Major neutrophil response: participants with a minimum pretreatment ANC concentration of \< 1500/mm\^3 in all values obtained within 56 days of start of treatment, a ≥ 100% increase or an absolute increase of

≥ 500/mm\^3, whichever was greater (at least to be ≥ 500/mm\^3), sustained for 56 consecutive days. Minor neutrophil response: participants with a minimum pretreatment ANC concentration of \< 1500/mm\^3, an increase in ANC concentration of ≥ 100% sustained for 56 consecutive days., up to 2 years|Participants With Complete or Partial Bone Marrow Improvement, Bone marrow aspirates were assessed by a central reviewer. A complete bone marrow improvement required a baseline French-American-British (FAB) classification (see Baseline Characteristics) of refractory anemia (RA), refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts (RARS), refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB) or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) and a during study assessment of no MDS. A partial bone marrow improvement reflected an improved FAB classification compared to baseline (e.g. RARS to RA) but evidence of MDS continued to exist., up to 2 years|Participants With Bone Marrow Progression, Bone marrow aspirate was assessed by a central reviewer. Progression is represented in two categories according to changes from baseline in French-American-British (FAB) classification (see Baseline Characteristics):

* Baseline classification of refractory anemia (RA) or refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts (RARS) to a during treatment (plus 30 days) classification of refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB).
* Any baseline FAB classification to a during treatment (plus 30 days) classification of acute myeloid leukemia (AML)., up to 2 years
This study is a multicenter, single-arm, open-label study of oral lenalidomide monotherapy administered to red blood cell (RBC) transfusion-dependent subjects with low- or intermediate-1-risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) associated with a del (5q31-33) cytogenetic abnormality. Screening procedures will take place within 28 days of the first day of lenalidomide treatment. Subjects will receive lenalidomide in 28-day cycles for up to 6 cycles, or until bone marrow disease progression or progression/relapse following erythroid hematologic improvement is documented. Study visits will occur every cycle (every 28 days) and laboratory monitoring to assess hematological parameters will occur every 14 days. Safety and efficacy assessments to be performed during the study are outlined in the Schedule of Study Assessments.