Internal Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Liver Metastases From Neuroendocrine Tumors
RATIONALE: Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well internal radiation therapy works in treating patients with liver metastases from neuroendocrine tumors.
Head and Neck Cancer|Islet Cell Tumor|Metastatic Cancer|Pheochromocytoma
DRUG: octreotide acetate|RADIATION: yttrium Y 90 resin microspheres
Tumor response, at 1 year or until intervening death
Toxicity as measured by CTC v3.0, at 1 year or until intervening death|Symptomatic relief as measured by Carcinoid Symptom Scale, SF-36 Pain scale, and SF-36 physical component summary, The Carcinoid Symptom Severity Scale is a self-report instrument that addresses the severity and frequency of symptoms and their impact on daily living., at 1 year or until intervening death|Patient report of Health-related quality of life (HRQOL), HRQOL will be determined via the Medical Outcome Study 36-item short form, which includeds 8 individual scales, physical and mental component summary scores and is normed to both health and clinical populations., at 1 year or until intervening death
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine tumor response to selective internal radiation therapy with yttrium Y 90 resin microspheres (Sir-Spheres®) in patients with progressive liver metastases from neuroendocrine tumors.

Secondary

* Determine the toxicity of this treatment in these patients.
* Determine the symptomatic relief of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the health-related quality of life of patients receiving this treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients have an catheter placed into the hepatic artery percutaneously through the groin and then undergo selective internal radiation therapy with yttrium Y 90 resin microspheres (Sir-Spheres®) via the catheter on day 1. Patients also receive octreotide acetate IV 1 hour prior to, during, and 2 hours after Sir-Spheres® injection. Patients may undergo above treatment in another lobe of the liver (if each lobe is treated separately) 4 weeks later.

Patients undergo functional performance, health-related quality of life, and symptom severity assessment prior to initial treatment and after completion of study treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study.