Dual Energy CT: A New Method for Better Dose Calculation in Proton Beam Therapy
Researchers want to compare proton stopping ratios, used for proton beam therapy planning, calculated based on single energy CT and dual energy CT images; with the intension of improve upon the proton range determination.
Cancer
OTHER: No intervention
Stopping power ratio differences, For each patient the stopping power will be calculated based on both single and dual energy CT. The treatment of the patient will not be affected in any way of this study, the patient will receive the same treatment whether or not the patient volunteers to participate in this study. And the outcome of the calculations performed in this study will have no influence for the patient.

The calculations of the stopping power differences for each patient will as far as possible be done right after acquisition of the CT images, but the exact time point is not important. We will set as a deadline that the calculation for each patient is done within 2 months of acquisition of the CT images of the patient.

The entire study will be finished within 2 years, and the results will be tried published in a peer-reviewed journal., 2 months
The main goal of this study is to compare proton stopping ratios, used for proton beam therapy planning, calculated based on single energy CT and dual energy CT images.

The calculation methods for proton stopping power ratios differs for the two types of CT images, and researchers want to investigate if the proton stopping power ratio can be estimated more accurately by using dual energy CT. A more accurate stopping power ratio calculation gives a more accurate proton range determination in the patient tissue, which again will lead to a better knowledge of the dose distribution in the patient undergoing cancer treatment with proton beam irradiation.

Knowing the accurate dose distribution allows for an uncertainty margin reduction around the tumor, which will result in less normal tissue being irradiated and thereby the risk of side effects is reduced without risking an under-dosage of the tumor.