Intravesical Natural Baobab Oil in the Management of BCG-induced Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms
Baobab oil is often used in traditional medicine as antipyretic, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antimicrobial. It also regenerates the epithelial tissue in a short time improving tone and elasticity. We want to evaluate the effects of intravesical Baobab oil in patients with BCG-induced lower urinary tract symptoms.
Superficial Bladder Cancer|Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms
DEVICE: Intravesical baobab oil
Quantitative symptom score questionnaire, A quantitative symptom score questionnaire is completed by the patients before treatment to establish baseline symptoms and daily during the following 7 days after treatment. The questionnaire is designed to evaluate 10 lower urinary tract symptoms (cystitis, nocturia, pollakiuria, micturition urgency, micturition burning, stress urinary incontinence, dysuria, hematuria, pelvic pain, and perineal pain. Most symptoms are scored on a 0 to 3-point scale, corresponding to none/mild/moderate/severe., 36 months
Baobab oil toxicity, All patients are assessed for safety or allergy to intravesical baobab oil, 36 months
After complete transurethral resection of primary high risk non-muscle invasive bladder tumors (stage pTa, pT1, carcinoma in situ and high grade urothelial carcinoma), patients on induction course of intravesical BCG with lower urinary tract symptoms unresponsive to standard therapies are enrolled. The patients supply written informed consent to a document describing the investigational nature of the protocol.

Induction treatment consists of an initial 6 intravesical BCG treatments at weekly interval commencing approximately 3 weeks after transurethral resection procedures. The BCG instillation consisted of 81 mg wet weight (10•2±9•0 x 108 colony-forming units) BCG Connaught substrain. Lyophilised (ie, freeze-dried) BCG is suspended in 50 mL bacteriostatic-free solution of 0•9% sodium chloride. After draining of the bladder, the suspension is infused intravesically through a Foley catheter. The solution is retained in the bladder for 120 min, followed by emptying of the bladder and removal of the catheter.

During BCG treatment patients with persistent lower urinary tract symptoms unresponsive to standard therapies (anticholinergics, alpha-blockers, antibiotics, analgesics and anti-inflammatory drugs) are treated with an intravesical instillation of 50 ml sterile Baobab natural oil (Baotrophic, Physion Srl, Mirandola, Italy). After draining of the bladder, the suspension is infused intravesically through a Foley catheter. The solution is retained in the bladder for 60 min, followed by emptying of the bladder and removal of the catheter.

Lower urinary tract symptoms are self-recorded by the patients before and after each baobab oil instillation and classified by the investigator according to a classification grid considering account duration and intensity. The classification of symptoms is class 0= none, class I = mild, class II = moderate, and class III = severe, according to severity. Local adverse events are cystitis, nocturia, pollakiuria, micturition urgency, micturition burning, stress urinary incontinence, dysuria, hematuria, pelvic pain, and perineal pain. The outcome measures are analyzed before and every day for one week after treatment. All patients are assessed for safety.