Metastatic Pathologic Fractures, Short Term Results
This is a single center prospective study to compare the short term results of prosthesis, nail and plate-screw surgeries for metastatic pathologic fractures.
Pathologic Fracture|Bone Metastases|Metastatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: endoprosthetic reconstruction|PROCEDURE: Intramedullary nailing|PROCEDURE: Open reduction internal fixation with plate and screws
Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score, MSTS score is for evaluating the patients with bone tumors. It consists of six domains; scored on a 0 to 5 scale and transformed into an overall score ranging from 0 to 100% with a higher score indicating better function., Preoperative|Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score, MSTS score is for evaluating the patients with bone tumors. It consists of six domains; scored on a 0 to 5 scale and transformed into an overall score ranging from 0 to 100% with a higher score indicating better function., Postoperative 1st day|Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score, MSTS score is for evaluating the patients with bone tumors. It consists of six domains; scored on a 0 to 5 scale and transformed into an overall score ranging from 0 to 100% with a higher score indicating better function., Postoperative 1st week|Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score, MSTS score is for evaluating the patients with bone tumors. It consists of six domains; scored on a 0 to 5 scale and transformed into an overall score ranging from 0 to 100% with a higher score indicating better function., Postoperative 1st month|Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS), TESS is widely used for the functional assessment of patients following surgery for musculoskeletal tumours. In the TESS system, specific movements for independent living and functionality are questioned and scored.While the worst score is 0, the best score for the lower extremity is 150, and the best score for the upper extremity is 145., Preoperative|Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS), TESS is widely used for the functional assessment of patients following surgery for musculoskeletal tumours. In the TESS system, specific movements for independent living and functionality are questioned and scored.While the worst score is 0, the best score for the lower extremity is 150, and the best score for the upper extremity is 145., Postoperative 1st day|Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS), TESS is widely used for the functional assessment of patients following surgery for musculoskeletal tumours. In the TESS system, specific movements for independent living and functionality are questioned and scored.While the worst score is 0, the best score for the lower extremity is 150, and the best score for the upper extremity is 145., Postoperative 1st week|Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS), TESS is widely used for the functional assessment of patients following surgery for musculoskeletal tumours. In the TESS system, specific movements for independent living and functionality are questioned and scored.While the worst score is 0, the best score for the lower extremity is 150, and the best score for the upper extremity is 145., Postoperative 1st month|Visual analog scale (VAS), VAS is a widely used scale for pain. 0 means no pain where 10 means unbearable pain., Preoperative|Visual analog scale (VAS), VAS is a widely used scale for pain. 0 means no pain where 10 means unbearable pain., Postoperative 1st day|Visual analog scale (VAS), VAS is a widely used scale for pain. 0 means no pain where 10 means unbearable pain., Postoperative 1st week|Visual analog scale (VAS), VAS is a widely used scale for pain. 0 means no pain where 10 means unbearable pain., Postoperative 1st month|Upper Extremity Functional Scale (UEFS), UEFS is a functional scale for upper extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Preoperative|Upper Extremity Functional Scale (UEFS), UEFS is a functional scale for upper extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st day|Upper Extremity Functional Scale (UEFS), UEFS is a functional scale for upper extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st week|Upper Extremity Functional Scale (UEFS), UEFS is a functional scale for upper extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st month|Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH), DASH is a widely used functional scale for upper extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Preoperative|Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH), DASH is a widely used functional scale for upper extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st day|Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH), DASH is a widely used functional scale for upper extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st week|Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH), DASH is a widely used functional scale for upper extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st month|Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS), LEFS is a functional scale for lower extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Preoperative|Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS), LEFS is a functional scale for lower extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st day|Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS), LEFS is a functional scale for lower extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st week|Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS), LEFS is a functional scale for lower extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st month|Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), WOMAC is a widely used functional scale for lower extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Preoperative|Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), WOMAC is a widely used functional scale for lower extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st day|Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), WOMAC is a widely used functional scale for lower extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st week|Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), WOMAC is a widely used functional scale for lower extremity. It is not specific for tumor patients., Postoperative 1st month
Days at hospital after surgery, Hospitalization length required after the surgery., up to 1 month|Survival, Time that the patient lives after the surgery, up to 3 months
The most common bone tumor in elderly is metastatic bone tumors. With the prolonged life expectancy in cancer patients, the management of the metastases became an essential topic.

Pathological fractures should be examined and managed with a different perspective. They usually cannot be healed by conservative methods and require surgical intervention. The primary goals of surgical intervention are to relieve pain and mobilize the patient as soon as possible.

The aim of the study is to compare the short-term functional endoprosthetic recontruction, intramedullary nailing and open reduction internal fixation.

The primary tumor of the patient, applied chemotherapy and radiotherapy, Mirel risk score, Charlson comorbidity index, and PathFx 3.0 survival will be evaluated preoperatively.

The type of the operation will be decided at the multidisciplinary tumor council of ankara University.