CIML NK Cells With Venetoclax for AML
The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and to explore the effectiveness of infusing cytokine- induced memory-like (CIML) natural killer (NK) cells in combination with Interleukin-2 (IL-2) and standard-of-care venetoclax as a treatment for Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML).

Names of the study therapies involved in this study are:

* Lymphodepleting therapy with Fludarabine and Cyclophosphamide prior to CIML NK cell infusion
* CIML NK (a cellular therapy)
* IL-2 (a recombinant, human glycoprotein)
* Venetoclax (a selective inhibitor of BCL-2 protein)
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Recurrent|Leukemia|Leukemia, Myeloid
BIOLOGICAL: Cytokine-Induced Memory-like Natural Killer Cells|BIOLOGICAL: Interleukin-2|DRUG: Venetoclax
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), A DLT is defined as an adverse event (AE) that is related to the CIML NK cell infusion with venetoclax as consolidation therapy. Toxicities are to be assessed according to the CTCAEv5., Observing window is from Day 0 (day of CIML NK cell infusion) to Day +28|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD in the CIML NK cell infusion with venetoclax as consolidation therapy is determined by the number of participants who experience a DLT. See previous primary outcome measure for the DLT definition. If ≤1 DLTs are observed at dose-level 0, this dose will be the MTD. If ≥2 DLTs are observed in a cohort of 5 evaluable participants, then the MTD is considered exceeded. If this is dose level 0, dose de-escalation will take place, and 5 evaluable participants will be enrolled at dose level -1. If ≥2 DLTs are observed at dose level -1, accrual will stop., Observing window is from Day 0 (day of CIML NK cell infusion) to Day +28
Measurable Residual Disease Negative (MRD-) Rate, MRD- rate is defined as the proportion pf participants achieving MRD. MRD clearance is evaluated by both highly sensitive flow cytometry and duplex sequencing on paired bone marrow samples., At +28 days post CIML NK Infusion|100-day Leukemia-Free Survival (LFS), Leukemia free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (leukemic relapse or death from any cause) or death. 100-day LFS is calculated from the KM curve with standard error., 100 Days|1-year Leukemia-Free Survival (LFS), Leukemia free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (leukemic relapse or death from any cause) or death. 1-year LFS is calculated from the KM curve with standard error., 1 Year|100-day Overall Survival (OS), 100-day OS is a probability estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method; OS is defined as the time from study entry to death, or censored at date last known alive., 100 Days|1-year Overall Survival (OS), 1-year OS is a probability estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method; OS is defined as the time from study entry to death, or censored at date last known alive., 1 Year|Acute GVHD Rate, Acute GVHD Rate is defined as the proportion of participants that has achieved acute GVHD. The criteria of acute GVHD grading is attached in protocol appendix c., 1 Year|1-year Chronic GVHD Rate, Chronic GVHD Rate is defined as the proportion of participants that has achieved chronic GVHD by NCI common toxicity criteria (appendix d)., 1 Year
This is an open-label, single center phase I trial combining Cytokine-induced memory-like natural killer (CIML NK) cell therapy with low-dose IL-2 and with venetoclax as consolidation therapy in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

This is the first time that CIML NK cells in combination with venetoclax will be given to humans.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved CIML NK cells as a treatment for AML.

The U.S. FDA has not approved IL-2 for AML but it has been approved for other uses.

The U.S. FDA has approved venetoclax as a treatment option for AML.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment visits, electrocardiograms (ECGs), bone marrow biopsies, blood tests, and echocardiograms.

Participants will be followed for up to 1 year after the start of therapy.

It is expected that about 10 people will take part in this research study.

This research is funded by the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.