A Study of Sativex速 for Pain Relief in Patients With Advanced Malignancy
The purpose of this study is to determine whether Sativex速 and GW-2000-02 are effective in the management of subjects with intractable cancer-related pain.
Palliative Care|Pain|Cancer
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Sativex速|DRUG: THC Alone
The Change in Mean Pain Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) Score From Baseline to the End of the Treatment., The pain NRS was complete at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate the number that best describes your pain or average pain in the last 24 hours" where 0 = no pain and 10 = pain as bad as you can imagine. No pain relates to the time prior to the onset of pain due to cancer. A negative value indicates an improvement in pain score from baseline., 2 weeks: baseline - end of week 2 (last 3 days of treatment)|The Consumption of Escape Analgesic Medication., Subjects recorded their use of escape medication each day on their diary card., 2 weeks: baseline - end of week 2 (last 3 days of treatment)
Sleep Disturbance 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale, The sleep disruption NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate how your pain disrupted your sleep last night?" where 0 = did not disrupt sleep and 10 = completely disrupted (unable to sleep at all). A negative value indicates an improvement in sleep disruption score from baseline., 2 weeks: baseline to end of week 2 (last 3 days of treatment)|Nausea 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale, The nausea NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate how sick you felt throughout the day?" where 0 = not sick at all and 10 = very sick. A negative value indicates an improvement in nausea score from baseline., 2 weeks; baseline - end of week 2 (last 3 days of treatment)|Memory 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale, The memory NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate how well you are able to remember what you have done in the past 24 hours?" where 0 = very well and 10 = not at all. A negative value indicates an improvement in memory score from baseline., 2 weeks: baseline - end of week 2 (last 3 days of treatment)|Appetite 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale, The appetite NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate how your appetite has been throughout the day?" where 0 = very good and 10 = very poor. A negative value indicates an improvement in appetite score from baseline., 2 weeks: baseline - end of week 2 (last 3 days of treatment)|Concentration 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale, The concentration NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate how well have you been able to concentrate throughout the day e.g. when reading a newspaper?" where 0 = very well and 10 = not at all. A negative value indicates an improvement in concentration score from baseline., 2 weeks: baseline - end of week 2 (last 3 days of treatment)|EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQC30), Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), a core cancer-specific questionnaire containing 30 items on patients' functioning, global quality of life, disease- and treatment related symptoms. Higher scores indicate a greater degree of symptoms, min.: 0, Max.: 100, 2 weeks; baseline and end of treatment (2 weeks)|Brief Pain Inventory Short Form, The BPI-SF is a 14-item questionnaire that asks patients to rate pain over the prior week and the degree to which it interferes with activities on a 0 to 10 scale, where 0=no pain and 10=pain as bad as you can imagine. Severity is measured as worst pain, least pain, average pain, and pain right now. The severity composite score was calculated as the arithmetic mean of the four severity items(range 0-10). The minimum value is zero and maximum is 10. A higher score represents a poor outcome., End of 2 weeks
This is a two week (two days baseline and two weeks treatment period), multicentre, double blind, randomised, placebo controlled, parallel group study to evaluate the efficacy of Sativex速 and GW-2000-02 in subjects with cancer-related pain. Subjects are screened to determine eligibility and completed a two-day baseline period. Subjects then return to the centre for assessment, randomisation and dose introduction. All subjects are allowed to continue using all their current medications, provided that the dose remains stable throughout the study period. Their progress is reviewed after seven to 10 days and at the end of the study (day 14 to 20), or upon withdrawal. Subjects in this study are given the opportunity to be enrolled in an open label extension study (GWEXT0101).