Major Complication Rate in Cancer Patients With Neutropenic Fever Potentially Eligible for a Hospital at Home Program
This study investigates the major complication rate in cancer patients potentially eligible for a hospital at home program for management of neutropenic fever. "Hospital at Home" is a home care program that provides acute, inpatient care in a patient's home in place of a traditional hospital stay. Learning more about the characteristics of potentially eligible patients, including reasons for inpatient admission, rates of major complications, and situations or treatments that would be difficult to deliver in an at home setting may help to inform future program development.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Medical Chart Review
Percentage of patients who experience major complications that require escalated care, Percentages will be presented with exact binomial 95% confidence interval. Also, will identify significant predictors of major complications (yes or no) using univariable logistic regression., 1 month
Patient demographic, clinical, and psychosocial features, Will describe the study sample demographic, clinical, and psychosocial features. Descriptors will include frequencies, percentages, means with standard deviations, or medians with interquartile ranges, and minimum and maximum values as appropriate., 1 month|Situations or treatments experienced by potentially eligible patients admitted for neutropenic fever that would be difficult to accomplish in a hypothetical hospital at home (HaH) program, Will enumerate situations and treatments observed in the study sample that could not be handled optimally in the HaH environment., 1 month
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Estimate the major complication rate among patients potentially eligible for a hospital at home program for management of neutropenic fever.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the demographic and clinical characteristics of patients potentially eligible for admission to a hospital at home program for management of neutropenic fever.

II. Describe situations or treatments experienced by potentially eligible patients admitted for neutropenic fever that would be difficult to accomplish in a hypothetical hospital at home program (e.g., blood transfusions, echocardiograms, computed tomography \[CT\] scans).

OUTLINE:

Patients' medical charts are reviewed.