A Study of Nivolumab and Intrapleural Talimogene Laherparepvec for Malignant Pleural Effusion
This is a Phase Ib/II clinical trial to evaluate the feasibility of administering talimogene laherparepvec into the intrapleural space of subjects with malignant pleural effusion through a pleurX catheter.
Malignant Pleural Effusion|Stage IV Metastatic Cancer|Lung Cancer
DRUG: Talimogene laherparepvec (TVEC)|DRUG: Nivolumab
Phase I Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events which is a descriptive terminology which can be utilized for Adverse Event (AE) reporting. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each AE term. Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL). Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., from day 1 of treatment to 30 days after the last dose of study medication (approximately 11 weeks)|Phase II Resolution of MPE, The rate of resolution of malignant pleural effusion following IV nivolumab combined with intrapleural injection of talimogene laherparepvec, 13 weeks
Median Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival from day 1 of treatment until death or progression. Per immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (irRECIST), immune-related Progressive Disease (irPD)is defined as at least 20% and minimum 5 mm absolute increase in total measured tumor burden compared to nadir, or irPD for non-target or new un-measurable lesions., up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival from day 1 of treatment until death, up to 2 years|Response Rate, Response rate after treatment per Immune-Related Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (irRECIST) defined as the proportion of patients with reduction in tumor (immune-related Complete Response (irCR) or immune-related Partial Response (irPR)). irCR is a complete disappearance of all lesions (whether measurable or not) and no new lesions. Lymph nodes must decrease to \<10mm in short axis. irPR is a decrease in tumor burden ≥ 30%, in total measured tumor burden relative to baseline, non-target lesions are not in complete response (disappearance of all lesions) and not unequivocal progression or new non-measurable lesions., up to 2 years|Phase II Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events which is a descriptive terminology which can be utilized for Adverse Event (AE) reporting. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each AE term. Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL). Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., 13 weeks|Average Dyspnea Score, Results from patient reports of the Modified Borg Scale of Perceived Dyspnea, measuring change in scale over time. The scale evaluates perceived level of shortness of breath ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 indicates the greatest success of the treatment., 13 weeks
This is a phase 1b/II clinical trial that includes a safety run-in cohort to investigate the novel approach of administering intrapleural talimogene laherparepvec via a pleurX catheter in patients with known malignant pleural effusion (MPE).

In Phase Ib of this study, the safety of infusing talimogene laherparepvec directly into the pleural cavity of subjects diagnosed with MPE, through pleurX catheter, will be tested.

In Phase II of this study, after establishing the safety of the above mentioned approach, 24 subjects will enrolled and treated with intrapleural talimogene laherparepvec and IV nivolumab.