Effectiveness of a Cloud-based Digital Health Navigation Program for Colorectal Cancer Screening
mPATH-CRC (mobile Patient Technology for Health) is an automated direct-to-patient digital health program about colorectal cancer screening. The goal of this project is to test a cloud-based version of mPATH that patients can use at home independent of a scheduled medical visit. Patients will access mPATH on their own devices using a hyperlink sent via text message. The cloud version of mPATH will have the proven effective content of the tablet version, including the ability to request a screening test directly via the program. mPATH will then share this information with the patient's healthcare organization so screening can be arranged. This cloud-based version will be highly scalable, have broad reach, and be easy to support, making it a commercially viable product. This project will (1) test the reach and effectiveness of the mPATH web app in two different healthcare settings: a Fee-for-Service setting, and a value-based care setting; and (2) determine the value generated by mPATH in each healthcare setting.
Colorectal Cancer Screening
OTHER: mPATH-CRC|OTHER: Usual Care (Control)
Effectiveness of mPATH-CRC, The proportion of individuals who complete a CRC screening test (colonoscopy, FIT, or FIT-DNA) within 180 days of randomization in both arms, 180 Days
Reach of mPATH-CRC, The proportion of patients in the mPATH-CRC arm who complete the mPATH-CRC Web App to the point of being told if screening is due or not due, 30 Days|Reporting current CRC screening, The proportion of participants within the mPATH arm who report they are current with CRC screening within the mPATH program., 30 Days|CRC screening ordered, The proportion of patients who have a CRC screening test ordered within 180 days of randomization in both arms., 180 Days|Colorectal Neoplasia, The proportion of patients in each arm with neoplasia found on colonoscopy within 180 days after randomization., 180 days|Mean revenue generated in a Fee-for-Service setting, Mean revenue generated in a Fee-for-Service setting from screening and resulting downstream care within 12 months (365 days) of the screening event, assuming Medicare reimbursement rates in both arms., 365 Days|Quality gaps closed in a value-based care setting, Proportion of quality gaps closed in a value-based setting in each arm defined as completing screening or acquiring documentation of previously completed screening in both arms., 180 Days
mPATH-CRC (mobile Patient Technology for Health) is an automated direct-to-patient digital health program about colorectal cancer screening. The goal of this project is to test a cloud-based version of mPATH that patients can use at home independent of a scheduled medical visit. Patients will access mPATH on their own devices using a hyperlink sent via text message. The cloud version of mPATH will have the proven effective content of the tablet version, including the ability to request a screening test directly via the program. mPATH will then share this information with the patient's healthcare organization so screening can be arranged. This cloud-based version will be highly scalable, have broad reach, and be easy to support, making it a commercially viable product. This project will (1) test the reach and effectiveness of the mPATH web app in two different healthcare settings: a Fee-for-Service setting, and a value-based care setting; and (2) determine the value generated by mPATH in each healthcare setting.