Feasibility of a Remotely-Delivered Yoga Intervention on Cognitive Function in Breast Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this pilot study is to assess the feasibility of a remotely-delivered yoga intervention for breast cancer survivors.
Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer Stage I|Breast Cancer Stage II|Breast Cancer Stage III
BEHAVIORAL: Yoga Intervention
Enrolment rate, Participant enrolment rate will be one measure of feasibility. This will be calculated as the number of participants who enrol in the intervention, divided by the total number of participants assessed for study eligibility., From beginning to end of recruitment period, up to 6 months.|Adherence rate, Adherence rate, or participants' adherence to the intervention, will be one measure of feasibility. This will be calculated as the number of classes participants attend, divided by the number of classes participants are expected to attend throughout the intervention., From beginning to end of intervention period, up to 6 months.|Attrition rate, Attrition rate, or participant drop-out, will be one measure of feasibility. This will be calculated as the number of participants who do not complete the intervention, divided by the number of participants enrolled at the post-intervention mark., From beginning to end of intervention period, up to 6 months.|Adverse events, Adverse events will be one measure of feasibility. This will be assessed as an unexpected and severe medical problem or injury that occurs during the yoga classes., From beginning to end of intervention period, up to 6 months.|Burden and satisfaction, Burden and satisfaction scores will be one measure of feasibility. This will be assessed using a researcher-generated 15-item questionnaire that asks participants about their experience with the intervention and assessments. Participants will rate items using a 5-point Likert scale (1 = 'strongly disagree', 5 = 'strongly agree')., 8 weeks post-baseline
Self-reported cognitive function, Self-reported cognitive function will be assessed using the 37-item FACT-Cog (Version 3) questionnaire which asks participants about perceived cognitive impairments, comments from others, perceived cognitive abilities, and impact on quality of life. Participants will be asked to rate each item on a 5-point Likert scale (0 = 'never/not at all', 4 = 'several times a day/very much')., Baseline to 8 weeks post-baseline|Objectively-assessed cognitive function, Objectively-assessed cognitive function will be measured using the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Toolbox Virtual Cognitive battery to measure immediate and working memory, verbal learning, executive function, and language, and the PsyToolkit task switching test to measure executive function. These tests will be administered remotely to participants via an iPad and videoconferencing., Baseline to 8 weeks post-baseline|Self-reported fatigue, Self-reported fatigue will be assessed using the Revised-Piper Fatigue Scale questionnaire which is a 27-item questionnaire that asks participants about the degree of their perceived fatigue. Participants will be asked to rate each item on a 10-point Likert scale (0 = 'none', 10 = 'very much'), Baseline to 8 weeks post-baseline|Self-reported exercise, Self-reported exercise will be assessed using a modified version of the Godin Leisure Time Exercise Questionnaire, which asks participants about the number of times/week and average duration spent in light, moderate, and vigorous exercise in a typical week (7 days) over the past month., Baseline to 8 weeks post-baseline|Semi-structured qualitative interviews, The researcher will conduct semi-structured qualitative interviews over videoconferencing that will ask participants about their experience with the study and intervention, including enjoyment, potential barriers faced, and how they felt physically and cognitively during and after the intervention., 8 weeks post-baseline
Although up to 75% of breast cancer survivors (BCS) experience cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI), there are no proven treatments beyond symptom management. Exercise and yoga interventions for cancer survivors have been shown to be effective in improving other treatment-related side effects such as fatigue, quality of life (QoL), and psychological distress, but there remain several gaps in the exercise oncology literature regarding the optimal type and dose of exercise needed to mitigate CRCI. Specifically, no studies have evaluated the impact of yoga on CRCI using both self-report and objective cognitive measures. Further, no studies have evaluated the impact of a remotely-delivered yoga intervention on CRCI in breast cancer survivors.

Using a mixed-methods approach, this study will will begin to fill these gaps by evaluating the feasibility of a remotely-delivery yoga intervention on cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI), fatigue, and exercise levels in individuals diagnosed with breast cancer. The primary objective of this study is to assess the feasibility of a remotely-delivered yoga intervention for breast cancer survivors. This study will inform future randomized controlled trials (RCTs) examining the impact of remotely-delivered yoga interventions, with the eventual goal of providing greater access to exercise programming for symptom management for breast cancer patients and survivors.

All aspects of the study, including the assessments and the yoga intervention will take place remotely through videoconferencing. Feasibility measures, including enrolment, adherence, and attrition rates, as well as adverse events and participant satisfaction, will be tracked and assessed throughout the intervention. Objectively-assessed cognitive function will be measured using the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Virtual Toolbox Cognitive Battery and the online PsyToolkit Task Switching Test. Self-reported cognitive function will be assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy(FACT)-Cognitive questionnaire. Self-reported fatigue will be assessed using the Revised-Piper Fatigue Scale (PFS). Self-reported exercise will be assessed using a modified version of the Godin Leisure Time Exercise questionnaire (GLTEQ). These assessments will be taken at baseline and post-intervention. Participants will be asked to participate in the yoga intervention for 8 weeks. The yoga intervention will consist of two 60-minute yoga classes each week, which will be taught by a certified yoga instructor. Following the intervention, a sub-sample of participants will be will be purposefully selected and asked to participate in semi-structured qualitative interviews to understand their experiences with the intervention and study.