Phase I/II Study of SGI-110 With Irinotecan Versus Regorafenib or TAS-102 in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is a phase I/II study of the combination of Guadecitabine (SGI-110) and previously treated metastatic colorectal cancer patients. This study will be conducted in two components. First, patients will be enrolled in a phase I study of SGI-110 combined with irinotecan in a standard 3+3 design. After the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined, patients will subsequently be enrolled in a 2:1 randomized phase II study of SGI-110 and irinotecan versus the standard of care regorafenib or Lonsurf (TAS-102).
Previously Treated Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: SGI-110 Dose Escalation|DRUG: Regorafenib|DRUG: TAS-102|DRUG: SGI-110|DRUG: Irinotecan
Number of Participants Experiencing a Dose Limiting Toxicity, Number of participants experiencing a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) in each dose level. DLT is defined as any of the following study drug-related toxicities occurring during the first cycle of study drug on study:

1. grade 4 thrombocytopenia lasting \>7days
2. any grade 3-4 febrile neutropenia
3. grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxicity unless it could be managed by supportive treatment
4. any other clinically significant adverse event which would place subjects at undue safety risk, or results in discontinuation of treatment., 28 days|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival is the time (in months) from start of treatment to progression, clinical deterioration attributed to disease, or death., Up to 12 months
Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as the time (in months) between the start of treatment and death., Up to 3 years|Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the number of subjects achieving a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. CR = disappearance of all target lesions, PR = at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions., Assessed until disease progression, up to 3 years
This is a phase I/II study of the combination of Guadecitabine (SGI-110) and previously treated metastatic colorectal cancer patients. This study will be conducted in two components. First, patients will be enrolled in a phase I study of SGI-110 combined with irinotecan in a standard 3+3 design. After the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined, patients will subsequently be enrolled in a 2:1 randomized phase II study of SGI-110 and irinotecan versus the standard of care regorafenib or Lonsurf (TAS-102).