Safety and Efficacy of Eribullin or Eribulin Combined With Anlotinib in Metastatic Breast Cancer
Eribulin is the promising agent for late-line metastatic breast cancer patients. The aim of this Phase II, double-arm, open-label and prospective clinical trial is to assess the efficacy and safety of Eribullin or Eribulin combined with Anlotinib in patients with metastatic breast cancer
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Eribulin Mesylate|DRUG: Anlotinib
Progression-Free Survival, The time from the date of recruitment to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, through study completion, up to 6 months.
Disease Control Rate (DCR), The total rate of CR+PR+SD after the completion of two cycles of treatment, At the end of Cycle 2 (42 days).|Overall survival (OS), The survival time from the date of recruitment to the date of death from any cause, through study completion, an average of 2 year|Objective response rate (ORR), The total rate of CR+PR after the completion of two cycles of treatment, At the end of Cycle 2 (42 days).|Adverse Events, All adverse events \[including adverse events (AE / SAE) and ADR (adverse drug reactions)\] will be collected when known. The classification of adverse reactions shall refer to CTCAE5.0 in case of adverse events / reactions. In case of serious adverse events, the investigators must immediately take necessary treatment measures to protect the safety of subjects. All adverse events / reactions should be tracked and observed. If the adverse events have not recovered, the investigator shall continue to give necessary treatment, report and record, and deal with special cases according to the management opinions of relevant departments., through study completion, up to 6 months.|Patient Report Outcome (PRO), HRQoL was assessed using FACT-B at baseline and months 1,3 ,6, 9 and 12 (end of treatment). Questionnaires were administered in the local language and completed independently by patients using paper document during visits to their reference center and before any clinical procedures., through study completion, up to 6 months.
The aim of the double-arm, open-label, phase II clinical trial is to assess efficacy and safety of Eribulin or Eribulin combined with Anlotinib in metastatic breast cancers. The investigator hypothesize that both Eribulin and Eribulin combined with Anlotinib may be an effective alternative treatment for metastatic breast cancers. In addition, Eribulin combined with Anlotinib might be able to improve the treatment response and progression-free survival.