Evaluation of the Introduction of a Colorectal Bundle in Left Sided Colorectal Resections
The complication rate in colorectal surgery is high and shows a large variance depending on the patient and the treating surgeon. The primary aim of the presented study is to evaluate the introduction of a colorectal bundle to reduce the complication rate in left sided colorectal resections. The colorectal bundle is a catalog of measures consisting of several items These are for example preoperative risk stratification, antibiotic and mechanical bowel preparation and preoperative showering. The primary endpoint will be the complication rate measured as the comprehensive clinical index (CCI) within 30 days. Investigators will include patients that undergo elective or emergency left sided colorectal surgery.
Colorectal Disorders|Surgery--Complications|Colorectal Cancer|Anastomotic Leak|Complication of Surgical Procedure
PROCEDURE: Colorectal Bundle
Comprehensive complication index, The primary endpoint is the comprehensive complication index (CCI) at 30 days after the index procedure, a continuous scale to measure surgical morbidity that has been developed on the basis of the Clavien Dindo Classification for surgical complications and summarizes and weighs all postoperative complications to a scale from 0 (no complications) to 100 (death of the patient) ., 30 days
Surgical side infections, Rate of surgical side infections within 30 days, 30 days|Number of patients who died within 30 days, Postoperative mortality within 30 days, 30 days|Hospital length of stay, Length of hospital stay in days, immediately after discharge|Contribution margin, Measured as the difference between allocated costs and billed and payed income for a particular case, immediately after discharge|Rate of anastomotic leakage, Any radiologically or clinically diagnosed anastomotic leakage, 30 days
The complication rate in colorectal surgery is high and shows a large variance depending on the patient and the treating surgeon. The primary aim of the presented study is to evaluate the introduction of a colorectal bundle to reduce the complication rate in left sided colorectal resections. The colorectal bundle is a catalog of measures consisting of several items These are for example preoperative risk stratification, antibiotic and mechanical bowel preparation and preoperative showering. The primary endpoint will be the complication rate measured as the comprehensive clinical index (CCI) within 30 days. Investigators will include patients that undergo elective or emergency left sided colorectal surgery.