Evaluation of the Effect of Laser Acupuncture on Taxane Acute Pain Syndrome Patients
This is a prospectively randomized and double-blinded clinical study. Cancer patients were suffered from the taxanes-induced joint pain, and would be advised to receive laser acupuncture in specific points to relieve pain. Clinical effects of analgesic changes would be evaluated before and after the intervention. The inflammation associated indices would be further analyzed to reveal the therapeutic mechanism of laser acupuncture. The laser acupuncture was expected to relief taxanes-induced adverse effects in patients and also can improve patients' life quality.
Pain Cancer|Joint Pain
DEVICE: Laser acupuncture device|DEVICE: Pseudo-laser acupuncture
NRS on Day 1, Numerical rating scale in pain evaluation, Day 1 after Taxanes treatment|NRS on Day 3, Numerical rating scale in pain evaluation, Day 3 after Taxanes treatment|NRS on Day 8, Numerical rating scale in pain evaluation, Day 8 after Taxanes treatment
Inflammation assessment, Inflammation associated indices: C-Reactive protein, Day 1 and day 3|Inflammation assessment, Inflammation associated indices: erythrocyte sedimentation rate, Day 1 and day 3|Inflammation assessment, Inflammation associated indices: Interleukin-6, Day 1 and day 3|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General Scale on Day 1, A Taxanes treatment questionnaire, Day 1|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General Scale on Day 3, A Taxanes treatment questionnaire, Day 3|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General Scale on Day 8, A Taxanes treatment questionnaire, Day 8
The current clinical study is prospectively randomized and double-blinded, and practice in Chang Gung Memorial Hospital in Linkou, TaoYuan and Taipei branches. All 90 participants suffered from taxanes-induced myalgia and Arthralgia, and will be randomly assigned into the experimental groups (45 participants) and the control group (45 participants). The experiment group would arrange laser acupuncture on day1 and day3 after Taxanes treatment, besides the control group arrange pseudo-laser acupuncture. In the mean while, blood tests were performed with the C-Reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, Interleukin-6 for each participants. Evaluation would be records on day1, day3, and day 8 after Taxanes treatment.