Pneumonitis Prevention Protocol Using Pentoxifylline and α-tocopherol In Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemoradiation
Currently, the standard of care treatment for newly diagnosed, inoperable stage III non-small cell lung cancer is radiotherapy (RT) with concurrent chemotherapy, followed by immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI). RT is a highly effect local treatment. However, high doses of radiation used in curative settings can cause adverse side effects. The most common RT side effect in lung cancer is Radiation Induced Lung Injury (RILI), which can manifest as pneumonitis and/or pulmonary fibrosis. Lung injury can negatively impact patients' well-being and quality of life, and may lead to increased mortality. Risk of lung injury is particularly increased when patients are treated with a combination of treatments (i.e., RT, chemotherapy, and ICI). The drug Pentoxifylline (in combination with α-Tocopherol (Vitamin E)) has been shown to prevent/alter the progression of lung injury and there is a growing body of evidence to support the safety and efficacy of phosphodiesterase inhibitors in cancer treatment. The proposed study aims to determine if the addition of Pentoxifylline, given in combination with α-Tocopherol (Vitamin E), to standard of care treatment will reduce side effects related to lung injury and improve quality of life in this study population.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Radiation Induced Lung Injury (RILI)
DRUG: Pentoxifylline|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: α-Tocopherol
Change in risk of Lung Injury, To evaluate whether the addition of Pentoxifylline and α-Tocopherol changes the risk of lung injury within 12 months post radiotherapy. Lung injury as defined by Grade2+ pneumonitis., 1 year
Change in Oncological Outcomes, To evaluate whether the addition of Pentoxifylline and α-Tocopherol changes oncological outcomes of progression free survival and overall survival. Progression free survival as measured by RECIST 1.1., 1 year|Change in Grade 3-5 treatment related toxicities, To evaluate whether the addition of Pentoxifylline and α-Tocopherol changes the incidence of Grade 3-5 treatment (chemoRT + ICI) related toxicity. Grade 3-5 treatment related toxicity measured as per CTCAE version 5.0., 1 year|Change in Quality of Life, To evaluate whether the addition of Pentoxifylline and α-Tocopherol changes quality of life, as measured by FACT-LCS (version 4) scores, 1 year
This is a multi-centre, Phase II, double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized trial. Eligible participants will include newly diagnosed, inoperable Stage III patients with NSCLC who will be treated with radical intent concurrent chemoradiation therapy with planned consolidation immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) as per standard of care. Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio between control arm (Placebos for 6 months) (Arm 1) and the experimental arm (Pentoxifylline/α-Tocopherol for 6 months) (Arm 2).