Study on the Quality of Life and Functional/Oncological Outcome of Testicular Cancer Patients
The research aims to collect data in order to report the main problems related to the testicular cancer; To reach this aim, this study proposes to create a database of the testicular cancer condition.

From this perspective, the aim of this project is the improving of scientific knowledge of the disease and develop appropriate and effective procedures for the diagnosis and treatment of the patient.
Testicular Cancer
OTHER: Observation of testicular cancer patients
Clinical data, Collection of clinical data, Baseline|Adjuvant therapy, Which type of adjuvant therapy carried out (chemotherapy - radiotherapy - retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy), Baseline|lactate dehydrogenase, Oncological follow-up through enzymatic value, Follow up after 6 months from baseline|Testicular objective examination, Number and size (via Prader orchidometer) of the testicles, Baseline|Testicular objective examination - cysts, Evaluation presence of cysts, Baseline|Testicular objective examination - nodules, Evaluation presence of nodules, Baseline|Testicular objective examination - varicocele, Evaluation presence of varicocele, Baseline|Testicular objective examination - hydrocele, Evaluation presence of hydrocele, Baseline|α-feto protein, Oncological follow-up through enzymatic value, Follow up after 6 months from baseline|β human Chorionic Gonadotropin, Oncological follow-up through hormonal value, Follow up after 6 months from baseline|carcinoembryonic antigen, Oncological follow-up through hormonal value, Follow up after 6 months from baseline
Testicular cancer constitutes 1% to 1.5% of male tumors, 5% of urological tumors. In the Western society to which we belong, the incidence is between 3 and 6 new cases per 100,000 inhabitants per year. In particular, this incidence has recorded continuous growth over the last thirty years. Different histologies of this disease are known, with a clear prevalence of germ cell tumors (90-95%).

From these general epidemiological coordinates it can be deduced that this pathology could affects a young segment of the population; It must be underlined that a pathology is peculiar due to the impact it has on the affected individual, who must be treated not only from an oncological point of view but also with regards to the sexual, reproductive and psychological-relational aspects. Such complexity requires a systematic and detailed approach to examine all aspects.

The creation of this database let to have a follow up above all an extension over time that is not present in the literature, especially towards the functional aspects of this condition.

The database will represent a resource for future research.