GIDEON Non-Nexavar Arm - HCC Patients Who Are Treated With Any Therapy Other Than Nexavar at Individual Study Start
This study is an international prospective, open-label, multi-center, non-interventional study. The protocol will allow enrollment of all patients with diagnosis of HCC in whom a decision to treat with sorafenib has not been made at time of study enrollment. All patients will be followed-up until withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up, death, or the end of the study. Detailed information concerning the past medical/surgical history, performance status, methods of diagnosis and staging, etc. of patients with HCC will be collected, and practice patterns of the physicians involved in the care of patients with HCC under real-life conditions will be evaluated.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
DRUG: Any treatment for unresectable HCC as chosen by the physician
Determination of 'real-life' practice patterns of physicians involved in the care of patients with HCC (collection of data on treatments prescribed as well as demographic data and data on the entire medical history), up to 3,3 years|Evaluation of patient demographics, disease characteristics, methods of patient evaluation, diagnosis and follow-up of patients with HCC, regionally and globally (collection of data on demographics, medical history, diagnostic measurements, follow-up), up to 3,3 years
Evaluation of natural course and outcomes of patients with HCC (collection of data of disease status during the course of the study and the outcome of treatment), up to 3,3 years|Evaluation of treatment modalities that are used for patients with HCC during the course of their disease (collection of data of all treatments prescribed during the course of the study), up to 3,3 years|Evaluation of safety and tolerability of treatments that are used for patients with HCC (collection of all adverse events), up to 3,3 years|Evaluation efficacy parameters including: overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP), response rate (RR) and stable disease (SD) rate of the various interventions employed in the care of patients with HCC, up to 3,3 years|To evaluate the comorbidities in patients with HCC and their influence on treatment options and outcome (collection of data on concomitant diseases), up to 3,3 years
This study is an international prospective, open-label, multi-center, non-interventional study. The protocol will allow enrollment of all patients with diagnosis of HCC in whom a decision to treat with sorafenib has not been made at time of study enrollment. All patients will be followed-up until withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up, death, or the end of the study. Detailed information concerning the past medical/surgical history, performance status, methods of diagnosis and staging, etc. of patients with HCC will be collected, and practice patterns of the physicians involved in the care of patients with HCC under real-life conditions will be evaluated.