Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Tislelizumab for Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
To estimate the efficacy and safety of tislelizumab for stage IVA locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma combined with induction chemotherapy and concurrent chemoradiotherapy, followed by maintenance therapy
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Tislelizumab
2-y PFS, defined as the time from random assignment to documented local or regional relapse, distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first after 2 years of treatment., 2 years
CR, CR assessed by investigator, according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST1.1) from the National Cancer Institute (NCI). Disease response evaluated after the completion of the neoadjuvant therapy. Complete response defined as the complete disappearance of the target and non-target lesion(s) identified at baseline after radiological evaluation by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) ., 1 year|OS, defined as the time from random assignment to death from any cause or censored at the date of last follow-up., 3 years|PFS, defined as the time from random assignment to documented local or regional relapse, distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years|safety, Analysis of acute and late adverse events (AEs) are evaluated. Numbers of patients of treatment-related adverse events (acute toxicity) and late radiation toxicities were assessed by NCI-CTCAE v5.0., 3 years
Platinum-based concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard of care for patients with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma(NPC). Gemcitabine plus cisplatin(GP) has been demonstrated an effective chemotherapy regimen for NPC patients in previous studies. The results of GP combined with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in the treatment of locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma showed 10% of locoregionally advanced NPC patients had complete response after three cycles of GP neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and GP neoadjuvant chemotherapy added to chemoradiotherapy significantly improved recurrence-free survival (85.3% vs 76.5%) and overall survival (94.6% vs 90.3%) among locoregionally advanced NPC patients , as compared with chemoradiotherapy alone. Therefore, GP regimen has been established as the highest level of evidence-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the 2020 National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines. Recently, immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)monoclonal antibody has shown promising efficacy in the treatment of tumor patients. Clinical trials have shown objective response rates of 20.5%-34% in patients with recurrent or metastatic NPC patients receiving anti PD-1 monoclonal antibody immunotherapy including pembrolizumab, nivolumab, camrelizumab, and toripalimab. The current NCCN guidelines recommend anti PD-1 monoclonal antibody as a second-line treatment for recurrent or metastatic NPC. More and more evidence show that immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy has a synergistic effect in treating tumors. GP chemotherapy combined with anti PD-1 antibody has achieved the initial effect in NPC. Phase 1 trials have shown the combination of camrelizumab plus GP chemotherapy in recurrent or metastatic NPC led to a proportion of 91% patients achieving an objective response. In addition, previous studeis showed that PD-1 antibody adjuvant therapy had good feasibility and effectiveness in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Tislelizumab, approved by the National Medical Products Administration in China, is an anti-PD-1 monoclonal IgG4 antibody with higher affinity to PD-1 than pembrolizumab and nivolumab and was engineered to minimize binding to FcγR on macrophages in order to abrogate antibody-dependent phagocytosis, a mechanism of T-cell clearance and potential resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy. Multiple clinical trials have shown strong anti-neoplastic activity of tislelizumab in various tumors including NPC. Clinical trial has shown an objective response rates of 43% in patients with recurrent metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma treated with tirelizumab, which is superior to other anti PD-1 monoclonal antibodys. So we hypothesize that GP neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with tislelizumab and tislelizumab adjuvant therapy could further improve survival of patients with locaregionally advanced NPC. Based on this, this study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of gemcitabine plus cisplatin chemotherapy combined with tislelizumab neoadjuvant therapy, followed by cisplatin based concurrent chemoradiotherapy, then followed by tislelizumab adjuvant therapy in the patients with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma, to provide new evidence for individualized comprehensive treatment in NPC.