Doxycycline to Upgrade Organ Response in Light Chain (AL) Amyloidosis Trial
In this study the investigators want to find out more about the addition of the antibiotic, doxycycline, to standard anti-amyloid therapy in people with amyloidosis. The investigators want to find out whether doxycycline improves the response to standard anti-amyloid therapy and whether it causes any problems (side effects).
Primary Systemic Amyloidosis
DRUG: Doxycycline
Hematologic Response, This measure will record the number of subjects for each grade of response to therapy for subjects with Systematic Disease (hematologic) only. Hematologic response will be determined as follows.

Complete response (CR) - Negative serum/urine immunofixation with normal Free Light Chain (FLC) ratio

Very Good Partial Response (VGPR)- Difference between involved and uninvolved FLCs (dFLC) \< 40 mg/L

Partial Response (PR)- dFLC decrease \> 50%

No Response (NR)- less then PR., 1 year
Amyloid Organ Response, This measure is the number of subjects (systemic disease only) for each grade of response. Efficacy will be measured in heart, liver, or kidney.

Heart N-terminal (NT)-proBNP response \>30% and \> 300 ng/L decrease in patients with baseline NT-proBNP ≥650 ng/L (Patients with progressively worsening renal function cannot be scored for NT-proBNP progression).

Improvement by 2 New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes without an increase in diuretic use or in echocardiographic wall thickness ≥ 2 mm reduction in the interventricular septal thickness by echocardiogram or improvement of ejection fraction by ≥20%.

Liver

≥50% decrease in an initially elevated alkaline phosphatase level, or Decrease in liver size by at least 2 cm by ultrasound.

Kidney 50% reduction in 24-hour urine protein excretion (at least 0.5 g/day) without worsening of creatinine or creatinine clearance by 25% over baseline.

Soft Tissue RECIST criteria will be used., 6 months and 1 year|Mortality, The number of living subjects will be determined at Baseline, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year, Baseline, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year|Patient-reported Health Quality of Life, Subjects will complete the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Global Health instrument, a 10-item standardized patient-reported outcome measure that provides global ratings of physical function, fatigue, pain, emotional distress to report on common domains of health-related quality of life. The survey comprises a series of 5-response Likert-style questions. For each question, a low score indicates lesser or absent symptom or condition and higher indicates more severe symptom or condition (e.g., 1= None to 5=Very severe). Automated scoring produces a T-score for each domain. This measure reports the physical health score. T-scores for this domain range from 16.2 to 67.7. Higher scores indicate poorer physical health., Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Patient-reported Mental Quality of Life, Subjects will complete the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Global Health instrument, a 10-item standardized patient-reported outcome measure that provides global ratings of physical function, fatigue, pain, emotional distress to report on common domains of health-related quality of life. The survey comprises a series of 5-response Likert-style questions. For each question, a low score indicates lesser or absent symptom or condition and higher indicates more severe symptom or condition (e.g., 1= None to 5=Very severe). Automated scoring produces a T-score for each domain. This measure reports the mental health score. T-scores for this domain range from 21.2 to 67.6. Higher scores indicate poorer mental health., Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
Organ response to anti-plasma cell therapy in AL amyloidosis tends to lags behind hematologic response as chemotherapy may not clear pre-formed organ amyloid. Doxycycline has been shown to have inhibitory effects on amyloid fibril formation as well as de-fibrillogenic effects and shown to be beneficial in in vitro, murine models and other preclinical studies. The investigators will prospectively evaluate the safety and efficacy of doxycycline in AL amyloidosis patients when used in conjunction with anti-plasma cell chemotherapy.