Vaccine Therapy and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
This pilot clinical trial studies vaccine therapy and temozolomide in treating patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. Vaccines made from a person's white blood cells mixed with tumor proteins may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving vaccine therapy and temozolomide may be an effective treatment for glioblastoma.
Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Malignant Glioma Tumor Lysate-Pulsed Autologous Dendritic Cell Vaccine|DRUG: Temozolomide
Incidence of significant toxicity, defined as grade 3 or higher adverse event that is possibly, probably, or definitely related to treatment measured using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Incidence of significant toxicity will be estimated by the number of patients with significant toxicity divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 84 days
Change in immunologic correlates, Change in immunologic correlates before and after vaccination treatment will be evaluated and summarized both quantitatively and graphically. Spearman rank correlation coefficient will be used to assess the correlations between baseline levels as well as between changes before and after treatment in these immunologic markers., Baseline to up to 5 years|Clinical benefit rate, The clinical benefit rate will be estimated by the number of patients with an objective status of stable disease (SD) for at least 12 months or an objective status of CR or PR at any time divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true clinical benefit rate will be calculated., Up to 5 years|Duration of response, Duration of response will be summarized descriptively., Up to 5 years|Overall response rate, The overall response rate will be estimated by the number of patients with an objective status of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 5 years|Time to response, Time to response will be summarized descriptively., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and feasibility of adjuvant temozolomide plus combined allogeneic tumor primary tumor culture lysate / autologous dendritic cell (DC) vaccination (malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine) in newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients following surgical debulking and external beam radiation therapy with concurrent temozolomide.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To document survival and progression-free survival in newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients receiving adjuvant temozolomide plus allogeneic tumor primary tumor culture lysate / autologous DC vaccination to historical data.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the ability of allogeneic tumor primary tumor culture lysate / autologous DC vaccine to generate multiple tumor-associated antigens (TAA)-specific immune responses in newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) patients.

II. Assess the relationship between ability tumor induce TAA-specific immune responses and evidence of immunosuppression (peripheral blood immunophenotyping by flow cytometry) following allogeneic tumor primary tumor culture lysate / autologous DC vaccine in newly diagnosed GBM patients.

III. Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (survival, progression-free survival, tumor response) and tumor-associated antigen immune response following combined autologous or allogeneic tumor lysate / DC vaccination and adjuvant temozolomide.

IV. Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (survival, progression-free survival, tumor response) and evidence of immunosuppression at baseline and over time with combined autologous or allogeneic tumor lysate / DC vaccination and adjuvant temozolomide.

OUTLINE:

COURSE 1: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-5.

COURSES 2-3: Patients receive temozolomide PO daily on days 1-5 and malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine intradermally (ID) on days 1, 3, and 5.

COURSES 4-6: Patients receive temozolomide PO daily on days 1-5 and malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine ID on day 1.

COURSES 7-12: Patients receive malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine ID on day 1.

Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.