Perioperative Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Plus Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Versus Perioperative Placebo Plus Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Cisplatin-eligible Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer (MIBC) (MK-3475-866/KEYNOTE-866)
A global study to evaluate peri-operative pembrolizumab with chemotherapy versus placebo to pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy in cisplatin eligible patients.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Surgery (radical cystectomy (RC) plus Pelvic Lymph Node Dissection [PLND])|DRUG: Placebo
Event-Free Survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of any of the following events: progression of disease that precludes RC surgery; failure to undergo RC surgery in participants with residual disease and any radiographical disease present; gross residual disease left behind at the time of surgery; local or distant recurrence based on investigator assessments and/or biopsy, or death due to any cause., Up to approximately 60 months
Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) Rate, pCR rate is defined as the percentage of participants having pCR. pCR is defined as absence of viable tumor (pT0N0) in examined tissue from RC and PLND, as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR)., Up to approximately 72 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 72 months|Disease-Free Survival (DFS), DFS is defined as the time from post-surgery baseline scan until the first occurrence of either local or distant recurrence as assessed by investigator by CT or MRI and/or computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and or biopsy or death from any cause., From approximately 20 weeks up to approximately 72 months|Pathologic Downstaging (pDS) Rate, pDS rate is defined as the percentage of participants having pDS. pDS is defined as participants with a tumor classification of \<pT2 (includes pT0, pTis, pTa, pT1) and N0 in examined tissue from RC plus PLND as assessed by BICR., Up to approximately 72 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 72 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 12 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced Perioperative Complications, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 12 months|Change in Patient-Reported Outcomes from Baseline in Total Score of Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), The FACT-G is a health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 27-item questionnaire in patients being treated for cancer. The FACT-G subscales include Physical Well-Being (PWB), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB), Emotional Well-Being (EWB), and Functional Well-Being (FWB). All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale of 0 to 4, with higher scores indicating higher HRQoL. The total score can range from 0 to 108., Baseline, Up to approximately 72 months|Change in Patient-Reported Outcomes from Baseline in Total Score of FACT-Bladder- (FACT-BI-Cys), Total Score of FACT BI-Cys is the sum of FACT-G total score and FACT-Bl-Cys score. FACT-Bl-Cys contains 17 items on the bowel, bladder, and sexual symptoms following cystectomy. The FACT-G is a health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 27-item questionnaire in patients being treated for cancer. The FACT-G subscales include Physical Well-Being (PWB), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB), Emotional Well-Being (EWB), and Functional Well-Being (FWB). All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale of 0 to 4, with higher scores indicating higher HRQoL. The total score of FACT-Bl-Cys can range from 0 to 168., Baseline, Up to approximately 72 months|Change in Patient-Reported Outcomes from Baseline in FACT-BI-Cys-Trial Outcome Index (TOI), FACT-Bl-Cys Trial Outcome Index (TOI) is the sum of FACT-G PWB score, FWB score, and FACT-Bl-Cys score. FACT-Bl-Cys contains 17 items on the bowel, bladder, and sexual symptoms following cystectomy. The FACT-G is a health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 27-item questionnaire in patients being treated for cancer. The FACT-G subscales include Physical Well-Being (PWB), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB), Emotional Well-Being (EWB), and Functional Well-Being (FWB). All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale of 0 to 4, with higher scores indicating higher HRQoL. The total score of FACT-Bl-Cys TOI can range from 0 to 116., Baseline, Up to approximately 72 months|Change in Patient-Reported Outcomes from Baseline in EuroQol Five-Dimensional Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) Visual Analog Score (VAS), The EQ-5D-5L is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcome. In the EQ-5D-5L VAS, the participant rates his or her general state of health at the time of the assessment on a scale from 0 to 100, where 0 represents the worst imaginable health state and 100 represents the best imaginable health state., Baseline, Up to approximately 72 months|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in the Total Score of FACT-G, The FACT-G is a health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 27-item questionnaire in patients being treated for cancer. The FACT-G subscales include Physical Well-Being (PWB), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB), Emotional Well-Being (EWB), and Functional Well-Being (FWB). All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale of 0-4, with higher scores indicating higher HRQoL. TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of patient-reported outcomes (PRO) deterioration. For the FACT-G questionnaire, deteriorations are defined as a decrease of 7 points or more (out of 108) from baseline in total score., Up to approximately 72 months|TTD in EQ-5D-5L VAS, The EQ-5D-5L is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcome and includes 5 health state dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. In the EQ-5D-5L VAS, the participant rates his or her general state of health at the time of the assessment on a scale from 0 to 100, where 0 represents the worst imaginable health state and 100 represents the best imaginable health state. TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of PRO deterioration. For the EQ 5D-5L, deterioration is defined as a decrease of 7 points or more from baseline in the VAS., Up to approximately 72 months
A global study to evaluate peri-operative pembrolizumab with chemotherapy versus placebo to pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy in cisplatin eligible patients.