Dexamethasone in Controlling Dyspnea in Patients With Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well dexamethasone works in controlling dyspnea in patients with cancer. Dexamethasone may help control dyspnea (shortness of breath) and improve lung function and quality of life in cancer patients.
Dyspnea|Malignant Neoplasm
DRUG: Dexamethasone|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in Dyspnea Numeric Score Over the Past 24 Hours for Baseline and Day 7 Average Intensity, The average dyspnea intensity over the past 24 hours was assessed daily using a validated numeric rating scale from 0 to 10. The total score ranged from 0-10 where higher scores indicate worse dyspnea. The change in Dyspnea scores between Baseline and Day 7 were measured. Linear model analysis was used for analysis., Baseline and Day 7
Change in Dyspnea Numeric Score Over the Past 24 Hours for Baseline and Day 14 Average Intensity, The average dyspnea intensity over the past 24 hours was assessed daily using a validated numeric rating scale from 0 to 10. The total score ranged from 0-10 where higher scores indicate worse dyspnea. The change in Dyspnea scores between Baseline and Day 14 were measured. Linear model analysis was used for analysis., Baseline and Day 14|Change in Dyspnea Numeric Score Over the Past 24 Hours for Baseline and Day 7 Average Unpleasantness, The average dyspnea unpleasantness over the past 24 hours was assessed daily using a validated numeric rating scale from 0 to 10. The total score ranged from 0-10 where higher scores indicate worse dyspnea. The change in Dyspnea unpleasantness scores between Baseline and Day 7 were measured. Linear model analysis was used for analysis., Baseline and Day 7|Change in Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS) Dyspnea Score Between Baseline and Day 7, ESAS (Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale) is a validated scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 10 (very much) used to assess 10 symptoms commonly experienced by cancer patients during the previous 24 hours: pain, fatigue, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness, dyspnea, anorexia, sleep and feeling of well being. The change in ESAS fatigue score between Baseline and Day 7 were measured. Total ESAS fatigue score ranged from 0-10, with a higher score indicating higher fatigue. Linear model analysis was used for analysis., Baseline and Day 7|Change in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ-C30) Dyspnea Score Between Baseline and Day 7, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) is a well-validated quality-of-life assessment for patients with cancer, consisting of 30 questions that encompass three symptom scales (pain, fatigue, and nausea/vomiting) and six questions about single symptoms, as well as five functional scales (physical, cognitive, role, emotional, and social) and one scale assessing global health status/quality of life. Each single symptoms have four response categories (1=not at all, and 4=very much). The change in EORTC fatigue score between Baseline and Day 7 were measured. Total scores using a complex scoring procedures ranges from 0 to 100 with a higher scores indicating higher fatigue. Linear model analysis was used for analysis., Baseline and Day 7|Change in Dyspnea Numeric Score Over the Past 24 Hours for Baseline and Day 14 Average Unpleasantness, The average dyspnea unpleasantness over the past 24 hours was assessed daily using a validated numeric rating scale from 0 to 10. The total score ranged from 0-10 where higher scores indicate worse dyspnea. The change in Dyspnea unpleasantness scores between Baseline and Day 14 were measured. Linear model analysis was used for analysis., Baseline and Day 14|Change in Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS) Dyspnea Score Between Baseline and Day 14, ESAS (Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale) is a validated scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 10 (very much) used to assess 10 symptoms commonly experienced by cancer patients during the previous 24 hours: pain, fatigue, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness, dyspnea, anorexia, sleep and feeling of well being. The change in ESAS fatigue score between Baseline and Day 14 were measured. Total ESAS fatigue score ranged from 0-10, with a higher score indicating higher fatigue. Linear model analysis was used for analysis., Baseline and Day 14|Change in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life (EORTC) Dyspnea Score Between Baseline and Day 14, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) is a well-validated quality-of-life assessment for patients with cancer, consisting of 30 questions that encompass three symptom scales (pain, fatigue, and nausea/vomiting) and six questions about single symptoms, as well as five functional scales (physical, cognitive, role, emotional, and social) and one scale assessing global health status/quality of life. Each single symptoms have four response categories (1=not at all, and 4=very much). The change in EORTC fatigue score between Baseline and Day 14 were measured. Total scores using a complex scoring procedures ranges from 0 to 100 with a higher scores indicating higher fatigue. Linear model analysis was used for analysis., Baseline and Day 14
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the intensity of dyspnea (numeric rating scale \[NRS\]) in the dexamethasone arm with that in the placebo arm at week 1.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the effects of dexamethasone with those of placebo in terms of personalized dyspnea response (based on a personalized dyspnea goal), unpleasantness of dyspnea, other symptoms, health-related quality of life, respiratory physiologic function, and adverse effects at week 1 and week 2, as well as the intensity of dyspnea at week 2.

II. Identify predictive markers of dyspnea response to dexamethasone.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive dexamethasone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-14 and dexamethasone PO BID on days 15-28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 28 and 42.