AZD2171 in Treating Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme
This phase II trial is studying how well AZD2171 works in treating patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme. AZD2171 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
DRUG: cediranib maleate
Proportion of patients alive and progression-free at 6 months, 6 months
Radiographic response proportion, Will be described with 95% confidence limits., Up to 12 months|Overall survival, Will be described with 95% confidence limits., Up to 12 months|Toxicity proportion, Will be described with 95% confidence limits., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the proportion of patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GM) who are alive and progression free 6 months after starting AZD2171 therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the biological effect of AZD2171 by using the following MRI techniques: dynamic contrast-enhanced imaging; arterial spin-labeling imaging; perfusion-weighted imaging; and diffusion- tensor imaging at serial time points.

II. Measure circulating endothelial and progenitor cells and plasma levels of tumstatin, (vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A and -D, sVEGF receptors, P1GF, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-AA, PDGF-AB, PDGF-BB, Ang1, thrombospondin-1, and interleukin-8 as markers for response to antiangiogenic therapy in recurrent GM.

III. Correlate treatment outcomes with pre-AZD2171 tumor specimens with respect to microvascular density, basement membrane and pericyte coverage, and angiopoietin-1 and -2 expression to determine whether these immunohistochemical analyses can be predictive of the response to AZD2171.

IV. Measure polymorphisms of kdr/flk-1 gene and genetic analysis of HIF1-alpha, TP53, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase genes in the archival tumor specimens.

V. Determine the overall survival of patients with recurrent GM treated with AZD2171.

VI. Determine the radiographic response rate in patients with recurrent GM treated with AZD2171.

VII. Determine the safety of AZD2171 in this patient population.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral AZD2171 once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 12 months.