Camrelizumab for the Treatment of Locally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
This trial plans to enroll patients with stage III-IVA (AJCC 8th, included T1-2N2-3 and/or T3-4N0-3 M0) locoregionally-advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (LANPC). Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive 3 cycles of induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin and concurrent cisplatin-radiation or 3 cycles of induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin and radiation plus Camrelizumab. All patients will receive intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). Camrelizumab will begin on day 1 of induction chemotherapy every 3 weeks for 3 cycles and continue every 2 weeks for 9 cycles.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Camrelizumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Induction Cisplatin|RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiotherapy|DRUG: Concurrent cisplatin
Progress-free survival (PFS), Calculated from randomization to the date of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years
Overall survival (OS), Calculated from randomization to the date of death from any cause., 3 years|Distant Metastasis-free survival (DMFS), Calculated from randomization to the date of first distant metastasis., 3 years|Locoregional failure-free survival (LRRFS), Calculated from randomization to the date of locoregional relapse., 3 years|Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), Graded according to CTCAE V5.0., 3 years
Objectives:To investigate the clinical efficacy of camrelizumab in the treatment of locoregionally-advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (LANPC).

Outline:Patients with stage III-IVA (AJCC 8th, included T1-2N2-3 and/or T3-4N0-3 M0) locoregionally-advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to experimental arm and active comparator arm. Patients in experimental arm will receive induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine (1g/m2, d1 \& 8 of every cycle) and cisplatin (80mg/m2, d1 of every cycle), every 3 weeks for 3 cycles before radiation. Definitive intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) of 6996cGy in 33 fractions will be given. Camrelizumab 200mg will be given every 3 weeks for 3 cycles started on day 1 of induction chemotherapy and every 2 weeks for 9 cycles thereafter. Patients in active comparator arm will receive induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine (1g/m2, d1 \& 8 of every cycle) and cisplatin (80mg/m2, d1 of every cycle), every 3 weeks for 3 cycles before radiation. Definitive intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) of 6996cGy in 33 fractions will be given. Concurrent cisplatin of 100mg/m2 will be administered every 3 weeks for 2 cycles during IMRT.