RN-Led Palliative and Supportive Care Intervention
This single institution feasibility and acceptability study includes patients with acute leukemia which is designed to examine a novel palliative and supportive care intervention (Palliative and supportive Care inTervention; PACT) in which registered nurses (RNs), occupational therapists (OTs), and physical therapists (PTs) address the activity needs of older adults with acute leukemia during their hospital stay.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
OTHER: Palliative And supportive Care inTervention (PACT)
Feasibility and Acceptability, Feasibility and acceptability will be assessed as the number of participants who were approached, consented to, and eligible for the study., Baseline|Retention Rate, The rate of participants who consented to the study completed study intervention at the time point., Baseline and up to 30 days (first and second cycles)|Symptom Monitoring Data Collection Rate, The number of participants who joined the study and symptom monitoring were assessed at the time point., Baseline and up to 30 days (first and second cycles)|Caregiver Follow-Up Data Collection Rate, Caregiver Follow-Up data collection rate was assessed the number of caregiver participants who joined the study and symptom monitoring was assessed at the time points., At second cycle (at days 30)|Comparison of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score in Cycle 1., Mean Overall, Physical, Emotional, and Fatigue Quality of Life (QOL) scores were assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) in control and intervention arms at Cycle 1.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer-specific instrument with 30 questions that incorporates 9 multi-item scales: 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social); 9 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties); and a global health and quality-of-life scale. Most questions used a 4-point scale (1 =Not at all to 4 =Very much); 2 questions used a 7-point scale (1 =Very poor to 7 =Excellent). A higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms. The scores of these scales were averaged from the scores of the component items, transformed, and analyzed on a 0 - 100 scale., Baseline, up to 30 days|Comparison of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score in Cycle 2., Mean Overall, Physical, Emotional, and Fatigue Quality of Life (QOL) scores were assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) in control and intervention arms at Cycle 2.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer-specific instrument with 30 questions that incorporates 9 multi-item scales: 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social); 9 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties); and a global health and quality-of-life scale. Most questions used a 4-point scale (1 =Not at all to 4 =Very much); 2 questions used a 7-point scale (1 =Very poor to 7 =Excellent). A higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms. The scores of these scales were averaged from the scores of the component items, transformed, and analyzed on a 0 - 100 scale., 30 days after starting to the study|Comparison of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Scores Between Cycle 1 and Cycle 2., Overall, Physical, Emotional, and Fatigue Quality of Life (QOL) scores were assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) in the intervention arm both at Cycle 1 and 2. Score difference for each subject and mean differences between scores were calculated.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer-specific instrument with 30 questions that incorporates 9 multi-item scales. Most questions used a 4-point scale (1 =Not at all to 4 =Very much); 2 questions used a 7-point scale (1 =Very poor to 7 =Excellent). A higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms. The scores of these scales were averaged from the scores of the component items, transformed, and analyzed on a 0 - 100 scale., Baseline and until day 30 (Cycle 1 and Cycle 2)|Treatment-related Symptoms as Assessed by Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), 19 items include diarrhea, chills, heartburn, nausea, appetite, mouth sores, vomiting, constipation, cough, rash, shortness of breath, fatigue, anxiety, sadness, nothing will cheer me up, pain, insomnia, concentration, and memory. The severity is assessed from "None" to "Very severe" and the interference level is assessed from "Not at all" to "Very much.", Up to180 days
The primary objective of the study is to assess feasibility, acceptability, and change in pre and post measures of symptoms, function, and QOL by administering the PACT intervention. The first 20 participants in the control group will receive usual care. The next 20 participants will receive the PACT intervention. Each participant in the intervention group will be cared by a collaborative, multidisciplinary, integrated team including RNs, OTs and PTs.