Bone Marrow Transplantation Using CD34-Selected Stem Cells From Related or Unrelated Donors in Treating Participants With Cancer or Other Disorders
This expanded access protocol studies bone marrow transplantation using CD34-selected stem cells from related or unrelated donors in treating participants with cancer or other disorders. Stem cells collected from the donor will be processed using a new device called CliniMACS CD34 Reagent System which marks the blood cells collected from the donor with a special protein called "antibody" that tags only the donor stem cells, sorting out other cells of the blood and immune system. This is done to remove, at least partially, some of the T cells. T cells are the cells in the blood that work as scavengers of the immune system deciding what belongs and what does not. These cells can sometimes cause rejection of the donor graft or a condition called graft-versus host disease (GVHD), where the donor cells can attack the body of the recipient. A bone marrow transplantation using CD34-selected stem cells may reduce the risk of these unwanted side effects of transplant as much as possible.
Benign Neoplasm|Bone Marrow Transplantation Recipient|Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Recipient|Malignant Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Transplantation|DEVICE: CliniMACS CD34 Reagent System|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To provide a source of CD34-selected stem cells for patients with malignant and nonmalignant disorders undergoing bone marrow transplantation from haploidentical (human leukocyte antigen \[HLA\]-mismatched) related donors or HLA-compatible unrelated donors

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Monitoring the safety of the CD34-selected stem cells for the recipient, as measured by adverse events related to stem cell infusion, incidence of engraftment of neutrophils and platelets, incidence of acute and chronic GVHD, and one year overall survival, disease-free survival, and primary disease recurrence.

OUTLINE:

Donor stem cells undergo CD34 selection ex vivo using the CliniMACS CD34 Reagent System using standard operating procedures (SOPs) from the manufacturer. Recipients undergo standard of care preparative regimen, bone marrow transplantation with CD34-selected peripheral blood stem cells via infusion over 1 to 2 hours on day 0, and then receive standard of care GVHD prophylaxis.

After completion of study treatment, recipients are followed up at least once weekly while inpatient until transplant day 100, every 1-3 months for the first year and yearly thereafter.