Molecular Subtype Combined with Early Minimal Residual Disease to Optimize the Treatment of Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This study aims to investigate the safety and efficacy of drug "X" in combination with intensive chemotherapy in subjects with newly diagnosed AML (excluding APL and CBF-AML). "X" drugs included BCL-2 inhibitor venetoclax and FLT3 inhibitor Gilteritinib.

Subjects will receive standard intensive chemotherapy during induction and consolidation. Early induction response will be evaluated according to the results of peripheral blood blast clearance rate on the fifth day after induction therapy (D5-PBCR). Venetoclax will be added in D5-PBCR positive subjects. For subjects with FLT3 mutations, Gilteritinib will be combined.

Subjects will be stratified based on the genetic risk classification of 2022 European LeukemiaNet recommendations (ELN risk) and MRD status to receive specific consolidation therapy after the induction therapy.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
DRUG: D5-PBCR(-) IA arm|DRUG: D5-PBCR(+) IA+Venetoclax arm
Composite complete remission rate, Complete remission/complete remission with partial hematological recovery/complete remission with incomplete hematological recovery, At the end of cycle one (up to 42 days from the start of cycle 1）
Total composite complete remission rate, Complete remission/complete remission with partial hematological recovery/complete remission with incomplete hematological recovery, At the end of induction cycle 2 (up to 42 days from the start of cycle 2)|OS, overall survival rate, 2-year|EFS, event free survival rate, 2-year|AE, Adverse Events (AEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) Based on NCI-CTCAE 5.0 Assessment, Throughout the entire study period, an average of 1 year|Recovery time for neutrophils and platelets, The time from the first day of induction therapy to the recovery of neutrophils to a count greater than 0.5\*10\^9/L and platelets to greater than 20\*10\^9/L, During induction cycle one (up to 42 days from the start of cycle 1)
The complete remission rate of MRD negative, The complete remission rate of MRD negative, at the end of induction (up to 42 days from the start of induction cycle 2) and consolidation stage (after two cycles of consolidation, up to 42 days from the start of consolidation cycle 2)|biomarkers of apoptosis, Level of apoptosis biomarkers such as BCL-2, BCL-xL and MCL-1, Throughout the entire study period, an average of 1 year
Young patients with naïve AML (excluding APL and CBF-AML) were included in this study. 218 subjects who meet the eligibility criteria will receive the standard 3+7 intensive chemotherapy induction, containing cytarabine and idarubicin. On the basis of the IA induction regimen, the early chemotherapy response was evaluated according to the results of peripheral blood blast clearance rate on the fifth day after induction therapy (D5-PBCR). For D5-PBCR-positive patients, venetoclax will be added to conventional chemotherapy. For patients with FLT3 mutations, gilteritinib will be combined.

Subjects who achieve a composite complete remission (CRc) after induction therapy will receive further consolidation therapy, which regimen will be decided based on the ELN risk at diagnosis and MRD status detected by MFC and gene quantification after induction therapy.

The purpose of the study is to determine whether the addition of drug "X" to the standard induction regimen improves efficacy in the treatment of naïve AML.

Primary objective: To evaluate whether intensive IA combined with targeted drug (drug "X") regimens can improve the composite response rate (CRc) after 1 course of induction therapy in newly diagnosed young AML patients Secondary Objective: To evaluate whether intensive chemotherapy combined with drug "X" during induction and consolidation can improve overall response rates, overall survival, and event-free survival in newly diagnosed young AML patients Safety indicators: incidence of adverse reactions during treatment, recovery time of neutrophils and platelets