Patient Reported Experiences With Sparing External Oblique Fascia Vs Standard Inguinal Orchiectomy
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the difference in patient-reported postoperative outcomes between two standard-of-care surgical techniques for radical orchiectomy (inguinal orchiectomy versus external oblique fascia sparing orchiectomy) for treatment of patients with suspected testicular malignancy. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does sparing the external oblique fascia during orchiectomy reduce pain after surgery?
2. Is there a difference in narcotic consumption after surgery?
3. Is there a difference in neuropathic pain after surgery?
4. Is there a difference in complications after surgery?
Testicular Cancer
PROCEDURE: Radical inguinal orchiectomy|PROCEDURE: Radical external oblique fascia sparing orchiectomy
Postoperative Pain Level, Post-operative pain levels will be measured by the Short Form Inguinal Pain Score (sf-IPQ) The score range is between 0 and 12, with zero points indicating no pain and 12 points indicating the most intense pain. Scores for subjects undergoing inguinal orchiectomy will be compared to subjects undergoing external oblique fascia sparing radical orchiectomy., Change between Postoperative day 0 [the day surgery was completed] through postoperative day 7
Opioid consumption, Subjects will self-report the total number of Oxycodone 5 mg tablets consumed for breakthrough pain during the first post-op week. There is no pre-defined range for this self-report but the higher the number of tablets consumed may be an indication of great pain intensity., Change between Postoperative day 0 [the day surgery was completed] through postoperative day 7|Neuropathic Pain Level, Post-Operative Neuropathic pain levels will be measured by the modified Barrow Neurological Institute hypesthesia scale. A total score ranging between 1 and 4, with 1 representing minimal neuropathic pain and 4 representing intense neuropathic pain., Change between Postoperative day 0 [the day surgery was completed] through postoperative day 7)
Radical inguinal orchiectomy is the standard of care surgical approach for removing a testicle when clinically there is concern for testicular cancer. The procedure is generally minor and performed in the outpatient setting. Recent data demonstrates a trend towards high opioid prescription following this procedure in an attempt to minimize postoperative pain, which is associated with persistent new opioid use in the future. Numerous efforts have been put in place to minimize postoperative pain following scrotal procedures, with success noted when opioid sparing pathways have been adopted. However, there has been sparse data on modifications within surgical technique that could improve patient pain following this procedure.

There have been various descriptions of technique to performing a radical orchiectomy which involves removal of the diseased testicle and spermatic cord. Classically, performing a radical inguinal orchiectomy involves incision of the external oblique fascia to expose and ligate the spermatic cord. During this step, the ilioinguinal nerve is exposed and can be injured by either traction injury or inadvertent transection. Modifications to this technique have been described which involve sparing of the external oblique fascia. Both approaches are performed via a similar incision and both the testicle and spermatic cord are removed. In fascia sparing modification, the spermatic cord is controlled, dissected, and subsequently ligated at the level of the superficial inguinal ring without incising the external oblique fascia. Proponents of this approach suggest the potential for less convalescence and faster recovery due to less tissue manipulation and avoidance of disturbances to the ilioinguinal nerve. Despite this potential benefit, there is no evidence to demonstrate superiority of either approach as it relates to patient recovery.

Therefore, we propose a randomized single-blinded clinical trial investigating postoperative pain outcomes of inguinal radical orchiectomy compared to external oblique fascia sparing radical orchiectomy.