Lymphatic Mapping for Image Guided Radiotherapy in Patients With LACC - a Feasibility Study
Lymphatic mapping is a procedure in which all lymph nodes with drainage from the primary tumor, i.e. all nodes with potential (micro)metastases, can be imaged. These nodes are not necessarily suspicious on other imaging techniques.

The goal of this feasibility study is to

1. investigate the feasibility of the lymphatic mapping procedure in locally advanced cervical cancer
2. study the agreement of the lymphatic map with the radiotherapy treatment plan including previous imaging (MRI / CT / FDG-PET/CT)
Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: lymphatic mapping
Is it feasible to perform lymphatic mapping in locally advanced cervical cancer? Is there visualisation of (multiple) lymph nodes in both sides of the tumor?, feasibiliy, 2 years
Are all visible lymph nodes (nodes at risk) included in the standard radiotherapy treatment plan?, comparison to RT treatment plan, 2 years
Study population:

Aged ≥18 years, with locally advanced cervical cancer, that will be planned for radiotherapy.

Intervention (if applicable): Lymphatic mapping will be performed on all study patients during the standard investigation under anaesthesia, to ensure painless injection of the radiopharmaceutical. Patients will receive 6-8 depots of \[99mTc\]Tc-nanocolloid peritumoral. Planar and SPECT/CT gamma camera images will be made at the department of Radiology and Nuclear medicine 3 hours and 12-24 hours after administration of the radiopharmaceutical. All radioactive lymph nodes will be included in the lymphatic map.

The radiation oncologist will determine the radiation therapy treatment plan blinded to the data of the lymphatic mapping. The lymphatic map will be compared to the radiation treatment plan and previous imaging (MRI / CT / FDG-PET/CT).

Main study parameters/endpoints:

1. Is it feasible to perform lymphatic mapping in locally advanced cervical cancer? Is there visualisation of (multiple) lymph nodes in both sides of the tumor?
2. Are all visible lymph nodes (nodes at risk) included in the standard radiotherapy treatment plan?