Multimodal Imaging-assisted Diagnosis Model for Cervical Spine Tumors
Cervical spine tumor is a small sample of tumor disease with low incidence, great harm, and complex anatomical structure. It is very difficult to identify and classify benign and malignant cervical spine tumors clinically.

The deep learning model we constructed in the early stage has a higher accuracy rate for the image diagnosis of cervical spondylosis with a large number of cases, and a better clinical application effect, but the accuracy rate for cervical spine tumors with a small number of cases is lower. The reason may be the amount of data. With limited tasks, the traditional deep learning model is difficult to play an effective role.

Based on this, we propose to build a small sample-oriented deep learning model to assist clinicians in the diagnosis of cervical spine tumors with multimodal images, and to evaluate the benign and malignant tumors.
Spine Tumor
tumor detection, On the basis of the cervical spine structure, it is the modeling of the tumor. The model based on weakly supervised learning recognizes the morphological features such as the size of the tumor lesion, and uses the fast-adapted meta-learning method to achieve a fast model under a small amount of training. Optimize, and finally evaluate the benignity, borderline and malignant probability of the tumor and use it as an output., 2022-2023
cervical spine detection, Taking the postoperative pathology report of cancer patients as the audit standard, testing the sensitivity and accuracy of the model, and integrating it into a complete deep learning model., 2022-2023
Cervical spine tumor is a small-sample tumor disease with low incidence, great harm, and complex anatomical structure. It is very difficult to identify and classify benign and malignant cervical spine tumors clinically. The deep learning model we constructed in the early stage is suitable for the large number of cases. The imaging diagnosis of cervical spondylosis has a high accuracy rate and a good clinical application effect, but the accuracy rate is low for cervical spine tumors with a small number of cases. The reason may be that for tasks with limited amount of data, the traditional deep learning model is difficult to play an effective role. Based on this, we propose to construct a small sample-oriented deep learning model to assist clinicians in the diagnosis of cervical spine tumors in multi-modal imaging, and to evaluate the benign and malignant tumors. This research will not only improve the efficiency and efficiency of cervical spine tumor imaging diagnosis. Accuracy, to guide clinical personalized treatment, will also provide a basis for the clinical application of deep learning in the field of small samples, which has important clinical significance.