pDNA Intralesional Cancer Vaccine for Cutaneous Melanoma
Six patients will receive IFx-Hu2.0 on an outpatient basis at a single time point in a single lesion, two lesions, or three lesions, as a monotherapy (a maximum of three lesions could be injected). These patients will be assessed for any immediate adverse reactions and at Week 4 (Day 28+/-7 business days for any delayed adverse events.
Cutaneous Melanoma, Stage III|Cutaneous Melanoma, Stage IV
BIOLOGICAL: IFx-Hu2.0
Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and/or Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Safety was reported using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Feasibility was defined as the ability to treat at least five of the six patients enrolled without drug-related dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)., 28 ± 7 Days
Antitumor Response Induced by IFx-Hu2.0 Per RECIST v1.1 for Target Lesions., Evaluation of response rate and assessment of the antitumor immune responses induced by IFx-Hu2.0 per RECIST v1.1 for target lesions.

Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR), ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions compared with baseline.

Stable Disease (SD), Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial or complete response (CR or PR) nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD).

Progressive Disease (PD), Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., 28 ± 7 days post treatment
Six male and/or female adult patients (greater than or equal to 18 years old), of any ethnicity and race, with unresectable stage III or stage IV cutaneous melanoma with accessible lesions, will be eligible for enrollment and treatment with IFx-Hu2.0.

To be eligible for this study, patients with unresectable metastatic disease must have failed, refused or been deemed not candidates for at least one form of systemic anti-PD-1-based immunotherapy as well as BRAF inhibition, if BRAF V600 mutated. Talimogene laherparepvec (IMLYGIC®) is indicated for local treatment of unresectable cutaneous, subcutaneous, and nodal lesions in patients with melanoma recurrent after initial surgery. Therefore, patients with unresectable cutaneous, subcutaneous, and nodal melanoma lesions recurrent after initial surgery must have failed, refused or been deemed not candidates for talimogene laherparepvec to be eligible for this study.

Enrollees will receive IFx-Hu2.0 at a single time point. Depending on the number of accessible lesions, a patient could receive up to three doses across three lesions (one dose per lesion). Forty milliliters of peripheral blood will be collected from these patients prior to treatment administration and at the follow-up visit four weeks later. The target dose will be 100 μg of plasmid DNA per lesion injected at a final dose volume of 200 μL per lesion. To allow for the observation of any acute toxicity in the first subject enrolled and prevent any occurrence of excessive toxicities in subsequent subjects, the first subject enrolled will receive a single dose of IFx-Hu2.0. Subsequent subjects will be administered the product after at least seven days. Beyond the first subject, the maximum number of lesions to be injected at any given time point in the study phase proposed is three lesions. These samples will be used to perform complete blood counts (CBC) and clinical chemistry tests. A urine sample will be obtained for urinalysis for protein and blood at the same frequency. Blood samples will be drawn for immune response evaluation as well. At the end of the study period, a biopsy of the lesion injected and a non-injected lesion (if applicable) will be collected. If the patient has a response to therapy, the patient will have the option of continuing the study at three-week intervals so long as they have not progressed. Optional tumor biopsies and peripheral blood collections may be obtained on subsequent treatment cycles.