Mobile Health App to Promote Participation of Black Women in Breast Cancer Clinical Trials
This study explores the overall feasibility, impact, and satisfaction of using the "mHealth app" on clinic workflow for Black or African American women diagnosed with breast cancer.

The "mHealth app" which can be used as a platform to share clinical trial education and communication, was created and tested in previous steps of this study.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Survey|BEHAVIORAL: mHealth app
Feasibility of Mobile Health Application (mHealth app)- subjects, The feasibility of the mHealth app will be determined by the percentage of subjects who enrolled and completed trial requirements., Up to 1 year|Feasibility of Mobile Health Application (mHealth app) - Clinicians and staff, Clinicians and staff will be interviewed to assess feasibility., Up to 1 year
Overall satisfaction, Overall satisfaction will be assessed by survey questions administered to study participants. The rate of participants' satisfactions will be reported., Up to 1 year
A patient advisory council (PAC) was recruited from established hospital and community networks (North Carolina Cancer Hospital's Patient and Family Advisory Board, and the Lineberger Community Outreach and Engagement Office's Community Advisory Board). The PAC informed the content of interview guides, questionnaire/survey instruments, and mHealth app design, and will be involved in the analyses of qualitative and quantitative data, and dissemination of study results.

After analysis of the in-depth interviews, the Connected Health for Applications and Interventions (CHAI) core staff developed a progressive web application "mHealth app". mHealth app was tested in a pilot study included 20 African American (AA) patients diagnosed with breast cancer were interviewed to answer questions that will better inform the clinical trial education and communication needs of Black women with breast cancer.

Eighty African American women with newly diagnosed breast cancer who have access to a mobile device or computer will be recruited for the study intervention. Women will receive access to the "mHealth" app, a list of available clinical trials within a 50-mile radius of their zip code, and the existing standard of care packet of cancer center resources. Participants will complete a brief questionnaire that will assess clinical trial knowledge, how often a clinical trial discussion occurred during their oncology appointment, and if a therapeutic trial was offered.