Smoking Cessation for Young Adult Pacific Islanders: Motivating Pacifika Against Cigarettes and Tobacco
The current study aimed to test a culturally tailored program designed to help Pacific Islanders (PIs) between the ages of 18 and 30 quit smoking cigarettes by using a randomized controlled trial design with one intervention group and one control group.
Tobacco Use|Tobacco Smoking|Tobacco Use Cessation|Smoking|Smoking Cessation|Smoking, Cigarette
BEHAVIORAL: Motivating Pacifika Against Cigarettes and Tobacco
Number of cigarettes smoked in last 30 days, How many cigarettes has the participant smoked in the last 30 days?, 8 months|Cigarette smoked in past 7 days, Has the participant smoked a cigarette in the past 7 days?, 8 months|Cigarette smoked in past 24 hours, Has the participant smoked a cigarette in the past 24 hours?, 8 months|Expired carbon monoxide (CO), Biomarker validation (expired CO) of self-reported tobacco use, 8 months
Number of cigarettes smoked in last 30 days, How many cigarettes has the participant smoked in the last 30 days?, 2 months|Number of cigarettes smoked in last 30 days, How many cigarettes has the participant smoked in the last 30 days?, 5 months|Cigarette smoked in past 7 days, Has the participant smoked a cigarette in the past 7 days?, 2 months|Cigarette smoked in past 7 days, Has the participant smoked a cigarette in the past 7 days?, 5 months|Cigarette smoked in past 24 hours, Has the participant smoked a cigarette in the past 24 hours?, 2 months|Cigarette smoked in past 24 hours, Has the participant smoked a cigarette in the past 24 hours?, 5 months|Expired carbon monoxide (CO), Biomarker validation (expired CO) of self-reported tobacco use, 2 months|Expired carbon monoxide (CO), Biomarker validation (expired CO) of self-reported tobacco use, 5 months
This randomized control trial (RCT) consisted of a baseline assessment (Wave 0) and three follow-up assessments (Waves 1-3). Follow-up assessments were conducted at 2 months, 5 months, and 8 months after the baseline assessment. The objective of the study was to test a culturally-tailored online program designed to help PI young adults quit smoking cigarettes. The online program contained (1) personalized, automated text messages, (2) interactive, online educational modules, and (3) an online forum.

Hypotheses for this study include:

1. Participants in the intervention program tailored to PIs would have significantly higher rates of abstinence, lower rates of relapse, and lower smoking frequency and intensity at each follow-up time point than those in the standard intervention program.
2. Participants with impaired affective decision capacity (low scores on Iowa Gambling Task (IGT)) would benefit more from the tailored intervention program than participants with normal affective decision capacity (high IGT scores).
3. Effects from the tailored intervention program would be more pronounced among participants with particular dispositional phenotypes (depression, hostility, impulsivity) and baseline severity of tobacco addiction (nicotine dependence).
4. High-intensity users of the tailored intervention program would be more successful than low intensity users in reducing the frequency and intensity of cigarettes smoked.
5. The tailored intervention program would have greater success at engaging and retaining participants than the standard intervention program.