A Phase II Study of Oral Cyclophosphamide and Sirolimus (OCR) in Advanced Sarcoma
The purpose of this Phase II study will assess the effectiveness of the combination of oral cyclophosphamide and sirolimus in sarcoma patients with relapsed or widespread disease who cannot be cured by surgery, radiation or conventional chemotherapy.
Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide and Sirolimus
Number of Patients Alive Without Disease Progression, Patients who were evaluable for response to therapy, alive and without evidence of sarcoma disease progression. Target lesions followed were lesions that had progressed by World Health Organization (WHO) criteria. Disease progression is defined as a greater than or equal to 25% increase in the sum of the product of target lesions, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions or the appearance of new tumor lesions \>10mm., 6 months
Median Overall Survival Time, Median overall duration of survival., 48 weeks
The purpose of this Phase II study you are being asked to participate in will assess the effectiveness of the combination of oral cyclophosphamide and sirolimus in sarcoma patients with relapsed or widespread disease who cannot be cured by surgery, radiation or conventional chemotherapy. Malignant connective tissue tumors of soft tissue and bone (sarcomas) are highly aggressive cancers. There are few available chemotherapy treatments that are active in treating sarcomas. Sarcomas that have metastasized (spread throughout the body) are usually fatal. There is a great need to identify new active drugs to treat metastatic or relapsed sarcomas. Low dose oral daily cyclophosphamide is an established chemotherapy regimen for treatment of malignant and autoimmune disease and is generally well tolerated. Sirolimus is approved for prevention of kidney rejection after transplantation. Temsirolimus, a form of sirolimus, is approved for the treatment of kidney cancer. Sirolimus combined with cyclophosphamide in animal models of sarcoma resulted in significant anti-tumor activity. Tumor and blood samples will be studied to look for known protein targets of the medication to help learn why certain subjects have a favorable response to the treatment.