A Taiwanese Oncogenetic Panel and Integrated Clinical Data Registry Study for Diffuse Glioma
Glioma is a major histological subtype of primary malignant brain tumors in Taiwan, with distinct epidemiological, clinical, and pathological features comparing to the other common cancer diseases. The disease rarely appears with metastatic disease at diagnosis, and with the most malignant subtype, glioblastoma, occurs with preference in mid- to old-age. For decades, primary malignant brain tumors has been known as one of the most desperate disease without successful improvement regarding of the treatment. Surgical resection is the principle for the primary treatment of gliomas. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are often applied to patients for adjuvant therapy of surgery to pursue the treatment effect. Disappointedly, vast majority of the patients would eventually develop disease recurrence, leaving only limited choice for salvage treatment thereafter. The prognosis of these patients remains desperate, and thus a better understanding of this deadly disease is crucial for finding better therapeutic strategies for these patients.
Primary Malignant Brain Tumors
OTHER: A Taiwanese Oncogenetic Panel and Integrated Clinical Data Registry Study for Diffuse Glioma
To evaluate the genetic profiles in advanced thyroid cancer patients in Taiwan., ACTonco+ACTFusion Biospecimen Retention: Samples With DNA One H\&E staining slide, and 15-20 tissue slides (5 um thickness) for cancer panel.

Details of Tests/Collaborative Test Unit:

Testing will take place in a certified precision medicine laboratory.

Non-tumor Sample (Blood): Seven(7)ml of cell free DNA and Eight (8) ml of blood in EDTA tube will be collected from the participant, 5 years
With demand of molecular characterization in precise diagnosis, we proposed this registry study to explore the impact of the new criteria by applying next-generation sequencing. The specific aims of this project are (1) to establish the tumor genetic and molecular profiles of adult-type diffuse gliomas in Taiwan, (2) to understand the treatment prognosis depending on difference of the genetic and molecular profiles for adult-type diffuse gliomas in Taiwan, and (3) to reveal the evolutionary changes of genetic and molecular features of adult-type diffuse gliomas. The long-term goals of this study are to help implement personalized therapy, to develop novel therapy, and to improve outcomes of patients with adult-type diffuse gliomas. It is also expected to create a platform for data storage and sharing.