Bevacizumab and PEG-Interferon Alfa-2b in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Carcinoid Tumors
This randomized phase II trial is to see if combining bevacizumab with PEG-interferon alfa-2b works in treating patients who have metastatic or unresectable carcinoid tumors. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them. PEG-interferon alfa-2b may stop the growth of cancer by stopping blood flow to the tumor. Combining bevacizumab with PEG-interferon alfa-2b may kill more cancer cells
Metastatic Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumor|Recurrent Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumor|Regional Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: PEG-interferon alfa-2b|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Tumor response rate (CR + PR) as measured by RECIST criteria, Up to 4 years
Progression free survival, From the time of initial treatment to the time of PD or death, assessed up to 4 years|Biochemical response rate measured after treatment, Up to 4 years|Toxicity graded according to CTC v3.0 criteria for adverse outcomes, Up to 4 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the progression-free survival rate in patients with metastatic or unresectable carcinoid tumors treated with bevacizumab and PEG-interferon alfa-2b.

II. Determine the tumor response rate (complete and partial) in patients treated with this regimen.

III. Determine the biochemical response rate of patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicity and reversibility of toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are treated in 2 stages.

Stage I: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV on day 1.

Arm II: Patients receive PEG-interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, and 15.

In both arms, courses repeat every 3 weeks. Patients with progressive disease at 9 weeks proceed to stage II. All other patients proceed to stage II after 18 weeks on stage I.

Stage II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV on day 1 and PEG-interferon alfa-2b SC once weekly. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a complete response (CR) and remain in CR for 2 additional courses come off study. Patients are followed for survival.