Functional Outcome After Treatment for Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
To investigate the treatment related effects of transoral robotic surgery (TORS) or oncological treatment of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma with a 1-year follow up.
Oropharynx Cancer|Pain|Swallowing Disorder|Quality of Life|Saliva Altered|Human Papilloma Virus
PROCEDURE: Primary Trans Oral Robotic Surgery (TORS)|RADIATION: Radio(chemo)therapy
Altered salivatory function, Measured as change in flow rate or composition compared to baseline measurements performed prior to treatment., 3 and 12 months follow up
Changes in swallowing function (MBSS), Assessed using modified barium swallowing studies (MBSS). Evaluated as change from baseline., 3 and 12 months as well as 3 years after treatment|Changes in swallowing function (FEES), Assessed using fiber endoscopic evaluation of swallowing function (FEES). Evaluated as change from baseline., 3 and 12 months as well as 3 years after treatment|Change to quality of life scores (MDADI), Assessed using the MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) questionnaire. Evaluated as change from baseline., 3 and 12 months as well as 3 years after treatment|Change to quality of life scores (EORTC QLQ-C30), Assessed using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 questionnaire. Evaluated as change from baseline., 3 and 12 months as well as 3 years after treatment|Change to quality of life scores (EORTC QLQ-H&N35), Assessed using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-H\&N35 questionnaire. Evaluated as change from baseline., 3 and 12 months as well as 3 years after treatment|Treatment related pain, Assessed using a pain diary based on a 10 point visual analog scale (VAS). 0 being no pain and 10 the most severe pain. Registrered in increments of 1 (i.e. 3,5 is not an accepted score whereas 3 or 4 are)., For as long as the patient needs analgesics or up to three months
Patients are enrolled prospectively at the department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery \& Audiology at Copenhagen University Hospital, Rigshospitalet.

All eligible patients with histologically verified squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx regardless of treatment option (as long as the intent is curative) can be included.

Outcome measures are assessed at baseline and repeated 3 and 12 months after treatment.