Paclitaxel With or Without Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, or Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well paclitaxel when given together with or without pazopanib hydrochloride works in treating patients with ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cavity cancer that is persistent or has come back. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor or by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether paclitaxel is more effective when given with or without pazopanib hydrochloride in treating ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cavity cancer.
Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Placebo
Progression Free Survival, The time from randomization until disease progression, death, or date of last contact. Endpoints are progression or death. Patients who are not observed with an endpoint are censored. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, For those patients whose disease can be evaluated by physical examination, progression was assessed prior to each 21-day cycle. CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle, Up to 5 years
Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v.4, All grade 3 or greater Adverse Events (AEs) occurring during treatment and up to 30 days after stopping the study treatment are reported., From baseline to 30 days after last dose of drug.|Proportion of Participants With Tumor Response by RECIST, Patients with Complete and Partial Tumor Response by RECIST 1.1. Responses (CR and PR) require confirmation at greater than or equal to 4 weeks from initial documentation. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Every other cycle for 6 months, then every 3 months until disease progression,Up to 5 years|Percentage of Participants With Tumor Response by CA-125, Response as evaluated by CA-125 levels. Response is indicated if CA-125 reduced by 50% of the baseline measure., Prior to each cycle of treatment. Then follow-up every three months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years, up to 5 years.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival, Every cycle while patient is receiving protocol therapy. Patients monitored for survival after off therapy every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months, up to 5 years
Single-nucleotide Polymorphisms, Assessed Using the iPLEX Assay on the Sequenome MassARRAY Platform, Analyzed using deoxyribonucleic acid isolated from whole blood specimens., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival hazard ratio of the combination of weekly paclitaxel and pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride) compared to weekly paclitaxel and placebo in patients with persistent or recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

II. To estimate and compare the proportion of patients responding to therapy by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), cancer antigen 125 (CA125) response, the overall survival (OS), and the duration of response in each arm.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the association between plasma cytokines and angiogenic markers and progression-free and overall survival.

II. To explore the association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and progression-free and overall survival.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and placebo orally (PO) daily on days 1-28.

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel as in Arm I and pazopanib hydrochloride PO daily on days 1-28.

In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.