IO102-IO103 in Combination With Pembrolizumab as First-line Treatment for Patients With Metastatic NSCLC, SCCHN, or mUBC
A Phase II Multi-Arm (basket) Trial Investigating the Safety and Efficacy of IO102-IO103 in Combination with pembrolizumab, as First-line Treatment for Patients with Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head or Neck (SCCHN), or Metastatic Urothelial Bladder Cancer (mUBC)
Lung Cancer Non Small Cell|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Urothelial Carcinoma Bladder
DRUG: IO102-IO103 in combination with pembrolizumab
ORR or PFS, Target ORR according to RECIST v1.1 or PFS Rate at 6 months as per investigator assessments., 6 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from first treatment with IMP to the first documented disease progression (based on disease evaluation done locally for all patients in accordance with RECIST v.1.1) or death from any cause. If a patient is not known to have progressed or died then they will be censored at the date of the last disease assessment. If a patient progresses after they have 2 or more missed disease assessment visits then they will be censored at the date of the last non missing disease assessment., Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment|Duration of Response (DoR), DoR will be measured from the date of first observed objective response until disease progression or death (whichever is earlier). Date of progression and censoring will be handled in the same way as for PFS (evaluation done locally for all patients in accordance with RECIST v.1.1). The time of the initial response will be defined as the latest of the dates contributing towards the first visit response of PR or CR. If a patient does not progress following a response, then their duration of response will use the PFS censoring time., Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment|Complete Response Rate (CRR), CRR is defined as the number (%) of patients with a visit response of CR. Evaluation of response will be done locally for all patients in accordance with RECIST v.1.1., Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the number (%) of patients with a visit response of PR or CR or SD. Evaluation of response will be done locally for all patients in accordance with RECIST v.1.1., Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from first dose of IMP until death from any cause. Patients not known to have died will be censored at the date last known to be alive. After disease progression, all patients are expected to be followed every 12 weeks to confirm their survival status. These follow-up visits/contacts continue until the last planned overall survival analysis., Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment|Time to Response (TTR), In the subset of responding patients, TTR is defined as the time from first dose of IMP until the date of the first observed partial or complete response. Evaluation of response will be done locally for all patients in accordance with RECIST v.1.1., Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment|Safety reporting, AE/SAE collection, Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment
Exploratory Endpoint: Biomarkers, Biomarkers will be assessed and correlated both to the clinical response (after treatment) and the induced immunological response, Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment|Exploratory Endpoint: Progression Free Survival according to iRECIST (iPFS), PFS is defined as the time from first treatment with IMP to the first documented disease progression (based on iRECIST) or death from any cause. Per iRECIST disease progression should be confirmed by the site 4 to 8 weeks after site-assessed first radiologic evidence of PD (iUPD). The event date used for calculation for progression free survival should be the first date progression criteria is met (iUPD) providing that progression is confirmed at the next assessment.If a patient is not known to have progressed or died then they will be censored at the date of the last disease assessment. If a patient progresses after they have 2 or more missed disease assessment visits then they will be censored at the date of the last non missing disease assessment., Every 9 weeks during the first year of treatment and then every 12 weeks for the second year of treatment
Naturally occurring IDO/PD-L1 specific T-cells recognize MHC-bound IDO/PD-L1 peptides, and are able to eliminate IDO expressing or PD-L1 expressing immune regulatory cells and cancer cells. Activation of IDO or PD-L1 specific T-cells through vaccination with the IDO and PD-L1 peptides (IO102-IO103) will boost natural killing of cancer cells and counteract immune regulatory mechanisms in the tumor microenvironment. Thus, IDO/PD-L1 specific T-cells may both directly support anti-cancer immunity by killing target T-cells but also indirectly by releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines in the microenvironment to boost additional anti-cancer immunity.

This is a non comparative, open label, unblinded, multi-arm (basket) trial of IO102-IO103 in combination with pembrolizumab in three indications: NSCLC, SCCHN or mUBC. The primary objective of the trial is to investigate the efficacy of IO102-IO103 in combination with pembrolizumab in the frontline treatment in each of the different metastatic solid tumour indications with the intent to expand a specific arm if a clinically meaningful signal is observed based on primary endpoint (dual target of either ORR or PFS by investigator assessment according to RECIST v.1.1).

Approximately 90 patients will be enrolled and treated; approximately 30 patients in each arm. All eligible patients will receive treatment for up to 2 years with IO102-IO103 (IO102 85μg and IO103 185μg) SC Q3W in combination with pembrolizumab IV 200mg Q3W.