A Prospective Cohort Study of Chinese Patients With Pulmonary Nodules: Prediction of Lung Cancer Using Noninvasive Biomarkers
The broad goals of this study is to identify changes in genomic landscape during transition from stage 0 to stage 1 lung cancer.

This study intends to determine whether diagnostic biomarkers measured in minimally invasive biospecimens are able to correlate molecular, clinical and imaging features to distinguish malignant from benign pulmonary nodules. The diagnostic markers once validated can be used as broad screening tools for lung cancer.
Pulmonary Nodules
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: A genomic and transcriptomic landscape analysis
The changes in genomic landscape related to progression from Stage 0 to Stage I lung cancer that could be utilized for early lung cancer diagnosis and intervention., The transcriptome of benign versus malignant by using RNA sequencing. The cfDNA in blood samples collected from patients with pulmonary nodules., 3 Years
The biomarker changes in nasal epithelium and matching blood and tissue samples so as to validate molecular tests using nasal epithelium to predict lung cancer., The biomarker change in nasal epithelium to predict lung cancer., 3 Years|The individual or combinations of clinical, molecular, and imaging features can reliably identify individuals with indeterminate lung nodules 5-30 mm who have lung cancer, The individual or combination of clinical, molecular, and imaging features can reliably identify individuals who have lung cancer, 3 Years
The four-year study aims to recruit 3000 patients (1500 GGO and 1500 solid / semi solid nodules) in the study based on qualifying for a lung cancer screening CT or by routine CT chest with the observation of a lung nodule between 5-30mm diameter. These patients will be followed for 2\~3 years and be managed according to institutional standard of care. This may involve the Chinese Thoracic Society guideline or Fleischner criteria (either 2013 or 2017 guidelines). The clinical data, CT imaging and biospecimens will be collected during each visit. Once a patient undergoes surgery, tissue samples (FFPE) from surgery will also be collected.

The gold standard for lung cancer diagnosis will be the results of bronchoscopic biopsy of lung or lymph nodes, percutaneous biopsy of lung or other organ sites, surgical biopsy or resection, or a minimum follow-up of 2 years.