Apatinib and Etoposide in Patients With Platinum Resistant or Refractory Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of apatinib in patients with platinum resistant or refractory ovarian cancer when combined with etoposide.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: Etoposide
Objective response rate, Objective response rate defined as confirmed complete response or partial response under RECIST 1.1 criteria. CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. To be assigned a status of CR or PR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no fewer than 4 weeks after the response criteria are first met., Up to three years
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods is defined as the time from registration to the earlier of death or disease progression. Patients alive without disease progression are censored at the date of last disease evaluation. Progressive disease (PD) based on RECIST 1.1 is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Equivocal progression of non-target lesions also qualifies as PD., Up to three years|Duration of Response, Duration of response was defined as the interval between the date of the first documented response by RECIST 1.1 to the date of first disease progression or death, whichever occurred earlier., Up to three years|Frequency and severity of adverse effects as defined by CTCAE version 4.03, Evaluation of adverse event rate according to CTCAE v4.03, 30 days after last dose|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the duration from date of enrollment to the date of death from any cause., Up to three years
Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death for patients with gynecologic malignancies. In most cases, the disease is diagnosed at an advanced stage and approximately 75% of patients will eventually experience disease recurrence. However, the overall response rates of second-line chemotherapy for recurrent ovarian cancer are only 20-27%. Therefore, it is important to seek alternative agent that can improve the outcome. Apatinib is a novel vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor and it has been approved for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer. The preclinical studies suggest apatinib may be effective in other cancers such as ovarian cancer. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to test the efficacy and safety of the study drug apatinib when combined with a standard treatment, etoposide, for patients with platinum resistant or refractory ovarian cancer.