Anti-PD-1 Monoclonal Antibody in Advanced, Trastuzumab-resistant, HER2-positive Breast Cancer
Panacea is a phase Ib/II trial evaluating the efficacy of MK-3475 and trastuzumab in patients with trastuzumab-resistant, HER2- positive metastatic breast cancers
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: MK-3475
Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) of MK-3475 in Combination With Trastuzumab, Determination of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) which is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as suspected to be trial treatment related (possible, probable or definite) and unrelated to disease or disease progression. Toxicities and lab values will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE (v4.0).

1. Any grade-3 or greater non-hematological adverse event lasting at least one week;
2. Any grade-4 hematological toxicity; or,
3. Any adverse event resulting in a delay starting cycle 2 of more than 14 days., Within the first 21 days|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Confirmed CR or PR as best overall response. At the time of each restaging, patients will be classified as achieving complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD), or non-evaluable for response according to RECIST (Version 1.1) criteria., Clinical and radiological tumor assessment will be performed by CT scan or MRI at baseline, at weeks 12, 18 and 24, then every 12 weeks until progression, or 24 weeks after stop of treatment if before progression.
Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of response (DoR) is defined among patients with objective response (confirmed CR or PR as best overall response) as the interval between dates of first documentation of objective response and first documentation of progressive disease. In the absence of documented progressive disease, follow-up will be censored at date of last disease assessment., From date of first documentation of objective response until first documentation of progressive disease, up to 24 weeks after stop of treatment (=30 months)|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression (TTP) defined as the interval between the dates of the start of trial treatment and first documentation of progressive disease. In the absence of documented progressive disease, follow-up will be censored at date of last disease assessment, From the first trial treatment until first documentation of progressive disease up to 24 weeks after stop of treatment (=30 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), The proportion of patients with best confirmed RECIST response of CR, PR, or duration of SD of at least 24 weeks (measured from first dose of trial treatment)., From the start of trial treatment until confirmed CR, PR, or SD lasting for 24 weeks or longer|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The interval between the dates of the first dose of trial treatment until first documentation of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Patients with new non-breast cancer malignancy must continue to be followed for progression of the original breast cancer. For patients without progression, follow-up is censored at the date of last disease assessment without progression, unless death occurs within 12 weeks following the date last known progression-free, in which case the death will be counted as a PFS event., From the date of first treatment dose until documented disease progression or death from any cause. whichever occur first, assessed up to 30 months|Overall Survival (OS) at 12 Months, OS is defined as the time from the first dose of trial treatment to death from any cause. For patients who are lost to follow-up or who have no documentation of death at the time of final analysis, follow-up is censored at the date of last assessment of vital status. OS at 12 months by Kaplan-Meier estimates., Time from start of trial treatment to death from any cause, assessed up to 30 months
A significant amount of preclinical and correlative clinical data suggest that HER2-positive breast cancer could be amenable to immune¬therapeutic approaches. The presence of HER2-overexpression in breast cancers is associated with higher levels of proliferation, high histologic grade and higher levels of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) compared with HER2-negative tumors. The investigators therefore hypothesize that for HER2-positive tumors, avoidance of destruction by the host immune system must be an important mechanism contributing to tumor growth and progression.

The term "immune evasion" refers to the ability of the tumor to suppress and change host anti-tumor immune reactions. The programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) pathway represents a major immune control switch which may be engaged by tumor cells to overcome active T-cell immune surveillance. The ligands for PD-1 (PD-L1 and PD-L2) are constitutively expressed or can be induced in various tumors. High expression of PD-L1 on tumor cells (and to a lesser extent of PD-L2) has been found to correlate with poor prognosis and survival in various other solid tumor types. Furthermore, PD-1 has been suggested to regulate tumor-specific T-cell expansion in patients with malignant melanoma. These observations suggest that the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway plays a critical role in the tumor immune evasion and could be considered an attractive target for therapeutic intervention in several solid organ types.

MK-3475 (previously known as SCH 900475) is a potent and highly-selective humanized mAb of the IgG4/kappa isotype designed to directly block the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2. MK-3475 strongly enhances T lymphocyte immune responses in cultured blood cells from healthy human donors, cancer patients, and primatesMK-3475 also modulates the level of interleukin-2 (IL-2), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), interferon gamma (IFNγ), and other cytokines.

The investigators therefore propose to evaluate if the addition of an immunotherapy can reverse trastuzumab resistance and improve clinical outcomes in HER2-positive disease. In this study the investigators will determine if a monoclonal antibody targeted against PD-1, a T cell negative regulator, can reverse trastuzumab resistance in patients previously progressing on trastuzumab.