Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Kidney Cancer
RATIONALE: Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well sorafenib works in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable kidney cancer.
Kidney Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib
Toxicity of Intrapatient Dose Escalation of Sorafenib Tosylate, To evaluate the toxicity of dose escalating sorafenib, an estimation of the percentage of patients who are unable to tolerate those escalated doses will be made. Patients will be dose escalated every 4 weeks until a maximum dose of 800 mg BID is reached., Study completion
Response Rate, The proportion of subjects with an objective response of complete or partial based on the RECIST Criteria, from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Evaluate the safety and toxicity of dose escalating sorafenib tosylate in patients with metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma.

Secondary

* Determine tumor response in these patients.
* Determine time to progression in these patients.
* Determine overall survival of these patients.

Tertiary

* Collect data on angiogenesis inhibition induced by sorafenib tosylate.
* Collect data on immunomodulatory effects of sorafenib tosylate.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for at least 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients receive escalating doses of sorafenib tosylate (in the absence of grade 3 or 4 dose-limiting toxicity) until a pre-determined dose is reached.

Blood and urine samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for VEGF level determination. Blood samples are analyzed for T4/T8, NK, CD25+, and Fox p3 by flow cytometry. Tumor tissue blocks or unstained slides are obtained for chemistry staining of VEGF.