PEP-CMV in Recurrent MEdulloblastoma/Malignant Glioma
The primary goal of this prospective clinical trial is to evaluate the safety of PEP-CMV in patients with recurrent medulloblastoma and malignant glioma. Patients with histologically-proven medulloblastoma or malignant glioma who had received prior therapy for their initial diagnosis and subsequently had tumor recurrence/progression may be enrolled any time after recurrence/progression regardless of prior adjuvant therapy. PEP-CMV is a vaccine comprised of Component A, a synthetic long peptide (SLP) of 26 amino acid residues from human pp65. In May 2021, enrollment on the study was temporarily suspended due to delays in vialing the PEP-CMV study vaccine.
Recurrent Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Brain Tumor, Childhood|Malignant Glioma
DRUG: PEP-CMV
Proportion of patients with unacceptable toxicity, Evaluate the safety of PEP-CMV in pediatric patients with recurrent MB or recurrent Grade III/IV glioma, 2 weeks after the 3rd PEP-CMV vaccine on the last enrolled patient
Mean or median change from baseline at each follow-up assessment in ELISPOT (IFN-γ), Quantitate the immune response to the components of the PEP-CMV vaccine by ELISPOT, 24 months|Mean or median change from baseline at each follow-up assessment in ELISA (gB-KLH), Quantitate the immune response to the components of the PEP-CMV vaccine by ELISA, 24 months
Once a patient has enrolled onto this study, prior therapy will be terminated and patients will receive temozolomide 200 mg/m2/day x 5 days. If they are receiving bevacizumab at the time of enrollment, they will continue bevacizumab 10 mg/Kg every 14 days.

Patients who are ≥ 18 years of age will receive a tetanus (Td) booster at the time of enrollment. Immunotherapy begins with a Tetanus (Td) pre-conditioning vaccine delivered intradermally (i.d.) in the right groin at the site of the vaccine injection 6-24 hours prior to the first vaccine on day 21. The PEP-CMV vaccine will be administered as follows: PEP-CMV Component A mixed with Montanide ISA-51 (1:1 volume ratio) intradermally administered half in the RIGHT groin and half in the LEFT groin.

The first 3 PEP-CMV vaccines will occur every 2 weeks, then PEP-CMV vaccines will continue monthly (+/- 2 weeks) for no more than 10 years. Blood will be obtained for immune system monitoring.

In May 2021, enrollment on the study was temporarily suspended due to delays in vialing the PEP-CMV study vaccine.