New Prognostic Index for Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Outcome in Patients With Advanced High-grade Serous Ovarian Cancer
A validated prognostic index for the outcome of advanced high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is still lacking. To address this need, we developed an ovarian neoadjuvant chemotherapy prognostic index (ONCPI) to improve predictive accuracy. We analyzed the clinicopathological characteristics of advanced HGSOC patients receiving platinum-based NACT. Blood inflammatory composite markers were calculated and binary-transformed using optimal cutoffs. Omental hematoxylin and eosin (H\&E) stained slides were selected for the assessment of chemotherapy response score (CRS). Logistic regression analysis and Cox proportional hazards regression model were utilized to develop a prognostic index.
Ovarian Cancer|Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy|Prognostic Cancer Model
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CRS scoring|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Routine blood laboratory testing before treatment
Response to platinum-based chemotherapy, After NACT-IDS and postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy, treatment efficacy was assessed according to NCCN guidelines. For primary tumor, patients who relapsed 6 months or more after initial chemotherapy were termed platinum-sensitive. In contrast, patients whose disease recurred in less than 6 months were classified as platinum-resistant., At least 6 months after initial chemotherapy
3-year progression-free survival (PFS), PFS was calculated from the date of the first NACT until disease progression or death due to any cause., 3 years|3-year overall survival (OS), OS was calculated from the date of the first NACT administration until death due to any cause., 3 years
1. The clinicopathological data of patients newly diagnosed with high-grade serous ovarian cancer in Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital were collected and screened.
2. Statistical analysis of hematological indicators that may be related to inflammation before platinum-based therapy in patients who met the inclusion criteria, including but not limited to: Absolute white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil count, absolute lymphocyte count, absolute monocyte count, platelet count, hemoglobin and fibrinogen were calculated. NLR, MLR, PLR, FLR and SII were calculated, and the correlation between the above indicators and tumor grade, stage, platinum-based drug sensitivity and prognosis was analyzed.
3. CRS scoring was performed using H\&E sections of omentum obtained during IDS surgery.
4. logistic regression and Cox regression were used to analyze the independent risk factors affecting the sensitivity of neoadjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy and the prognosis of patients.
5. K-M analysis and ROC curve were used to analyze the predictive value of NLR combined with CRS ONCPI index for the response of high-grade serous ovarian cancer to platinum therapy.