Safety/Efficacy of Letrozole Monotherapy or in Combination With Zoledronic Acid as Extended Adjuvant Treatment of Postmenopausal Patients With Primary Breast Cancer
This was a prospective, randomized, open-label, two arm phase III trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zoledronic acid in preventing bone loss in postmenopausal women with operable breast cancer who had received 4 to 6 years of adjuvant tamoxifen therapy after resection of the tumor. Patients were treated with letrozole 2.5 mg orally per day or letrozole 2.5 mg orally per day in combination with zoledronic acid 4 mg/6 months as an infusion.

This trial did not recruit patients in the United States.
Osteoporosis|Postmenopausal
DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Zoledronic acid
Change in Bone Mineral Density (BMD) From Baseline to Month 36, Change in bone mineral density (BMD) measured by dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in lumbar spine (L1-L4). Change calculated by (Month 36 BMD-Baseline BMD)/Baseline BMD\*100., at 36 months as compared to baseline|Percent Change in Bone Mineral Density (BMD) From Baseline to Month 36, Bone Mineral Density is measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan.

ANCOVA model was used in the analysis where: Variable = Baseline, Center, Treatment BMD = (Month 36 BMD-Baseline BMD)/Baseline BMD\*100., Baseline, Month 36|Change in T-score From Baseline to Month 36, BMD measured by DXA (dual energy x-ray absorptiometry) at lumbar spine, L1-L4. The T-Score is a comparison of a patient's BMD to that of a healthy 30 year of the same sex and ethnicity. The criteria of the World Health Organization are Normal is a T-Score of 1.0 or higher. Osteopenia is defined as between - 1.0 and -2.5. Osteoporosis is defined as -2.5 or lower, meaning a bone density that is two and half standard deviations below the mean of a 30 year old man/woman., Baseline and Month 36|Change in Z Score From Baseline to Month 36, Bone Mineral Density is measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The Z-Score is the number of standard deviations a patient's BMD differs from the average BMD of their age, sex and ethnicity. A Z-score of less than minus -1.5 raises concern of factors other than aging as contributing to osteoporosis., Baseline, month 36
Change in Bone Mineral Density From Baseline to 12 Months, Change in bone mineral density (BMD) measured by dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in lumbar spine (L1-L4). Change calculated by (Month 36 BMD-Baseline BMD)/Baseline BMD\*100., Baseline, 12 months|Number of Participants With Any Kind of Fractures, by Visit., Number of participants with fractures of any type since the last visit, Baseline, Month 6, 12, 18, 24 , 30 and 36|Median Disease Free Survival (DFS), Disease Free Survival is measured in days and represents the number of days participants were progression free. Progression free survival is defined as the time from randomization to the date of the first documented progression or recurrence of disease or death from any cause. Median disease free survival is the time when 50% of the patients had a recurrence., 36 months|Change in T-Score From Baseline to Month 12, BMD measured by DXA (dual energy x-ray absorptiometry) at lumbar spine, L1-L4. The T-Score is a comparison of a patient's BMD to that of a healthy 30 year of the same sex and ethnicity. The criteria of the World Health Organization are Normal is a T-Score of 1.0 or higher. Osteopenia is defined as between - 1.0 and -2.5. Osteoporosis is defined as -2.5 or lower, meaning a bone density that is two and half standard deviations below the mean of a 30 year old man/woman., Baseline, Month 12|Change in Z-Score From Baseline to Month 12, (DXA). The Z-Score is the number of standard deviations a patient's BMD differs from the average BMD of their age, sex and ethnicity. A Z-score of less than minus -1.5 raises concern of factors other than aging as contributing to osteoporosis, Baseline, Month 12
This was a prospective, randomized, open-label, two arm phase III trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zoledronic acid in preventing bone loss in postmenopausal women with operable breast cancer who had received 4 to 6 years of adjuvant tamoxifen therapy after resection of the tumor. Patients were treated with letrozole 2.5 mg orally per day or letrozole 2.5 mg orally per day in combination with zoledronic acid 4 mg/6 months as an infusion.

This trial did not recruit patients in the United States.