Phase 0 Biodistribution of Novel Imaging for Resectable Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this clinical trial is to study an experimental drug called PTP-01 that is being used as an imaging agent to diagnosis pancreatic cancer. Currently, pancreatic cancer is diagnosed using CT or MRI scans which miss small pancreatic cancers, particularly early stage disease. Researchers at the University of Virginia have identified a biomarker for pancreatic cancer called plectin, which is very specific for pancreatic cancer and not other, non-cancerous conditions involving the pancreas. These researchers have also developed PTP-01, an experimental drug that may be used with SPECT imaging to detect pancreatic cancer cells in humans.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: PTP-01
Ability of PTP-01 to detect pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, requires a signal to background ratio of greater than or equal to 2:1 following a single intravenous bolus of PTP-01, up to 72 hours post dose
Biodistribution and Binding Characteristics of PTP-01, Assessments will be made from imaging (whole body planar and SPECT/CT) and blood draws following PTP-01 dose. Tissue samples will also be retained for pathology., up to 7 days post dose|Clearance of PTP-01, Blood and urine samples will be collected to measure the level of radioactivity at specified intervals following PTP-01 dose., up to 7 days post dose|Safety and Tolerability of PTP-01, Clincial labs, ECGs, vital signs and physical exams will be performed up to 7 days post dose. Adverse events will be collected up to 30 days post dose., up to 30 days post dose
The purpose of this clinical trial is to study an experimental drug called PTP-01 that is being used as an imaging agent to diagnosis pancreatic cancer. Currently, pancreatic cancer is diagnosed using CT or MRI scans which miss small pancreatic cancers, particularly early stage disease. Researchers at the University of Virginia have identified a biomarker for pancreatic cancer called plectin, which is very specific for pancreatic cancer and not other, non-cancerous conditions involving the pancreas. These researchers have also developed PTP-01, an experimental drug that may be used with SPECT imaging to detect pancreatic cancer cells in humans.