Study of Modified FOLFOX6 Plus or Minus Sorafenib in Stage IV Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma (mCRC) Subjects
To determine if sorafenib when added to chemotherapy will slow disease progression more than chemotherapy alone in patients previously untreated for metastatic colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib (Nexavar, BAY43-9006) + mFOLFOX6 (5-FU, levo-leucovorin, oxaliplatin)|DRUG: Matching placebo + mFOLFOX6 (5-FU, levo-leucovorin, oxaliplatin)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from date of randomization to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Subjects without progression or death at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of tumor evaluation. Disease progression was defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of tumor lesions sizes., From randomization of the first subject until 23 months later, assessed every 8 weeks.
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time from date of randomization to death due to any cause. Subjects still alive at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of last contact., From randomization of the first subject until 33 months later.|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression (TTP) was defined as the time from date of randomization to disease progression. Subjects without progression at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of tumor evaluation. Disease progression was defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of tumor lesions sizes., From randomization of the first subject until 23 months later, assessed every 8 weeks.|Overall Response, Overall response of a subject was defined as the best tumor response (Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR)) observed during trial period assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. CR was defined as disappearance of tumor lesions, PR was defined as a decrease of at least 30% in the sum of tumor lesion sizes., From randomization of the first subject until 23 months later, assessed every 8 weeks.|Duration of Response, Duration of Response was defined as the time from date of first response (Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR)) to the date when Progressive Disease (PD) was first documented or to the date of death, whichever occurred first according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Subjects still having CR or PR and alive at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of tumor evaluation. CR was defined as disappearance of tumor lesions, PR as a decrease of at least 30% and PD as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of tumor lesions sizes., From randomization of the first subject until 23 months later, assessed every 8 weeks
To determine if sorafenib when added to chemotherapy will slow disease progression more than chemotherapy alone in patients previously untreated for metastatic colorectal cancer.