Prediction Model of Occult Omental Metastasis in Patients With Gastric Cancer
A complete omentectomy is typically recommended during radical total gastrectomy for gastric cancer, though its impact on survival remains unclear. This study aimed to assess the frequency and risk factors of metastases in the greater omentum in gastric cancer patients undergoing gastrectomy. It will involve a single prospective cohort of consecutive patients who underwent total gastrectomy with complete en bloc omentectomy and modified D2 lymphadenectomy. Post-surgery, the omentum will dissect from the gastrectomy specimen beyond the gastroepiploic vessels and examine separately for pathological assessment. The primary outcome will focus on the detection of omental metastases.
Gastric Cancer|Omental Metastasis
OTHER: Without any intervention, we only divided gastric cancer patients into two groups based on postoperative pathology, and analyzed their basic characteristics and risk factors
patients with omental metastases, After the operation, the postoperative pathological examination of the patient indicated the presence of omental metastases, up to 2 weeks after gastric cancer surgery|patients without omental metastases, After surgery, pathological examination confirmed no omental metastases, up to 2 weeks after gastric cancer surgery
A complete omentectomy is typically recommended during radical total gastrectomy for gastric cancer, though its impact on survival remains unclear. This study aimed to assess the frequency and risk factors of metastases in the greater omentum in gastric cancer patients undergoing gastrectomy. It will involve a single prospective cohort of consecutive patients who underwent total gastrectomy with complete en bloc omentectomy and modified D2 lymphadenectomy. Post-surgery, the omentum will dissect from the gastrectomy specimen beyond the gastroepiploic vessels and examine separately for pathological assessment. The primary outcome will focus on the detection of omental metastases.