Phase 1/2: CD45RA Depleted Stem Cell Addback to Prevent Viral or Fungal Infections Post TCRab/CD19 Depleted HSCT
The major morbidities of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) using donors that are not human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matched siblings are graft vs host disease (GVHD) and life- threatening infections. T cell receptor alpha beta (TCRαβ) T lymphocyte depletion and CD19+ B lymphocyte depletion of alternative donor hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) grafts is effective in preventing GVHD, but immune reconstitution may be delayed, increasing the risk of infections. The central hypothesis of this study is that an addback of CD45RO memory T lymphocytes, derived from a fraction of the original donor peripheral stem cell product depleted of CD45RA naïve T lymphocytes, will accelerate immune reconstitution and help decrease the risk of infections in TCRab/CD19 depleted PSCT.
Leukemia|High Risk Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|High Risk Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Relapse Leukemia|MDS (Myelodysplastic Syndrome)|Relapsed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Acquired Aplastic Anemia|Inherited BMF Syndrome|Immunodeficiency|Primary Immune Regulatory Disorder|Hemoglobinopathies|Bone Marrow Failure|Inborn Errors of Metabolism|HLH
DEVICE: Phase 1 Dose Level 1|DEVICE: Phase 1 Dose Level 2|DEVICE: Phase 1 Dose Level 3|DEVICE: Phase 2 Maximum Tolerated Dose determined in Phase 1|DEVICE: Phase 2 Established Dose from prior study, NCT03810196
Evaluate number of patients with acute graft vs host disease (aGVHD), Safety evaluation assessment by cumulative incidence of acute graft vs host disease (reaction of donor immune cells against host tissues) to determine percentage of patients that develop grade 3-4 aGVHD., Up to 100 days post-transplantation|Evaluate number of patients with chronic graft vs host disease (cGVHD), Safety evaluation assessment by cumulative incidence and severity of chronic GVHD (graft vs host disease that occurs more than 100 days after transplant) to determine percentage of patients that develop cGVHD., Up to 2 years post-transplantation
Evaluate time to immune reconstitution, Evaluate time to achievement of standard immune reconstitution benchmarks following TCRαβ/CD19 depleted HSCT with CD45RA+ depleted addback, compared to historical experience with TCRαβ/CD19 depletion alone., 2 years|Evaluate number of patients with viral reactivation, Evaluate number of patients with viral reactivation (CMV, adenovirus, EBV, BK) following TCRαβ/CD19 depleted HSCT with CD45RA depleted addback, compared to historical experience with TCRαβ/CD19 depletion alone., 2 years
The risk of severe graft versus host disease (GVHD) is increased with the use of unrelated and partially matched related donors. T cell depletion reduces the risk of severe GVHD, but immune reconstitution is delayed. Important memory T cells that may protect patients from fungal and viral infections are also removed in the T depletion process. CD45RA depletion has been studied both as a single step to reduce the risk of GVHD, and also, in conjunction with αβTCR depleted hematopoietic stem cell grafts to accelerate immune reconstitution. This single institutional trial builds on data from our protocol #18-015286, NCT03810196, "CD45RA Depleted Peripheral Stem Cell Addback for Patients at Risk for Viral or Fungal Infections Post-TCRαβ/CD19 Depleted Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant". This prior protocol was limited to patients with hematologic malignancies using only unrelated donors as the stem cell source.

This new study will broaden the eligible diagnoses to include non-malignant transplant indications and participants with greater than or equal to 5/10 HLA matched related donors (also known as haploidentical).

This will be a phase 1 and phase 2 study depending on the donor type. Phase 1 will include patients receiving cells from mismatched/haploidentical related donors. This will be a dose escalation study to determine the maximum tolerated cell dose of the CD45RA depleted addback. Once that dose is determined, patients with this donor type will be treated as part of phase 2.

Patients receiving their cells from unrelated donors ( 9/10 or 10/10 HLA matched) will be treated as part of phase 2 with the CD45RA depleted addback cell dose that was used on our prior study. Phase 1 and phase 2 will run concurrently.