Randomized Trial of Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a Versus Hydroxyurea in Polycythemia Vera (PV) and Essential Thrombocythemia (ET)
This research is looking at two conditions, Essential Thrombocythemia (ET) and Polycythemia Vera (PV). ET causes people to produce too many blood cells called platelets and PV causes too many platelets and red blood cells to be made. Platelets are particles which circulate in the blood stream and normally prevent bleeding and bruising. Having too many platelets in the blood increases the risk of developing blood clots, which can result in life threatening events like heart attacks and strokes. When the number of red blood cells is increased in PV this will slow the speed of blood flow in the body and increases the risk of developing blood clots.

The purpose of this study is to look at the effectiveness of giving participants who have been diagnosed with ET or PV one of two different study regimens over time. The study subject will be followed for their condition for about 5 years. The subject will be randomized into one of two study regimens, either Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a (PEGASYS) or Aspirin and Hydroxyurea (also called Hydroxycarbamide). The subject must be newly diagnosed or already receiving treatment for either PV or ET. Each of the study drugs used in this study is already being used to treat subjects with ET or PV currently, but the investigators are unsure which study drug is better.
High Risk Polycythemia Vera|High Risk Essential Thrombocythemia
DRUG: PEGASYS|DRUG: Hydroxyurea|DRUG: Aspirin
Number of Participants With Complete Remission (CR), Number of participants with Complete Remission after 12 months of therapy assessed by hematologic response rates two strata of patients with high risk polycythemia vera (PV) or high risk essential thrombocythemia (ET). Complete remission means no evidence of disease., 12 months|Number of Participants With Partial Remission (PR), Number of participants with Partial Remission after 12 months of therapy assessed by hematologic response rates two strata of patients with high risk polycythemia vera (PV) or high risk essential thrombocythemia (ET). Partial Remission means decrease in the size of a tumor, or in the extent of cancer in the body, in response to treatment., 12 months
Number of Participants With Grade 3 and Grade 4 Hematological and Non-hematological Events, Number of Participants with Grade 3 and Grade 4 Hematological and Non-hematological Events using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 to assess the toxicity, safety and tolerability of therapy (Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a vs. Hydroxyurea)., 4 years|Change in the Total Symptom Score (TSS), Change in the Total Symptom Score which assessed improvement in disease symptoms measured by the change in TSS from the Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form (MPN-SAF) instrument being used in this study from baseline to 12 months. This 19 item instrument includes the previously validated 9 item brief fatigue inventory (BFI), symptoms related to splenomegaly, inactivity, cough, night sweats, pruritus, bone pains, fevers, weight loss, and an overall quality of life assessment. Each item is scored from 0-10 with full scale from 0-190, with higher scores mean worse symptoms., baseline and 12 months|JAK2 Allele Burden, To compare the impact of therapy (Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a vs. Hydroxyurea) on key biomarkers of the disease(s) by measuring the JAK2 allele burden., 4 years|Allele Burden, The impact of PEGASYS on JAK2 will be measured by the allele burden; hematopoietic cell clonality will be measured by whether patients with clonal disease return to polyclonal; bone marrow histopathology will be measured by going from abnormal to normal; cytogenetic abnormalities will be measured by seeing if the cytogenetics go from abnormal to normal.To compare the impact of therapy on JAK2-V617F (JAK2), CALR, hematopoietic cell clonality in platelets and granulocytes in females, bone marrow histopathology, and cytogenetic abnormalities., 4 years|Number of Participants With Progression of Disease or Death, Survival and incidence of development of myelodysplastic syndrome, myelofibrosis, or leukemic transformation after therapy

To estimate survival and incidence of development of myelodysplastic syndrome, myelofibrosis, or leukemic transformation after therapy (Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a vs. Hydroxyurea) by capturing the rate of progression to a more advanced myeloid malignancy., 4 years|Number of Participants With Major Cardiovascular Events After Therapy, 4 years
The Philadelphia chromosome negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) are a group of clonal hematological malignancies that are characterized by a chronic course which can be punctuated by a number of disease related events including thrombosis, hemorrhage, pruritis and leukemic transformation. These disorders include Polycythemia Vera (PV), Essential Thrombocythemia (ET) and Primary Myelofibrosis (PM). Recently an acquired somatic mutation in the intracellular kinase, JAK2 (JAK2V617F) has been observed in 95% of patients with PV, 50% of patients with ET and 50% of patients with primary myelofibrosis. At present the chemotherapeutic agent hydroxyurea is the standard of care for high risk patients with PV. Concern exists about prolonged use of this drug leading to leukemia and the inability of hydroxyurea to eliminate the malignant clone.

Interferon (rIFN -2b), is a drug that appears to be non-leukemogenic, and may have a preferential activity on the malignant clone in PV, as suggested by cytogenetic remissions obtained in patients treated with rIFN -2b. Several investigators recently reported that patients with PV treated with rIFN -2b had lower JAK2V617F allele burdens as compared to a control group that included patients treated with phlebotomy, hydroxyurea, or anagrelide, or who remained untreated. The results confirm the hypothesis that rIFN -2b preferentially targets the malignant clone in PV and raises the possibility that the JAK2V617F allele burden, and a reversion of clonal hematopoiesis monitored in females by expression of X-chromosome polymorphic alleles maybe useful in monitoring minimal residual disease in PV patients.

Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a (PEGASYS) has been demonstrated in phase II trials of patients with PV and ET to have clinical efficacy as measured by normalization of myeloproliferation, lack of vascular events while on therapy, and a decrease in the JAK2V617F allele burden. Overall the tolerability of the therapy was good, with each of these trials having a dropout rate secondary to toxicity of less than 10% of those enrolled. Although dropout rates for toxicity were low, that is not to say the therapy was without symptomatic toxicity, and indeed a spectrum of toxicities might be encountered and need to be weighed in the analysis of the net clinical benefit patients experience on a clinical trial with Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a.

A new MPN assessment form will be utilized in this study. This 19 item instrument includes a previously validated 9 item brief fatigue inventory (BFI), symptoms related to splenomegaly, inactivity, cough, night sweats, pruritus, bone pains, fevers, weight loss, and an overall quality of life assessment. The instrument yields an independent result for each symptom (fatigue is a composite score), as this methodology (of linear analog scale assessment \[LASA\]) has proven very valid in the past. This instrument was validated prospectively (by comparison to a panel of instruments each containing an aspect of the MPN-SAF) for administration at a single time point.

This is a randomized trial between hydroxyurea and Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a, it is an open label clinical trial in two independent disease strata: (1) high risk polycythemia vera and (2) high risk essential thrombocythemia.