Topical Rapamycin to Erase Angiofibromas in TSC
The study is a multi-center prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled evaluation of the safety and efficacy of a topically applied formulation of rapamycin to cutaneous angiofibromas in subjects with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC). Subjects will apply either the topical vehicle containing rapamycin or the topical vehicle alone nightly to their angiofibromas for six months.

The primary goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the topical medication for reduction of cutaneous angiofibromas in patients with TSC. The secondary goal of this study is to confirm the safety of the topical medication.
Angiofibromas|Tuberous Sclerosis
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Rapamycin|DRUG: Rapamycin
Change From Baseline in the Facial Angiofibroma Grading Scale (AGS) Score, Subject's lesion/s will be digitally photographed before initial application (visit 1), at each study visit (visits 2 through 6), and immediately prior to study termination (visit 7). Following completion of the study, all photographs will be evaluated by two independent dermatologists blinded to both the treatment arm and the stage of treatment. The dermatologists will assess each photograph's appearance using the facial Angiofibroma Grading Scale (AGS), which assesses the forehead, nose, cheeks, and chin for erythema, average lesion size, lesion density, and percent involvement, as well as presence of any pedunculated angiofibromas. A total score is reported with a range of 0 to 202, with higher scores representing a worse outcome., baseline, 6 months
Photo Readers' Rating (Better, Same, or Worse) of Paired Baseline and End-of-trial (EOT) Photographs for Each Patient, baseline, 6 months|Change in Quality of Life (QOL) Questionnaire Scores as Assessed by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), The Dermatology life Quality Index (DLQI) is a ten-question questionnaire used to measure the impact of skin disease on the quality of life of an affected person. It is designed for people aged 16 years and above. Each question is scored from 0 to 3, giving a possible total score range from 0 (meaning no impact of skin disease on quality of life) to 30 (meaning maximum impact on quality of life)., baseline, 6 months|Change in Quality of Life (QOL) Questionnaire Scores as Assessed by the Children's Dermatology Life Quality Index (CDLQI), The Children's Dermatology life Quality Index (DLQI) is validated from the age of four years to 16 years. It is a ten-question questionnaire used to measure the impact of skin disease on the quality of life of an affected person. Each question is scored from 0 to 3, giving a possible total score range from 0 (meaning no impact of skin disease on quality of life) to 30 (meaning maximum impact on quality of life)., baseline, 6 months|Change in Quality of Life (QOL) Questionnaire Scores as Assessed by the Family Dermatology Life Quality Index (FDLQI), The Family Dermatology life Quality Index (FLQI) is designed for adult (more than 16 years of age) family members or partners of patients (of any age) with any skin disease. It is a ten-question questionnaire used to measure the impact of skin disease on the quality of life of an affected person. Each question is scored from 0 to 3, giving a possible total score range from 0 (meaning no impact of skin disease on quality of life) to 30 (meaning maximum impact on quality of life)., baseline, 6 months
Number of Events of Dermatologic Sensitivity at the Site of Application, Dermatologic sensitivity includes pain, pruritis, or erythema at the application site., 6 months|Number of Participants With Systemic Uptake of Topically Applied Rapamycin, Blood levels checked to confirm the lack of systemic rapamycin., 6 months
The study is a multi-center prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled evaluation of the safety and efficacy of a topically applied formulation of rapamycin to cutaneous angiofibromas in subjects with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC). Subjects will apply either the topical vehicle containing rapamycin or the topical vehicle alone nightly to their angiofibromas for six months.

The primary goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the topical medication for reduction of cutaneous angiofibromas in patients with TSC. The secondary goal of this study is to confirm the safety of the topical medication.