Tumor Classification and Its Application in Surgical Treatment of Craniopharyngioma
With the preliminary anatomical and histological study, the membranous structures of the sellar region was considered to be closely related with the growth pattern of Craniopharyngiomas(CP). By combined considering of the tumor-membrane relationship, this project was trying to classify the CP through retrospectively summarizing the pre- and postoperative imaging (MRI and CT), the intrasurgical findings, and the endocrine data of 198 CPs with primary surgery in our hospital (since 1997 until now). As a result, a distinct and systematic CP classification was proposed. The possible originate site, surgical skills and postoperative treatment of all the subtype tumors were discussed and analyzed to provide a normalized surgical treatment for this kind of tumor. Then in the prospective cohort, the anticipated 100 CP patients will accept the normalized surgical treatment. And by the long term follow up, the postsurgical quantity of life (QOL) of patients was evaluated with aspect in cognition, circadian rhythm, endocrine, Water-Electrolyte and body weight, et al. By comparing with the long-term results of the retrospective cohort, the totally follow up data was statistically analyzed to assess the rationality of this standard treatment of CP.
Craniopharyngioma
PROCEDURE: Different surgical approach and techniques being used to treat three subtype of CP
The course of suprasellar arachnoid mater and pia mater, and the construction of all meninges of the sellar region was observed and measured by microscopy., 1~2 years|Through the analysis of the pre- and postoperative imaging and intrasurgical findings of CP, and combined considering of the tumor-membrane relationship, the classification of CP was proposed., 1~2 years|After long term follow up of CP patients, the normalized treatment was evaluated and modified., 3~5 years
With the preliminary anatomical and histological study, the membranous structures of the sellar region was considered to be closely related with the growth pattern of Craniopharyngiomas(CP). By combined considering of the tumor-membrane relationship, this project was trying to classify the CP through retrospectively summarizing the pre- and postoperative imaging (MRI and CT), the intrasurgical findings, and the endocrine data of 198 CPs with primary surgery in our hospital (since 1997 until now). As a result, a distinct and systematic CP classification was proposed. The possible originate site, surgical skills and postoperative treatment of all the subtype tumors were discussed and analyzed to provide a normalized surgical treatment for this kind of tumor. Then in the prospective cohort, the anticipated 100 CP patients will accept the normalized surgical treatment. And by the long term follow up, the postsurgical quantity of life (QOL) of patients was evaluated with aspect in cognition, circadian rhythm, endocrine, Water-Electrolyte and body weight, et al. By comparing with the long-term results of the retrospective cohort, the totally follow up data was statistically analyzed to assess the rationality of this standard treatment of CP.