Pembrolizumab in Refractory Advanced Esophageal Cancer
This research study is studying a targeted therapy as a possible treatment for advanced esophageal cancer.

The study intervention involved in this study is:

-Pembrolizumab
Esophageal Cancer|Squamous Cell Esophagus Cancer|Adenocarcinoma Esophagus
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Disease was evaluated each cycle on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment duration was a median of 2.1 months with a maximum of 14.9 months.
Median Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease was evaluated each cycle on treatment and in long-term follow-up every 12 weeks for up to 5 years. Maximum follow-up in this study cohort was 28.9 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Disease was evaluated each cycle on treatment and in long-term follow-up every 12 weeks for up to 5 years. Maximum follow-up in this study cohort was 38.7 months.|Number of Patients Experiencing Grade 3-4 Treatment-Related Toxicity, All grade 3-4 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv4 as reported on case report forms were counted. Outcome defined as the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3-4 AE of any type during the time of observation., Assessed each cycle throughout treatment from time of first dose and up to day 30 post-treatment. Median treatment duration for this study cohort was 2.1 months with maximum of 14.9 months.
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Pembrolizumab for the participant specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

Pembrolizumab, also known as KEYTRUDA or MK-3475, is approved in the USA and several other countries to treat other types of diseases.

The goal of this research study is to

-Evaluate the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab in participants with advanced esophageal cancer that have not responded to standard treatment.