Psychological Intervention For Brain Tumor Caregivers
This study is testing a supportive psychosocial intervention for caregivers of people who have malignant brain tumors such as gliomas or other high-grade primary brain tumors. This study was designed because caregivers of patients with malignant brain tumors often experience physical and psychological burdens caring for their loved ones.

The purpose of this study is to find out whether a program offering psychological support can help caregivers learn effective coping methods during their loved one's treatment and make the experience of being a caregiver more manageable.
Malignant Glioma|Anxiety|Caregiver Burden|Malignant Brain Tumor
BEHAVIORAL: Psychosocial Intervention Group|BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care Group
Anxiety symptoms, We will compare anxiety symptoms using the Anxiety Subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-A) between the intervention and usual care group. The HADS-A is a 7-item subscale with scores ranging from 0 to 21, with higher scores indicating higher levels of anxiety., 11 weeks
Anxiety symptoms longitudinally, We will compare anxiety symptoms using the Anxiety subscale of the hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS-A) between the two groups longitudinally. HADS-A is the 7-item anxiety subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Scores range from 0 to 21, with higher scores indicating higher levels of anxiety., Up to 16 weeks|Self-Efficacy, Comparison of the effect of the intervention on caregiver self-efficacy (CASE) between study groups . The Lewis Cancer Self-Efficacy Scale (CASE) is a 17-item scale that measures caregivers' confidence in managing the impact of their loved one's illness from. Score range from 0 to 170. Higher scores indicate higher self-efficacy., Up to 16 weeks|Coping skills, We will compare coping skills between study arms using the Measure of Current Status Part A (MOCS-A). The MOCS-A assesses caregivers' self-perceived status on coping skills targeted by the intervention. Total MOCS-A scores range from 0-52 with higher scores indicating better self-perceived coping skills., Up to 16 weeks|Quality of life using the Caregiver quality of life oncology questionnaire, Comparison of caregiver quality of life (CarGOQoL) between study groups. The CareGiver Oncology QoL questionnaire (CarGOQoL) is a 29-item, well-validated instrument specific to caregivers for patients with cancer, used to measure family caregiver QoL in multiple domains. Overall scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores corresponding to higher quality of life., Up to 16 weeks|Caregiver burden, Comparison of caregiver burden (CRA) between study groups.

- Caregiving burden will be measured using the Caregiver Reaction Assessment (CRA), a 24-item scale measuring caregiving burden with score range of 24-120. Higher scores indicate higher caregiving burden., Up to 16 weeks|Depression symptoms, Comparison of the effect of the intervention on depression symptoms (HADS-D) between study groups. HADS-D is the 7-item depression subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Scores range from 0 to 21, with higher scores indicating higher levels of depression., Up to 16 weeks|PTSD symptoms, Comparison of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms between study groups . PTSD symptoms will be measured using the PCL-5, a 20-item questionnaire with scores ranging from 0-80; higher scores indicate more severe PTSD symptoms., Up to 16 weeks
Intervention Acceptability, For participants who are assigned to the intervention arm, we will use the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-3), a three-item questionnaire designed to evaluate satisfaction with provision, quality, and outcome of services, to assess participant acceptability of the NeuroCARE intervention. Total scores on the CSQ-3 range from 4-12, with higher numbers indicating a higher level of satisfaction with the services provided., 11 weeks|Exploratory Moderation Analysis, As an exploratory analysis, we will assess whether age, sex, and baseline anxiety moderate the effect of the intervention on caregiver reported outcomes, Up to 16 weeks|Exploratory Causal Mediation Analysis, Exploratory causal mediation analysis to explore whether caregiver self-efficacy and coping skills mediate the effect of the intervention on caregiver anxiety symptoms., Up to 16 weeks
This study will be a prospective, randomized controlled trial to assess the efficacy of a caregiver-directed intervention designed to improve anxiety in caregivers of patients with malignant brain tumors, in comparison with caregivers who receive usual care.

The aim of this study is to test the efficacy of this intervention in reducing distress in caregivers of patients with malignant brain tumors, in comparison with usual care. The study will be conducted in 120 caregivers.