Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) Post Prostatectomy
This phase I study will assess the toxicity profile and efficacy of SBRT (Stereotactic body radiotherapy) in patients with localized prostate cancer who are considered candidates for post-prostatectomy radiation.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)
Early Adverse Events/toxicities experience by Participants, Incidence of acute GU and GI toxicities, based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, 6.5 years
Late Adverse Events/toxicities experienced by Participants, Incidence of late GU and GI toxicities (≥6 months) using CTCAE v5.0, 6.5 years|Quality of Life of participants using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite questionnaire, Acute and late GU and GI quality of life (QoL) using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite questionnaire which evaluates participant's function and bother after prostate cancer treatment. Each question is scored from 1-5, 1 being the better outcome and 5 being the worst outcome., 6.5 years|Biochemical disease-free survival, Biochemical disease-free survival (bDFS), defined as survival until first evidence of either biochemical progression (PSA of 0.4 ng/mL or greater) following postoperative radiotherapy, PSA of more than 2.0 ng/mL at any time after postoperative radiotherapy, clinical or radiological progression, initiation of non-protocol hormone therapy, or death from prostate cancer, 6.5 years|Health Utilities using The Patient-Oriented Prostate Utility Scale, Health utilities using The Patient-Oriented Prostate Utility Scale to measure health-related quality of life, whether it improves, deteriorates or stay the same. There are 10 questions, each questions has 5 possible answers, with 1 being the better outcome and 5 being the worst outcome., 6.5years|Health Utilities using EuroQol- 5 Dimension Questionnaire, Health utilities using the EuroQol- 5 Dimension Questionnaire determines 5 variables, each with 5 possible options, with the first being the best outcome and the last being the worst outcome. The 5 variables include:

1. Mobility
2. Self-care
3. Usual Activities
4. Pain/discomfort
5. Anxiety/depression, 6.5years
Radical prostatectomy is a common treatment for localized prostate cancer, patients with a detectable and/or rising PSA after radical prostatectomy may be offered radiation. An increasing number of patients are being referred post-operatively for radiotherapy, which creates an added burden on radiotherapy departments. Therefore, a strategy that could potentially decrease the number of radiotherapy fractions, yet maintain its efficacy, would be highly desirable for patient convenience, cost saving, and resource utilization as long as the toxicity profile is acceptable. This study will be conducted to asses the toxicity and efficacy of Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) in post-prostatectomy patients.