Thermal Ablation Combined With Anlotinib and TQB2450 Solution for HCC
In this study, investigators aimed to evaluated the efficacy and safety of microwave ablation combined with anlotinib and TQB2450 Solution in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Patients were randomly assigned at a one-to-one ratio to receive microwave ablation plus anlotinib and TQB2450 Solution or microwave ablation plus TQB2450 Solution. Primary end points were objective response rate(ORR). Second end points include overall survival, progression-free survival and disease control rate. Safety was assessed in all patients.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Thermal Ablation|Anlotinib|PDL-1
DRUG: Anlotinib and TQB2450 solution|DRUG: TQB2450 solution
ORR, Objective Response Rate, 2-year
OS, Overall Survival, 2-year|PFS, Progression-free Survival, 2-year|DCR, Disease Control Rate, 2-year|EORTC QLQ C30, Impact of treatment on Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) for subjects treated using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 questionnaire. EORTC QLQ C30 scales were grouped and converted to score 0 to 100 according to the scoring manual; a higher score represents a more severe symptom or problem., Change from baseline health related quality of life at 2 years|EORTC QLQ-HCC18, Impact of treatment on Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) for subjects treated using HCC-specific EORTC QLQ-HCC18 questionnaire. EORTC QLQ-HCC18 scales were grouped and converted to score 0 to 100 according to the scoring manual; a higher score represents a more severe symptom or problem., Change from baseline health related quality of life at 2 years|AE, Incidence of Adverse Events, 2-year|SAEs, Incidence of Severe Adverse Events, 2-year
In this study, investigators aimed to evaluated the efficacy and safety of microwave ablation combined with anlotinib and TQB2450 Solution in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Patients were randomly assigned at a one-to-one ratio to receive microwave ablation plus anlotinib and TQB2450 Solution or microwave ablation plus TQB2450 Solution. Primary end points were objective response rate(ORR). Second end points include overall survival, progression-free survival and disease control rate. Safety was assessed in all patients.