Goals of Care Conversations Study
The long term goal is to improve quality of care in Veterans with serious illnesses by aligning medical care with Veterans' goals and values. The objective of this study is to use a sequentially randomized trial to determine what implementation strategies are effective to increase early, outpatient goals of care conversations. The study will use interviews with and surveys of medical providers, patients, and caregivers, along with medical record data. This work is significant because it tests ways Veterans can express their goals and preferences for life sustaining treatments and have them honored.
Seriously Ill Patients|Cancer|Heart Failure|Interstitial Lung Disease|Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease|End-stage Renal Disease|End-stage Liver Disease|Dementia
BEHAVIORAL: Clinician Implementation Strategy Stage 1: low intensity clinician training|BEHAVIORAL: Clinician Implementation Strategy Stage 2: high intensity clinician training|BEHAVIORAL: Low patient engagement|BEHAVIORAL: High patient engagement
Percent of patients with a goals of care conversation note documented in Stage 2, Amongst patients attributed to a clinician who was randomized in Stage 2, whether or not a goals of care conversation note was written during Stage 2., From the start of stage 2 to 9 months later
Percent of patients with a goals of care conversation note documented in Stage 1 or 2, Amongst all patients in the study, whether or not a goals of care conversation note was written during the study., From the start of stage 1 to 9 months after the start of stage 2|Percent of patients with a goals of care conversation note documented in Stage 1, Amongst all patients in the study, whether or not a goals of care conversation note was written during stage 1, From the start of stage 1 to the beginning of stage 2 (approximately 8 months)
The aims of this study are as follows:

Aim 1. Use a clinician-level SMART in three VA health systems to determine the effectiveness of clinician and patient implementation strategies to improve the occurrence of documented goals of care conversations in Veterans with serious medical illness. Hypothesis 1 (first stage of the SMART): Compared to a low intensity clinician strategy alone, a low intensity clinician and patient strategy will lead to increased documentation of goals of care conversations. Hypothesis 2. Among those who do not respond to low intensity strategies, compared to a high intensity clinician strategy paired with a low intensity patient strategy, a high intensity clinician and patient strategy will lead to increased documentation of goals of care conversations.

Aim 2a. Identify the sequence of implementation strategies that leads to the overall greatest increase in documentation of goals of care conversations. Aim 2b (exploratory). Identify patient and clinician characteristics that modify the effect of sequences of implementation strategies on documentation of goals of care conversations.

Aim 3. Understand clinician and patient implementation strategy success or failure using a mixed method evaluation involving clinicians, leaders, patients, and caregivers.