Regorafenib in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of the study is to measure high grade (3-5) toxicity of regorafenib and to monitor the impact of treatment with regorafenib on the quality of life in older adults with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Regorafenib
Number of Subjects Who Experience Grade 3-5 Toxicity as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability., From the date of study entry until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment.
Percentage of Subjects Who Responded to Study Treatment, Efficacy outcomes will be response rate (RR), disease control rate (DCR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). A participant's best response will be classified per RECIST (Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors) criteria into complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD). If a participant's best response was complete response, partial response, or stable disease they were classified as responding to treatment., From the date of completion of three cycles of treatment until the date of progression of disease as determined by restaging scans up to 2 years.|Mean Difference in Quality of Life as Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Colorectal (FACT-C) Instrument, The FACT-C instrument is an 11 question survey that asks general questions about the participants digestive system. The instrument scores range from 0-44 with higher scores indicating digestive problems., baseline and week 4
Exploratory Outcome Measure: Percentage of Patients Who Had a Correlation Between Adverse Events and Response Rate, week 4
Subjects will be asked to participate in the study because they are aged 70 or older and require treatment for colorectal cancer that has spread to other parts of the body and has not gotten better with other treatment. Subjects will undergo some initial tests to ensure that they meet all criteria necessary to participate in the study. Once the subject has completed initial testing and meets eligibility criteria, the subject will begin treatment with 120 mg of regorafenib (3 tablets) each day for 21 days (3 weeks) in a 28 day cycle (4 weeks). After the first cycle, the doctor will discuss the possibility of increasing the dose to 160 mg (4 tablets) each day for 21 days (3 weeks) in a 28 day cycle (4 weeks) based on the subjects health status. During the study, assessments will be performed to monitor the subjects tolerance and response to the treatment. Regorafenib will continue as long as the subject is tolerating the treatment and the subjects colorectal cancer is either responding to treatment or remains stable.