A Study of Gilteritinib Versus Midostaurin in Combination With Induction and Consolidation Therapy Followed by One-year Maintenance in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndromes With Excess Blasts-2 With FLT3 Mutations Eligible for Intensive Chemotherapy
Activating mutations in the fms like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) gene are observed in approximately 30% of patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Addition of the multitargeted kinase inhibitor midostaurin to standard chemotherapy prolongs event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with a FLT3 mutation. Gilteritinib is a more potent and more specific inhibitor of mutant FLT3 in comparison to midostaurin and has shown promising clinical activity in AML.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Excess Blasts-2
DRUG: Gilteritinib|DRUG: Midostaurin
Overal survival (OS), Overall survival (OS), defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Patients still alive or lost to follow up will be censored at the time they were last known to be alive., Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment
Event-free survival (EFS), Event-free survival (EFS), defined as the time from randomization to failure to achieve CR after remission induction, death or relapse after achieving CR, whichever occurs first. A patient is said to have failed to achieve CR after remission induction if his/her best response during or at completion of the induction therapy is less than CR. Patients who achieved CR after remission induction and are not known to have relapsed or died will be censored at the date of last clinical assessment. CR is determined by the Investigator according to the European LeukemiaNet (ELN2017) recommended response criteria., Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|CR rate after remission induction, CR rate after remission induction is defined as the percentage of patients with best response of CR during or at completion of induction therapy., Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|EFS with modified CR (mEFS), EFS with modified CR (mEFS) is defined similarly to EFS above. It is the time from randomization to failure to achieve CR after remission induction, death or relapse after achieving CR, whichever occurs first. However, a patient will be considered to have failed to achieve CR after remission induction if CR is not achieved within 60 days after the start of the last induction cycle. Patients who achieve CR within 60 days of the start of the last induction cycle and are not known to have relapsed or died will be censored at the date of last clinical assessment., Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|CR and CRi rates after induction cycle 1 and after induction cycle 2, CR and CRi are determined by the Investigator based on the European LeukemiaNet (ELN2017) recommended response criteria., Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|Relapse-free survival (RFS) after CR, RFS is defined as time from the date of achievement of CR as determined by the Investigator until relapse or death from any cause, whichever comes first. Patients still in first CR and alive or lost to follow up will be censored at the date of last clinical assessment., Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|Cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) after CR, CIR is measured from the date of achievement of CR as determined by the Investigator until the date of relapse. Patients not known to have relapsed will be censored on the date of last clinical assessment. Patients who died without relapse will be counted as a competing cause of failure., Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|Cumulative incidence of death (CID) after CR, CID is measured from the date of achievement of CR as determined by the Investigator until the date of death from any cause. Patients not known to have died will be censored on the date they were last known to be alive. Patients who experienced relapse in CR will be counted as competing cause of failure., Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|CR without minimal residual disease (CRMRD-) rate after induction cycle 2, CRMRD- rate is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved CR as determined by the Investigator with no evidence of MRD, Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|CR or CRi without minimal residual disease (CR/CRiMRD-) rate after induction cycle 2, CR or CRi without minimal residual disease (CR/CRiMRD-) rate after induction cycle 2, defined as the percentage of patients who achieved CR or CRi as determined by the Investigator with no evidence of MRD, Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|Frequency and severity of adverse events according to CTCAE v5.0, Adverse events will be evaluated using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for AEs (CTCAE) version 5.0, Continuously throughout the study, starting from informed consent until 30 days following the last administration of any study drug|Time to hematopoietic recovery after each chemotherapy treatment cycle, Time to hematopoietic recovery is defined as the time from the start of the cycle until recovery, Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) rate, Allo-SCT rate is defined as the percentage of patients who underwent an allo-SCT, Approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment|Individual domain scores and visual analogue scale (VAS) score of the European Quality of Life 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D-5L) Questionnaire, The EQ-5D-5L is a 5 item questionnaire that assesses 5 domains including mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression plus a visual analog scale rating "health today". Each domain has 5 levels. Each level has a 1 digit number expressing the level selected for that domain. These levels are summed up and the self-rated health is recorded on a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale, with endpoints labelled "the best health you can imagine" and "the worst health you can imagine"., At entry, 1st day of maintenance and every 3 months during maintenance until relapse or treatment discontinuation (approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment)|Individual subdomain scores and the global health status/QoL scale of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire that assesses 5 functional subdomains (physical functioning, role functioning, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning and social functioning), 1 global health status, 3 symptom subdomains (fatigue, nausea and vomiting and pain) and 6 single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most of the 30 items have 4 response levels (1="not at all", 2="a little", 3="quite a bit", and 4="very much"), with 2 questions relying on a 7-point numeric rating scale from 1="very poor" to 7="excellent". Raw scores are transformed into scale scores ranging from 0 to 100, with higher scores representing better functioning/QoL or worse symptom burden., At entry, 1st day of maintenance and every 3 months during maintenance until relapse or treatment discontinuation (approximately up to 70 months following first patient enrolment)
AML and MDS-EB2 are malignant diseases of the bone marrow. The standard treatment for these diseases is chemotherapy. A subgroup of these diseases is characterized by a specific error in the DNA of the leukemic cells. This is the FLT3 mutation, which leads to a change of a certain protein (FLT3) on the blasts. This altered protein plays an important role in the development of leukemia and the survival of leukemic cells.

FLT3 can be inhibited by the drug midostaurin. Adding midostaurin to chemotherapy leads to better treatment results in patients with AML. Therefore, the standard treatment for AML or MDS-EB2 with a FLT3 mutation (FLT3-AML) is a combination of chemotherapy and midostaurin.

Gilteritinib is also a drug that inhibits FLT3. In laboratory studies, gilteritinib was found to be significantly more specific and potent than midostaurin in inhibiting FLT3.

Gilteritinib has subsequently been studied in patients with AML, who relapsed after previous treatment with chemotherapy. This resulted in a much larger number of complete remissions than previously seen when comparable patients were treated with midostaurin.