Rituximab and Denileukin Diftitox in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Stage III or Stage IV Follicular B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Combinations of biological substances in denileukin diftitox may be able to carry cancer-killing substances directly to cancer cells. Giving rituximab together with denileukin diftitox may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving rituximab together with denileukin diftitox works in treating patients with previously untreated stage III or stage IV follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: denileukin diftitox|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab
Proportion of Confirmed Tumor Response (Complete Response [CR], Unconfirmed CR, and Partial Response), A confirmed tumor response is defined to be either a CR, CRu or PR. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Response criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) will be followed. Complete response (CR): (a) Complete disappearance of all detectable disease and disease-related symptoms; (b) All lymph nodes and nodal masses must have regressed to normal size; (c) the spleen must have regressed; CR/unconfirmed (CRu): Those patients who fulfill the criteria in (a) and (c), but with a residual lymph node mass that has regressed by more that 75% in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters (SPD). Partial response (PR): ≥50% decrease in SPD of the six largest dominant nodes or nodal masses; no increase in the size of other nodes, liver, or spleen. Splenic and hepatic nodules must regress by at least 50% in the SPD; No new sites of disease., Up to 5 years
Survival Time, Survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 5 years|Time to Disease Progression, Time to disease progression is defined as the time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression. If a patient dies without a documentation of disease progression the patient will be considered to have had tumor progression at the time of their death unless there is sufficient documented evidence to conclude no progression occurred prior to death. The distribution of time to disease progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using the response criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, as at least a 50% increase from nadir in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters (SPD) of any previously identified abnormal node for PRs or non-responders, or appearance of any new lesion during or at the end of therapy., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response, Duration of response (DOR) is defined as the time from the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR, CRu or PR to the earliest date of progression. The distribution of DOR will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. Response criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) will be followed. Complete response (CR): (a) Complete disappearance of all detectable disease and disease-related symptoms; (b) All lymph nodes and nodal masses must have regressed to normal size; (c) the spleen must have regressed; CR/unconfirmed (CRu): Those patients who fulfill the criteria in (a) and (c), but with a residual lymph node mass that has regressed by more that 75% in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters (SPD). Partial response (PR): ≥50% decrease in SPD of the six largest dominant nodes or nodal masses; no increase in the size of other nodes, liver, or spleen. Splenic and hepatic nodules must regress by at least 50% in the SPD; No new sites of disease., Up to 5 years|Time to Subsequent Therapy, Time to subsequent therapy is defined to be the time from the end of active treatment date to the date subsequent therapy is initiated. The distribution of time to subsequent therapy will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the response rate (complete response \[CR\], unconfirmed CR, and partial response) in patients with previously untreated stage III or IV follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with rituximab and denileukin diftitox.
* Assess the overall survival, time-to-progression, duration of response, and time-to-new therapy in patients treated with this regimen.

Secondary

* Determine whether this regimen depletes or inhibits the function of regulatory T cells in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive rituximab IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients also receive denileukin diftitox IV over 15-60 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment with denileukin diftitox repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood is collected at baseline; on day 1 of courses 2-4; and 1 and 4 months after completion of study treatment for research studies. Research studies include analysis of peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets expressing CD3, CD4, CD8, CD19, CD25, and CD26 by flow cytometry; quantitation of CD4+, CD25+ regulatory T cells by flow cytometry; tumor-specific γ-interferon-secreting T cells by enzyme-linked immunospot assay; tumor-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocyte activity; and immune activation by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years after registration.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 53 patients will be accrued for this study.