Bevacizumab in Combination With Sintilimab Versus Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization for the Treatment of Intermediate Stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma (Beyond Up-To-Seven Criteria)
Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is recommended as the standard of care for patients with intermediate-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) (i.e., BCLC stage B). However, these patients is heterogeneous in terms of liver functional, tumor size and tumor number, and not all patients with mid-stage HCC will benefit from TACE. The ORIENT-32 trial confirmed the efficacy of sintilimab in combination with bevacizumab for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. No study has yet explored whether this regimen is appropriate for patients with BCLC stage B. The purpose of this study is to explore whether bevacizumab in combination with sintilimab is superior to conventional TACE therapy in patients with HCC with beyond-Up-to-seven criteria.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab combined with Sintilimab|PROCEDURE: Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization
progression free survival，PFS, Assessed using the mRECIST criteria, defined as patient survival without tumor progression from the start of randomization to the end of year 2, 24 months
overall survival, OS, Defined as the time from the start of randomization to death from any cause., 24 months|post-progression survival，PPS, Defined as overall survival minus progression-free survival time, 24 months|Time to failure of treatment strategy, Time from randomization to death or need for further treatment options, 24 months|Duration of Response, DOR, Time from initial response to disease progression or death in patients identified as CR or PR according to mRECIST and RECIST 1.1 criteria, 24 months|objective response rate，ORR, Evaluated according to the criteria for evaluating efficacy in solid tumors (mRECIST and RECIST 1.1), 24 months|conversion rate to resection, Rate of patients whose tumors regressed and underwent surgical resection, 24 months|Patient-reported outcomes, PRO, Change from baseline in overall health, quality of life, physical, role, emotional, and social functioning using the IL42-EORTCQLQ-C30 scale, 24 months
Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is recommended as the standard of care for patients with intermediate-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) (i.e., BCLC stage B). However, these patients is heterogeneous in terms of liver functional, tumor size and tumor number, and not all patients with mid-stage HCC will benefit from TACE. The ORIENT-32 trial confirmed the efficacy of sintilimab in combination with bevacizumab for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. No study has yet explored whether this regimen is appropriate for patients with BCLC stage B. The purpose of this study is to explore whether bevacizumab in combination with sintilimab is superior to conventional TACE therapy in patients with HCC with beyond-Up-to-seven criteria.