Bortezomib, Mitoxantrone, Etoposide, and Cytarabine in Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
RATIONALE: Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as mitoxantrone, etoposide, and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bortezomib together with combination chemotherapy may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of bortezomib when given together with mitoxantrone, etoposide, and cytarabine in treating patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia.
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: mitoxantrone hydrochloride|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: cytarabine|OTHER: flow cytometry
MTD of bortezomib, two times a week until Day 28, then every week until Day 45 (+/- 2 days), then 4 wks after treatment.
Non-dose limiting toxicities, two times a week until Day 28, then every week until Day 45 (+/- 2 days), then 4 wks after treatment.|CR/ CRp rate, repeated 4 weeks after the post-treatment bone marrow aspirate/biopsy.|CD74 antigen expression, to be performed only on the pre-treatment sample
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the DLT, MTD, and the recommended Phase 2 dose of bortezomib in combination with MEC in patients with relapsed/refractory AML.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the non-dose limiting toxicities associated with bortezomib in combination with MEC in patients with relapsed/refractory AML.

II. To describe any preliminary evidence of clinical activity of this combination (CR rate) in relapsed/refractory AML.

III. To determine the median CD74 antigen expression in patients achieving a response versus those patients not achieving a response.

OUTLINE:

This is a dose-escalation study of bortezomib.

Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8 and 11; and mitoxantrone IV, etoposide IV over 1 hour, and intermediate-dose cytarabine IV over 6 hours on days 1-6. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-5 weeks.