Patient Perceptions Around Quality of Care Through Telemedicine in Neuro-Oncology
This study evaluates patient perceptions around quality of care through telemedicine in neuro-oncology. Studying questionnaires related to perceptions quality of care through telemedicine in patients with brain cancer may help doctors to improve the delivery of care through this modality.
Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Leptomeningeal Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain|Primary Brain Neoplasm
OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Survey Administration
Survey response to question 6 of the quality of care survey ("I felt I received good medical care during this encounter"), Survey responses will be summarized by ordinal category as counts with percentages, separately by group. Will separately estimate the proportion of each ordinal level of each group with 95% confidence interval., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Quality of Care Survey, Will separately estimate the proportion of each ordinal level of each group with 95% confidence interval., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Patients and clinical characteristics, Differences between groups will be assessed by 2-sample 2-sided t-test and Mann-Whitney test, Fisher's exact test, or chi-square test., Baseline|Interactive time spent during visit, Will be summarized by group per mean, median, standard deviation, and range. Differences between groups will be assessed by t-test and Mann-Whitney test., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Time from visit order placement to visit occurring, Will be summarized by group per mean, median, standard deviation, and range. Differences between groups will be assessed by t-test and Mann-Whitney test., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Domains of patient care addressed during a visit, including treatment planning, symptom burden, and goals of care, Will be summarized as counts with percentages by group. Differences between groups will be assessed by chi-square test., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Incidence of acute care sought (through emergency room or urgent care clinic), Will be summarized as counts with percentages by group. Differences between groups will be provisionally assessed by Fisher's exact test., Within 30 days of encounter
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the patient-perceived quality of care by group (telemedicine versus in-person visits) in patients with central nervous system (CNS) cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the visits provided by telemedicine compared to those in-person.

II. To contrast the average time spent on telemedicine visits compared to in-person visits, and the delay between visit order placement and visit occurring.

III. To evaluate the domains of patient care addressed on a telemedicine visit versus in-person visit per documentation, including (1) treatment planning, (2) symptom burden, (3) goals of care.

IV. To evaluate frequency of acute care sought (through emergency room or urgent care clinic) within 30 days of encounter in telemedicine visit versus (vs) in-person visit.

V. The impact of patient and clinical characteristics on perceived quality of care in the context of covariate-adjusted modeling.

OUTLINE:

Patients complete a survey related to their perceived quality of care via telephone and have their medical chart reviewed prospectively.