A Study of the Effect of Blood Stem Cell Transplant After Chemotherapy Alone in Patients With Fanconi Anemia
The goal of this study is to see if the study therapy can decrease the chemotherapy-related side effects while maximizing the effectiveness of disease control. The physicians will also be studying the effect of removing T-cells from the donor"s stem cells before transplant. T-cells are a type of white blood cell that may help cause a serious side effect of transplant called Graft versus Host Disease (GVHD). The way it removes the T-cells from the donor stem cells is actually by selecting only the stem cells (called CD34 cells) by using a device called CliniMACS. This process is called CD34 selection. The CliniMACS® device is currently under the supervision of the FDA .
Fanconi Anemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS)|Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML)
DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Anti-Thymocyte Globulin (Rabbit)|DEVICE: The CliniMACS device|DRUG: G-CSF
Graft Failure or Rejection, Primary non-engraftment is diagnosed when the patient fails to achieve an ANC ≥500/µl at any time in the first 28 days post-transplant. If (1) after achievement of an ANC ≥500/mm\^3, the ANC declines to \<500/mm\^3 for more than 3 consecutive days in the absence of relapse, or, (2) there is absence of donor cells in the marrow and/or blood as demonstrated by chimerism assay in the absence of relapse, a diagnosis of secondary graft failure is made. The patient is not evaluable for graft failure or rejection if recurrence of host MDS is detected concurrently., 5 years
The goal of this study is to see if the study therapy can decrease the chemotherapy-related side effects while maximizing the effectiveness of disease control. The physicians will also be studying the effect of removing T-cells from the donor"s stem cells before transplant. T-cells are a type of white blood cell that may help cause a serious side effect of transplant called Graft versus Host Disease (GVHD). The way it removes the T-cells from the donor stem cells is actually by selecting only the stem cells (called CD34 cells) by using a device called CliniMACS. This process is called CD34 selection. The CliniMACS® device is currently under the supervision of the FDA .