Sapanisertib or Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Sarcoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of sapanisertib and to see how well it works compared to pazopanib hydrochloride in treating patients with sarcoma that is too large to be removed (locally advanced) or has spread to other areas of the body (metastatic). Sapanisertib and pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
High Grade Sarcoma|Metastatic Leiomyosarcoma|Metastatic Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor|Metastatic Synovial Sarcoma|Metastatic Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma|Metastatic Unresectable Sarcoma|Myxofibrosarcoma|Recurrent Leiomyosarcoma|Recurrent Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor|Recurrent Synovial Sarcoma|Recurrent Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma|Stage III Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Leiomyosarcoma
DRUG: Pazopanib|DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Sapanisertib
Number of Phase I Participants With Dose-Limiting Toxicity Events (Phase I), The Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of sapanisertib (MLN0128) is defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in at least one-third of patients graded according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Dose-limiting toxicities include non-hematologic events graded 3 or higher and deemed at least possibly related to treatment. The number of patients reporting a dose-limiting event is reported., 28 days|Progression-free Survival (PFS) (Phase II Analysis Group 2 - Initial Treatment Period), Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death resulting from any cause, whichever comes first. Progression is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. The median and an upper confidence boundary from a 1-sided, 85% confidence interval are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 2 years
The Number of Patients Who Experienced Grade 3+ Adverse Events (Phase II Analysis Group 2 - Initial Treatment Period), The number of patients who experienced grade 3+ adverse events for Phase II Analysis Group 2 for the initial treatment period is reported below., Up to 4 months|Tumor Response (Complete Response [CR], Partial Response [PR], Stable Disease [SD], and Progressive Disease [PD])(Phase II Analysis Group 2 - Initial Treatment Period), The frequencies (and percentages) of tumor response categories (CR, PR, SD, PD) will be summarized for Phase II Analysis Group 2. Complete Response (CR): All of the following must be true: a. Disappearance of all target lesions. b. Each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in PBSD taking as reference the BSD. Progression (PD): At least one of the following must be true: a. At least one new malignant lesion, b. At least a 20% increase in PBSD. c. PD via FDG-PET imaging. d. unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and non-target lymph nodes. e. symptomatic deterioration. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as reference the MSD., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response (Phase II Analysis Group 2 - Initial Treatment Period), Duration of response is defined as the time between each patient's best tumor response and progression (or date of last disease assessment for patients who die without progression or are lost to follow-up). Complete Response (CR): All of the following must be true: a. Disappearance of all target lesions. b. Each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in PBSD taking as reference the BSD., Time between each patient's best tumor response and progression(or date of last disease assessment for patients who die without progression or are lost to follow-up), assessed up to 2 years|Number of Patients Having CR, PR, or SD at 6 Months (Phase II Analysis Group 2 - Initial Treatment Period), Will be defined as the number of patients having either complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease for at least 6 months after starting treatment. The frequencies and rates of tumor response categories (CR, PR, SD, PD, and too early/not evaluated) will be summarized by dose cohort and treatment arm. Complete Response (CR): All of the following must be true: a. Disappearance of all target lesions. b. Each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in PBSD taking as reference the BSD. Progression (PD): At least one of the following must be true: a. At least one new malignant lesion,b. At least a 20% increase in PBSD. c. PD via FDG-PET imaging. d. unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and non-target lymph nodes. e. symptomatic deterioration. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as reference the MSD., Up to 6 months|Time to Progression (TTP) (Phase II Analysis Group 2 - Initial Treatment Period), Time to progression is defined as the time between randomization and disease progression. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of TTP. Progression (PD): At least one of the following must be true: a. At least one new malignant lesion,b. At least a 20% increase in PBSD. c. PD via FDG-PET imaging. d. unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and non-target lymph nodes. e. Symptomatic deterioration., Time between randomization and disease progression, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) (Phase II Analysis Group 2 - Initial Treatment Period), Overall survival (OS) (Phase II Analysis Group 2 - Initial Treatment Period). Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of OS., Time between randomization and death due to any cause (or last contact for surviving patients and those lost to follow-up), assessed up to 2 years
Progression-free Survival (PFS) (Phase II), Defined as either disease progression or death (in cases where patients have died without evidence of disease progression) in crossover patients., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response in Crossover Patients (Phase II), Will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Time between each patient's best tumor response and progression>>> (or date of last disease assessment for patients who die without progression or are lost to follow-up), assessed up to 2 years|Time to Progression (TTP) in Crossover Patients (Phase II), Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of\>\>\> TTP., Time between date the patient initiated sapanisertib and disease progression, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) in Crossover Patients (Phase II), Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of\>\>\> OS., Time between date the patient initiated sapanisertib and death due to any cause (or last contact for surviving patients and those lost to follow-up), assessed up to 2 years|Cohort-specific Evaluation of 4-month Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) (Phase II, Analysis Group II), Analyses will be exploratory in nature., 4 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and maximum tolerable dose of sapanisertib (MLN0128 \[TAK-228\]) within this patient population. (Phase I) II. To determine the differences in progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with sarcoma who receive MLN0128 (TAK-228) as compared to pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate adverse events. (Phase I/II) II. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), and duration of response (DOR). (Phase I/II) III. To evaluate time to progression (TTP) and overall survival (OS). (Phase I/II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate PFS and secondary endpoints within patients crossing over to MLN0128 (TAK-228), upon disease progression during treatment with pazopanib. (Phase II) II. To evaluate the 4 month CBR observed within patients treated with MLN0128 (TAK-228) and grouped by histologically defined cohorts. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study, followed by a randomized phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive sapanisertib orally (PO) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive sapanisertib as in Phase I. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing disease progression may crossover to Arm I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 6 months for 2 years.