Alisertib in Combination With Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Recurrent Hodgkin Lymphoma, B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, or Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of alisertib when given together with vorinostat in treating patients with Hodgkin lymphoma, B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or peripheral T-cell lymphoma that has come back. Alisertib and vorinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adult B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Adult T Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma|Intraocular Lymphoma|Lymphomatous Involvement of Non-Cutaneous Extranodal Site|Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Primary Cutaneous B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia|Small Intestinal Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|T-Cell Large Granular Lymphocyte Leukemia|Testicular Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Alisertib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Vorinostat
MTD of alisertib defined as the highest dose tested in which less than 33% of patients experienced dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.)4.0, The toxicities observed at each dose level will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity (by NCI CTCAE version 4.0) and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures, time of onset (i.e. course number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by course., 21 days
Incidence of toxicities produced by alisertib in combination with vorinostat assessed by the NCI CTCAE version 4.0, The toxicities observed at each dose level will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity (by NCI CTCAE version 4.0) and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures, time of onset (i.e. course number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by course., Up to 2 years|Clinical response rate, Summarized by exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 2 years
Degree of apoptosis, described using IHC and flow cytometry, All correlative study data summaries will be descriptive., Baseline to up to 2 years|Degree of proliferation described using IHC and flow cytometry, All correlative study data summaries will be descriptive., Baseline to up to 2 years|Change in AURKA expression in tissue samples by IHC and FISH, All correlative study data summaries will be descriptive., Baseline to up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of MLN8237 (alisertib) when given in combination with vorinostat and to select a dose and schedule for further testing (recommended Phase 2 dose: RP2D) in patients with lymphoid malignancies.

II. To describe the toxicities of MLN8237 when given in combination with vorinostat on a 21-day schedule.

III. To determine any clinical responses with MLN8237 in combination with vorinostat.

IV. To compare the plasma pharmacokinetics of MLN8237 when given alone and in combination with vorinostat.

V. To perform immunohistochemistry (IHC) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis to determine aurora kinase A (AURKA) expression in archival formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections from the most recent available tumor specimens of patients.

VI. To perform correlative studies for apoptosis and proliferation on bone marrow and lymph node specimens, where available, obtained from patients in the expanded cohort at RP2D.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of alisertib.

Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7 or days 1-3 and 8-10, and vorinostat PO BID on days 1-14 or days 1-5 and 8-12. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 30 days.