A Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Alectinib in Participants With Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK)-Rearranged Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of alectinib, in selected participants, with anaplastic lymphoma kinase-rearranged (ALK-rearranged) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), after disease progression on prior treatment strategy with crizotinib, as only ALK inhibitor, and eventually chemotherapy treatment(s).
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Alectinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) assessed by the investigator using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), v.1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions, and all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), no progression in non-target lesions, and no new lesions., Up to 2 years
Central Nervous System Objective Response Rate (C-ORR), C-ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who attain a CR or PR of the baseline CNS metastases based on RECIST v.1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions, and all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), no progression in non-target lesions, and no new lesions., Up to 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time between first intake of alectinib and the first occurrence of disease progression, or death from any cause during the study, whichever occurs first. Progressive disease (PD) based on RECIST v.1.1. is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to 2 years|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time between first intake of alectinib and the first occurrence of disease progression. PD based on RECIST v.1.1. is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who attain CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) for at least five weeks, based on RECIST v.1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions, and all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), no progression in non-target lesions, and no new lesions. SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for disease progression, taking as reference the smallest sum on study., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from when response (CR or PR), based on RECIST v.1.1, will be first documented to first documented disease progression or death (whichever occurs first). CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions, and all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), no progression in non-target lesions, and no new lesions. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to 2 years|Central Nervous System DOR (C-DOR), C-DOR is defined as the time from the first observation of a CNS response of CR or PR based on RECIST V1.1 until first observation of CNS progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first). CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions, and all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), no progression in non-target lesions, and no new lesions. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the percentage of participants alive two years after the start of treatment., Up to 2 years|Time to Central Nervous System (CNS) Progression, Time to central nervous system (CNS) progression is defined as the time from first drug intake to first documented occurrence of disease progression in the CNS. PD based on RECIST v.1.1. is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to 2 years|Percentage of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs), An adverse event is considered any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. Preexisting conditions that worsen during the study are reported as adverse events., Up to 2 years|Health-Related Quality of Life (QoL), as Assessed by the QLQ-C30 Questionnaire, The QLQ-C30 Questionnaire is used to assess the quality of life of participants with cancer. It includes five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status / QoL scale, and six single items. These components range in score from 0 (low response level) to 100 (high response level)., Up to 2 years|Health-Related QoL, as Assessed by the LC13 Questionnaire, The LC13 Questionnaire includes 13 questions assessing lung cancer-associated symptoms (cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea and site-specific pain), treatment-related side effects (sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy and alopecia), and pain medication. This scale ranges in score from 0 (low response level) to 100 (high response level)., Up to 2 years|Health-Related QoL, as Assessed by the BN20 Questionnaire, The BN20 Questionnaire includes 20 items assessing future uncertainty, visual disorder, motor dysfunction, communication deficit and other disease symptoms, and treatment toxicities. This scale ranges in score from 0 (low response level) to 100 (high response level)., Up to 2 years
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of alectinib, in selected participants, with anaplastic lymphoma kinase-rearranged (ALK-rearranged) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), after disease progression on prior treatment strategy with crizotinib, as only ALK inhibitor, and eventually chemotherapy treatment(s).