Saracatinib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Thymoma or Thymic Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well saracatinib works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory thymoma or thymic cancer. Saracatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth
Invasive Thymoma and Thymic Carcinoma|Recurrent Thymoma and Thymic Carcinoma|Stage III Thymoma|Stage IVA Thymoma|Stage IVB Thymoma
DRUG: saracatinib
Objective Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. The objective response rate will be reported by each disease classification. The percent of patients having an objective response (complete or partial response) will be estimated with a 95% exact binomial confidence interval for the percent of patients receiving drug. Note: there were no objective responses in this trial., Up to 5 years
Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. This will be examined in an exploratory fashion using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Time until progression, death or last evaluation will be calculated. If a patient did not progress or die, they will be censored at their last evaluation in the analysis., Time from the date of registration to the first reported outcome event, assessed up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Will be examined in an exploratory fashion using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Time until death or last evaluation will be calculated. If a patient did not die, they will be censored in the analysis., Time from the date of registration to last reported date of survival, assessed up to 5 years|Disease Control Rate, Will be examined in an exploratory fashion using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Disease control rate defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) + stable disease (SD). The length of time until progression or until last evaluation will be calculated. For patients who did not progress, they will be censored in the analysis., Up to 5 years|Expected Toxicities Including Skin Rashes and Diarrhea, Number of patients who had toxicities classified as skin rashes and diarrhea within the adverse events., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the objective response rate (complete response and partial response) in patients with relapsed or refractory thymoma or thymic carcinoma treated with AZD0530.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity of AZD0530 in these patients. II. To evaluate the progression-free survival of these patients. III. To evaluate the overall survival of these patients. IV. To evaluate the disease control rate, defined as complete response, partial response, and stable disease, in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral saracatinib once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.