Frontline Immunotherapy Combined With Radiation and Chemotherapy in High Risk Endometrial Cancer
The purpose of this single arm, open label study is to evaluate the feasibility of pembrolizumab combined with radiation administered to the upper part of the vagina (vaginal cuff brachytherapy) followed by three cycles of pembrolizumab and chemotherapy in patients with endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Vaginal cuff brachytherapy (VCB)|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
Proportion of patients completing three cycles, defined as completion of 3 cycles of pembrolizumab combined with dose dense paclitaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy, 4 months
progression free survival, time from study entry to the first tumor progression, up to 2 years|progression free survival, progression free survival rate at 6 months, 6 months|Overall survival, time from study entry to death, up to 2 years|Frequency of adverse events, frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by the CTCAE v5, 5 months
Before the patient begins the study:

Endometrial cancer is commonly treated with surgery. The patient must have already had surgery including hysterectomy (removal of the uterus) prior to being considered eligible for this study. The surgery may also include removal of the ovaries, and removal of pelvic and para-aortic lymph nodes. Following the surgery, the doctor will identify if the patient has factors related to the cancer which places the patient at a greater risk for the cancer returning.

Prior to participating in this study there are exams, tests or procedures to find out if the patient can be treated in the study. Most are part of regular cancer care. Tumor tissue will need to be collected for study tests to see if the patient is eligible for to take part on the study.

TREATMENT If the patient is eligible, pembrolizumab will be given 7 days before radiation therapy. After radiation therapy, three cycles of pembrolizumab and chemotherapy will be given.

Study participation will be up to two years.