Ovarian Cancer Vaccine for Patients in Remission
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of an investigational therapeutic agent (Cvac) in ovarian cancer patients in first or second remission and to determine its ability to prevent cancer from returning.

Study objectives

Primary objectives:

* To confirm the safety of administering Cvac in this population.
* To determine the effects of Cvac on progression-free survival (PFS).

Secondary objectives:

* To determine overall survival (OS) for ovarian cancer patients who receive Cvac after achieving remission in the first or second-line setting.
* Evaluation of host immunologic response to Cvac administration.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Cvac
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to the date of documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred earlier. Disease progression occurred when a patient met either the Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup (GCIG) cancer-antigen (CA)-125 definition or the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) radiological definition of progressive disease. The GCIG CA-125 definition of disease progression was defined as a CA-125 level ≥ 2 × the upper limit of normal documented on 2 occasions at least 1 week apart. The radiological RECIST criteria of disease progression was defined as the appearance of new lesions or an overall increase ≥ 20% or at least 5 mm in existing tumors., Baseline to 48 weeks after the last visit or dose of Cvac (up to 104 weeks)
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from randomization until death from any cause., Baseline to the end of the study (up to 4 years 10 months)|Change From Baseline in Mucin 1 Antibody Levels at Weeks 20, 56, and 104, Mucin 1 antibodies were assessed in serum samples using a quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Detection was achieved with electrochemiluminescence., Baseline to Week 104|Change From Baseline in ICS of IL2, IL4, IL17, TNF, and IFNg in CD4+ and CD8+ Cells at Weeks 20, 56, and 104, Intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) for IL2, IL4, IL17, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and interferon gamma (IFNg) was done in both CD4+ and CD8+ cells from serum samples collected at Weeks, 20, 56, and 104. Intracellular cytokine staining data were acquired with 8-color flow cytometry on a BD LSR II flow cytometer and a high-throughput screening microplate reader., Baseline to Week 104
An initial cohort of 7 patients were treated with Cvac in an open-label phase to confirm the safety and consistency of manufacturing between Cvac drug product manufactured in the United States (US) and Australia. After the manufacturing characteristics of Cvac were confirmed to be consistent and each patient in the initial cohort had completed 1 injection cycle of Cvac with no serious or treatment-related Grade 3 or 4 adverse events (AEs), 56 patients were enrolled and randomized (1:1) to either Cvac or observational standard of care (OSC).