Sunitinib Maintenance Therapy After Induction Platinum-Based Chemotherapy in Patients With ES-SCLC
The goal of this study is to determine the progression-free survival rate in patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer who had achieved complete response, partial response, or stable disease with their previous platinum chemotherapy regimen, such as cisplatin or carboplatin in combination with etoposide or irinotecan. In addition, the safety and effectiveness of sunitinib will also be evaluated.
Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: sunitinib
Progression Free Survival Rate, The proportion of patients who are progression-free at 4 months after starting sunitinib., 4 Months Post Treatment
Median Overall Survival, Survival will be defined as the time from the first day of therapy to the date of death. If the patient is lost to follow-up, survival will be censored on the last date the patient was known to be alive. Survival for induction therapy will be calculated from day 1 of first cycle of chemotherapy. Survival for post-induction therapy will be calculated from the date the patient starts sunitinib., up to 4 months post treatment|Percent of Patients With an Objective Response, Scans were performed every 2 cycles to evaluate for response/progression. Response was assessed according to RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria. Patients would be considered to have an objective response if they experience CR (Complete Response - Disappearance of all clinical and radiological evidence of target lesions and/or non-target lesions) or PR (Partial Response - A 30% or greater decrease in the sum of LD of all lesions in reference to the baseline sum LD)., 12 weeks (2 cycles)|Number of Patients That Discontinue Drug Due to Toxicity, Tolerability of Sunitinib will be evaluated by looking at the number of participants who discontinue drug due to toxicity. Toxicity was graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria v.3.0.

In the event of any CTC, version 3.0 drug-related grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic or grade 4 hematologic adverse event(s), drug should be held until the toxicity resolves to \< grade 1 and then the drug should be restarted at a one dose-level reduction.

Recovery to acceptable levels of toxicity must occur within 4 weeks to allow continuation in the study.

No more than 2 dose reductions are permitted for any patient. If further dose reduction is required, the patient must be removed from the study., 20 weeks
Despite a high initial response rate, all patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer treated with standard chemotherapy will develop disease progression, usually within one year of initial treatment. Therefore, prolonging progression-free survival in this disease is meaningful for clinical trials exploring agents such as sunitinib. Sunitinib is a drug that inhibits the biological pathway responsible for the growth and spread of cancer cells. For this reason, we believe that sunitinib maintenance therapy will delay or prevent recurrence and prolong survival.

The goal of this study is to determine the progression-free survival rate in patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer who had achieved complete response, partial response, or stable disease with their previous platinum chemotherapy regimen, such as cisplatin or carboplatin in combination with etoposide or irinotecan. In addition, the safety and effectiveness of sunitinib will also be evaluated.