Effect of Adding Electroacupuncture to Anti-cancer Therapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy
This study is being done to evaluate the potential benefits of using electroacupuncture to reduce the severity of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy for patients with peripheral neuropathy after chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN)|Cancer
PROCEDURE: True acupuncture + standard anti chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy treatment|PROCEDURE: Sham acupuncture +standard anti chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy treatment
Difference of the CIPN grade from baseline to week 6 after baseline, The primary outcome will be the proportion of patients whose CIPN grade improved after the completion of 8 acupuncture treatments sessions., From enrollment to week 6
Changes in FACT/NTX subscale baseline to 6 weeks, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-Ntx) is a 38-item self-reported questionnaire: the 27-item general assessment of Quality of Life scale (FACT-G),alongside its 11-item neurotoxicity-specific module. Considering the patient's compliance, the investigators only require the patient to complete the 11-item neurotoxicity-specific module., baseline,week 3, week6
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) refers to symptoms caused by chemotherapy drugs, such as numbness, tingling sensation, decreased sensation, hypersensitivity, or even limb dysfunction and muscle atrophy, which can be divided into five grades according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE). The higher the grade, the more severe the symptoms. The incidence of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) reached 68.1% within the first month after treatment. About one-third of patients may develop chronic CIPN six months or more after chemotherapy, which significantly impairs the patients' quality of life. Electroacupuncture, as a nonpharmacologic therapy, is minimally invasive, with few side effects, and has demonstrated efficacy in various conditions including chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. However, studies on its effectiveness against CIPN still yields inconsistent results.

This is a parallel-group, double-blinded (participants and statisticians), randomized controlled study that investigates the role of electroacupuncture compared with sham acupuncture for patients receiving chemotherapy. Both groups will receive the standard therapy for CIPN. On this basis, electroacupuncture or sham acupuncture will be randomly administered to the two groups. The investigators will explore the efficiency of electroacupuncture in reducing the severity of CIPN. Primary and secondary outcomes and adverse events will be evaluated.