Immune Reconstitution After Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transpl for High-Risk Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Vaccines may help the body build an effective immune response to kill cancer cells. Giving vaccine therapy after an autologous stem cell transplant may kill any cancer cells that remain after transplant.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well vaccine therapy works in treating patients who have undergone autologous stem cell transplant for high-risk lymphoma or multiple myeloma.
Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm|Small Intestine Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Streptococcus pneumoniae|OTHER: laboratory correlative studies|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment
Number of Participants Experiencing Immune Reconstitution, Immune reconstitution as measured by response to conjugate vaccine to Streptococcus pneumoniae (Prevnar, PCV7), NK cell activity against autologous lymphoblastoid cell lines, and CMV \& EBV tetramer responses after autologous transplant for myeloma, Up to 2 years
Serial Assessment of the Absolute Number of Circulating Regulatory T-cells and the Function of These Cells as Measured by Their Expression of TGFβ and Interleukin-10 (IL-10), Up to 3 years|Correlation of Quality of Life With Inflammatory Cytokine Production of Peripheral Blood Monocytes, Up to 3 years|Quality of Life, Including Brief Pain Inventory, The Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF) asks respondents to rate the severity of their current, least, average, and worst pain over the previous 24 hours on a scale of 0 to 10. The BPI-SF also asks respondents to rate on a scale of 0 to 10 the degree to which pain interfered with seven different areas of their life (e.g., general activity, normal work, etc.)Scale 0-10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being pain as bad as you can imagine., Up to 3 years|Quality of Life, Including Fatigue, Brief Fatigue Inventory is a 9-item BFI assessing the severity of fatigue and the impact of fatigue on daily function. Scale 0-10 with 0 being no fatigue and 10 being as bad as you can imagine., Up to 3 years|Collection of Baseline Immune Reconstitution and Quality of Life Pilot Data for Comparison in Future Post-transplant Immunotherapy Trials, Up to 3 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Assess immune reconstitution as measured by response to pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine, NK-cell activity against autologous lymphoblastoid cell lines, and cytomegalovirus and Epstein-Barr virus tetramer responses in patients who have undergone autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for high-risk lymphoma or multiple myeloma.

Secondary

* Assess the absolute number of circulating regulatory T-cells and the function of these cells as measured by their expression of TGFβ and interleukin-10 (IL-10).
* Evaluate the effect of conditioning therapy on quality of life, including functional status, fatigue, and depression, in these patients.
* Correlate quality of life with inflammatory cytokine production of peripheral blood monocytes at specified time points.
* Provide baseline immune reconstitution and quality of life pilot data for comparison in future post-transplant immunotherapy trials.

OUTLINE: Patients receive pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine intramuscularly once in weeks 9, 17, and 25 after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Blood samples are collected periodically for correlative and immunological studies.

Quality of life (QOL) is assessed periodically using the QOL short form (SF-36, 4-week version), the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale (CES-D), and the Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory (MFSI-30).