Detection Evaluation of a Novel Blood-based DNA Methylation Assay in Early-stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients
This trail is a multi-center,prospective observational study aimed to detect early-stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma by a Novel Blood-based DNA Methylation Assay(named Genetron HCC Methylation PCR Kit ). The accuracy of the kit will also be evaluated . The trail will be enroll approximately 4816 participants, including participants with HCC or benign diseases, and high risk factors for liver cancer.
Liver Cancer
All plasma samples and imaging results will be used to evaluate diagnostic(sensitivity and specificity) of the kit., Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), liver ultrasound (US), dynamic contrast enhanced MRI and the kit examination will be performed on high-risk participants of primary liver cancer.

For subjects with typical imaging findings of hepatocellular carcinoma but an intrahepatic nodule diameter of ≤2 cm, an imaging study will be added to the above.

According to the clinical diagnostic criteria of primary liver cancer, the diagnostic performance of the kit, liver ultrasound examination (US) combined with alpha fetoprotein (AFP) detection will be evaluated, and the sensitivity of the kit, the kit combined with AFP, the kit combined with AFP and US, AFP combined with US screening for primary liver cancer will be compared., 2 months|Plasma samples of patients with and without HCC to evaluate test performance(accuracy) of the kit. diagnostic(sensitivity and specificity) of the kit., Following the principle of simultaneous blinding, blood samples were collected from liver cancer patients and non-HCC patients who had been diagnosed according to the clinical diagnostic criteria for primary liver cancer. The subjects were coded, and the selected samples were tested by the kit and the comparison method high-throughput human methylation sequencing (NGS sequencing method), and the test results were compared., 2 months
Diagnostic performance evaluation:

Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), liver ultrasound (US), dynamic contrast enhanced MRI and the kit examination will be performed on high-risk participants of primary liver cancer.

For subjects with typical imaging findings of hepatocellular carcinoma but an intrahepatic nodule diameter of ≤2 cm, an imaging study will be added to the above.

According to the clinical diagnostic criteria of primary liver cancer, the diagnostic performance of the kit, liver ultrasound examination (US) combined with alpha fetoprotein (AFP) detection will be evaluated, and the sensitivity of the kit, the kit combined with AFP, the kit combined with AFP and US, AFP combined with US screening for primary liver cancer will be compared.

Test performance evaluation:

Plasma samples of patients with and without HCC diagnosed according to the clinical diagnostic criteria of primary HCC will be collected and examined simultaneously by the kit and high-throughput human methylation sequencing (NGS sequencing).