Open Versus Robot Assisted Radical Cystectomy With Totally Intracorporeal Urinary Diversion.
This prospective randomized study is designed to provide high level of evidence supporting superiority of robot assisted (RA) versus open (O) radical cystectomy (RC). The primary endpoint is a 50% reduction of transfusion rate, several perioperative outcomes potentially linked to a reduced invasiveness are considered as secondary endpoints. Investigators hypothesis is that the reduced invasiveness of RARC might turn into a higher adherence to enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols (early bowel recovery, reduced need for painkillers and insertion of nasogastric tube) and consequently to shorter hospital stay and to faster return to daily activities. These data will be taken into account in a matched cost analysis between arms. Secondary aims include a between arm matched comparison of perioperative complications, oncologic outcomes (2-yr disease free survival is an accepted surrogate of long term oncologic effectiveness of RC) and functional outcomes (daytime and nighttime continence).
Bladder Cancer
PROCEDURE: Open or robotic radical cystectomy
Number of participants requiring perioperative transfusions., 50% reduction of perioperative transfusion rates in robotic arm., 30 days
Number of participants requiring insertion of nasogastric tube, Comparison between open and robotic arms., 30 days|Incidence of Clavien grade 1-2 perioperative complications at 30-d evaluation., Comparison between open and robotic arms., 30 days|Incidence of Clavien grade 1-2 perioperative complications at 90-d evaluation., Comparison between open and robotic arms., 90 days|Incidence of Clavien grade 1-2 perioperative complications at 180-d evaluation., Comparison between open and robotic arms., 180 days|Incidence of patients requiring readmission., Comparison between open and robotic arms., 90 days|Cost analysis., Comparison between open and robotic arms., 30 days
Assessment of quality of life at 6-mo follow-up with self-administered EORTC QLQ-BLM30 questionnaire, Comparison between open and robotic arms., 6 months|Assessment of quality of life at 6-mo follow-up with self-administered EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, Comparison between open and robotic arms., 6 months|Assessment of quality of life at 12-mo follow-up with self-administered EORTC QLQ-BLM30 questionnaire, Comparison between open and robotic arms., 12 months|Assessment of quality of life at 12-mo follow-up with self-administered EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, Comparison between open and robotic arms., 12 months|Assessment of quality of life at 24-mo follow-up with self-administered EORTC QLQ-BLM30 questionnaire, Comparison between open and robotic arms., 24 months|Assessment of quality of life at 24-mo follow-up with self-administered EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, Comparison between open and robotic arms., 24 months|Disease free survival, Comparison between open and robitic arms, 24 months|Cancer specific survival, Comparison between open and robitic arms, 24 months|Overall survival, Comparison between open and robitic arms, 24 months|Assessment of urinary continence with pad test., Comparison between open and robotic arms, 12 months|Assessment of urinary continence with pad test., Comparison between open and robotic arms, 24 months
Despite encouraging data deriving from colorectal surgery, evidences in favor to ERAS protocols following RARC are poor. Moreover, according to a recent survey of surgeons with a specialist interest in RC, the adherence to ERAS protocols is \<20% \[1\].

Retrospective and preliminary data from the robotic consortium have supported oncologic effectiveness of RARC; however in the only prospective randomized trial comparing RARC and ORC urinary diversions were performed extracorporeally, potentially impairing the benefits of minimally invasive surgery \[2\].

Robot assisted radical cystectomy (RARC) has the aim of providing adequate cancer control while minimizing invasiveness of open radical cystectomy (ORC). The primary end-point of this trial is to demonstrate a reduction of perioperative transfusion rate in RARC arm by 50% compared to ORC arm.

ERAS protocols may significantly contribute to shortening length of hospital stay, a key outcome in this clinical setting of patients receiving RC, being the mean length of hospital stay around 14 days in Italy. Investigators' hypothesis is that the reduced invasiveness of RARC might contribute to an increased adoption of ERAS protocols (reduced need for reinsertion of nasogastric tube, shorter time to first flatus, to mobilization, to regular diet and finally shorter duration of hospital stay).

Assessment of oncologic outcomes of RARC, although not the primary endpoint of the present study, is certainly an outcome of interest. The expected duration of enrollment (18 mo) should provide 2-yr oncologic outcomes for about 66% of patients. Two-year recurrence free survival has been reported as a valid surrogate marker of long term oncologic survival after RC.

Specific Aim 1:To demonstrate superiority of RARC versus ORC in terms of 50% reduction of perioperative transfusion rates.

Specific Aim 2:

To evaluate invasiveness of both surgical approaches by assessing the adherence to ERAS protocols in both and the incidence of perioperative and 30-d, 90d, 180d complications, readmission rates (30d, 90d). Cost analysis will assess the potential impact of shorter hospital stay on overall costs of robotic procedures.

Specific Aim 3:

To assess quality of life at 6-mo, 12-mo and 24-mo follow-up evaluation and to perform a matched comparison of oncologic and functional outcomes between two arms.