Prognostic Factors for Patients With Advanced Colorectal Cancer Treated With Cetuximab.
Italian, multicentre, non comparative trial in patients with advanced Colorectal Cancer(CRC)and KRAS wild-type, defined by molecular evaluation.

Patients will receive Cetuximab + FOLFIRI until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity developed or patient refusal.

The aim of this study is to assess the prognostic role of PTEN in terms of Progression free survival.

Although the role of Cetuximab as first line treatment in metastatic CRC will be soon established, it is still unclear which is the best schedule for Cetuximab and the role of biological factors in order to select the most appropriate subset of pts for recommending Cetuximab. The data supporting a benefit of Cetuximab in KRAS wild-type pts open the perspective to study the role of other molecular markers in this subset of pts.

On the basis of these considerations this study is aimed at testing a different schedule of Cetuximab and better characterize the prognosis of pts for which Cetuximab is appropriate.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: FOLFIRI
Progression free survival, untill 48 months
Overall survival, untill 48 months
Pts meeting eligibility criteria will be registered, providing the availability of material for molecular analysis. Tumour specimens and blood sample will be collected to perform genomic, ICH and proteomic analyses in order to identify the molecular characteristics of tumour.

After the availability of KRAS evaluation, only the data of KRAS wild-type pts will be collected.

Access to registration system will be allowed via web.

Patients,KRAS wild-type receive:

- Cetuximab+FOLFIRI: cetuximab 500 mg/ m² starting dose, following everytwo- week doses of 500 mg/ m², given d1, followed after 1 hour by FOLFIRI: irinotecan 180 mg/m2 on day 1 with LV 100 mg/m2 administered as a 2-hour infusion before FU 400 mg/m2 administered as an intravenous bolus injection, and FU 600 mg/m2 as a 22-hour infusion immediately after FU bolus injection on days 1 and 2