Bortezomib With or Without Irinotecan in Treating Patients With Locally Recurrent or Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
This randomized phase II trial is studying bortezomib and irinotecan to see how well they work compared to bortezomib alone in treating patients with locally recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as irinotecan, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bortezomib together with irinotecan may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known whether giving bortezomib together with irinotecan is more effective than bortezomib alone in treating head and neck cancer.
Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Tongue Cancer
DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response Rate on Step 1, Tumor response was evaluated via Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.0, and response rate was defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response or partial response among all eligible and treated patients. Complete response was defined as disappearance of all tumor lesions. Partial response was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions., Tumor response was assessed every 2 cycles until progression or intolerable toxicity with maximum of 3 years
Response Rate on Step 2, Tumor response was evaluated via Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.0, and response rate was defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response or partial response among all eligible and treated patients. Complete response was defined as disappearance of all tumor lesions. Partial response was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions., Tumor response was assessed after every 2 cycles until progression or intolerable toxicity with maximum of 3 years|Progression-free Survival on Step 1, Progression-free survival was defined as time from registration to step 1 to disease recurrence or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was measured by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.0, and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions., Every 3 months for first 2 years from protocol entry, then every 6 months until 3 years from study entry|Overall Survival on Step 1, Overall survival was defined as time from registration on step 1 to death from any cause. It was evaluated in all 61 eligible and treated patients., Survival was assessed every 3 month within 2 years and every 6 months betwen 2 and 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the activity of combination of PS-341 (bortezomib) and irinotecan in patients with locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) and the response rate of single agent PS-341 (followed by irinotecan at time of progression).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To continue exploring the toxicity of PS-341 alone and the combination of PS-341 and irinotecan in this patient population.

II. To evaluate time to progression, overall survival and response to irinotecan and PS-341 when given after PS-341 alone.

III. To evaluate the relationship between pre-treatment nuclear localization of NF-kB, and NF-kB regulated gene expression in tissue (Cyclin D1, IAP1, Bcl-XL, Topo I), and serum (IL-6, IL-8, GRO-1 and VEGF) and response.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Arm II: Patients receive bortezomib as in arm I. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Upon disease progression, patients may cross over to arm I.

Patients are followed every 3-6 months for up to 3 years.