Pasireotide (SOM230) With or Without Everolimus in Treating Patients With Hormone Resistant, Chemotherapy Naive Prostate Cancer
This is an open label randomized phase II study for prostate cancer patients who have disease progression after hormonal therapy. SOM230 LAR (Pasireotide) binds to its receptor of prostate cancer cells and can prevent them from growing. Everolimus works by targeting a cell survival factor in prostate cancer. The combination of these drugs may work better for the treatment of prostate cancer without toxic chemotherapy. Patients will receive either SOM230 LAR (group A) or SOM230 LAR in combination with Everolimus (group B).
Castrate Resistant Prostate Cancer|Chemotherapy Naive Prostate Cancer|Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Pasireotide|DRUG: Everolimus|OTHER: Laboratory biomarker analysis
Number of Participants Alive and Progression Free After 12 Weeks of Treatment, Progression of disease is defined as disease progression by RECIST 1.1 criteria on CT scan (X-ray computed tomography), or appearance of \> 2 new bone lesions on bone scan, or prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression by Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group (PCWG2) criteria or death from any cause., 12 weeks after treatment
Number of Participants With > 50% Decline From Baseline PSA Level, After 12 weeks of treatment|Number of Participants Without New Bone Lesions After 12 Weeks of Treatment, After 12 weeks of treatment|Number of Participants With Progression Free Survival (PFS) Based on RECIST 1.1 Criteria, Progression free survival (PFS) based on primary outcome criteria for disease progression. Patients without radiographic disease progression who permanently discontinue the study drugs will be censored, Assessed up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
Prostate cancer cells typically have neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation features after they become resistant to hormonal therapy. Somatostatin (SST - a peptide hormone) receptors (SSTR) are usually expressed in a high level in these advanced prostate cancer cells. When SSTR is activated pharmacologically by drugs similar to SST, prostate cancer cell growth is inhibited. SOM230 is a new agent which can activate SSTR and block other key survival molecules/pathways such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3K), mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases (MAPK) signaling pathways. Thus SOM230 itself has anticancer activity for prostate cancer.

It is also well known that hormonal refractory prostate cancer can grow in an environment of very low male hormone level because of the activation of several non-androgen receptor survival pathways. One key survival pathway is mediated by an important molecule called mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Drugs, such as Everolimus, have anticancer activity in prostate cancer pre-clinically, but do not sustain its activity. The reason was that cancer cells can up-regulate other survival pathways such as PI3K, MAPK, thus bypass mTOR.

It is hypothesized that SOM230 not only have anti-tumor effect in prostate cancer directly, but also can block the up-regulated (feed-back loop), alternative PI3K or MAPK survival pathways induced by mTOR inhibitors.

The goal of this study is to develop a new well tolerated therapy that can be offered to prostate cancer patients prior to receiving chemotherapy.