Computed Tomography Versus Standard 2D Mammography Versus 3D Tomosynthesis
The purpose of this study is to compare the imaging performance of an investigational breast computed tomography (CT) scanner, built at UC Davis, with that of an FDA-Approved breast tomosynthesis scanner (capable of producing standard 2-D mammography and 3-D tomosynthesis images), built by Hologic, Incorporated, in a group of patients with suspected breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Tomosynthesis Breast Scanning|RADIATION: Breast CT Scanning
Beta of CT Coronal View, frequency range corresponding to noise power spectrum (NPS) where beta = NPS(f) = af\^-B.

beta is calculated as noise corresponding to frequency. The values of the exponent, beta, range from 1.5 to 3.5 Lower Beta values correspond to better image quality (less noise, increased cancer detection)., Day 1|Beta of CT Sagittal View, frequency range corresponding to noise power spectrum (NPS) where beta = NPS(f) = af\^-B.

beta is calculated as noise corresponding to frequency. The values of the exponent, beta, range from 1.5 to 3.5 Lower Beta values correspond to better image quality (less noise, increased cancer detection)., Day 1|Beta of CT Axial View, frequency range corresponding to noise power spectrum (NPS) where beta = NPS(f) = af\^-B.

beta is calculated as noise corresponding to frequency. The values of the exponent, beta, range from 1.5 to 3.5 Lower Beta values correspond to better image quality (less noise, increased cancer detection)., Day 1|Beta of Tomosynthesis Craniocaudal View, frequency range corresponding to noise power spectrum (NPS) where beta = NPS(f) = af\^-B.

beta is calculated as noise corresponding to frequency. The values of the exponent, beta, range from 1.5 to 3.5 Lower Beta values correspond to better image quality (less noise, increased cancer detection)., Day 1|Beta of Tomosynthesis Medial Lateral Oblique View, frequency range corresponding to noise power spectrum (NPS) where beta = NPS(f) = af\^-B.

beta is calculated as noise corresponding to frequency. The values of the exponent, beta, range from 1.5 to 3.5 Lower Beta values correspond to better image quality (less noise, increased cancer detection)., Day 1
The primary aim of this study is the comparison of Beta values of several different CT and Tomosynthesis views (Beta of CT Sagittal View, Beta of CT Coronal View, Beta of CT Axial View, Beta of Tomosynthesis Craniocaudal View, Beta of Tomosynthesis Medial Lateral Oblique View). Lower Beta values correspond to better image quality (less noise, increased cancer detection).