Overall Survival of Large Cell Neuroendocrine Lung Cancer Patients - a Retrospective Study
This is a retrospective study. 132 patients with LCNEC and combined LCNEC were included to the analysis. Patients were treated with radical, palliative or symptomatic intension between 2002-2018 in central and north-eastern centres in Poland. The group of patients consists of 47 women (36%) and 85 men (64%). Ratio of women to men is 1:1,81. The observation period ranged from 0 to 192 months.
Survival Outcomes of Patients With Pulmonary LCNEC
PFS - Progression Free Survival, the time from the start of treatment date to the date of first observation of documented local recurrence, metastases or disease progression. Patients without progression at the time of analysis will be censored., 16 years|OS - Overall Survival, is defined as the time from the histopathological confirmation to the date of death due to any cause or the date of last contact (censored observation) at the date of data cut-off., 16 years
Log-rank test, assessment of differences in survival of patients between subgroups, 16 years|Cox proportional-hazards model, multivariate analyses used for investigating the association between the survival time of patients and prognostic factors, 16 years
This is a retrospective study. 132 patients with LCNEC and combined LCNEC were included to the analysis. Patients were treated with radical, palliative or symptomatic intension between 2002-2018 in central and north-eastern centres in Poland. The group of patients consists of 47 women (36%) and 85 men (64%). Ratio of women to men is 1:1,81. The observation period ranged from 0 to 192 months.

For all patients included to the analysis, the clinical stage was estimated according to TNM Classification of Malignant Tumours - UICC from 2017. The degree of pathomorphic stage (pTNM) was assessed in 60 patients treated with intention to treat (ITT), which is 45% of the total population.

The degree of clinical stage (cTNM) was assessed in 72 patients based on the imaging examinations (including PET, CT, MRI, bone scintigraphy, etc.) and fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNA) (including EBUS, with pathological confirmation of LCNEC, which is 55% of the total population.

The clinical stage (cTNM) was used in case of patients disqualified from radical surgery due to: advanced disease, contraindications to surgery, no patient's consent for treatment.