Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography With Radiofrequency Ablation (ERCP-RFA) Combined With Envafolimab and Surufatinib Sequential Therapy for Unresectable Biliary Tract Carcinoma
The sequential treatment strategy of ERCP-RFA combined with envafolimab and surufatinib proposed in this study aims to maximally inhibit the progression of unresectable biliary tract tumors through the combined application of multiple therapeutic modalities. ERCP-RFA, as a local treatment, first reduces the tumor burden and alleviates biliary obstruction through physical ablation. Subsequently, Envafolimab enables the body to more effectively identify and attack the remaining tumor cells by activating the immune system. Finally, Surufatinib as a targeted drug, further controls the growth and spread of tumors by inhibiting tumor angiogenesis and cell proliferation. The potential advantage of this combined treatment lies in the complementary effects of different therapeutic modalities.
Unresectable Biliary Tract Carcinoma
DRUG: Envafolimab and Surufatinib
Overall Survival, Defined as the time from the start of study treatment to death due to any cause, up to 12 months
Disease Control Rate, Complete response(CR)and partial response(PR), up to 12 months|Progression-Free Survival, Assessed by the investigator using RECIST v1.1, defined as the time from the start of study treatment to disease progression, or relapse after resection of liver metastases, or death due to any cause., up to 12 months|Overall Response Rate, Partial response (PR) plus complete response (CR)): assessed by the investigator using RECIST v1.1 criteria, up to 12 months|Adverse events was evaluated during received protocol therapy according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for NCI- CTCAE 5.0., safety, up to 12 months
The sequential treatment strategy of ERCP-RFA combined with envafolimab and surufatinib proposed in this study aims to maximally inhibit the progression of unresectable biliary tract tumors through the combined application of multiple therapeutic modalities. ERCP-RFA, as a local treatment, first reduces the tumor burden and alleviates biliary obstruction through physical ablation. Subsequently, Envafolimab enables the body to more effectively identify and attack the remaining tumor cells by activating the immune system. Finally, Surufatinib as a targeted drug, further controls the growth and spread of tumors by inhibiting tumor angiogenesis and cell proliferation. The potential advantage of this combined treatment lies in the complementary effects of different therapeutic modalities.