Vaginal Dilator Therapy Among Women With Gynecologic and Breast Cancers Experiencing Dyspareunia
In this randomized controlled trial, the investigators will assess the difference in mean patient-reported pain scores and sexual function between women with gynecologic or breast cancers experiencing dyspareunia (painful intercourse) who are assigned to vaginal dilator use with vaginal moisturizer (Intervention Group, n = 29) compared to vaginal moisturizer alone (Control Group, n = 29) over 16 weeks.
Dyspareunia
OTHER: Vaginal Moisturizer|DEVICE: Vaginal Dilator
Difference in Mean Patient-Reported Pain Scores During Sexual Activity, The difference in mean patient-reported pain scores will be calculated, during penetrative sexual activity before and after randomization to vaginal dilator use with vaginal moisturizer or vaginal moisturizer alone. Pain scores will be assessed using a 10cm vial analog scale (VAS), in which 0 indicates no pain and 10 indicates most pain (worst outcome)., Up to 16 weeks
Difference in Mean Patient-Reported Pain Scores During Speculum Exam, The difference in mean patient-reported pain scores will be calculated, during speculum exam before and after randomization to vaginal dilator use with vaginal moisturizer or vaginal moisturizer alone. Pain scores will be assessed using a 10cm vial analog scale (VAS), in which 0 indicates no pain and 10 indicates most pain (worst outcome)., Up to 16 weeks
Sexual Function based on the PROMIS SexFS Score (Version 2.0), The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Sexual Function (SexFS) assesses over the last 30 days interest in sexual activity, lubrication, vaginal discomfort, clitoral discomfort, labial discomfort, erectile function, orgasm ability, orgasm pleasure and is customizable so that study designers can select relevant domains and items for their study. Raw scores can range from 2 to 10 ("very" or "very much"), which is then converted to a T-score found in the appendix of the survey. The T-score rescales the raw score into a standardized score with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation (SD) of 10. Therefore a person with a T-score of 40 is one SD below the mean. The standardized T-score is reported as the final score for each participant for each domain., Up to 16 weeks
Between 2012 and 2016, approximately 94,000 women were diagnosed with a gynecologic cancer annually and over 1.2 million women with breast cancer between 2013 and 2017. It is well known that gynecologic and breast cancers, and their treatments including surgery, adjuvant chemotherapy and endocrine therapy, and radiation, result in significant effects on the female reproductive system which can lead to sexual dysfunction. In the U.S., sexual dysfunction among gynecologic oncology patients has been reported to be as high as 90%, and over 70% among breast cancer patients. Patients who receive chemotherapy and/or endocrine therapy commonly experience dyspareunia, vaginal dryness, and challenges with desire and orgasm due to a low estrogen state. In fact, among patients with breast cancer, unaddressed sexual side effects from adjuvant endocrine therapy are one reason for early discontinuation. Hysterectomy and oophorectomy, including for ovarian cancer risk-reduction, can cause similar physical symptoms in addition to psychologic effects like anxiety related to sexual intercourse.