Living Well After Breast Surgery
Decision making about whether to have breast reconstruction after mastectomy can be difficult, and previous studies have found that many women are not well informed about their options. Patient decision aids can improve decision quality for a variety of health conditions. This pilot randomized study seeks to determine how a patient decision aid about breast reconstruction affects the quality of decisions about reconstruction including patient knowledge, concordance between preferences and treatment, and decisional regret.
Breast Cancer Female|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage III Breast Cancer|Ductal Carcinoma in Situ|Ductal Breast Carcinoma|Lobular Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Breast reconstruction decision aid|OTHER: Educational website
Number of patients enrolled per month, To determine the feasibility of recruiting eligible patients and delivering the breast reconstruction decision support intervention. Measured by the number of patients enrolled per month., 12 months|Proportion of patients retained at 6 months, To determine the feasibility of recruiting eligible patients and delivering the breast reconstruction decision support intervention. Measured by the proportion of patients retained through the 6 month outcome assessment., 6 months
How a patient decision aid about breast reconstruction affects knowledge about reconstruction., Change in knowledge (e.g. advantages and disadvantages) about breast reconstruction from baseline to post intervention measured by Decision Quality Instrument - Reconstruction Module., 6 months|How a patient decision aid about breast reconstruction affects concordance of patient values and decisions about reconstruction., Concordance between preferences (e.g. concerns about appearance, complications, recovery) regarding breast reconstruction and treatment outcome (mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction, mastectomy without immediate breast reconstruction) at 6-month follow-up measured by Rating Scale., 6 months|How a patient decision aid about breast reconstruction affects concordance of patient values and decisions about reconstruction., Concordance between preferences (e.g. concerns about appearance, complications, recovery) regarding breast reconstruction and treatment outcome (mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction, mastectomy without immediate breast reconstruction) at 6-month follow-up measured by Ranking Task., 6 months|How a patient decision aid about breast reconstruction affects concordance of patient values and decisions about reconstruction., Concordance between preferences (e.g. concerns about appearance, complications, recovery) regarding breast reconstruction and treatment outcome (mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction, mastectomy without immediate breast reconstruction) at 6-month follow-up measured by Decisional Conflict Scale., 6 months|How a patient decision aid about breast reconstruction affects concordance of patient values and decisions about reconstruction., Concordance between preferences (e.g. concerns about appearance, complications, recovery) regarding breast reconstruction and treatment outcome (mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction, mastectomy without immediate breast reconstruction) at 6-month follow-up measured by treatment outcome recorded in patient electronic health record (EHR)., 6 months|How a patient decision aid about breast reconstruction affects decision making outcomes., Regret with decision related to breast reconstruction at 6-month follow-up measured by Decisional Regret Scale., 6 months|How a patient decision aid about breast reconstruction affects decision making outcomes., Satisfaction with decision related to breast reconstruction at 6-month follow-up measured by Satisfaction with Decisions Scale., 6 months
Enrolled participants will be randomized to 1 of 2 arms; participants may receive a breast reconstruction decision aid or an educational website on healthy living with breast cancer.

Participants will complete up to three surveys; a baseline survey before viewing the decision aid or website, a second survey immediately after viewing the decision aid or website, and a third survey six months after surgery. Tablets will be made available to participants at the study site through which they can complete the surveys and view the decision aid or website. Participants will have the options of viewing the decision aid or website outside of the study site, and completing the three surveys electronically or on paper.

The baseline survey and second survey will each take approximately 45 minutes for participants to complete. The third survey will take approximately 30 minutes for participants to complete.