Spinal Palliation in Irradiation for Neoplastic Analgesia and Life Quality
The goal of this clinical trial is to assess the impact of reducing the volume of palliative metastatic bone irradiation on analgesic effectiveness at day 30 and to evaluate the efficiency of telemonitoring in identifying patients who could benefit from Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) and require care.

These objectives will be addressed in a multicenter, randomized, prospective study with two arms:

A standard arm with spinal irradiation without sparing the adjacent vertebrae. An experimental arm with spinal irradiation sparing the adjacent vertebrae. The results will determine whether reducing the irradiated volume can maintain effective pain relief while minimizing side effects.
Bone Metastasis|Oncology Pain
RADIATION: Sparing irradiation|RADIATION: Conventional spinal irradiation
Impact of Reducing the Volume of Palliative Bone Metastatic Irradiation on Analgesic Efficacy, Pain response at day 30 at the site of the irradiated lesion will be assessed according to the international consensus definitions on bone metastases, using a numerical scale (0 to 10) and the consumption of equivalent opioids., From enrollment to the end of treatment at day 30 after the first irradiation.
Tolerance of Reducing the Volume of Palliative Bone Metastatic Irradiation, Tolerance will be assessed by the occurrence of toxicities according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) PRO-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., From enrollment to the 30 days after the first irradiation session|Impact of a remote monitoring tool on quality of life, Quality of life will be assessed using questionnaire EORTC QLQ-C15PAL ; the score scale is from 0 to 100., From enrollment to the 30 days after the first irradiation session|Evaluation of Quality of life Bone Metastases Module, Quality of life will be assessed using questionnaires EORTC QLQ-Bone Metastases (BM)22. The score scale ranges from 0 to 100., From enrollment to the 30 days after the first irradiation session|Level of adherence, The level of adherence will be assessed based on the rate of compliance with completing the online questionnaires by the patient or their caregivers. The score scale ranges from 0 to 100., From enrollment to 45 days after the first irradiation|Use of a remote monitoring tool, The handling of the digital tool will be assessed by the System Usability Scale (SUS).The score scale ranges from 0 to 100., From enrollment to 45 days after the first irradiation|Patient satisfaction, Patient satisfaction will be measured according to the PACIC (Patient Assessment Chronic Illness Care) score. The total score ranges from 1 to 5., From enrollment to 30 months after the first irradiation|Medical care patient satisfaction, Patient satisfaction will be measured according the questionnaire concerning medical care (PEC). The score scale ranges from 0 to 100., From enrollment to 30 months after the first irradiation.|Rate of analgesic re-irradiation, The administration of a supplementary dose of irradiation between Day 30 and Month 12 will be recorded, From enrollment to 30 days after the first irradiation session and after 12 months|Correlation between dosimetric constraints for organs at risk (OARs) and the associated grade 0, 1, 2, and 3 acute toxicities, Doses to OARs will be collected for the main organs at risk (OARs) in the vicinity by exporting the dose-volume histograms for each organ at risk., From enrollment to 12 months after the first irradiation session.|Construction of a Prognostic Score, A prognostic score will be constructed from the variables of all the prognostic factors collected in this study. The score scale ranges from 0 to 100., From enrollment to 12 months after the first irradiation session.|Overall survival, Overall survival will be calculated as the time elapsed between the end of treatment and the date of death, from all causes., From enrollment to 12 months after the first irradiation session.
Palliative analgesic radiotherapy (RT) is used to relieve pain in patients with bone metastases. This technique involves irradiating the vertebrae above and below the ones responsible for the pain. Traditional two-dimensional radiotherapy (2D-RT) was characterized by a physical penumbra that could extend up to 50% of a vertebra's height, leading to underdosing of the target volume and, consequently, reduced analgesic effectiveness.

However, computed tomography (CT) scans or CT-based imaging have replaced these practices, allowing for high precision in delineating target volumes. Despite advancements in irradiation techniques, the physical penumbra is now negligible with modern machines, reducing the need for large margins and thereby limiting side effects associated with the irradiation of healthy tissues.

These factors have led us to conduct a clinical trial to assess the impact of reducing the volume of palliative metastatic bone irradiation on analgesic effectiveness at day 30 (D30) and to evaluate the efficiency of telemonitoring in identifying patients who could benefit from Patient-PROs and require care.

These objectives will be pursued in a multicenter, randomized, prospective study with two arms:

A standard arm, with spinal irradiation without sparing the adjacent vertebrae. An experimental arm, with spinal irradiation sparing the adjacent vertebrae. The results will determine whether reducing the irradiated volume can maintain effective pain relief while minimizing side effects. This could lead to changes in current palliative radiotherapy practices, reduce toxicity risks, and improve patients' quality of life.