Radiotherapy or Surgery Combined With Intense Androgen Deprivation Therapy for mCRPC
This multi-center randomized controlled phase II trial was carried out in several hospitals in China to evaluate the efficacy and safety of radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy combined with intense androgen deprivation therapy for newly diagnosed metastatic prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic Disease
DRUG: Intense androgen deprivation therapy|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: radical prostatectomy
Event-free Survival, Following 2 years of treatment, any anti-tumor treatment was terminated for those who met complete remission until two consecutively rised PSA\>0.2ng/ml. Complete remission is interpreted as PSA level\<0.1ng/ml and absence of radiographic as well as clinical progression following the 2-year treatment, both are indispensable. The primary outcome was event-free survival (EFS), defined as the time from disease complete remission to any required anti-tumor treatment., 2 years
progression-free survival, Defined as from treatment initiation to PSA progression or radiographic/clinical progression. PSA progression is defined as PSA \>1 ng/ml, with two consecutive PSA measurements at least one week apart showing a 50% or greater increase from baseline). Radiographic progression is defined as development of two or more new bone metastases or progression of soft tissue lesions according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. Clinical progression is defined as worsening clinical symptoms and signs as determined by the physician., 4 years|Time to CRPC, Time to CRPC (castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) is calculated from treatment initiation to the development of CRPC. CRPC is defined as serum testosterone at castration level (\<50 ng/dl or 1.7 nmol/l), while meeting one of the following criteria: a. Biochemical progression: Three consecutive PSA rises, each measured at least one week apart, with at least two increases exceeding 50% above baseline, and at least one PSA value \>2 ng/ml. b. Radiographic progression: Development of two or more new bone metastases, or progression of soft tissue lesions according to RECIST criteria., 4 years|Adverse events, valuate all adverse events (AEs) and grade them according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0., 4 years
This multi-center randomized controlled phase II trial was carried out in several hospitals in China to evaluate the efficacy and safety of radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy combined with intense androgen deprivation therapy for newly diagnosed metastatic prostate cancer.