Chlorhexidine and Garlic Extract as Potential Topical Virucidal Therapeutic Agents of Non-Genital Warts
Aim(s) of the Research:

1. Evaluate the efficacy and safety of topical chlorhexidine (2%) solution vs garlic extract (15%) solution in treating non-genital warts.
2. Explore possible relation between therapeutic response with demographic/clinical data.
3. Identify patients satisfaction with each agent.
Non-Genital Warts
DRUG: garlic extract (15%) solution|DRUG: topical chlorhexidine (2%) solution|DRUG: Saline
●Evaluate the efficacy and safety of topical chlorhexidine (2%) solution vs garlic extract (15%) solution in treating non-genital warts, will be evaluated by changing in the size (using ruler) and the number of lesions., 6weeks up to 3 month|●Side effects (systemic of local) as burning, itching, erythema, pigmentary changes, ulceration, and scarring, will be evaluated at each visit., 6weeks up to 3 month
Cutaneous warts or verruca are common, benign skin growths caused by human papilloma virus (HPV).

There are several therapeutic modalities for warts: include destructive agents (keratolytics, cryotherapy, curettage and cautery, laser, photodynamic therapy), antimitotic agents (podophyllin, bleomycin, retinoids), immune stimulants (topical sensitizers, cimetidine), and topical virucidal agents (formaldehyde, glutaraldehyde) Unfortunately, no single treatment is satisfactory for all patients. Chlorhexidine gluconate(CHX) is a gluconate salt with a broad-spectrum antiseptic action against Gram-Positive, Gram-negative bacteria, aerobes, facultative anaerobes, and fungi such action is mediated through increasing the permeability of the cell walls of microbes, causing their lysis.

Additionally, evidence indicates an in vitro effect against many viruses such as influenza A, parainfluenza, herpes virus 1, cytomegalovirus, hepatitis B, HIV and SARS-CoV-2.

It was hypothesized that the biophysiological mechanisms for the virucidal effect of CHX may be exerted through lysis of viral envelope, deterioration of nucleotide carbon chains, and inactivation and/or blocking of viral proteins.

Garlic (Allium sativum) is one of the most widely used medicinal plants with high therapeutic effects.

Clinical effectiveness of oral and topical garlic extract may be attributed to its antimicrobial, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anticancer and aging prevention effects.

However, the mechanisms of these actions are not clearly known. In vitro studies on garlic showed that garlic may enhance natural killer (NK) cells, which are an important part of the immune system in fighting cancers, viruses and certain bacteria.

Previous studies showed garlic extract was effective on complete resolution of cutaneous wart.

Chlorhexidine has not been used for treatment of warts in previous studies so we decided to explore its efficacy in treatment of warts.