Brentuximab Vedotin and Lenalidomide in Treating Patients With Stage IB-IVB Relapsed or Refractory T-Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well brentuximab vedotin and lenalidomide work in treating patients with stage IB-IVB T-cell lymphoma that have come back or do not respond to treatment. Monoclonal antibodies, such as brentuximab vedotin, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving brentuximab vedotin and lenalidomide may work better in treating patients with T-cell lymphoma.
Lymphomatoid Papulosis|Primary Cutaneous Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage I Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage II Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage III Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage IV Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Overall response rate, the overall response rate (ORR) of the combination of brentuximab vedotin (BV) and lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory CTCL/PTCL, Up to 2 years
Incidence of adverse events according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Toxicity will be graded by the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 30 days after last day of study treatment|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate OS., From start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate PFS., From start of study treatment to first documentation of tumor progression (including radiographic and clinical progression) or to death due to any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of the combination of brentuximab vedotin (BV) and lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL)/peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the duration of response and 2 year progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) associated with the combination of brentuximab vedotin (BV) and lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory CTCL/PTCL.

II. To define the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of the combination of brentuximab vedotin (BV) and lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory CTCL/PTCL.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate between the expression of CD30 in neoplastic cells by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and overall response rate (ORR) of the combination of brentuximab vedotin (BV) and lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory CTCL/PTCL.

II. To determine T-cell and natural killer (NK) cell subset numbers, phenotype, and functional status in relapsed or refractory (rel/ref) CTCL/PTCL patients, and whether the combination of brentuximab vedotin and lenalidomide alters these parameters during therapy.

III. To determine changes in plasma cytokine levels and other biomarkers in this patient population during therapy with the combination of brentuximab vedotin and lenalidomide.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive brentuximab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on day 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.