Using Visual Arrays to Support Understanding of Genetic Risk
The goal of this study is to understand how people understand risk from genetic testing. The investigators want to understand what visual aid best helps people accurately assess risk. The investigators also want to understand how people relate risk to their health. The main questions the study aims to answer are:

1. Which visual aid most accurately show genetic risk?
2. How do people perceive risk related to genetic test results?
3. What factors are associated with people discussing their results with family?

Participants will:

1. receive of of two visual aids showing risk
2. state their estimation of risk
3. answer questions about how they feel about risk and sharing information with family
Decision Aid
BEHAVIORAL: Visual Array|BEHAVIORAL: Narrative Visual Array
Risk Accuracy, closest approximation to risk percentage depicted in the visual array, immediately after the intervention
Risk Perceptions, Perceptions of deliberative, affective, and experiential risk using 7-point Likert-type scales, baseline|Communication Intent, Intent to communicate risk to blood relatives using 7-point Likert-type scale, immediately after the intervention
This study aims to determine what visual aid helps people most accurately interpret risk from genetic test results. The study also examines how people perceive risk using the Tripartite Risk Model. Last, the study examines factors that are associated with intention to share genetic test results with family members.

Participants will provide brief sociodemographic information, complete brief health literacy and numeracy assessments, and questions about how they perceive risk. Participants will be informed of a genetic testing scenario and will receive one of two visual aids. After reviewing the visual aid, participants will state the risk shown in the visual aid and will answer questions about their perceived risk and sharing results with family members (blood relatives).