CT-011 MAb in DLBCL Patients Following ASCT
Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation combined with high dose chemotherapy is the treatment of choice given to patients with diffuse large-B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) following relapse of the disease. Although many people are cured of their lymphoma with this therapy, the disease comes back in a certain proportion of patients. The purpose of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of the monoclonal antibody, CT-011, in patients with DLBCL who have received autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. All final eligible patients will receive an IV infusion of CT-011 on Day 1 (30 to 90 days post autologous PBSCT). Treatment will be repeated every 42 days for a total of three courses with treatment visits on Days 1, 43, and 85. Follow-up for safety and clinical outcome will be conducted throughout the study till 18 months post autologous PBSCT. Approximately 70 patients will participate in this study.
Lymphoma, Large Cell, Diffuse|Lymphoma, Mixed Cell, Diffuse|Primary Mediastinal Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: CT-011
Progression-free Survival, PFS (progression-free survival ) will be determined at the eligible patient populations, 16 months following the first CT-011 administration (approximately 18 months following autologous PBSCT).
Overall Survival, within 16 months following the first CT-011 treatment (18 months following autologous PBSCT).
Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation combined with high dose chemotherapy is the treatment of choice given to patients with diffuse large-B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) following relapse of the disease. Although many people are cured of their lymphoma with this therapy, the disease comes back in a certain proportion of patients. The purpose of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of the monoclonal antibody, CT-011, in patients with DLBCL who have received autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. All final eligible patients will receive an IV infusion of CT-011 on Day 1 (30 to 90 days post autologous PBSCT). Treatment will be repeated every 42 days for a total of three courses with treatment visits on Days 1, 43, and 85. Follow-up for safety and clinical outcome will be conducted throughout the study till 18 months post autologous PBSCT. Approximately 70 patients will participate in this study.