Synergistic Effect of Elemene Plus TKIs Compared With TKIs in EGFR-mutated Advanced NSCLC：Prospective Study
This is a nationwide, multicenter and prospective cohort study. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the synergistic effect and safety of Elemene plus TKIs in EGFR-mutated advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
Carcinoma|Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer|Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Elemene plus first or third generation EGFR-TKIs|DRUG: First or third generation EGFR-TKIs
PFS, PFS was defined as the interval from the date of randomization to the date of the first evidence of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was defined according to RECIST 1.1., Start of treatment until 1-year follow-up
ORR, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with the best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1., Start of treatment until 1-year follow-up|DCR, Disease Control Rate (DCR) = Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) + Stable Disease (SD) as defined by RECIST 1.1., Start of treatment until 1-year follow-up|OS, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the interval from the date of randomization to date of death from any cause, or the date of last known follow-up alive., Start of treatment until 1-year follow-up|Incidence and severity of AE or SAE, Any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment.

A serious adverse event (experience) or reaction is any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, Start of treatment until 30 days after the last treatment|Incidence and severity of ADR or SADR, All noxious and unintended responses to a medicinal product related to any dose should be considered adverse drug reactions.

A SADR is a serious ADR according to the above criteria of SAE., Start of treatment until 30 days after the last treatment
Quality of life (QOL), Quality of Life (QOL) was measured using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30 + LC 13)., Start of treatment until 1-year follow-up|Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS), KPS: Performance status were measured using Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS), Start of treatment until 1-year follow-up|Traditional Chinese Medical(TCM) symptoms score, TCM symptom score: Traditional Chinese Medical symptoms were measured from these eight aspects: chest pain, oppression in the chest, blood stasis, shortness of breath, weakness, palpitations, dry mouth, vexation. Particular attention should be paid to chest pain and weakness., Start of treatment until 1-year follow-up|Molecular biomarkers, Including but not limited to drug-resistant genes and circulating tumor cells. Such as PD-L1、MSI-H/dMMR、TMB、HLA、POLE、POLD1、DDR、TP53、KRAS、BRCA2、PBRM1、MDM2/4、EGFR、ALK、PTEN、JAK1/2、DNMT3A、STK11., Start of treatment until 1-year follow-up
About 9.2%-45.8% of Chinese patients with Non-small cell lung cancer were positive for EGFR gene mutation. Gefitinib, Erlotinib, Icotinib, Afatinib showed efficacy superior to that of chemotherapy in the treatment of EGFR mutation positive advanced NSCLC, and lower rates of serious adverse events. However, after a median of 8 to 13 months of disease control, patients ultimately progress due to acquired resistance of EGFR-TKIs. Elemene, a chemotherapeutic isolated from the Chinese medicinal herb Rhizoma Zedoariae, has been shown to have a comprehensive anti-tumor effect and the potential effect on reversing drug resistance.

In this study, about 22 research centers will participate in. We planned to enroll 744 patients with advanced non-small cell lung adenocarcinoma who were positive for EGFR mutations. The dynamic random method will be adopted in this study. Patients will be randomly divided into the experimental group（Elemene plus first or third generation EGFR-TKIs), and control group (First or third generation EGFR-TKIs, only). The purpose of this study is evaluating the synergistic effect and safety of Elemene plus TKIs in EGFR-mutated advanced non-small cell lung cancer. We also try to analyze the correlation between molecular biomarkers and patient prognosis, including but not limited to drug-resistant genes and circulating tumor cells.