T-Lymphocytes Genetically Targeted to the B-Cell Specific Antigen CD19 in Pediatric and Young Adult Patients With Relapsed B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of giving the patient special cells made from their own blood called "Modified T-cells". The goal is to find a safe dose of modified T-cells for patients whose leukemia has returned to the bone marrow.
Relapsed B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
PROCEDURE: leukapheresis or collection of PBMCs|DRUG: cyclophosphamide based chemotherapy regimens|BIOLOGICAL: modified T cells
safety, of gene-modified autologous T cells targeted to CD19 and infused into patients with relapsed/refractory B- ALL. Toxicities will be graded on a scale of 1 to 5 as described by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0. Adverse Events/Toxicities will be graded/attributed starting at time of T cell infusion and continue for up to 30 days or until modified T cells are no longer present., 1 year
assess the persistence of modified T cells, Gene-modified T cells will be measured as per Table II from peripheral blood, bone marrow and/or lymph nodes. The percentage of gene-modified T cells T cells will be calculated and summarized at each follow-up time point. The data will be plotted over time to describe the time trend of T cell persistence., 1 year|the development of B cell aplasia, B cell aplasia will be measured as a surrogate marker for 19-28z+ T cell efficacy. Serum levels of normal B cells from peripheral blood and bone marrow aspirates will be monitored by FACS. The mean cell concentrations will be summarized and plotted against time., 1 year
This is a phase I multicenter clinical trial for pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed/refractory CD19+ B-ALL. The T cell doses originally proposed in this study were based on doses administered safely in prior T cell adoptive therapy trials, but the dose has been modified based on the toxicities observed in adult patients with morphologic evidence of relapsed B-ALL treated on MSKCC IRB 09-114.