STA-9090 in Patients With Advanced Hepatocellular Cancer
STA-9090 works by inhibiting the function of a protein in tumor cells called Hsp90. Hsp90 is thought to play a role in tumor growth. By interfering with this protein's function, STA-9090 may help kill tumor cells. This drug has been used in other research studies and information from those studies suggests that this agent may help to slow tumor growth in HCC.

The purpose of this research study is to find the highest dose of STA-9090 that can safely be given to participants with advanced HCC. The investigators will also get more information about the safety of STA-9090 and perform tests to learn more about how STA-9090 affects the body.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: STA-9090
Phase 2 dose of STA 9090 given once weekly in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, Dose escalation/de-escalation study will be performed in order to determine the Phase 2 dose of STA-9090 given once weekly in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. The dose limiting toxicities will be determined at each dose level., 3 years
Number of patients with adverse events when treated with STA 9090 for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, To assess the safety and tolerability of STA9090 in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma., 3 years|Median time to progression (TTP), To determine median time to progression (TTP) for patients treated at recommended Phase 2 dose., 3 years|Median progression-free survival (PFS), To determine median progression-free survival (PFS) for patients treated at recommended Phase 2 dose., 3 years|Response Rate, To determine objective tumor response rate using RECIST criteria, 3 years|Overall Survival, To determine overall survival, 3 years
Study treatment is given in 4-week time periods called cycles. Patients will receive ST-9090 once weekly for the first 3 weeks of each cycle and no treatment on the fourth week. STA-9090 will be given by intravenous (IV) infusion. IV infusions occur through an IV catheter (or tube) placed in the vein. Each infusion will last about 60 minutes.

During each cycles patients will have blood tests, pregnancy test, and EKG. Twenty to thirty days after the last dose, patients will return for a physical exam, blood tests, urine test, EKG, and CT or MRI of chest and abdomen.