Yoga for Adolescent and Young Adult Non-Curative Cancer Patients
Adolescents and young adults who are living with cancer are not benefiting from the same age-appropriate physical and psychosocial care, as are children and older adults. As a result, their unique needs often go unmet or unaddressed. Studies have demonstrated that a lack of age-appropriate care may be responsible for a deceased quality of life. Studies have also shown that physical activity is able to reduce many of the negative side-effects linked to cancer and its treatment (e.g., nausea, vomiting, fatigue). A light form of physical activity that is both safe and manageable for cancer patients is yoga. The purpose of this study is to examine the achievability and safety of a light 7-week home/hospice-based Hatha yoga program (available on DVD) in the adolescent and young adult non-curative cancer population. This study will also examine the ability of yoga to reduce cancer related side effects.
Advanced Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Hatha Yoga
Feasibility: Recruitment, Recruitment will be calculated by the number of patients who consent to participate, divided by the number of eligible participants recommended by the primary oncologist/physician., Final: end of week 7|Feasibility: Retention, Retention: Will be determined by reporting the number of participants who complete the baseline and post-program questionnaire and follow-up testing., Final: end of week 7|Feasibility: Adherence, Adherence: Participants will be asked to record the number of yoga sessions performed each week. Overall adherence will be calculated by summing the actual number of sessions the participant engaged in, divided by the recommended number of sessions., Final: end of week 7|Safety, Safety: Any adverse events reported by the participant will be recorded., Final: end of week 7
Changes in Quality of Life, Participants will be asked to complete the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Palliative Care subscale (FACIT-Pal) and the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Spiritual Well-Being subscale (FACIT-Sp) at baseline and post-intervention., Baseline: week 1; Final: week 7
Adolescents and young adults who are living with cancer are not benefiting from the same age-appropriate physical and psychosocial care, as are children and older adults. As a result, their unique needs often go unmet or unaddressed. Studies have demonstrated that a lack of age-appropriate care may be responsible for a deceased quality of life. Studies have also shown that physical activity is able to reduce many of the negative side-effects linked to cancer and its treatment (e.g., nausea, vomiting, fatigue). A light form of physical activity that is both safe and manageable for cancer patients is yoga. The purpose of this study is to examine the achievability and safety of a light 7-week home/hospice-based Hatha yoga program (available on DVD) in the adolescent and young adult non-curative cancer population. This study will also examine the ability of yoga to reduce cancer related side effects.