Ibrutinib and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ibrutinib when given together with rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (combination chemotherapy) in treating patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) that has returned after a period of improvement (relapsed) or has not responded to treatment (refractory). Ibrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as, rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ibrutinib together with combination chemotherapy may be a better treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL.
CD20 Positive|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Ifosfamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Maximum tolerated dose of the combination of ibrutinib with standard dosing R-ICE, graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 4.0, Day 21|Toxicity of the combination of ibrutinib with standard dosing R-ICE, graded using the CTCAE 4.0, Up to week 52
Overall response rate, defined as the sum of partial and complete responses as determined by revised International Working Group Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma, The proportion of patients who achieve a clinical response (partial response or better) will be estimated in this patient population. This will be calculated among patients who receive any study drug, and additionally among patients who complete three cycles of therapy., Up to week 52|PK parameters of ibrutinib in the presence of R-ICE as a measure of potential drug-drug interaction, Predose, 30 minutes, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 (optional), and 24 hours on day 15 (course 1) and day 1 (course 2)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Safety of ibrutinib in combination with rituximab-ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (R-ICE).

II. Establishment of maximum tolerated dose of ibrutinib with R-ICE.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Pharmacokinetic (PK) studies of ibrutinib in combination with R-ICE. II. Clinical response rate of ibrutinib+R-ICE.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ibrutinib.

Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1, ifosfamide IV on day 3, carboplatin intravenously piggy back (IVPB) on day 3, and etoposide IVPB on days 2-4. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 52 weeks.