Very Early PET-response Adapted Targeted Therapy for Advanced Hodgkin Lymphoma: a Single -Arm Phase II Study
The main objective of this trial is to assess whether treatment adaptation based on a very early FDG-PET/CT results in improved efficacy while minimizing treatment toxicity in advanced stage Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL) patients treated with brentuximab vedotin (BV)-containing regimens.
Advanced Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|DRUG: Adriamycin|DRUG: Vinblastine|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Modified Progression-free survival (mPFS), Modified PFS (mPFS) is defined as the time interval between the date of treatment start and the date of the first of:

* Progressive disease (PD)
* Start of new treatment for Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL) when not in Complete Response at the end of protocol treatment; in this case, the date of mPFS is the date of the FDG-PET/CT scan at the end of protocol treatment. Switching therapy prior to end of protocol treatment for reasons other than Progressive Disease is not considered an event for mPFS. "End of protocol treatment" refers to completion of the planned protocol treatment with no more than 1 missed cycle, including radiotherapy on PET positive lesions if administered
* Death due to any cause, 4 years after start of first patient in
Proportion of patients with a negative FDG-PET, It will be assessed how many patients have a negative FDG-PET image when taken at the end of their first cycle of BrAVD. The BrAVD cycle lasts 4 weeks., 4 years after start of first patient in|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival, 4 years after start of first patient in|Overall survival, Overall survival, 4 years after start of first patient in|Adverse events graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Occurrence of Adverse Events, Adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for adverse events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0, 4 years after start of first patient in
This single-arm phase II study investigates the value of early FDG-PET-response adapted BV-based therapy for advanced HL. All patients will receive one cycle of BrAVD followed by an FDG-PET/CT. Patients with a negative early FDG-PET(Deauville score 1-3) will continue with five more BrAVD cycles (total six cycles) while patients with a positive FDG-PET should shift to six cycles of BrECADD.

The hypothesis is that the efficacy will be comparable to the efficacy of BEACOPPesc and BrECADD, while using the intensive chemotherapy regimen only for those patients who do not achieve a negative FDG-PET after one cycle.

The choice to assess the treatment sensitivity by PET after a single cycle of BrAVD is based on results from a recent international multicenter study comparing FDG-PET/CT after one and two cycles of ABVD chemotherapy in HL. There is no reason to suspect that FDG-PET1 should be less prognostic after BrAVD than after ABVD.

With this trial, the investigators believe they can add important information about the optimal treatment of BV-containing first-line treatment for advanced HL, and thus answer important therapeutic questions that are likely to otherwise remain unanswered even after the Echelon-1 and HD21 trials reach mature results. This relatively large single-arm phase II trial of 150 patients will allow a meaningful comparison with the BrAVD and BrECADD regimens based on modified progression-free survival (primary endpoint) and progression-free survival (secondary endpoint) respectively.