Inolitazone Dihydrochloride and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well inolitazone dihydrochloride (efatutazone dihydrochloride) and paclitaxel work in treating patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as efatutazone dihydrochloride and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer|Recurrent Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: efatutazone|DRUG: paclitaxel
Confirmed Response Rate (Partial Response [PR] or Complete Response [CR]) Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 Criteria, The response rate (percentage) is the percent of patients whose best response was Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Percentage of successes will be estimated by 100 times the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 24 weeks
Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Time from study entry to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of Confirmed Response, Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved a confirmed response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be a CR or PR to the earliest date progression (PD) is documented. The distribution of duration of response will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. (CR: Disappearance of all evidence of disease, PR: Regression of measurable disease and no new sites, PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir)., The time from the first documented date of confirmed response (CR or PR) to date at which progression is first documented, assessed up to 5 years|PFS Determined Based on RECIST 1.1 Criteria, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of registration to the date of disease progression or death resulting from any cause, whichever comes first. Progression is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. Progression is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., The time from study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Number of Patients Experiencing at Least One Grade 3+ Adverse Event Using CTCAE Version 4.0, The number of patients who experienced at least one grade 3 or higher adverse event is reported below., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the combination of paclitaxel and efatutazone (efatutazone dihydrochloride) improves the confirmed response rate in patients with advanced anaplastic thyroid cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the overall survival (OS), duration of response, progression-free survival (PFS), and adverse event rates for the combination of paclitaxel and efatutazone.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The association of biomarkers with clinical outcome data will be assessed in an exploratory translational analysis.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours on day 1 and efatutazone dihydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 28 days, every 8 weeks until disease progression, and then every 6 months for 5 years.