Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV)-Specific T Cells as Therapy for Relapsed/Refractory EBV-positive Lymphomas
This trial will use a new method of treating lymphoma using a therapy derived from a person's Killer T cells. These Killer T cells are taken from a person's blood and grown in a test tube to increase the number of these cells that are specifically active against the lymphoma cells. The cells are then given to the patient by intravenous infusion with the aim of killing the lymphoma cells. Potentially this treatment will help to kill the residual/recurrent tumour that is present after other lymphoma treatment and reduce the chance of the tumour recurring.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous AdE1- Latent Membrane Protein CTLs
Feasibility (generation of autologous clinical grade AdE1-LMP-specific CTL from the blood of EBV-positive lymphoma patients), The investigational product for each participant will be assessed post production. The patient will have blood samples taken prior to and following each infusion, and then at 1, 3, 6 & 12 months following the final infusion.|Safety as assessed by adverse event monitoring. Patients will be questioned and toxicities recorded according to the International Common Toxicity Criteria., 1 hour post 4 AdE1-LMP CTL injections (injections are weekly for first 10 participants & twice weekly for the next 10 participants), 3-5 weeks post the 4th injection, then 3, 6 and 12 months post the 4th injection|Reconstitution of EBV-specific CTL immunity with anti-viral efficacy measured by immunological & virological assessment of blood samples including immunophenotyping, intracellular cytokine assays, CD107 cytotoxicity assays and EBV DNA load analysis., At baseline, pre and 1 hour post 4 AdE1-LMP CTL injections, 3-5 weeks post the 4th injection, then 3, 6 and 12 months post the 4th injection
Optimal dose intensity of the intervention. Clinical efficacy (radiological assessment by CT), biological efficacy (reconstitution of EBV-specific CTL immunity & anti-viral efficacy), safety & efficacy of the 1st treatment schedule vs the 2nd schedule, Clinical evaluation, AE monitoring & collection of blood samples at baseline, pre & 1 hr post injections, 3-5 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months post 4th injection. Radiological examination at baseline & at 3 to 5 wks & 3 months post the 4th treatment.|Clinical efficacy, CT scan +/- additional scans at baseline , 3-5 weeks & 3 months post the 4th injection. Clinical evaluation at baseline, pre and 1 hour post injections, 3-5 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months post the 4th injection
This trial will use a new method of treating lymphoma using a therapy derived from a person's Killer T cells. These Killer T cells are taken from a person's blood and grown in a test tube to increase the number of these cells that are specifically active against the lymphoma cells. The cells are then given to the patient by intravenous infusion with the aim of killing the lymphoma cells. Potentially this treatment will help to kill the residual/recurrent tumour that is present after other lymphoma treatment and reduce the chance of the tumour recurring.