Electronic Patient Reported Symptom Assessment
The purpose of this study is to assess whether using computerized screening questions can improve how well we manage symptoms related to cancer and cancer treatments. Advance care planning is a process in which teams of experts assist in with treatment plans, managing pain and other symptoms, emotional issues, and end of life issues. With advances in technology, it is now possible to get the patient's feedback directly and more often. It is thought that repeated questionnaires completed by the patient will provide a better and more accurate measure of the patient's needs and experiences but this has not been tested. This study is designed to learn if using a computerized assessment repeatedly is better than standard planning techniques.
Gynecologic Cancer|Breast Cancer|Thoracic Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer
OTHER: APN Intervention
Identify perceived symptom burden and quality of life in our female patients with advanced gynecologic, breast, thoracic, or gastrointestinal malignancies., We will compare the symptom scores of the control and the intervention groups to determine if the overall symptom burden scores are lower and patient satisfaction scores are higher in the group who receive targeted intervention combined with education., 3 years|Trend perceived symptom burden and quality of life in our female patients with advanced gynecologic, breast, thoracic, or gastrointestinal malignancies., We will compare the symptom scores of the control and the intervention groups to determine if the overall symptom burden scores are lower and patient satisfaction scores are higher in the group who receive targeted intervention combined with education., 3 years
Examine scores of electronic reported symptom assessment combined with targeted intervention to see it it improves symptoms scores over the course of hospitalization., 3 years|Use electronic symptom scoring, targeted intervention, and sequential assessments every 24 hours to assess the impact on length of hospitalization and readmissions., 3 years|Assess level of understanding about advance care planning in both the control and intervention group., 3 years
The purpose of this study is to assess whether using computerized screening questions can improve how well we manage symptoms related to cancer and cancer treatments. Advance care planning is a process in which teams of experts assist in with treatment plans, managing pain and other symptoms, emotional issues, and end of life issues. With advances in technology, it is now possible to get the patient's feedback directly and more often. It is thought that repeated questionnaires completed by the patient will provide a better and more accurate measure of the patient's needs and experiences but this has not been tested. This study is designed to learn if using a computerized assessment repeatedly is better than standard planning techniques.