AZD0530 to Treat Recurrent Stage IIIB/IV NSCLC Previously Treated With Combination Chemotherapy
This phase II trial is studying how well saracatinib works in treating patients with recurrent, stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer previously treated with combination chemotherapy that included cisplatin or carboplatin. Saracatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: saracatinib
Rate of Disease Control (Freedom From Disease Progression), Lack of disease progression, a combined rate of objective complete (disapprearance of all target lesions) and partial responses (\>= 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions) and stable disease as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST 1.0) for at least 4 cycles (16 weeks) of therapy.

Standard descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, range and proportion, will be used to summarize the patient sample and to estimate parameters of interest. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be provided for estimates of interest where possible., 112 days
Objective Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR

Standard descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, range and proportion, will be used to summarize the patient sample and to estimate parameters of interest. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be provided for estimates of interest where possible., From the start of the treatment until the criteria for response are met|Stable Disease Rate, Stabilization of disease for atleast 4 cycles, leading to disease control

Standard descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, range and proportion, will be used to summarize the patient sample and to estimate parameters of interest. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be provided for estimates of interest where possible., From the start of the treatment until the criteria for progression are met, assessed up to 1 year|Duration of Response or Stable Disease, Standard descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, range and proportion, will be used to summarize the patient sample and to estimate parameters of interest. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be provided for estimates of interest where possible., From first response until the criteria for progression are met, assessed up to 1 year|Median Progression-free Survival, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used., From the date of study enrollment to the time the criteria for disease progression are met, death or last contact, or the last tumor assessment before the initiation of further anticancer therapy, assessed up to 1 year|Progression-free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization to the date of first documented disease progression or death from any cause

The Kaplan-Meier method will be used., 6 months|Median Overall Survival, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used., Up to 1 year|Overall Survival, One year overall survival rate

The Kaplan-Meier method will be used., 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the rate of disease control (i.e., lack of disease progression, a combined rate of objective complete and partial response, and stable disease) for at least 4 cycles of therapy in patients with AZD0530 (saracatinib) in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer that had previously been treated with platinum-based combination chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the objective response rate (complete and partial response), stable disease rate, duration of response or stable disease, progression-free, median and 6 month overall survival rates, safety and tolerability of this treatment.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate potential predictive markers by assessing pretreatment intratumoral levels of src, Y419 phospho-src (P-Src) and c-terminal src kinase (Csk) in archival tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive saracatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline and at 2 weeks after beginning treatment and are analyzed for c-Src protein expression and activity by immunofluorescence staining. P-glycoprotein levels and phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), paxillin, caveolin, and Stat-3 are also measured using tumor tissue samples. Blood samples are also used to measure levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 4 weeks.