Open Label Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of NDV01 KIT in High Grade NMIBC
High-grade NMIBC is more aggressive cancer that has a higher risk of progression and recurrence compared to low-grade NMIBC. NDV01 is a novel controlled release intravesical formulation designed for the treatment of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC).
Non Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: NDV01 intravesical controlled release formulation of gemcitabine and docetaxel
Number of Patients with Complete Response (CR) in High-Grade NMIBC, Complete response is defined by at least one of the following criteria:

Negative cystoscopy and negative or atypical urine cytology; and/or Positive cystoscopy with biopsy-confirmed benign or low-grade NMIBC, along with negative urine cytology., 48 weeks|Frequency and severity of Adverse Events (AEs), including Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and Treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) occurring at any time during the study Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Any new Change from Baseline to End of Study (EOS) in investigators assessment, 48 weeks
Durability of Complete Response (CR) in High-Grade NMIBC, Evaluate how long patients maintain CR over time., 48 weeks|Number of Patients with CR Among Those with Carcinoma In Situ (CIS), Includes those with or without co-existing high-grade Ta or T1 papillary disease., 48 weeks|Incidence of Event-Free Survival (EFS) at 12 Months, Event-free survival is defined as survival without recurrence of high-grade disease., 48 weeks|Durability of event-free survival in patients with high-grade Ta or T1 papillary disease (without concomitant CIS), who have no recurrence of high-grade Ta or T1 papillary disease, Tumor recurrence, 48 weeks
Pharmacokinetic parameters of NDV01 KIT will be evaluated, PK measurement expressed as maximum plasma concentration for NDV01 and PK measurement expressed as half-life and area under curve for NDV01 Pharmacokinetic (PK)., 20 weeks
Eligible patients who sign informed consent will receive intravesical treatment with NDV01 KIT, consisting of a sequential instillation of Carbopol Gel followed by NDV01 solution using a 14F urethral catheter. The treatment phase includes six instillations on Days 1, 14, 28, 42, 56, and 70. Primary Disease Evaluation (PDE) will be conducted on Day 100 (±3). Patients achieving a complete response may continue into a maintenance phase with monthly instillations through Month 12.

Maintenance period of monthly treatments on Day 107, Day 140, Day 187, Day 220, Day 250, Day 287, Day 310, and Day 340.

The Primary Disease Evaluation (PDE) will be performed on Study Day 100±3.

A subset of patients will participate in a PK sub-study involving up to 15 blood draws to assess systemic levels of gemcitabine and docetaxel during the first treatment cycle.

Primary Objectives:

Assess safety of NDV01 KIT through the study period. Evaluate the complete response (CR) rate in patients with high-grade NMIBC.

Secondary Objectives:

Assess the durability of CR. Evaluate event-free survival (defined as high-grade recurrence-free survival). Assess the durability of event-free survival. Determine incidence and time to cystectomy. Determine overall survival. Monitor response durability through long-term follow-up.

Exploratory Objective:

Evaluate pharmacokinetic parameters of NDV01 KIT in a subset of patients during the initial treatment phase.

A subject that fails to meet CR at PDE visit will undergo reinduction of 6 biweekly installations of NDV01, which will be followed by maintenance treatments per the protocol schedule.