Cognitive Function After Radiation Therapy for Primary Brain Tumours
This study will assess cognitive function in patients with a primary brain tumour treated with radiation therapy (RT) to generate radio-sensitivity and volume effect parameters for the development of cognitive dysfunction. All types of brain tumours apart from glioblastoma will be included.
Primary Brain Tumour|Radiation Toxicity|Cognitive Impairment
OTHER: Cognitive tests and Patient Reported Outcomes
Impairment of verbal learning and memory as assessed by the HVLT-r test, Examined by the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test revised. It will be correlated to the mean radiation dose to the hippocampus. Outcome is number of correct words (0-24), 10 Years
Processing speed I, Examined by the Trail making Test part A (TMT_A). Outcome for TMT_A is time in seconds (0-120 seconds)., 10 years|Processing speed II, Examined by the Coding from Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS-IV). Outcome for Coding is number of correct (within 2 minutes) (0-100), 10 years|Attention and working memory, Examined by Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS_IV_digit_span). Outcome on WAIS digit span is number of correct (0-36), 10 years|Verbal learning and memory, Examine by the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test revised (HVLT-r) - total and delayed. Outcome is number of correct words (0-24), 10 years|Verbal fluency, Examined by the Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT) - Animals and letter_S. Outcome is number of words produced in 1 minute (0-100), 10 years|Executive function I, Examined by Trail making Test part B (TMT_B). Outcome for TMT_B is time in seconds (0-300)., 10 years|Executive function II, Examined by the STROOP colour and word test (STROOP). Outcome for STROOP is number of corrects (0-120), 10 years|Global Health - Quality of life, Assessed by questionnaire; European organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) in order to examine the level of quality of life in brain tumour patients who has received radiation therapy. The total score is a number (0-100), 10 years|Side effects to radiation therapy, Assessed by EORTC Brain Neoplasm Questionnaire, BN20 (an addition to QLQ-C30 mentioned above) in order to measure side effects to radiation therapy for a brain tumour. the score is a number (0-100), 10 years|Quality of Sleep, Assessed by questionnaire: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality INDEX, (PSQI) in order to explore the level of quality of sleep in brain tumour patients who has received radiation therapy. Outcome is a number (0-33), 10 years|Fatigue, Assessed by questionnaire: Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) - Fatigue scale (version 4) in order to explore the level of fatigue in brain tumour patients who has received radiation therapy. Outcome is a number (0-52), 10 years|Depression/Anxiety, Assessed by questionnaire: Hospital anxiety and depression Scale (HADS) in order to explore level of depression and anxiety in patients treated with radiation therapy for their brain tumour. Outcome is a number (0-56), 10 years|Patient's Assessment of Own Functioning, Assessed by questionnaire; Patient's Assessment of Own Functioning Inventory (PAOFI), in order to assess patients own perception of cognitive function. Outcome is a number (35-210), 10 years
RT is fundamental in the treatment of primary brain tumours. RT contributes to improved local control and prolonged progression-free survival in patients with a broad range of tumour types. Irradiation to the normal brain may lead to cognitive impairments. Clarifying the nature and severity of impairment in adult RT-treated brain tumour patients, including region-specific effects, are important for optimal utilization of novel conformal RT technologies such as proton therapy.

The study is a prospective nationwide study including approximately 300 brain tumour patients from the Danish Center of Particle Therapy and the four Neuro Oncology Centers in Denmark.

The patients will be assessed with a comprehensive battery of standardized cognitive tests and complete a questionnaire (PRO's). They will do this prior to RT treatment and 1, 3, 5 and 10 years afterwards. The PRO's includes measures on quality of life, fatigue, sleep, depression, anxiety, and socio demographics. The standardized tests are: Trail making Test (TMT); Hopkins Verbal Learning Test (HVLT); Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT) - Animals and S; Coding and Digit Span from WAIS-IV. The correlation between cognitive scores and RT dose-volume parameters to specific areas in the brain will be tested.

This study will elucidate the dose-response relationship in radiation-induced damage to substructures of the brain such as hippocampus, thalamus, temporal and frontal lobes that will allow the clinician to prioritize these structures in planning of proton radiotherapy.