Study of HER2 Directed Dendritic Cell (DC1) Vaccine + Weekly Paclitaxel, Trastuzumab & Pertuzumab
The purpose of the study is to find out if an investigational drug called Dendritic Cell (DC1) vaccine added to standard neoadjuvant (given before main treatment) therapy can help people with HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2) positive breast cancer.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: HER-2 pulsed DC1|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: Resection surgery
Lead in Phase: Immunogenicity of each dose level, Immunogenicity: will be characterized by quantifying CD4TH1 response via ELISPot. ELISPot is an enzyme-linked immunospot assay. It is a highly sensitive immunoassay that measures the frequency of cytokine-secreting cells at the single-cell level., at 4 weeks|Expansion Phase: Pathologic Complete Response Rate, Pathologic complete response rate of participants treated in the Expansion Phase. Clinical efficacy will be defined by the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate, the percentage of patients who achieve pCR based on surgical pathology assessment. Pathologic Complete Response defined as no residual invasive disease in the breast and nodes (ypT0/is N0) at definitive surgery after completion of protocol therapy. The pathologic response to treatment will be assessed by the pathologist. The "Residual Cancer Burden" (RCB) for each patient as described in the online calculator also will be evaluated per the pathologist. (http://www3.mdanderson.org/app/medcalc/index.cfm?pagename=jsconvert3), at 12 months
Expansion Phase: Radiologic tumor response rate after 6 weeks, Radiologic tumor response rate measured by MRI, at 6 weeks|Expansion Phase: Radiologic tumor response rate at completion of therapy, Radiologic tumor response rate measured by MRI, at 12 months|Expansion Phase: Immunogenicity, Immunogenicity: will be characterized by quantifying CD4TH1 response via ELISPot. ELISPot is an enzyme-linked immunospot assay. It is a highly sensitive immunoassay that measures the frequency of cytokine-secreting cells at the single-cell level., at 12 months|Recurrence Free Survival, Recurrence free survival defined as the length of time after treatment that patient survives without any signs or symptoms of cancer., up to 5 years
The purpose of the study is to find out if an investigational drug called Dendritic Cell (DC1) vaccine added to standard neoadjuvant (given before main treatment) therapy can help people with HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2) positive breast cancer.