Imiquimod and Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB-IV Melanoma
This pilot early phase I trial studies the side effects and how well imiquimod and pembrolizumab work in treating patients with stage IIIB-IV melanoma. Imiquimod may stimulate the immune system. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving imiquimod and pembrolizumab may work better at treating melanoma.
Metastatic Melanoma|Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Imiquimod|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Duration of response, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From registration to disease progression, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, For each type of toxicity reported, the proportion of patients experiencing a severe level of that toxicity will be determined., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From registration to documentation of first disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Tumor response rate defined as percentage of patients whose objective disease status meets the criteria for Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria for partial or complete response on two consecutive disease evaluations, If there are no tumor responses documented among these 10 patients, then upper bound of a one-sided 95% confidence interval for the tumor response rate would be 25.9%., Up to 2 years
Biomarker changes during treatment, For each patient and each biomarker, a times-series plot of biomarker value will be constructed. These graphs will be visually examined for trends within and between the group of patients whose tumor responded to treatment and the group of patients whose tumor did not respond to treatment. Will include assessing total tumor RNA through RNA seq and PDL1 expression through the use of immunohistochemistry., Baseline up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To gain preliminary data of the anti-tumor activity and safety profile of the combination of imiquimod and pembrolizumab in patients with unresectable cutaneous melanoma.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare and contrast (in a hypothesis generating manner) the biomarker profiles of patients who have a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria with patients who do not.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 and apply imiquimod cutaneously on days 1-5 (Monday - Friday). Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years (approximately 35 courses) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo biopsy at baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks and computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET)/CT, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 1 year and then every 6 months for up to 3 years after registration.