Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Versus Surgery in the Treatment of Early Gastric Cancer
In this study, patients who are going to undergo endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) or surgery for early gastric cancer will be enrolled and divided into ESD group and Surgery group according to the procedure they go through. The patients will be followed up for at least 5 years after ESD or surgery. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EDG) and biopsy will be performed 3 months and then 6 months after ESD or surgery. Thereafter, EDG will be performed along with biopsy and abdominal computed tomography annually up to 5 years. Patients' data such as age, sex, clinical diagnosis, achievement of en-bloc resection, pathological outcomes, complications and survival condition will be prospectively collected. Statistical methods such as Student's t-test, the chi-square test, the Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test will be used to compare the short term and long term outcomes between the ESD group and the surgery group.
Early Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: endoscopic submucosal dissection|PROCEDURE: Surgery
5-year OS, 5-year OS is the five year overall survival of each individual group. It will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, and statistical significance of differences between the two groups will be assessed using the log-rank test., From March 1 2019 to December 1 2024|5-year DSS, 5-year DSS is the five year disease specific survival of each individual group. It will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, and statistical significance of differences between the two groups will be assessed using the log-rank test., From March 1 2019 to December 1 2024
Complication, Complications were classified according to the Clavien-Dindo classification and the frequency of the complications will be compared between the two groups., From March 1 2019 to December 1 2024
In this study, patients who are going to undergo endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) or surgery for early gastric cancer will be enrolled and divided into ESD group and Surgery group according to the procedure they go through. The patients will be followed up for at least 5 years after ESD or surgery. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EDG) and biopsy will be performed 3 months and then 6 months after ESD or surgery. Thereafter, EDG will be performed along with biopsy and abdominal computed tomography annually up to 5 years. Patients' data such as age, sex, clinical diagnosis, achievement of en-bloc resection, pathological outcomes, complications and survival condition will be prospectively collected. Statistical methods such as Student's t-test, the chi-square test, the Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test will be used to compare the short term and long term outcomes between the ESD group and the surgery group.