Time Restricted Eating on Cancer Risk
Participants will be randomly assigned to either the time restricted feeding group with a daily eating period of 8 hours or the control group with a daily eating period of greater than or equal to 12 hours. There are 2 in-person study visits to have blood, urine and vital signs collected and 8 remote or phone visits with a psychologist or dietician to assist with the eating schedule. The study will take last 3 1/2 months.
Pre-diabetes|Breast Cancer|Time Restricted Feeding
BEHAVIORAL: Time restricted feeding|BEHAVIORAL: Control
Change in Advanced Glycation End Products (AGE) as assessed by plasma, Estimated mean levels within the intervention and the control groups of the study. Effect size will be estimated via 95% confidence intervals within and between groups., Visit 1 and Visit 2 approximately 12 weeks|Change in sRAGE(soluble receptor for AGE) levels, Estimated mean levels within the intervention and the control groups of the study. Effect size will estimated via 95% confidence intervals within and between groups. .The intervention and control groups of AGE and sRAGE levels will be used to determined AGE by sRAGE ratio, Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Assess feasibility and adherence to time period of eating recommendations in both study groups., Proportion of days that time period of eating was followed., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks
Change in Fasting insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels, Estimated mean levels within the intervention and the control groups of the study. Effect size will be estimated via 95% confidence intervals within and between groups., Visit and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Change in Fasting insulin levels, Estimated mean levels within the intervention and the control groups of the study. Effect size will be estimated via 95% confidence intervals within and between groups., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Difference in Glasgow Prognostic Scoring System, The Glasgow Prognostic Score (GPS) reflects systemic inflammatory process. Difference within groups and between groups of the cumulative inflammation-based cancer-prognostic marker. GPS is a three-tiered score \[0: normal C-reactive protein (CRP) and albumin; 1: one abnormal result; 2: increased CRP and low albumin\]. Higher score means worse outcome., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Change in 24 hour urinary AGE levels, Estimated mean levels within the intervention and the control groups of the study. Effect size will be estimated by the 95% confidence intervals within and between groups., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Adherence to virtual visit with psychologist or dietician, Number of participants in the intervention and control group that completed virtual visits with the psychologist., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Adherence to time period of eating recommendation in both study groups: self reporting during virtual visits and through food photography / annotated entries., Proportion of days that time period of eating was followed., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Time restricted feeding affected sleep patterns, Change in sleep pattern between intervention and control groups as assessed using American Academy of Sleep Medicine 2 week sleep diaries., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PMBC) analysis, Peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be analyzed for RAGE expression and compared within and between intervention and control groups., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks|Continuous Glucose Monitor (CGM) derived metrics, Mean glucose, standard deviation (SD) of mean glucose values, co-efficient of variation (CV %) of sensor glucose levels, glucose management indicator (GMI%) from CGM data. Estimated mean levels within the intervention and the control groups of the study. Effect size will be estimated by the 95% confidence intervals within and between groups., Visit 1 and Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks
Participants will be randomly assigned to either the time restricted feeding group with a daily eating period of 8 hours or the control group with a daily eating period of greater than or equal to 12 hours. There are 2 in-person study visits to have blood, urine and vital signs collected and 8 remote or phone visits with a psychologist or dietician to assist with the eating schedule. The study will take last 3 1/2 months.