A Registry to Observe the Treatment of Prostate Cancer Under Routine Medical Care
The purpose of this registry is to document the characteristics and management of patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in routine clinical practice, independent of treatment used. Given the rapidly evolving landscape in mCRPC treatments, there is a need for a current and improved understanding of how these treatments fit into the current treatment paradigm for mCRPC, how they are combined and sequenced, and how their relative effectiveness profiles emerge outside of a clinical trial setting. This will be based on documentation and description of sequencing of treatment initiation, termination, and duration; relative effectiveness of treatments; defined medical resource utilization (MRU) and quality-of-life parameters and follow-up for survival.
Prostate Cancer
Sequencing of treatment initiation, termination, and duration, During the registry all systemic mCRPC therapies, corticoids for systemic use in the context of prostate cancer treatment and local mCRPC therapies, including but not limited to urologic surgery, orthopaedic surgery, and local radiotherapy, will be documented., At baseline, at treatment initiation/termination and at least every 3 months during maximum 3 years
Clinical Benefit, Clinical benefit will be based on the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, which measure the patient status on a scale from 0 (fully active) to 5 (dead)., At baseline, at treatment initiation/termination and at least every 3 months during maximum 3 years|Medical Resource Utilization, Total number of days of hospitalization due to prostate cancer, or treatment of the disease, total number of visits to an emergency room due to prostate cancer, or treatment of the disease, and total number of outpatient visits due to prostate cancer, or treatment of the disease, At baseline, at treatment initiation/termination and at least every 3 months during maximum 3 years|European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions, 5 Levels Questionnaire (EQ-5D-(5L)), The EQ-5D-5L is an instrument for measuring health status. It consists of the descriptive system and the EQ visual Analogue scale (EQ VAS). The descriptive system comprises the same 5 dimensions (mobility, self care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression). There are 5 levels for each dimension: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. The EQ VAS records the respondent's self-rated health on a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale with endpoints labeled 'the best health you can imagine' and 'the worst health you can imagine'., At baseline, at treatment initiation/termination and at least every 3 months during maximum 3 years|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate Cancer (FACT-P), The FACT-P consists of the FACT-General (FACT-G) and a prostate cancer subscale. The FACT-G (Version 4) contains a 27-item questionnaire and is composed of 4 subscales of health-related quality-of-life: physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well being, and functional well-being. The prostate cancer subscale is composed of 12 items, related to prostate-specific questions, which include sexuality, bowel/bladder function, and pain. The score for each of the 39 questions ranges from 0 to 4. The total FACT-P score thus ranges from 0 to 156; a higher score indicates better QOL, At baseline, at treatment initiation/termination and at least every 3 months during maximum 3 years|Overall Survival, At treatment initiation/termination or every 3 months from baseline to 3 years|Radiologic Assessment, Radiologic assessment methodology and radiologic response will be documented. Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) and Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumor (RECIST) are recommended guidelines for assessment., At baseline, at treatment initiation/termination and at least every 3 months during maximum 3 years|Prior prostate cancer treatment, Prior prostate cancer treatment (local and systemic therapy) from the time of diagnosis of prostate cancer to entry in the registry will be recorded., At baseline|Reason for start and rationale for choice of treatment, At treatment initiation during maximum 3 years|Reason for treatment discontinuation, At treatment discontinuation during maximum 3 years
This is a non-interventional, multicenter, prospective registry of patients with a confirmed diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the prostate presenting with mCRPC, based on documented metastatic prostate cancer and documented castration resistance. Castrate-resistant prostate cancer is defined by disease progression despite testosterone \<50 ng/dL, and/or androgen deprivation therapy, and/or a history of orchiectomy, and may present as a continuous rise in prostate-specific antigen (PSA), and/or worsening of existing disease/symptoms, and/or the appearance of new metastases. Observational methodology will be used to capture data. The decision of patients to take part in the registry will not influence their medical care. Treatment decisions will be made at the discretion of the treating physician, per routine clinical practice. Only data available from routine clinical practice will be collected. It is expected that approximately 3,000 patients will participate in this registry. To ensure a patient population representative of clinical practice and to reduce selection bias, all patients meeting the eligibility criteria at a participating site should be consecutively enrolled in the registry, irrespective of their treatment. The planned total duration of the registry will be 5.5 years from the date that the first patient is enrolled, irrespective of the country or registry site. The anticipated duration of patient enrollment is 2.5 years. The maximum duration of follow-up for individual patients in the observational period of the registry will be 3 years, regardless of when they are enrolled. The 3-year period of the observational period will document the sequencing of systemic mCRPC treatments during routine clinical practice, considering the life expectancy of patients with mCRPC in the registry. Unless specified otherwise per local regulations, all patients must give their informed consent to participate in this registry before data collection (ie, data entry into the case report form \[CRF\]) is performed. Patients will be enrolled at the time of initiation of a new systemic mCRPC treatment or during a period when a patient is considered to be in surveillance according to clinical practice. Baseline data collection will include details of the patient's prostate cancer history and prior prostate cancer treatment. This will be followed by a prospective observational period during which patients may cycle through multiple systemic mCRPC treatment periods and periods of surveillance. During the observational period, data will be collected at the following time points of a patient's course of treatment in routine clinical practice: initiation of a new systemic mCRPC treatment; termination of a systemic mCRPC treatment; when the duration of a systemic mCRPC treatment or surveillance period is \>3 months, data collection will be performed at a minimum frequency of 3-monthly intervals during that period. Survival data will be collected for all patients 3 years after their enrollment or at the close of the registry, whichever occurs first, except for those patients who withdraw their consent prior to completing the observation period.