Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Rituximab in Treating Participants With Stage III-IV Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well combination chemotherapy with or without rituximab works in treating participants with stage III-IV classic Hodgkin lymphoma. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving rituximab with combination chemotherapy may work better in treating participants with classic Hodgkin lymphoma.
Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma|Lugano Classification Stage III Hodgkin Lymphoma AJCC v8|Lugano Classification Stage IV Hodgkin Lymphoma AJCC v8
DRUG: Bleomycin|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Vinblastine
Event-free Survival (EFS) Rate, EFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. Cox proportional hazards model will be utilized to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis. Logistic regression will be utilized to assess the effect of patient prognostic factors on the response rate., From the start of study treatment up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the event free survival (EFS) following therapy with rituximab plus adriamycin (doxorubicin hydrochloride), bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) or standard ABVD in patients with newly diagnosed classical Hodgkin lymphoma who have poor prognosis defined as International prognostic score (IPS) of \> 2.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the effect of the two treatment arms on positron emission tomography (PET) scan results after 2 cycles of therapy.

II. To compare the effect of the two treatment arms on the level of circulating malignant Hodgkin stem cells.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Participants receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 7 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of course 1 and on days 1 and 8 of course 2. Participants also receive doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Treatment with ABVD repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Participants receive doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine as in Arm A.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for the first year, every 4 months for the second year, every 6 months for years 3-5, and then annually thereafter.