Opt-in vs. Opt-out for Breast Cancer Screening
This is a randomized controlled trial that will evaluate the effectiveness two different outreach strategies for a population-based breast cancer screening program at the VA Puget Sound among average risk female Veterans who are due for breast cancer screening.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Automated message|OTHER: Opt-out scheduling
Percentage of mammograms completed at 100 days post randomization, Percent of mammograms completed, 100 days post randomization
Percentage of mammograms scheduled at 100 days post randomization, Percent of mammograms scheduled, 100 days post randomization
Percentage of mammograms cancelled at 100 days post randomization, Percent of mammograms cancelled, 100 days post randomization|Percentage of mammograms active at 100 days post randomization, Percent of mammograms active, 100 days post randomization
This is a prospective, randomized controlled trial that will evaluate the effectiveness of two different outreach strategies in improving adherence to breast cancer screening via mammography.

Average risk female Veterans who are due for breast cancer screening (defined as aged 45-75 with no previous history of bilateral mastectomy, not under hospice care, and alive at the time of screening) will be identified through administrative data.

Veterans eligible for enrollment into the trial will be randomized in a 1:1 allocation using permuted block randomization (with random block sizes of 2 and 4) to the following interventions:

Arm 1: Automated phone opt-in message Intervention Type: Audiocare message requiring Veteran to confirm that they would like to participate in screening and have consult sent Arm 2: Opt-out scheduling Intervention Type: Consult automatically sent and Veteran called to schedule screening

Randomization will be stratified within arms by prior screening status (prior screener vs. never screener).

The study's primary outcome of interest is screening completion at 100 days post randomization. The study's secondary outcome of interest is screening scheduling at 100 days post randomization. Subgroup analysis aim 1 will explore whether the differences in breast cancer screening completion between investigational groups varies according to the Veterans' race/ethnicity. Subgroup analysis aim 2 will explore whether the differences in breast cancer screening scheduling between investigational groups varies according to the Veterans' race/ethnicity. Enrollment in the trial will occur between March 1, 2022 and August 31, 2022.