A Study of Xeloda (Capecitabine) Compared With 5-Fluorouracil in Combination With Low-Dose Leucovorin in Patients Who Have Undergone Surgery for Colon Cancer
This 2 arm study will compare the safety and efficacy of oral Xeloda, or 5-fluorouracil in combination with leucovorin, in patients who have undergone surgery for colon cancer. Patients will be randomized to receive either Xeloda 1250mg/m2 po bid on days 1-14 every 21 days, or leucovorin 20mg/m2 iv + 5-fluorouracil 425mg/m2 iv daily from day 1 to day 5 every 28 days. The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months, and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Capecitabine [Xeloda]
Disease-free Survival, Participants with disease-free survival were reported. Disease-free survival was assessed as the number of days between randomization and the first time at which relapse, a new occurrence of colon cancer, or death was recorded, or the last time at which a participant was known to be disease free (censoring time)., Approximately 3 years
Relapse-Free Survival, Participants with relapse-free survival were reported. Relapse-free survival was assessed as the number of days between randomization and the first time at which relapse, a new occurrence of colon cancer, or death was recorded, or the last time at which a participants was known to be disease free (censoring time), excluding deaths that were not related to treatment or to disease progression., Approximately 3 years|Overall Survival, Participants with overall survival were reported. Overall survival was assessed as the number of days between randomization and death or the last time at which a participant was known to be alive (censoring time)., Approximately 3 years|Mean Change From Baseline in Global Health Status at Week 25, Global health status was assessed as a sub scale of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30. It was scored on a scale of 0-100; where higher score indicates better quality of life. Wherever the scores for the participants were not available, the last value carried forward (LVCF) were used., Baseline (Days -7 to 1) and at Week 25|Number of Participants With Abnormalities for Blood Chemistry and Hematological Parameters, Laboratory abnormalities were categorized according to the National Cancer Institute of Canada Common Toxicity Criteria (NCIC - CTC) grading system (May 1991 revised) as Grade 1 (mild), Grade 2 (moderate), Grade 3 (severe) and Grade 4 (life- threatening). Participants with abnormalities in hemoglobin, granulocytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils, neutrophils/granulocytes, platelets, white blood cell, potassium, serum creatinine, sodium, total bilirubin, alanine transaminase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, calcium (hyper), and calcium (hypo) with Grades 1-4 were presented., Up to Week 25|Number of Participants With Any Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered to be related to the medicinal product. An Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) is any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, or results in a congenital anomaly/birth defect., Up to Week 29
This 2 arm study will compare the safety and efficacy of oral Xeloda, or 5-fluorouracil in combination with leucovorin, in patients who have undergone surgery for colon cancer. Patients will be randomized to receive either Xeloda 1250mg/m2 po bid on days 1-14 every 21 days, or leucovorin 20mg/m2 iv + 5-fluorouracil 425mg/m2 iv daily from day 1 to day 5 every 28 days. The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months, and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.