IDE196 (Darovasertib) in Combination with Crizotinib As First-line Therapy in Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
This is a Phase 2/3, multi-arm, multi-stage, open-label study of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A\*02:01 negative participants with metastatic uveal melanoma (MUM) who will be randomized to receive either IDE196 + crizotinib or investigator's choice of treatment (pembrolizumab, ipilimumab + nivolumab, or dacarbazine).
Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
DRUG: IDE196|DRUG: Crizotinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) by blinded independent central review (BICR) of IDE196 + Crizotinib compared to investigator's choice of treatment, PFS per RECIST 1.1, Approximately 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) of IDE196 + Crizotinib compared to investigator's choice of treatment, OS from randomization to date of death due to any cause, Approximately 4 years
Safety of IDE196 + Crizotinib: Incidence of Adverse Events, Treatment emergent adverse events will be summarized by all AEs, all Grade 3-4-5 AEs, all treatment related AEs, all AEs leading to study drug modifications or discontinuations, all SAEs as measured by CTCAE V5.0, Approximately 2 years|Phase 2a: Dose exposure response of IDE196, Dose-exposure-response of IDE196 as measured by concentration of IDE196 in plasma, Approximately 5 months|Phase 2a: Dose exposure response of Crizotinib, Dose-exposure-response of Crizotinib as measured by concentration of Crizotinib in plasma, Approximately 5 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) per Investigator of IDE196 + Crizotinib compared to investigator's choice of treatment, PFS per RECIST 1.1, Approximately 2 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR) per BICR and Investigator assessment of IDE196 + Crizotinib compared to investigator's choice of treatment, ORR per RECIST 1.1, Approximately 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR) per BICR and Investigator assessment of IDE196 + Crizotinib compared to investigator's choice of treatment, DOR per RECIST 1.1, Approximately 2 years|Change from baseline over time and between treatment arms in EORTC QLQ-C30, Global health status and quality of life will be assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire. The score range for the EORTC QLQ-C30 is from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better functioning and better global health status and health-related quality of life. A positive change indicates improvement., Approximately 2 years|Change from baseline over time and between treatment arms in EuroQoL (EQ)-5D-5L scores, General health status will be assessed using the EQ-5D,5L questionnaire, which includes five dimensions (5D): mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 3 scoring levels, where 1 indicates a better health state (no problems) and 3 indicates a worse health state. A positive change indicates improvement., Approximately 2 years
This study is designed as a multi-stage Phase 2 study within a Phase 3 study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, dose-exposure relationship, and anti-tumor activity of IDE196 in combination with crizotinib compared to the comparator arm of investigator's choice of treatment (pembrolizumab, ipilimumab + nivolumab, or dacarbazine).

The Phase 2a dose optimization stage will evaluate two doses of IDE196 in combination with crizotinib compared to the comparator arm. Participants will be randomized to the three treatment arms. At the point of optimal IDE196 + crizotinib dose selection, the other dose arm will be dropped with discontinuation of enrollment to that arm. Participants receiving the IDE196 dose (in combination with crizotinib) that is not selected, will be offered the choice to remain on the same dose or change to the chosen optimal dose.

The optimal dose will be chosen to complete the Phase 2b portion. The Phase 2b part of the study will continue to enroll the chosen combination dose of IDE196 + crizotinib compared with the comparator arm. Participants will be randomized to the two treatment arms.

The Phase 3 part of the study will continue to enroll the chosen combination dose of IDE196 + crizotinib compared with the comparator arm. Participants will be randomized to the two treatment arms.