Physical Activity for Myeloma Autograft Longitudinal Study
Physical exercises program is known to improve quality of life, chronical fatigue and appears to be a behavioural recommendation against cancer as primary and tertiary prevention. Nutritional status is also important in cancer patients: a loss of 5% of weight increases the complication risks and decreases survival and the quality of life. Interactions between physical activity and haematological malignancies are less described compared to solid cancers. Methodology and protocols are also heterogeneous. Supervised exercises program improves the physical condition and the quality of life; however there are few randomised studies versus a controlled group. Post autograft evaluation for myeloma patients showed a physical deficit with increased fat mass, but in this particular population physical exercises need to be more explored. This project is a randomised study versus controlled group that evaluates supervised physical exercises program in a homogenous population: patients under-65-years-old with multiple myeloma and who will undergo autologous stem cell transplantation.
Physical Activity|Multiple Myeloma|Quality of Life
BEHAVIORAL: Physical exercises|BEHAVIORAL: Optional physical exercises
Measure of quality of life with EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, The quality of life will be measure with the EORTC quality QLQ-C30 questionnaire to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Scales range in score is from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning whereas a high score for a symptom scale or item represents a high level of symptomatology or problems., at day 0 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.|Measure of quality of life with EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, The quality of life will be measure with the EORTC quality QLQ-C30 questionnaire to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Scales range in score is from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning whereas a high score for a symptom scale or item represents a high level of symptomatology or problems., at day 30 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.|Measure of quality of life with EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, The quality of life will be measure with the EORTC quality QLQ-C30 questionnaire to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Scales range in score is from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning whereas a high score for a symptom scale or item represents a high level of symptomatology or problems., at day 90 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.|Measure of quality of life with QLQ-MY20 questionnaire, The quality of life will be measure with the QLQ-MY20 questionnaire to assess the quality of life of cancer patients.

QLQ-MY20 domain scores are averaged and transformed linearly to a score ranging from 0-100. A high score for Disease Symptoms and Side Effects of Treatment represents a high level of symptomatology or problems, whereas a high score for Future Perspective and Body Image represents better outcomes., at day 0 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.|Measure of quality of life measured with QLQ-MY20 questionnaire, The quality of life will be measure with the QLQ-MY20 questionnaire to assess the quality of life of cancer patients.

QLQ-MY20 domain scores are averaged and transformed linearly to a score ranging from 0-100. A high score for Disease Symptoms and Side Effects of Treatment represents a high level of symptomatology or problems, whereas a high score for Future Perspective and Body Image represents better outcomes., at day 30 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.|Measure of quality of life measured with QLQ-MY20 questionnaire, The quality of life will be measure with the QLQ-MY20 questionnaire to assess the quality of life of cancer patients.

QLQ-MY20 domain scores are averaged and transformed linearly to a score ranging from 0-100. A high score for Disease Symptoms and Side Effects of Treatment represents a high level of symptomatology or problems, whereas a high score for Future Perspective and Body Image represents better outcomes., at day 90 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.
Measure of fatigue evaluated by Piper scale, The Piper Fatigue Scale is composed of 22 numerically scaled, "0" to "10" items that measure four dimensions of subjective fatigue. This will give an average score that remains on the same "0" to "10"numeric scale. O is the moderate score and 10 is the worst score., at day 0 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.|Measure of fatigue evaluated by Piper scale, The Piper Fatigue Scale is composed of 22 numerically scaled, "0" to "10" items that measure four dimensions of subjective fatigue. This will give an average score that remains on the same "0" to "10"numeric scale. O is the moderate score and 10 is the worst score., at day 30 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.|Measure of fatigue evaluated by Piper scale, The Piper Fatigue Scale is composed of 22 numerically scaled, "0" to "10" items that measure four dimensions of subjective fatigue. This will give an average score that remains on the same "0" to "10"numeric scale. O is the moderate score and 10 is the worst score., at day 90 from autograft as patient will be hospitalized.
Physical exercises program is known to improve quality of life, chronical fatigue and appears to be a behavioural recommendation against cancer as primary and tertiary prevention. Nutritional status is also important in cancer patients: a loss of 5% of weight increases the complication risks and decreases survival and the quality of life. Interactions between physical activity and haematological malignancies are less described compared to solid cancers. This multicentre project is a randomised study versus controlled group that evaluates supervised physical exercises program in a homogenous population: patients under-65-years-old with multiple myeloma and who will undergo autologous stem cell transplantation. The hypothesis of this study is that a supervised physical exercises program during and after autograft might have a positive impact on the physical capacities and the quality of life.

In the experimental arm, patients will benefit regularly from a physical exercises program during their hospitalization. When going back home, they will be given a practical help kit with specific equipment (dumbbell, elastic), an actimeter with heart rate monitoring (in order to have an objective collection of the physical practice in addition to a self-evaluation) and a physical exercises program on paper and video supports, that patients would have learnt during their hospitalization. Furthermore, SMS will be regularly sent to remind them to practice. In the controlled arm, patients will be hospitalized in the same conditions than the experimental group and can practice if they want. At the end of the hospitalization, they will receive a paper document with global informations about physical exercises including a few simple exercises. Evaluations will be carried out in both arms at day 0, day 30 and day 90 from autograft. The post graft follow up will be done at the same time as the medical consultation and before the maintenance treatment.