SBRT + Immunomodulating Systemic Therapy for Inoperable, Recurrent H&N
To derive the maximum tolerated dose of hypofractionated stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) using dose painting by numbers with immunomodulating systemic therapy in patients that are reirradiated for recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Head and Neck Neoplasm
RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiotherapy
maximum tolerated dose, maximum tolerated dose of hypofractionated stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) using dose painting by numbers with immunomodulating systemic therapy in patients that are reirradiated for recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, 3 months after radiotherapy
symptom palliation - pain, reduction in pain, through study completion, an average of 12 months|symptom palliation - dysphagia, reduction in grade of dysphagia, through study completion, an average of 12 months|local control, Assessment of:

1. diameter of target lesion of SBRT (and, if present, non-target lesions) in mm
2. tumor response according to recist criteria, 3 months after SBRT and thereafter through study completion, an average of 12 months|Overall survival, To estimate overall survival, through study completion, an average of 12 months|Progression free survival, To estimate progression-free survival, through study completion, an average of 12 months|grade ≥ 3 toxicity-free survival, To estimate grade ≥ 3 toxicity-free survival (anemia, febrile neutropenia, fatigue, dysphagia, oral mucositis, laryngeal mucositis, pharyngeal mucositis, pharyngeal hemorrhage, pharyngeal necrosis, pharyngeal stenosis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, dry mouth), through study completion, an average of 12 months|QOL - general, To assess quality-of-life: EORTC QLQ, before therapy, week 3, week 6, week 10, week 14|QOL - H&N specific, To assess quality-of-life: H\&N35, before therapy, week 3, week 6, week 10, week 14|topographic distribution of recurrence, To assess the topographic distribution of recurrence (inside/outside FDG-avid GTV), through study completion, an average of 12 months|time to further treatment, To assess time to further treatment, through study completion, an average of 12 months|immune response, To assess the immune response, using serum taken before treatment and at each fraction of SBRT, at weeks 6-14
The standard treatment in inoperable locally or regionally recurrent head and neck cancer has long been palliative systemic therapy using the so-called EXTREME-scheme: a combination of cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil and cetuximab. This therapy remains without realistic chances of cure. More recently, immunotherapy using nivolumab has demonstrated to result in long-term disease control of 1-2 year in cisplatin-refractory recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer, however only in a small portion of patients (13%).

Fractionated high-dose local or regional re-irradiation is mostly given in a 6-7 weeks scheme. Using stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), high radiotherapy doses can be given in a short time span. Severe late adverse events have been reported using SBRT but seem less frequent than in patients re-treated with conventional schedules. A possible solution to be able to administer higher doses is combining SBRT with dose painting, thus giving these high doses on small subvolumes only.

Addition of concomitant therapy to reirradiation may further improve outcomes due to radiosensitization and direct cytotoxicity. Therefore the investigator aims to combine high doses with concomitant therapy in the proposed study.

The immunomodulatory effect caused by radiation has been demonstrated both in animal models and clinical trials and leads to an enhanced local control as well as to eradication of distant metastasis. This so-called abscopal effect is reached through a systemic immune response evoked by the release of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) by the dying tumor-cells, also called immunogenic cell death (ICD).

The investigator hypothesizes that an abscopal effect could be present for patients presenting locoregional recurrent disease with asymptomatic distant metastases, thereby offering at least symptom control at the primary site while palliative systemic treatment could be postponed.

The proposed protocol focuses on patients with bad prognosis, as determined by a short timespan between primary therapy and recurrence (defined as 6-24 months after the end of the primary radiotherapy). It would bring the practical advantage of only 2-3 patient visits for the radiotherapy instead of ± 30-35 visits over 6-7 weeks. This shorter treatment schedule is expected to result in a direct gain in quality-of-life due to locoregional symptom control. It can also be expected that rescue systemic therapy will be postponed to a later stage of disease development, thereby prolonging overall survival.

The combination with systemic agents that are involved in immunogenic cell death bear the potential to result in a higher number of patients with longer periods of disease control and survival. The current standard of care, i.e. the combined systemic treatment with cisplatin - 5-fluorouracil - cetuximab, or nivolumab in case of former cisplatin use, can be used as a rescue regimen in case of therapy failure. In that sense, better overall survival from time of diagnosis of the index locoregional recurrent disease is expected.