Multicenter Prospective Cohort Study of Risk Factors for Gallbladder Cancer
This trial is a prospective study, the main purpose of the study is to investigate the association between benign gallbladder disease and gallbladder carcinoma; to explain the timing of intervention, intervention and early prevention of benign gallbladder disease; according to the national epidemiology of gallbladder cancer Center Clinical Research (unpublished), 2000 National Cholecystoma Clinical Epidemiology Report, and 2005 Clinical Analysis of 2379 Cases of Gallbladder Carcinoma in 17 Hospitals in Five Northwest Provinces, Pre-experimental data, using samples The volume estimation formula, α = 0.05, β = 0.1, plans to enroll 100,000 people.Half of participants is someone with Biliary benign disease，while the other half is healthy.
Gallbladder Diseases|Healthy
OTHER: Benigh gallbladder diseases
Gallbladder cancer, Comparison of incidence of gallbladder cancer between the two groups, 3 years
Gallbladder cancer is the most common malignant biliary tract tumor. The main risk factors for gallbladder cancer include gallstones, gallbladder polyps, gallbladder adenomas, chronic inflammation of the gallbladder, etc. However, recently, there is still a lack of evaluation data on relevant risk factors. Therefore, on the basis of large-scale epidemiological investigations, large-scale prospective studies are needed to further clarify the level of risk factors associated with gallbladder cancer. With the development of modern imaging technology and deep understanding of gallbladder diseases, the detection rate of benign gallbladder lesions (cacerous polyps, gallbladder adenomyosis, gallbladder adenoma, gallstones, etc.) has increased year by year, and some benign gallbladder lesions can pass A series of pathophysiological processes have gradually evolved into gallbladder cancer. This study aimed to establish a prospective cohort of benign gallbladder disease, to explore the correlation, intervention time and socioeconomic benefits of benign gallbladder disease and gallbladder cancer. In order to further understand the current trend and diagnosis and treatment of benign gallbladder disease in China, the Chinese Society of Surgery Branch of the Chinese Society of Surgery will launch a national epidemiological survey of gallbladder cancer (2018). This study will provide a more detailed basis for the diagnosis and treatment of benign gallbladder disease in China.