Dabrafenib Alone and in Combination With Trametinib Before Surgery in Treating Patients With Locally or Regionally Advanced Melanoma That Can Be Removed By Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well giving dabrafenib alone and in combination with trametinib before surgery works in treating patients with advanced melanoma that can be removed by surgery. Studying samples of tumor tissue in the laboratory from patients receiving dabrafenib and trametinib may help doctors learn more about the effects of these drugs on cells and help identify biomarkers that determine which patients will respond to these drugs best.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IIB Melanoma (Locally Advanced)|Stage IIC Melanoma (Locally Advanced)|Stage IIIA Melanoma|Stage IIIB Melanoma|Stage IIIC Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma (Limited, Resectable)
DRUG: dabrafenib|DRUG: trametinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Clinical Tumor Response Rate (Response is Based on Greater Than 30% Reduction From Baseline in Tumor Volume by RECIST Criteria) at Day 14., Tumor response is defined as greater than 30% reduction from baseline in tumor volume by RECIST criteria. To determine whether a patient is responded at day 14, the patient must have the tumor volume evaluated at both baseline and day 14. The tumor response rate is calculated as the proportion of patients responded among all evaluated patients., day 14
Change in Tumor Volume Reduction in Participants With Intrinsic Resistance to B-RAF Targeted Therapy From Day 14 to Day 28., Tumor volume reduction is calculated as the tumor volume change relative to the baseline measurement (percent). Change in tumor volume reduction from day 14 to day 28 is calculated as the difference of tumor volume reduction at day 28 and day 14. The median and Inter-Quartile Range are reported., Day 14 and day 28|Number of Patients With Worst Grade Toxicities by Grade According to National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE Version 4.0, The intensity of the adverse event will be graded according to Version 4.0 of the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (June 14, 2010):

Grade 1 - Mild Grade 2 - Moderate Grade 3 - Severe or medically significant Grade 4 - Life-threatening Grade 5 - Death related to adverse event, Up to 3 months|Investigational Agent Taken, Median number of pills taken, Up to 3 months|Percent of Patients Completing Second and Third (Surgical) Biopsies, Biopsies will be assessed whether or not tissue is acquired at specified time points. Tissue is obtained through core, punch, incisional or excisional biopsy or surgical resection, based upon the clinical situation. Standard operating procedures for biopsies, sample preparation and analysis have been defined., Up to 3 months|Percentage of Biopsies With Adequate Tissue for Biomarker Analysis, Measured by the percent of tumor necrosis on hematoxylin and eosin stains; RNA gel electrophoresis, percent of adequate tissue for immunohistochemical stains in tissue microarray and cyTOF analysis., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify markers of intrinsic resistance to v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (B-RAF) targeted therapy in B-RAF mutation-positive melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if intrinsic resistance can be reversed by mitogen activated protein kinase (MEK) targeted therapy and to identify biomarkers that correlate with this response.

II. To evaluate the feasibility of pre-surgical targeted therapy and serial tumor biopsies in patients with advanced, operable melanoma to determine if this model can be used to evaluate novel combinations of molecular targeted therapy in the future.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if pre-surgical B-RAF and MEK targeted therapy is active and well tolerated in patients with advanced, operable melanoma. These findings may be used to support clinical trials in un-resectable, B-RAF mutation-positive melanoma.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive dabrafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 adding trametinib on days 15-28 followed by surgery on days 28-30. Treatment continues until the day prior to surgery in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 months.