Prophylactic Topical Agents in Reducing Radiation-Induced Dermatitis in Patients With Non-inflammatory Breast Cancer
This randomized pilot phase II trial studies and compares prophylactic topical agents in reducing radiation-induced dermatitis in patients with non-inflammatory breast cancer or breast cancer in situ. The prophylactic topical agents, such as curcumin-based gel or HPR Plus, may reduce the severity of the radiation-induced dermatitis by minimizing water loss and inflammation during radiation therapy.
Breast Carcinoma|Pain|Radiation-Induced Dermatitis|Stage 0 Breast Cancer
DRUG: Curcumin-based Gel|PROCEDURE: Dermatologic Complications Management|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Mean Radiation Dermatitis Severity (RDS) Score. Range: 0 (no Dermatitis) - 4 (Violaceous Erythema With Diffuse Desquamation Occurring in Sheets; Patchy Crusting; Superficial Ulceration), The mean 1 week post-RT RDS score for each arm will be compared using ANOVA to determine if the topical interventions reduce the severity of skin reactions at the end of RT.

The RDS score ranges from 0-4 with higher scores indicating worse outcome., Baseline up to 1 week post radiation therapy|Incidence of Moist Desquamation (Present vs. Absent), The degree to which each topical intervention decreases the incidence of moist desquamation will be examined using Fisher's exact test. Each agent's potential as a preventative intervention will be determined through comparison of the proportion of subjects with no to minimal radiation dermatitis within each arm using Fisher's exact test., Baseline up to completion of radiation therapy|Change in the Severity of Skin Reactions Using the Radiation Dermatitis Scale (RDS). Range: 0 (no Dermatitis) - 4 (Violaceous Erythema With Diffuse Desquamation Occurring in Sheets; Patchy Crusting; Superficial Ulceration), The mean 1 week post-RT RDS score for each arm will be compared using ANOVA to determine if the topical interventions reduce the severity of skin reactions after completion of RT.

The RDS score ranges from 0-4 with higher scores indicating worse outcome., Baseline to up to 1 week after completion of radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate the effectiveness of Curcumin gel (curcumin-based gel) or HPR Plus™ in reducing radiation dermatitis in breast cancer patients.