Ruxolitinib in Combination With Trastuzumab in Metastatic HER2 Positive Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to examine the safety and efficacy of Ruxolitinib in combination with Trastuzumab in treatment of HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer. Ruxolitinib (Jakafi) is an Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved treatment for myelofibrosis (a disease of the bone marrow), but its safety and efficacy in breast cancer patients is not known. Trastuzumab (Herceptin) is an FDA-approved treatment for HER2 positive breast cancer. The safety and efficacy of both treatments given in combination is not known. It is hypothesized that Ruxolitinib in combination with Trastuzumab will demonstrate efficacy in treating Metastatic HER2 Positive Breast Cancer subjects, and will have a tolerable safety profile in this patient population.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Breast Carcinoma|HER-2 Positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Ruxolitinib|DRUG: Trastuzumab
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Ruxolitinib in Combination With Trastuzumab (Phase I), The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) combination is defined as the dose combination associated with a target probability of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of 0.25. A dose-limiting toxicity is defined as the MTD with DLTs defined as any grade 3 non-hematologic toxicities despite maximal supportive care or any grade 4 hematologic toxicity. The MTD will be estimated using the time to event continual reassessment method (TITE-CRM). The TITE-CRM will use an empirical dose-toxicity model, with a sample size of 10. The dose-toxicity model is calibrated such that the method will eventually select a dose that yields between 16% and 34% DLT., Up to 15 weeks|Progression Free Survival (PFS) (Phase II), Progression free survival (PFS) will be measured every 3 cycles (9 weeks of treatment +/- 4 days). PFS will be defined as the time from patient registration until objective or disease progression or death from any cause. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 24 weeks
Objective Response Rate (Phase II), Participants will be reviewed at 24 weeks to determine the objective response rate, which is defined as the number of participants with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1., Up to 24 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (Phase II), All phase II participants were evaluated for toxicity from the time of their first treatment with the study drugs. The frequency of subjects experiencing toxicities will be tabulated using the Canter Therapies Evaluation Program (CTEP) Active Version of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 4.0)., Up to 6 years|Clinical Benefit Ratio (CBR) (Phase II), CBR defined as complete response, partial response, or stable disease for \>24 weeks in the phase II portion, 24 weeks
Breast cancer is the most common female cancer and the second most common cause of cancer death in women. Approximately 1,150,000 cases and 410,000 deaths from breast cancer occur annually worldwide, and, in the U.S., there are an estimated 184,450 new cases and 40,480 deaths from breast cancer every year. The vast majority of patients who die from breast cancer succumb to metastatic disease. The human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 gene (HER2) is amplified in 20% to 30% of breast cancers.

HER2+ breast cancers are associated with earlier recurrence and shorter overall survival and are associated with other adverse prognostic markers, such as high tumor grade, high rates of cell proliferation, increased nodal metastases, and relative resistance to certain types of chemotherapy. The HER family of receptors is a group of related transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinases that regulate normal cell survival, proliferation, differentiation, and migration.