Does Cediranib With Paclitaxel, or Cediranib and Olaparib, Treat Advanced Endometrial Cancer Better Than Paclitaxel?
The COPELIA trial is evaluating two new tablet medications in endometrial cancer for the first time. It will include 129 women aged 16 years or older with advanced endometrial cancer whose cancer has worsened after their initial chemotherapy treatment. Participants will be allocated at random to one of three groups:

1. The first group (Arm 1) will receive a standard (routine) treatment for patients with endometrial cancer known as paclitaxel. This is a chemotherapy drug that is routinely used to treat patients with different cancers including ovarian, breast, lung and endometrial cancer. Paclitaxel works by stopping the growth of cancer cells.
2. The second group (Arm 2) will receive the standard paclitaxel treatment once a week in addition to a new drug called cediranib. Cediranib is a tablet medication and works by blocking new blood vessel formation. Cediranib has been tested in women with endometrial cancer before but not alongside chemotherapy treatment.
3. The third group (Arm 3) will receive two new tablet medications, cediranib and olaparib. Olaparib works by preventing cancer cells repairing DNA effectively. The use of olaparib and cediranib together has been shown to be effective in a common type of ovarian cancer but has not been evaluated as a treatment for endometrial cancer before.

The main objectives of the COPELIA trial are to work out:

1. Whether the two new treatments, cediranib-paclitaxel (Arm 2) and cediranib-olaparib (Arm 3) are more effective at controlling endometrial cancer than standard paclitaxel chemotherapy (Arm 1)
2. Whether the two new treatments cause more or fewer side-effects than standard chemotherapy
3. How each of these treatments impact on the daily life of women receiving the treatment by asking trial participants to regularly complete quality of life questionnaires
4. Whether we can learn how these treatments work in women with endometrial cancer by taking some additional blood tests for research.
Carcinosarcoma|Endometrial Neoplasms
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Cediranib|DRUG: Olaparib
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival rate at 3 months, 3 months
Radiological response rate, Radiological response rate assessed by RECIST v1.1, Assessed from CT scans up to and including the CT scan which shows disease progression, up to 6 months|Median progression free survival (PFS), Time from date of randomisation to date of investigator-assessed objective progression via RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause in the absence of progression., From date of randomisation to date of investigator-assessed objective progression via RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause in the absence of progression, up to 42 months|6-month progression free survival (PFS), Proportion of participants free from investigator assessed objective disease progression by RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, six months from the date of randomisation., 6 months|Toxicities, Toxicities of any grade associated with each regimen as assessed by CTCAE version 4.03., Up to 30 days after end of treatment|Median overall survival, Median time from date of randomisation to date of death, From date of randomisation to date of death, up to 42 months|Quality of life using a questionnaire, Quality of life measured using the EORTC QLQ-C30 tool and EN24 endometrial cancer-specific module., Up to 30 days after end of treatment
Angiogenesis-related cytokines, Plasma concentration of circulating angiogenesis-related cytokines., Up to 30 days after end of treatment|Circulating tumour cells (CTCs), Proportion of participants with detectable CTCs at baseline, and the correlation between CTC levels and radiological response., From randomisation until up to 30 days after end of treatment|Gamma H2AX in circulating tumour cells, Evaluation of gamma H2AX in CTCs will be used as an exploratory tool to correlate presence or absence with radiological response., From randomisation until up to 30 days after end of treatment
COPELIA is a phase II, randomised, three-arm open-label trial which will recruit 129 women aged 16 years or older, with advanced endometrial cancer who require further treatment after their initial chemotherapy treatment. Potential participants will be recruited from the hospital setting.

Participants will be allocated to one of the following three trial arms on a 1:1:1 basis using centralised internet randomisation, stratified for prognostic factors:

Arm 1: (Control Arm): Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 administered on days 1, 8 and 15 of a 28-day cycle for up to 6 cycles.

Arm 2: Cediranib 20 mg once daily for 28 days given with weekly paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 administered on days 1, 8 and 15 of a 28-day cycle for up to 6 cycles. Participants with stable disease, partial response or complete response at 6 months as determined by RECIST v1.1 will be eligible to continue treatment with single agent cediranib once daily until disease progression.

Arm 3: Cediranib 20 mg once daily with olaparib 300 mg twice daily, continuously on a 28 day cycle for up to 6 cycles. Participants with stable disease, partial response or complete response at 6 months as determined by RECIST v1.1 will be eligible to continue treatment with both olaparib and cediranib until disease progression.

Randomisation will be balanced for histological subtype and the number of chemotherapy regimens for metastatic disease.

Recruitment to the trial is expected to take 30 months. The total duration of the trial is expected to be 55 months. Participants will receive initial trial treatments for up to six months as long as they remain progression free. As mentioned above, participants in the experimental arms may continue treatment with cediranib/olaparib beyond the six months, and beyond the end of the trial, if they remain progression free. The trial will end once all participants have met at least one of the criteria: completed 12 months' follow-up (including treatment), withdrawn from follow-up, been lost to follow-up, experienced disease progression, or died. Participants consent for their medical notes to be reviewed at later dates if required to obtain data such as overall survival.

The trial has a multi-arm-multi-stage (MAMS) design. The appropriate sample size was calculated for this MAMS design, which allows one (or both) ineffective experimental arms to be dropped following a planned interim analysis after 60 participants have been assessed at three months.