Outcomes of Early and Late Administration G-CSF for Primary Prophylaxis in Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Patients
The goal of this clinical trial is to

Primary Objectives:

1. To compare the incidence of febrile neutropenia in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who received early or late granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) during standard chemotherapy in a multicenter study
2. To determine the incidence of leukopenia and neutropenia in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who received early or late G-CSF during standard chemotherapy in a multicenter study

Secondary Objectives:

1. To determine changes in white blood cell, hemoglobin, and platelet levels in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who received early or late G-CSF during standard chemotherapy.
2. To determine the quality of life of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who undergoing standard chemotherapy and with neutropenia Researchers will compare the outcome between patients received either early G-CSF (within 72 hours) or late G-CSF (after 72 hours).

All patients will be followed up to monitor for febrile neutropenia events, other hematological parameters and quality of life.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL)|Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor|Febrile Neutropenia (FN)|Myelosuppression Adult
DRUG: Early receiving G-CSF group|DRUG: Late receiving G-CSF group
Incidence of febrile neutropenia, Incidence of febrile neutropenia in each course, One year|Incidence of leukopenia and neutropenia, Incidence of leukopenia and neutropenia in each course, One year
Incidence of grade 3 or 4 of myelosuppression, Incidence of 3 or 4 myelosuppression in each course, One year|Time of visits to outpatient (OPD) and emergency clinics (ER), Incidence of visit to OPD or ER in each course, One year|Quality of life (QoL) after chemotherapy, Quality of life score daily in each course, One year
This study aims to analyze the impact of the timing of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) administration on the prevention of febrile neutropenia (FN) in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients undergoing standard chemotherapy. G-CSF is a growth factor that stimulates the production of white blood cell in order to fighting infection. When non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients receive chemotherapy for eradicating cancer cells. They also have collateral damage those white blood cells and other hematopoietic cell lines.

All patients received standard chemotherapy regimens once every four weeks. The study will compare the efficacy of early G-CSF administration, or late administration, after each course of chemotherapy.

The primary endpoint is the incidence of FN in each chemotherapy course. At the end of each chemotherapy course, patients received either early G-CSF (within 72 hours) or late G-CSF (after 72 hours). All patients will be followed up to monitor for FN events.

Secondary endpoints include the incidence of myelosuppression and quality of life, assessed during outpatient and emergency department visits.