Precision Radiation of Immune Checkpoint Therapy Resistant Melanoma Metastases
To evaluate tumor response, survival and adverse effects after precision radiotherapy (SBRT) in melanoma patients with ongoing PD-1 inhibitor treatment that have tumor progression.
Metastatic Melanoma
RADIATION: Precision Radiation (SBRT)
Overall response rate (ORR) in non-irradiated lesions, Overall response rate (ORR) in non-irradiated lesions according to RECIST 1.1, From date of precision radiation start until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 24 months
Median PFS (months), Median PFS (months) at 6 and 12 months according to RECIST 1.1, 6 and 12 months|PFS rate (%), PFS rate (%) at 6 and 12 months according to RECIST 1.1, 6 and 12 months|Median OS (months), Median OS (months) at 6 and 12 months according to RECIST 1.1, 6 and 12 months|Response rate (RR) in the patient's irradiated lesions, Response rate (RR) in the patient's irradiated lesions according to RECIST 1.1, From radiation start to end of follow-up, progression or death (3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24 months)|Rate and type of AEs and SAEs on patient level, Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, From precision radiation start to end of follow-up, progression or death, up to 24 months
Exploratory outcome measure: Predictive biomarkers, Translational research to investigate predictive biomarkers based on sequential tumor biopsies and/or fine needle tumor aspirations and blood, From date of diagnosis until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 24 months
A phase II open-label multicenter trial evaluating response rate (RR) in patients receiving precision radiation (SBRT) to melanoma metastasis that have progressed on PD-1 inhibitor therapy. Patients will continue on PD-1 inhibitor therapy (pembrolizumab or nivolumab) for up to one year after completed precision radiation and will be followed-up for 24 months or until disease progression or death. The primary endpoint of the study is overall response rate (ORR) in non-irradiated lesions. The study will be conducted according to Simon´s two Stage minimax Design. Patients will be enrolled in two batches, first consisting of 13 patients. If no objective responses (complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)) are reported after the first stage, the study is interrupted early for futility. When the 13th patient is recruited, if there is at least one objective response in patient´s non-irradiated lesion(s), the recruitment can proceed into second stage. 14 more patients will then be included up to a total of 27 patients to determine ORR along with the 95% confidence interval. The test result is considered positive when at least 15% of the patients have a confirmed objective response.