Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage IV Breast Cancer
This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects of escalating doses of adoptive T cell therapy in treating patients with stage IV breast cancer. Vaccines are given to patient prior the expansion of a person's white blood cells may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells that overexpress human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: HER-2/neu peptide vaccine|PROCEDURE: leukapheresis|BIOLOGICAL: ex vivo-expanded HER2-specific T cells|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Evaluate Toxicity of Infusing HER2-specific T Cells as Assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0, Patients are monitored for the development of end organ damage by assessing adverse events with serum chemistries, liver function studies, complete blood counts, urine analysis and physical exams. All adverse events for all systems are graded on a scale of 1-5 and attribution is assigned. There are DLT criteria. DLT is defined as any incidence of Grade 3 hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity (excluding: fever, hypoxia, and urticaria) Thus, if a subject develops a Grade 3 toxicity (excluding those listed in Table 4) will be considered excessive toxicity and no further dose escalations will occur., Up to 4 months after first booster vaccine
Proportion of Patients Whose T Cells Persist at a Level the Same or Greater as the Level After the Final T Cell Infusion and Subsequent Booster Immunizations as Assessed by IFN-gamma (IFN-g) ELISPOT, Up to 2 year following the last infusion|Development of CD4+ and CD8+ Epitope Spreading, As assessed by the development of immunity to epitopes within the HER2 protein to which the patient was not vaccinated as well as the development of immunity to other breast cancer related tumor antigens., Up to 2 years|Response of Skeletal or Bone-only Disease by FDG-PET and According to European Organization for Research and Treatment for Cancer (EORTC), Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of infusing escalating doses of HER2 specific T cells into patients with advanced HER2+ breast cancer using ex vivo expanded autologous T cells.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate to what extent HER2 specific T cell immunity can be boosted or generated in individuals after infusion of HER2 specific T cells.

II. To evaluate how long T cell immune augmentation persists in vivo after adoptive transfer of HER2 specific T cells and subsequent booster immunizations.

III. To determine the development of cluster of differentiation (CD)4+ and CD8+ epitope spreading after adoptive transfer of HER2 specific T cells.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the potential anti-tumor effects of HER2 specific T cells in patients with advanced HER2+ breast cancer.

II. To determine whether indium-labeled HER-2 specific T-cells traffic to sites of metastatic disease once adoptively transferred using SPECT or SPECT-CT imaging.

III. To assess whether adoptively transferred HER-2 specific T-cells induce acute inflammation at metastatic sites of disease by assessing the development of tumor inflammation after the second or third infusion of cells using PET-CT imaging.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I/II, dose-escalation study of ex vivo-expanded HER2-specific autologous T cells.

Patients receive HER2/neu peptide vaccine admixed with sargramostim (GM-CSF) intradermally (ID) on days 1, 8, and 15. Beginning 2 weeks later, patients undergo leukapheresis to isolate and collect peripheral blood mononuclear cells for T-cell expansion.

Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) once on day -1 and autologous ex vivo-expanded HER2-specific T cell IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 7-10 days for up to three treatments. Patients receive a booster HER2/neu peptide vaccine 1 month after the final T-cell infusion, followed by 2 additional booster vaccines at 2-month intervals.

While on the study, patients may continue their standard-of-care (non-research) treatment with trastuzumab and/or lapatinib IV weekly or every 3 weeks, except for 7 days before the cyclophosphamide dose, treatment 1 and treatment 2 and at least 7 days after receiving the second T cell vaccine. (Trastuzumab and lapatinib are not required or provided in this study).

Before the third T cell treatment of HER2 specific T-cells we will label a small sample of the patient's T-cells with indium-111. Prior to the final infusion of T-cells, patients will have FDG PET-CT performed. This scan will be repeated 48 hours after T-cell infusion. In addition, patients would then undergo SPECT or SPECT-CT imaging at 4, 24, 48, and 72 hours (+/- 3 hours) after labeled cells have been infused.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for the following year, and then twice a year thereafter. This consists of blood collection and contact with patients physician.