A Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Gocatamig (MK-6070) and Ifinatamab Deruxtecan (I-DXd) in Participants With Relapsed/Refractory Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (MK-6070-002)
Researchers are looking for new ways to treat people with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC) that has relapsed or is refractory. Gocatamig is a new type of immunotherapy that uses a person's immune system to find and destroy cancer cells. Ifinatamab deruxtecan (also known as I-DXd) is a drug which binds to a specific target on cancer cells and delivers treatment to destroy those cells. Researchers want to know if giving gocatamig and/or I-DXd can treat SCLC that did not respond or stopped responding to a prior treatment.

The goals of this study are to learn:

* If gocatamig and I-DXd are safe and well tolerated
* If people who receive gocatamig and I-DXd have their SCLC get smaller or go away
Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Gocatamig|BIOLOGICAL: Ifinatamab Deruxtecan (I-DXd)
Number of Participants Who Experience an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who experience an AE in the study will be presented., Up to approximately 44 months|Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A DLT is defined as any drug-related adverse event (AE) observed during the DLT evaluation period that meet pre-defined DTL criteria. Toxicities will be graded using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0, or the American Society for Transplant and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) criteria. The number of participants who experience at least one DLT will be presented., Up to approximately 3 weeks|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Intervention Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who discontinue the study intervention due to an AE in the study will be presented., Up to approximately 44 months|Part 1: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). The percentage of participants who experience CR or PR as assessed by the investigator will be presented., Up to approximately 44 months
Part 1: Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrate a confirmed Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. DOR as assessed by the investigator will be presented., Up to approximately 44 months|Part 1: Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first as assessed by RECIST 1.1. PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by the investigator will be presented., Up to approximately 44 months|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of gocatamig, Cmax is the maximum concentration of the study drug observed in plasma. Blood samples collected pre dose and at multiple timepoints post dose will be used to determine Cmax of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Cmax of ifinatamab deruxtecan (I-DXd), Cmax is the maximum concentration of the study drug observed in plasma. Blood samples collected pre dose and at multiple timepoints post dose will be used to determine Cmax of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Cmax of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, Cmax is the maximum concentration of the study drug observed in plasma. Blood samples collected pre dose and at multiple timepoints post dose will be used to determine Cmax of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Cmax of Deruxtecan (DXd), Cmax is the maximum concentration of the study drug observed in plasma. Blood samples collected pre dose and at multiple timepoints post dose will be used to determine Cmax of the drug payload deruxtecan (DXd)., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Time to maximum concentration (Tmax) of gocatamig, Tmax is the amount of time that a drug is present at the maximum concentration is observed in plasma. Blood samples will be collected to determine the Tmax of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Tmax of I-DXd, Tmax is the amount of time that a drug is present at the maximum concentration is observed in plasma. Blood samples will be collected to determine the Tmax of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Tmax of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, Tmax is the amount of time that the drug is present at the maximum concentration is observed in plasma. Blood samples will be collected to determine the Tmax of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Tmax of DXd, Tmax is the amount of time that the drug is present at the maximum concentration is observed in plasma. Blood samples will be collected to determine the Tmax of the drug payload DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve Over the Dosing Interval t (AUCt) of gocatamig, AUCt is a measure of plasma drug concentration and time and is estimated as the area under the plot of plasma concentration against time after drug administration. Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUCt of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AUCt of I-DXd, AUCt is a measure of plasma drug concentration and time and is estimated as the area under the plot of plasma concentration against time after drug administration. Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUCt of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AUCt of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, AUCt is a measure of plasma drug concentration and time and is estimated as the area under the plot of plasma concentration against time after drug administration. Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUCt of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AUCt of DXd, AUCt is a measure of plasma drug concentration and time and is estimated as the area under the plot of plasma concentration against time after drug administration. Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUCt of the drug payload Dxd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Terminal Half-Life (t1/2) of gocatamig, t½ is defined as the time required for plasma drug concentration of study drug to decrease by 50% from peak. Blood samples will be collected to determine the t1/2 of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|t1/2 of I-DXd, t½ is defined as the time required for plasma drug concentration of study drug to decrease by 50% from peak. Blood samples will be collected to determine the t1/2 of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|t1/2 of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, t½ is defined as the time required for plasma drug concentration of study drug to decrease by 50% from peak. Blood samples will be collected to determine the t1/2 of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|t1/2 of DXd, t½ is defined as the time required for plasma drug concentration of study drug to decrease by 50% from peak. Blood samples will be collected to determine the t1/2 of the drug payload DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Steady State Maximum Concentration (Cmax,ss) of gocatamig, Cmax,ss is a measure of the maximum level of drug in the blood, measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Cmax,ss of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Cmax,ss of I-DXd, Cmax,ss is a measure of the maximum level of drug in the blood, measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Cmax,ss of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Cmax,ss of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, Cmax,ss is a measure of the maximum level of drug in the blood, measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Cmax,ss of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Cmax,ss of DXd, Cmax,ss is a measure of the maximum level of drug in the blood, measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Cmax,ss of the drug payload DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Steady State Ctrough (Ctrough,ss) of gocatamig, Ctrough,ss is defined as the trough concentration measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Ctrough,ss of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Ctrough,ss of I-DXd, Ctrough,ss is defined as the trough concentration measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Ctrough,ss of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Ctrough,ss of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, Ctrough,ss is defined as the trough concentration measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Ctrough,ss of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Ctrough,ss of DXd, Ctrough,ss is defined as the trough concentration measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Ctrough,ss of the drug payload DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Steady State Time to Maximum Concentration (Tmax,ss) of gocatamig, Tmax,ss is the amount of time that a drug is present at the maximum concentration is observed in plasma measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Tmax,ss of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Tmax,ss of I-DXd, Tmax,ss is the amount of time that a drug is present at the maximum concentration is observed in plasma measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Tmax,ss of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Tmax,ss of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, Tmax,ss is the amount of time that a drug is present at the maximum concentration is observed in plasma measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Tmax,ss of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Tmax,ss of DXd, Tmax,ss is the amount of time that a drug is present at the maximum concentration is observed in plasma measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the Tmax,ss of the drug payload DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Area Under the Steady State Concentration-Time Curve Over Dosing Interval t (AUCt,ss) of gocatamig, AUCt,ss is a measure of plasma drug concentration and time and is estimated as the area under the plot of plasma concentration against time after drug administration measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUCt,ss of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AUCt,ss of I-DXd, AUCt,ss is a measure of plasma drug concentration and time and is estimated as the area under the plot of plasma concentration against time after drug administration measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUCt,ss of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AUCt,ss of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, AUCt,ss is a measure of plasma drug concentration and time and is estimated as the area under the plot of plasma concentration against time after drug administration measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUCt,ss of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AUCt,ss of DXd, AUCt,ss is a measure of plasma drug concentration and time and is estimated as the area under the plot of plasma concentration against time after drug administration measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUCt,ss of the drug payload DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Steady state t1/2 (t1/2,ss) of gocatamig, t1/2,ss is defined as the time required for plasma drug concentration of study drug to decrease by 50% from peak measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the t1/2,ss of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|t1/2,ss of I-DXd, t1/2,ss is defined as the time required for plasma drug concentration of study drug to decrease by 50% from peak measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the t1/2,ss of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|t1/2,ss of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, t1/2,ss is defined as the time required for plasma drug concentration of study drug to decrease by 50% from peak measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the t1/2,ss of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|t1/2,ss of DXd, t1/2,ss is defined as the time required for plasma drug concentration of study drug to decrease by 50% from peak measured at steady state (time at which the amount of drug eliminated by the body is in equilibrium with the amount taken in). Blood samples will be collected to determine the t1/2,ss of the drug payload DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Accumulation Ratio (AC) of gocatamig, Blood samples will be collected to determine the AC of the drug gocatamig., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AC of I-DXd, Blood samples will be collected to determine the AC of the drug I-DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AC of Anti-B7-H3 Antibody, Blood samples will be collected to determine the AC of the anti-B7-H3 antibody., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|AC of DXd, Blood samples will be collected to determine the AC of the drug payload DXd., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Incidence of Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADAs) Against gocatamig, Blood samples collected at designated timepoints will be used to determine the ADA response to gocatamig. The incidence of ADAs for gocatamig will be presented., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)|Incidence of Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADAs) Against I-DXd, Blood samples collected at designated timepoints will be used to determine the ADA response to I-DXd. The incidence of ADAs for I-DXd will be presented., At designated timepoints (up to approximately 44 months)
This study will consist of two parts. Part 1 will assess the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of gocatamig and I-DXd at dosing intervals of once every 2 weeks (Q2W) and/or once every 3 weeks (Q3W) at doses determined in study MK-6070-001 (NCT: NCT04471727). Part 2 will assess the safety and tolerability of gocatamig in Japanese participants.