DESTINY Breast Respond HER2-low Europe
Trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic HER2-low breast cancer who have received prior chemotherapy in the metastatic setting or developed disease recurrence during or within 6 months of completing adjuvant chemotherapy.
Unresectable Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer|HER2-low Expressing Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab deruxtecan
Real World Time to Next Treatment (rwTTNT1) in Participants With HER2-low Expressing Unresectable and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer, Baseline up to 31 months
Type of Treatment Patterns in Participants With HER2-low Expressing Unresectable and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer, Baseline up to 31 months|Number of Physician-reported Safety Events of Interest in Participants With HER2-low Expressing Unresectable and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer (T-DXd only), Baseline up to 31 months|Number of Participants Receiving Prophylactic and Reactive Treatment Management for Physician-reported Safety Events of Interest in Participants With HER2-low Expressing Unresectable and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer (T-DXd only), Baseline up to 31 months|Real World Time to Permanent Treatment Discontinuation (rwTTD1) in Participants With HER2-low Expressing Unresectable and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer, Baseline up to 31 months|Patient's Global Impression of Treatment Tolerability (PGI-TT) in Participants With HER2-low Expressing Unresectable and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer, The PGI-TT is designed to assess the treatment tolerability of the medicine. Participants will rate the bother associated with any treatment-related symptoms based on a 5-point scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 5 (very much). Higher scores indicate a worse outcome., Baseline up to 31 months|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score in Participants With HER2-low Expressing Unresectable and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire is designed to measure cancer patients' physical, psychological and social functions. The EORTC QLQ-C30 scales and single-item scales range in score from 0 to 100. A higher score for the functioning scales and global health status denotes a better level of functioning (i.e. a better state of the patient), while higher scores on the symptom and single-item scales indicate a higher level of symptoms (i.e. a worse state of the patient)., Baseline up to 31 months|Number of Participants Reporting Nausea and Vomiting as Assessed by a Patient Diary, Baseline up to 31 months
This non-interventional study will investigate the effectiveness withT-DXd, the demographic and clinical characteristics of the patients, treatment patterns, tolerability, management of adverse drug reactions (ADRs), and patient experience of T-DXd in patients with HER2-low unresectable and/or metastatic breast cancer. Patients will be treated according to the proposed indication statement in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC). No drug product will be administered as part of this study.

Data on conventional chemotherapy (i.e., including but not limited to capecitabine, eribulin, gemcitabine, paclitaxel and nab-paclitaxel) will also be collected in a disease registry part of the study.