Women on Breast Cancer Health Belıefs and Screenıng Behavıors
Method: It was conducted in a randomized controlled experimental type. The population of the study consisted of 2426 women over the age of 20 living in a family health center in Erzurum between October 2021 and September 2022. The sample of the study consisted of 252 women with 0.05 margin of error and 95% confidence level, according to the sample size calculation formula used in cases where the universe is known. Within the framework of the exclusion criteria of the study, 52 women were excluded from the study and 200 women were included in the randomization.
Breast Cancer Female
OTHER: Education
Breast Cancer Screening Beliefs Scale, Breast Cancer Screening Beliefs Questionnaire: The scale was developed by Kwok et al. (2010) in 2010 to determine women's breast cancer screening beliefs. Turkish adaptation, reliability, and validity of the scale were performed by Türkoğlu and Sis Çelik in 2021. The scale has three sub scales including Attitudes towards General Health Checkups, Knowledge and Perceptions about Breast Cancer, and Perceived Barriers to Mammographic Screening. Cronbach's alpha internal coefficients were found to range between 0.76 and 0.87 in the sub-scales of the original scale. The scores to be obtained from the scale range between 0 and 100. Mean scores of 65 and over in the sub-scales indicate that screening beliefs increase positively, knowledge level increases, and barriers to mammography screening decrease., two week|Health Belief Model Scale in Breast Cancer Screening, This policy was first established by Champion in 1984 in the Health Belief Model base building. The scale has 8 dimensions: sensitivity, caring, health motivation, BSE barriers, benefits, self-efficacy, mammography benefits and barriers. Necessary components were tested, with the scale's caring and health motivation being revised in 1993, refinement in 1999, and BSE benefits, barriers, and self-efficacy dimensions revised again in 1997 (Champion, 1993; Champion and Scott, 1997; Champion, 1999; Champion, 1984) . Turkish validity and reliability were performed by Gözüm and Aydın in 2004. The scale includes subsections of "sensitivity", "caring", "health motivation", "BSE benefits", "BSE barriers", "BSE self-efficacy". The scale is a Likert-type scale scored from 1 to 5. A score closer to 5 means that caring, health motivation, BSE benefits, BSE barriers and BSE self-efficacy are perceived to be high., Two week
Persons in the experimental group will be trained 6 times with an interval of 2 weeks via an online platform (zoom, etc.). No training will be given to the control group, and the post-test data will be collected by re-administering the two groups with the mid-test created via Google forms and containing the scales immediately after the training, and the "Health Belief Model Scale in Breast Cancer Screening" and "Breast Cancer Screening Beliefs Scale" two months later.