Survivin Vaccine : Multiple Myeloma Autologous Hematopoietic Cell Transplant (HCT)
The purpose of this study is to test what effects (good and bad) a new cancer vaccine will have on participants and their cancer, when administered before and after their autologous hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT).

The name of the vaccine is called Dendritic Cell Survivin Vaccine (DC:AdmS). The vaccine is made using the participant's own blood cells. The vaccine will contain a virus called an adenovirus, similar the virus that causes the common cold. The virus has been changed so it cannot infect humans and cause infections. The vaccine will be prepared at Moffitt Cancer Center in the Cell Therapy Laboratory Facility.
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Survivin Vaccine|PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: Prevnar 13|DRUG: Granulocyte-colony Stimulating Factor
Rate of Complete Response (CR), Complete Response: A treatment outcome where there are ≤5% plasma cells in the bone marrow and no evidence of myeloma proteins in the serum or urine as measured by standard laboratory techniques., 90 days post treatment|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, The safety of DC:AdmS when administered to patients with myeloma before and at day +21 after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant. The approach for assessing potential toxicity of survivin vaccination will focus predominantly on assessing hematopoietic reconstitution, including T cell repopulation and gastrointestinal toxicity. Investigators will also monitor for autoimmune disorders involving other tissues where survivin expression has been demonstrated: these include keratinocytes and melanocytes, myocardium, liver, breast, and brain. The most sensitive test to assess the potential toxicity of survivin vaccination on hematopoietic function is the time of neutrophil repopulation after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). Beginning on day of ASCT, participants will be monitored daily for engraftment, defined by an absolute neutrophil count of 500 cells per microliter that is sustained for at least 3 days., Up to 6 months post treatment
Number of Participants With Improved Immunologic Response, The ability of DC:AdmS to induce T cell immune responses against survivin when administered to patients with myeloma before and at day +21 after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant.

Immunologic responses: be measured at baseline prior to the first vaccination (i.e., baseline), after stem cell mobilization and collection (i.e., pre-transplant), and post-transplant at day +60, +90, and +180. Each time 100 cc of peripheral blood will be collected. Immune response evaluations will consist of the following: Determination of the survivin specific T cell frequency using limiting dilution analysis and freely available online software; Analysis of Interferon-γ producing T cells in ELISPOT assays in response to DC loaded survivin peptide pool; Measurement of anti-pneumococcal immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody titers and T cell responses against cross-reacting material (CRM) adjuvant; Evaluation of immunomodulatory phenotypes by T cell subsets before and after vaccination., 180 days (6 months) post vaccination
This study is designed to test the safety and efficacy of the survivin vaccine, as well as the biological activity. A total sample size of 30 patients will be used for the study. In the 1st stage, 10 patients will be used to evaluate the safety and futility of the vaccine. If it passes the 1st stage, investigators will enroll another 20 patients (as 2nd stage) to evaluate the efficacy. The two- stage experiment is based on Simon minmax two-stage design for efficacy. Vaccine will be administered in two stages. After the first survivin vaccination, participants will be mobilized with G-CSF and both in vivo-primed T cells and stem cells will be collected in the same apheresis (the graft). T cells and the CD34 progenitor cells will be transferred back to the participant at the time of autologous graft infusion. Participants will receive re-vaccination on, or near, day 21 after transplant.