Characterization of Neuromuscular Function and Fatigue After Breast Cancer Treated With Adjuvant Chemotherapy (PROTECT-04)
This is a transversal monocentric study comparing two groups of women (group 1, patient group : patients who have been treated for a breast cancer with taxane-based chemotherapy ; group 2, control group : healthy volunteers). The aim of this study is to evaluate if a difference exists regarding the maximal isometric muscle strength between group 1 and 2.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Characterization of Neuromuscular Function and Fatigue
Maximal isometric muscle strength for knee extensors, Measured with force sensors. Significant differences between the two groups will be assessed, At Inclusion
Number of Participants with neuromuscular fatigue, Assessment using surface electromyography. Significant differences between the two groups will be assessed., At Inclusion|Number of Participants with neuromuscular fatigue, Assessment using percutaneous electric nerve stimulation. Significant differences between the two groups will be assessed., At Inclusion|Number of Participants with neuromuscular fatigue, Assessment using transcranial magnetic stimulation. Significant differences between the two groups will be assessed., At Inclusion|Number of Participants with subjective fatigue., Questionnaire Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue Scale (FACIT-F) version 4.

Significant differences between the two groups will be assessed., At Inclusion|Number of Participants with muscle architecture., Assessment using muscle ultrasonography. Significant differences between the two groups will be assessed., At Inclusion|Number of Participants with body composition., Assessment using bio-impedance analysis. Significant differences between the two groups will be assessed., At Inclusion
All subjects will be evaluated a single time during two hours. For patients from group 1 the evaluation should take place within the two weeks that follow the end of adjuvant treatment. There is no specificity regarding evaluation of volunteers from group 2, their evaluation can take place at any time.