Selecting Chemotherapy With High-throughput Drug Screen Assay Using Patient Derived Organoids in Patients With Refractory Solid Tumours (SCORE)
This is a single-centre study based on the Simon 2-stage optimax design: 12 patients will be enrolled initially (Stage I), which will then be expanded to a further 13 patients (Stage II) if 3 or more patients enrolled in stage I of the study achieve an objective response with the chemotherapeutic agent selected by the drug screen assay. A total of 25 patients will be included in both stages of study.

Patients enrolled on study will undergo a fresh biopsy of tumour lesion to obtain cells that will be used to generate patient-derived tumour organoids based on the Invitrocue technology. Organoids will then be subjected to a 10-drug panel screening including: 5-fluorouracil, carboplatin, cyclophosphamide, docetaxel, doxorubicin, gemcitabine, irinotecan, oxaliplatin, paclitaxel and vinorelbine. A further 5 drugs (etoposide, ifosfamide, methotrexate, pemetrexed and topotecan) will be screened if sufficient organoids are grown from the biopsy samples within the screening period.

Physicians will be informed of the results, and choice of chemotherapy will be based on an IRS score of 70% or above. If more than 1 candidate drug with IRS of 70% or above is identified, the physician will exercise his/her discretion to select the most suitable drug based on patient's comorbidities and organ function.
Organoids|HNSCC|Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Colorectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Tumor Core Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Blood sampling
Overall radiological response rate, Measured by RECIST of the entire study cohort, 2 years|Correlation between patient genotype, tumor biomarkers and blood biomarkers with clinical outcome, Clinical Outcome include Radiological response, progression-free survival, grade 3-4 toxicities, 2 years
Investigators hypothesize that high-throughput screening on patient-derived tumour organoids can be used as an adjunct tool to aid treatment selection in patients with cancer. Using the IRS, drugs with high IRS (defined as a score of 70% and above) will have a high probability of inducing objective response (either a complete or partial response by RECIST criteria) in patients with refractory cancers. Conversely, IRS of drugs for which the patients have been treated and experienced clinical progression on will be low (defined as a score of 50% or below).

Primary Objectives

-To prospectively determine if a high-throughput drug screen assay using patient tumour-derived organoids can accurately select a chemotherapeutic agent that results in objective response in patients with refractory solid tumours

Secondary Objectives

* To assess the IRS measured on tumour-derived organoid drug screen assay of chemotherapeutic agents to which patients had previously progressed on clinically
* To assess changes in IRS pre and post-chemotherapy treatment