Phase 2b Randomized Controlled Study of Tecemotide (L-BLP25) for Immunotherapy of NSCLC (Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer)
This is a prospective open label, controlled, randomized study to test the safety and efficacy of active specific immunotherapy with tecemotide (L-BLP25) for the treatment of subjects with Stage IIIB or Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). To be eligible, subjects entering the trial will have to demonstrate either stable disease or a clinical response after first-line treatment (chemotherapy alone, or chemotherapy and radiotherapy) and have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0, 1 or 2. Following a 3 week washout period, subjects will be stratified by disease status (either Stage IIIB locoregional disease or Stage IIIB with malignant pleural effusion and Stage IV), and randomized to either best supportive care (BSC) plus tecemotide (L-BLP25) treatment or BSC alone.
Lung Neoplasms|Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
BIOLOGICAL: Tecemotide (L-BLP25)|DRUG: Single low dose cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Best Supportive Care (BSC)
Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Serious TEAEs, TEAEs Leading to Death, and TEAEs With Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) Toxicity Grade 3 or 4, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any new untoward medical occurrences/worsening of pre-existing medical condition, whether or not related to study drug. A serious AE was an AE that results in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect. Treatment-emergent are events between first dose of study drug and up to 30 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. Number of participants with TEAEs, serious TEAEs, TEAEs leading to death, and TEAEs with CALGB toxicity Grade 3 or 4 were reported., From the first dose of study drug administration until 30 days after the last dose of study drug administration or assessed until cut-off date (15 March 2006)|Overall Survival Time, Time from randomization to death or last day known to be alive. Participants without event were censored at the last date known to be alive or at the clinical cut-off date (15 March 2006), whichever was earlier., Time from randomization to death or last day known to be alive, reported between day of first participant randomized that is, 08 August 2000, up to cut-off (15 March 2006)
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-L) Questionnaire Score, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung cancer (FACT-L) is a valid instrument used to measure quality of life (QoL) in participants with cancer consisting of the 27-item FACT-General (G) and 9-item lung cancer subscale (LCS). FACT-G is organized into subscales: physical well-being (PWB)-7 items; social/family well-being (SWB)-7 items; emotional well-being (EWB)-6 items; functional well-being (FWB)-7 items. Each item uses a 5 point rating scale (0="not at all" and 4=equals "very much"). FACT-L total score=4 subscales + LCS and ranges from 0 to 144. Higher scores indicate better QOL., At baseline, Week 4, Week 8 and then at 12 Week intervals beginning at week 19 until withdrawal/discontinuation from the study.|Number of Participants With Positive T-cell Proliferation, T-cell proliferation assays were performed and the number of participants with positive mucinous glycoprotein 1 (MUC1) specific T-cell proliferative response were reported., Time from randomization until cut-off date (15 March 2006)|Number of Participants With Elevated CA27-29 Antigen Levels, CA 27-29 is a blood test used to monitor certain types of cancer. CA 27-29 is the name of an antigen, which is a substance that stimulates your body's defense system. CA27-29 antigen levels were determined on all participants and assessed the disease burden of participants at study entry, evaluated early recurrence, presence of residual disease, continued remission or poor prognosis., Study entry, Week 8
This is a prospective open label, controlled, randomized study to test the safety and efficacy of active specific immunotherapy with tecemotide (L-BLP25) for the treatment of subjects with Stage IIIB or Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). To be eligible, subjects entering the trial will have to demonstrate either stable disease or a clinical response after first-line treatment (chemotherapy alone, or chemotherapy and radiotherapy) and have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0, 1 or 2. Following a 3 week washout period, subjects will be stratified by disease status (either Stage IIIB locoregional disease or Stage IIIB with malignant pleural effusion and Stage IV), and randomized to either best supportive care (BSC) plus tecemotide (L-BLP25) treatment or BSC alone.