Gene Mutations in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Cells
To compare the frequency of individual genetic abnormality between tumor cells and blood specimens.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
To determine the frequency of individual genetic abnormality in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who will commence systemic therapy., Samples will be collected before the systemic therapy, at the end of the first three months and once every 3 months. In selected consented patients, peripheral blood samples will be collected every week for the first month.
To determine the frequency with which molecular profiling of a NSCLC patient's tumor by DNA sequencing and/or FISH yields a target against which there is approved or investigational therapeutic regimen., Samples will be collected before the systemic therapy, at the end of the first three months and once every 3 months. In selected consented patients, peripheral blood samples will be collected every week for the first month.|To determine the response rate according to RECIST, progression-free, and overall survival in patients with advanced NSCLC whose therapy is selected by molecular profile., Disease status will be assessed every 2~3 months and at the end of treatment according to RECIST criteria. If progression is not observed at the end of therapy, patients will be assessed every 3 months until progression or further anti-cancer therapy.
Samples will be collected before the systemic therapy. After initiation of therapy, samples will be collected at end of the 1st month, at the end of the 2nd month at the end of 3rd months and once every three months thereafter concurrently with the tumor assessment such as time of performing CT scans. In selected consented patients, peripheral blood samples will be collected every week for the first month.

Disease status will be assessed every 2\~3 months and at the end of treatment according to RECIST criteria. If progression is not observed at the end of therapy, patients will be assessed every 3 months until progression or further anti-cancer therapy. Progression-free survival, overall survival and response rate will be reported.