Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant for Recurrent Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety of 131I-anti-B1 Radioimmunotherapy when combined with high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The study will also compare the difference in response rates and time to treatment failure between historical control patients receiving high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemotherapy with autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant and patients receiving radioimmunotherapy and high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemotherapy with autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Patients will receive escalating doses of radioimmunotherapy with anti-B1 radiolabeled with 131Iodine, high-dose carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine and Melphalan (BEAM) chemotherapy, and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant.
Lymphoma
RADIATION: 131Iodine-Anti-B1 Radioimmunotherapy|DRUG: BEAM
Safety of 131I-anti-B1 radioimmunotherapy when combined with high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemotherapy & HSCT, Safety of 131I-anti-B1 radioimmunotherapy when combined with high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemotherapy \& HSCT. Calculations will be made such that in a dose escation study, whole body radiation doses of 30, 45, 60, and 75cGy will result from the administration of the therapeutic activity of 131I-anti-B1., During treatment
Comparing high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemo. with autologous HSCT and radioimmunotherapy and high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemo. with autologous HSCT, Difference in response rates/time to treatment failure between historical control patients receiving high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemo. with autologous HSCT and pateints receiving radioimmunotherapy and high-dose BEAM or BEAC chemo. with autologous HSCT, time of registration to time of treatment discontinuation
Thirty patients will be enrolled in this study. There will be two administrations of 131I-anti-B1 given to patients, the "dosimetric dose" and the "radioimmunotherapy dose". The dosimetric dose will consist of an infusion of unlabeled Anti-B1 (450 mg) immediately followed by an infusion of Anti-B1 (35 mg) which has been trace labeled with 5mCi of 131I-anti-B1. The total whole body dosimetry dose is then calculated over an approximated one-week time interval from the radioactive clearance data obtained by the Whole Body anterior and posterior gamma camera scans. Based upon dosimetric data calculations specific for each individual patient, a radioimmunotherapy dose will be given consisting of an infusion of unlabeled Anti-B1 (450 mg)immediately followed by an infusion of 35 mg Anti-B1 including a patient specific dose of 131Iodine-Anti-B1. Calculations will be made such that in a dose escation study, whole body radiation doses of 30, 45, 60, and 75cGy will result from the administration of the therapeutic activity of 131I-anti-B1. The amount of the unlabeled Anti-B1 administered is not calculated on a body surface area basis, but is given to provide an excess of Anti-B1 independent of tumor burden, splenic uptake, or other causes.