A Phase 1/2 Study of IDP-121 in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Hematologic Malignancies
The main aims of this 2-part study are:

* Phase I: To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of IDP-121 in patients with multiple myeloma (MM), diffuse large B cell lymphoma not otherwise specified (DLBCL-NOS), high-grade B cell lymphoma with double or triple hit rearrangement (HGBL-DH/TH) and HGBL-NOS, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
* Phase II: To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR), duration of response (DoR), time to progression (TTP), progression-free survival (PFS), event-free survival (EFS) and Overall survival (OS), in patients with MM, DLBCL-NOS, HGBL-DH/TH, HGBL-NOS or CLL treated with IDP-121 at the recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D).
Multiple Myeloma (MM)|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Double Hit Lymphoma|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)|Triple Hit Lymphoma
DRUG: IDP-121
Phase 1: Dose Escalation, Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Through 1 treatment cycle (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase 1: Dose Escalation, Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), Through 12 treatment cycles (each cylce is 28 days) or until End of Treatment, whatever occurs first|Phase 2: Expansion Phase, Overall Response Rate (ORR), Based on iwCLL 20181, IMWG 20162, and the Lugano 20143 criteria for CLL, MM and Lymphomas, respectively; assessed at the end of study (12 months)
Phase 2: Expansion Phase, Duration of response (DoR), From disease response to disease progression, up to 12 months|Phase 2: Expansion Phase, Time to progression (TTP), From the first treatment day to day of the objective disease progression through study completion, an average of 12 months|Phase 2: Expansion Phase, Progression-free survival (PFS), From first treatment day to the first sign of disease progression or death from any cause assessed up to 12 months.|Phase 2: Expansion Phase, Event-free survival (EFS), From first treatment day to disease progression, death, or discontinuation of treatment from any cause through study completion, an average of 12 months|Phase 2: Expansion Phase, Overall survival (OS), From first treatment day to death from any cause, up to 12 months
This study is an open-label, multicenter, Phase 1/2 study with a Dose-Escalation phase (Phase 1) and an Expansion phase (Phase 2).

Dose-Escalation (Phase 1): The dose-escalation phase will follow a classical 3+3 design but the first patient (sentinel) will be treated at dose level 1 (0.015 mg/kg) for one cycle, and, if no Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) occur, at dose level 2 (0.032 mg/kg) from cycle 2 onwards. Once the patient 1 (sentinel) is allowed to enter dose level 2, two additional patients will be enrolled to complete the cohort at dose level 2, and the dose-escalation phase will continue the 3+3 design. DLTs will be assessed based on the safety observed in cycle 1 (28 days) for all patients except for patient 1 (sentinel) where DLT will be assessed on safety observed in cycle 1 (at dose level 1) and cycle 2 (at dose level 2). For the first trial patient (sentinel) a single cycle will be completed (28 days) at dose level 0.015 mg/kg. Doses will not be escalated before all patients entered at the current dose level have been treated and observed for at least one complete cycle (28 days) at the intended dose- cohort IDP-121 dose and the number of DLTs among those patients in their first cycle has been determined. Before each escalation, Clinical Investigators will be consulted as part of a cohort review meeting to review and discuss all data (including safety, PK, PD and efficacy data) and agree on a dose-escalation, as appropriate.

During the study, the Sponsor and Investigators may request that cohorts be enlarged or that intermediate doses between 2 planned escalation steps be explored based on all data existing at that time, including emerging safety and efficacy data and determinations of PK and PD. Also, the study will allow for alternative IDP-121 doses and/or schedules to be evaluated based on emerging data e.g., once a week dosing of IDP-121 (instead of twice a week). Data from all patients at all dose levels will be used to guide further dose-escalation or/and the MTD/RP2D.

Expansion-Phase (Phase 2): Additional 17 patients will be enrolled for treatment at the RP2D level to further study safety and evaluate efficacy. Patients will receive 28-day cycles up to a maximum of 12 cycles of treatment or until any IDP-121 treatment discontinuation criteria are met (disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, etc). Patients in the Expansion- Phase may include one or more tumor types from those evaluated in dose-escalation.