Paclitaxel and Trastuzumab With or Without Lapatinib in Treating Patients With Stage II or Stage III Breast Cancer That Can Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase III trial studies paclitaxel and trastuzumab with or without lapatinib to see how well they work in treating patients with stage II or stage III breast cancer that can be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Lapatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving paclitaxel with trastuzumab and/or lapatinib before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. It is not yet known which regimen is more effective in treating patients with breast cancer.
Male Breast Carcinoma|Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lapatinib Ditosylate|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab
pCR Rate, Complete pathological response is defined as the absence of residual invasive carcinoma in the breast at the time of definitive surgical removal. Pathologic complete response in the lymph nodes is defined as no detectable invasive tumor by H\&E. Analysis will use a chi-square test for the difference in proportions of patients on the THL arm versus the TH arm who achieve a pCR. Exact binomial methods will be used to construct 95% confidence intervals around the pCR incidence for each arm., At time of surgery
Pathologic Stage in the Breast and Axilla, Stage will be determined by the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) TNM (tumor, lymph nodes, metastasis) staging system., At time of surgery|Radiographic Response Rate (at Completion of Neoadjuvant Therapy), Response was defined by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). A responding participant had either a complete response (disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions)., Week 16|Overall Survival, Overall survival was measured as the interval from study entry until death, from any cause, or last contact. Distribution was estimated using the Kaplan Meier product-limit method, Time from randomization to death or last follow-up (up to 10 years)|Relapse-free Survival (RFS), Relapse free survival is defined as the interval from definitive surgery to ipsilateral invasive breast tumor recurrence, regional invasive breast cancer recurrence, distant recurrence, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Patients who have not experienced any of these events will be censored at the date of last clinical assessment. Patients who do not undergo definitive surgery will not be assessable for RFS. Distribution was estimated using the Kaplan Meier product-limit method., Time from surgery to any recurrence (up to 10 years)|Time to First Failure, Time to first failure is defined as the interval from study entry to ipsilateral invasive breast tumor recurrence, regional invasive breast cancer recurrence, distant recurrence or death from any cause. Patients who have not experienced any of these events will be censored at the date of last clinical assessment. Distribution was estimated using the Kaplan Meier product-limit method., Time from study entry to any recurrence ( up to 10 years)|Incidence of Adverse Events as Graded by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3, The type and grade of treatment-related toxicity will be tabulated by treatment arm., Up to 30 days post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if the pathologic complete response (pCR) in the breast to neoadjuvant weekly paclitaxel with trastuzumab plus lapatinib (THL) is 20% greater than the pCR to weekly paclitaxel with trastuzumab alone (TH).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pathologic complete response in the breast and axilla, using American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) Tumor, Lymph Nodes and Metastasis (TMN) criteria (version 6), to neoadjuvant weekly paclitaxel plus human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)- targeted therapy in patients with HER2-positive operable breast cancer.

II. To evaluate residual cancer burden (RCB) as a predictor of long term relapse free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS).

III. To document the toxicity of all chemotherapeutic regimens (THL, TH). IV. To determine the correlation between clinical, radiographic and pathologic response.

V. To compare overall survival (OS), relapse free survival (RFS) and time to first failure (TFF) among the treatment groups.

VI. To obtain blood, fresh frozen and fixed tumor tissue to test specific hypotheses for which biomarker data exist and to evaluate biomarkers in blood, serum and tissue that are likely to influence response to and toxicity of trastuzumab alone or trastuzumab plus lapatinib, when given with paclitaxel.

VII. To determine the surgical practice patterns for breast conservation and sentinel lymphadenectomy in patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

VIII. To determine the radiotherapy practice patterns for post-mastectomy and regional nodal irradiation in patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

IX. To evaluate pharmacogenomic determinants of toxicity.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and lapatinib ditosylate orally (PO) once daily for 16 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive trastuzumab and paclitaxel as in arm I.

ARM III: Patients receive paclitaxel and lapatinib ditosylate as in arm I. (Discontinued as of 6-15-11) Within 42 days after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients in both arms undergo definitive surgery (breast conservation or total mastectomy).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for up to 10 years.