Optimal Maintenance Therapy With Bevacizumab After Induction in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer (CRC)
Investigating the efficacy of maintenance and reinduction treatment or no treatment and watchful waiting in subjects with inoperable or irresectable and non-progressive metastatic colorectal cancer after first line induction treatment for 24 weeks with a fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and bevacizumab-based chemotherapy.

The maintenance treatment with capecitabine or 5-FU/folinic acid and bevacizumab will be compared with a maintenance treatment with bevacizumab alone or no maintenance treatment. Reinduction treatment will be done in case of progression.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil, Folic acid, Capecitabine; Bevacizumab|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil, Folic acid, Capecitabine; Bevacizumab|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil, Folic acid, Capecitabine; Bevacizumab
Time to failure of maintenance and reinduction treatment strategy measured from randomization, From randomization until second progression after reinduction treatment
TFS, Toxicity, QoL, PFS 1, PFS 2, ORR (first induction), ORR (reind. treatm.), Treatment free interval/duration of maintenance therapy, second. Resection rate, Reasons for discontinuation, OS, Translational research., From enrollment until second progression after reinduction treatment
Chemotherapy and bevacizumab represent a standard of care in treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Until now, continuation of chemotherapy - and bevacizumab - represents the standard of care in colorectal cancer treatment. However, since the OPTIMOX1 trial showed an equivalent duration of disease control for a de-escalation / maintenance / reintroduction strategy compared with a treatment until progression strategy for oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy, the question is whether this strategy might apply also to bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy. Furthermore, with the introduction of bevacizumab, there are new options for a maintenance treatment which should be evaluated.

As the continuation of chemotherapy plus bevacizumab until disease progression has to be regarded as standard of care, the question is whether a de-escalation of treatment intensity or even withdrawal of treatment ("drug holiday") after a certain treatment period will not be inferior with respect to resulting time with tumor control, but allow patients a period with less toxicity and gain of quality of life.