Whole-Brain Radiation Therapy With or Without Hippocampal Avoidance in Limited Stage or Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II/III trial studies how well whole-brain radiation therapy works and compares it with or without hippocampal avoidance in treating patients with small cell lung cancer that is found in one lung, the tissues between the lungs, and nearby lymph nodes only (limited stage) or has spread outside of the lung in which it began or to other parts of the body (extensive stage). Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. The hippocampus is part of the brain that is important for memory. Avoiding the hippocampus during whole-brain radiation could decrease the chance of side effects on memory and thinking. It is not yet known whether giving whole-brain radiation therapy is more effective with or without hippocampal avoidance in treating patients with small cell lung cancer.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Limited Stage Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
RADIATION: Three-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy
Number of Participants With Deterioration in HVLT-R Delayed Recall Score at Six Months (Phase III), The HVLT-R delayed recall test assesses verbal learning and memory. The test involves memorizing a list of 12 nouns for 3 consecutive trials to recall after a 20-minute delay. The score is the sum of the number of words correctly recalled and ranges from 0 to 36, with a higher score indicating better functioning. Deterioration is defined a decrease from baseline of at least 3 points., Baseline and six months|Number of Participants With Intracranial Relapse at 12 Months (Phase II), Intracranial relapse, defined as the development of a new brain metastasis as documented on brain MRI with contrast or head CT with contrast., From baseline to 12 months
Percentage of Participants With Neurocognitive Failure (Phase III), Neurocognitive failure is defined as the first instance of neurocognitive decline in any of six assessments, as determined my reliable change index: Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R) Total Recall, HVLT-R Delayed Recall, HVLT-R Delayed Recognition, Trail Making Test (TMT) part A, TMT part B, and Controlled Oral Word Association (COWA). Failure time is defined as time from randomization to failure, death (competing event), or last follow-up (censored). Neurocognitive failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The distributions of failure times are compared, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Six-month rates are reported here. Analysis occurred after all patients had been on study for at least six months., Randomization to date of failure, death, or last known follow-up whichever occurred first. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 7.2 years.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in HVLT-R Total Recall Score (Phase III), The HVLT-R Total Recall score assesses verbal learning and memory. The test involves memorizing a list of 12 nouns for 3 consecutive trials. Raw score is the sum of the number of targets correctly recalled, ranging from 0 to 36. Higher score indicates better functioning. Deterioration is defined a decrease from baseline of at least 5 points., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in HVLT-R Total Recall Score (Phase III), he HVLT-R Total Recall score assesses verbal learning and memory. The test involves memorizing a list of 12 nouns for 3 consecutive trials. Raw score is the sum of the number of targets correctly recalled, ranging from 0 to 36. Higher score indicates better functioning. Deterioration is defined a decrease from baseline of at least 5 points., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in HVLT-R Delayed Recall Score (Phase III), The HVLT-R Delayed Recall test assesses verbal learning and memory. After memorizing a list of 12 nouns for 3 consecutive trials, this test requires recalling the 12 targets after a 20-minute delay. Raw scores are sum of the number of targets correctly recalled. The score ranges from 0 to 12. A higher score indicates better functioning. Deterioration is defined a decrease from baseline of at least 3 points. Six-month results are reported as the primary endpoint., Baseline, 3, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in HVLT-R Delayed Recall Score (Phase III), The HVLT-R Delayed Recall test assesses verbal learning and memory. After memorizing a list of 12 nouns for 3 consecutive trials, this test requires recalling the 12 targets after a 20-minute delay. Raw scores are sum of the number of targets correctly recalled. The score ranges from 0 to 12. A higher score indicates better functioning. Deterioration is defined a decrease from baseline of at least 3 points., Baseline, 18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in HVLT-R Delayed Recognition Score (Phase III), The HVLT-R Delayed Recognition assesses verbal learning and memory. After memorizing a list of 12 nouns for 3 consecutive trials and recalling the 12 targets after a 20-minute delay, the test involves then identifying the 12 targets from a list of semantically related or unrelated items (delayed recognition). Raw scores are the sum of targets incorrectly identified subtracted from the sum of the number of targets correctly identified. The score ranges from -12 to 12 for recognition. A higher score indicates better functioning. Deterioration is defined a decrease from baseline of at least 2 points., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in HVLT-R Delayed Recognition Score (Phase III), The HVLT-R Delayed Recognition assesses verbal learning and memory. After memorizing a list of 12 nouns for 3 consecutive trials and recalling the 12 targets after a 20-minute delay, the test involves then identifying the 12 targets from a list of semantically related or unrelated items (delayed recognition). Raw scores are the sum of targets incorrectly identified subtracted from the sum of the number of targets correctly identified. The score ranges from -12 to 12 for recognition. A higher score indicates better functioning. Deterioration is defined a decrease from baseline of at least 2 points., Baseline, 18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in Trail Making Test (TMT) Part A (Phase III), The TMT is a neuropsychological test of visual attention and task switching that can provide information about visual search speed, scanning, speed of processing, mental flexibility, and executive functioning. Subject is instructed to connect a set of 25 dots as quickly as possible while still maintaining accuracy. There are two parts to the test: in the first (Part A, reported here), the targets are all numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.) and the test taker needs to connect them in sequential order. The score is the amount of time, in seconds, that it takes the patient to complete the maze. The range for Part A is 0 to 180 (3 minutes). Lower scores indicate better functioning. Deterioration is defined an increase from baseline of at least 12 seconds., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in Trail Making Test (TMT) Part A (Phase III), The TMT is a neuropsychological test of visual attention and task switching that can provide information about visual search speed, scanning, speed of processing, mental flexibility, and executive functioning. Subject is instructed to connect a set of 25 dots as quickly as possible while still maintaining accuracy. There are two parts to the test: in the first (Part A, reported here), the targets are all numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.) and the test taker needs to connect them in sequential order. The score is the amount of time, in seconds, that it takes the patient to complete the maze. The range for Part A is 0 to 180 (3 minutes). Lower scores indicate better functioning. Deterioration is defined an increase from baseline of at least 12 seconds., Baseline, 18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in TMT Part B Score (Phase III), The TMT is a neuropsychological test of visual attention and task switching that can provide information about visual search speed, scanning, speed of processing, mental flexibility, and executive functioning. Subject is instructed to connect a set of 25 dots as quickly as possible while still maintaining accuracy. There are two parts to the test: in the second part (Part B, reported here), the subject alternates between numbers and letters (1, A, 2, B, etc.). The score is the amount of time, in seconds, that it takes the patient to complete the maze. The score range for Part B is 0 to 300 (5 minutes). Lower scores indicate better functioning. Deterioration is defined an increase from baseline of at least 26 seconds., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in TMT Part B Score (Phase III), The TMT is a neuropsychological test of visual attention and task switching that can provide information about visual search speed, scanning, speed of processing, mental flexibility, and executive functioning. Subject is instructed to connect a set of 25 dots as quickly as possible while still maintaining accuracy. There are two parts to the test: in the second part (Part B, reported here), the subject alternates between numbers and letters (1, A, 2, B, etc.). The score is the amount of time, in seconds, that it takes the patient to complete the maze. The score range for Part B is 0 to 300 (5 minutes). Lower scores indicate better functioning. Deterioration is defined an increase from baseline of at least 26 seconds.

If reporting a score on a scale, please include the unabbreviated scale title, the minimum and maximum values, and whether higher scores mean a better or worse outcome., Baseline, 18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in Controlled Oral Word Association (COWA) Score (Phase III), The COWA is a verbal fluency test that measures spontaneous production of words belonging to the same category or beginning with some designated letter. Patients are given 1 minute to name as many words as possible beginning with the designated letter. The procedure is then repeated for the remaining two letters. Two alternate forms of the COWA are employed to minimize practice effects. The score is the sum of the correct responses with a range of 0 to infinity. A higher score indicates better functioning. Deterioration is defined an increase from baseline of at least 12 words., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in Controlled Oral Word Association (COWA) Score (Phase III), The COWA is a verbal fluency test that measures spontaneous production of words belonging to the same category or beginning with some designated letter. Patients are given 1 minute to name as many words as possible beginning with the designated letter. The procedure is then repeated for the remaining two letters. Two alternate forms of the COWA are employed to minimize practice effects. The score is the sum of the correct responses with a range of 0 to infinity. A higher score indicates better functioning. Deterioration is defined an increase from baseline of at least 12 words., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants by Highest Grade Adverse Event Reported (Phase III), Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 5) grades adverse event severity from 1=mild to 5=death. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure; see Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data., From start of treatment to last known follow-up . Maximum follow-up time was 7.2 years.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (QLQ-C30) Global Health Status (Phase III), The QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. Global Health Status is considered a measure of overall quality of life and is calculated from two questions whose raw scores are averaged and then transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best). Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Global Health Status (Phase III), The QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. Global Health Status is considered a measure of overall quality of life and is calculated from two questions whose raw scores are averaged and then transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best). Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Role Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Role Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Emotional Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Emotional Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Social Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Social Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Cognitive Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-C30 Cognitive Functioning Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item self-report questionnaire used to assess the health-related quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients participating in international clinical trials. A functional scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (worst) to 100 (best) in which a high score represents a healthy level of functioning. Deterioration is defined a reduction of 10% from baseline., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire BN-20 (QLQ-BN20) Motor Dysfunction Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-BN20 is a 20-item self-report questionnaire supplement to the QLQ-C30 for patients used to assess the health-related quality of life of brain cancer patients. A symptom scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (best) to 100 (worst) in which a high score represents a high level of symptomatology/problems. For patients with a baseline score of 0, a follow-up score of ≥ 10 is considered as a deterioration. Otherwise, a 10% increase is considered as a deterioration., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-BN20 Motor Dysfunction Score (Phase III), The EORTC QLQ-BN20 is a 20-item self-report questionnaire supplement to the QLQ-C30 for patients used to assess the health-related quality of life of brain cancer patients. A symptom scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (best) to 100 (worst) in which a high score represents a high level of symptomatology/problems. For patients with a baseline score of 0, a follow-up score of ≥ 10 is considered as a deterioration. Otherwise, a 10% increase is considered as a deterioration., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-BN20 Communication Deficit Score (Phase III), The QLQ-BN20 is a 20-item self-report questionnaire supplement to the QLQ-C30 for patients used to assess the health-related quality of life of brain cancer patients. A symptom scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (best) to 100 (worst) in which a high score represents a high level of symptomatology/problems. For patients with a baseline score of 0, a follow-up score of ≥ 10 is considered as a deterioration. Otherwise, a 10% increase is considered as a deterioration., Baseline, 3, 6, 12 months.|Number of Participants With Deterioration in EORTC QLQ-BN20 Communication Deficit Score (Phase III), The QLQ-BN20 is a 20-item self-report questionnaire supplement to the QLQ-C30 for patients used to assess the health-related quality of life of brain cancer patients. A symptom scale raw score is transformed to a range of 0 (best) to 100 (worst) in which a high score represents a high level of symptomatology/problems. For patients with a baseline score of 0, a follow-up score of ≥ 10 is considered as a deterioration. Otherwise, a 10% increase is considered as a deterioration., Baseline,18, 24 months.|Correlation of Quality of Life and Neurocognitive Function (NCF) Measures at 6 Months, The Pearson correlation coefficient was calculated for EORTC QLQ-C30 (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social functioning domains and global health status) and QLQ-BN20 (motor dysfunction and communication deficit) versus the standardized neurocognitive function (HVLT-R total recall, HVLT-R delayed recall, HVLT-R delayed recognition, COWA, TMT parts A and B) and the Clinical Trial Battery Composite (CTB Comp) score (mean of the z-scores for the six NCF scores) for all patients, treatment arms combined. The Pearson correlation coefficient is computed for each pair of measurements, resulting in 48 correlation coefficients. Possible values range from -1 (negatively correlated) to 1(positively correlated), with 0 indicating no correlation. A correlation with a value in range -0.35 to 0.35 is considered weak and is indicated by "0" in the table. Because of the large number of comparisons, only individual correlation coefficients outside that range are listed here., 6 months|Incremental Cost-per Quality-adjusted Life Year (QALY) (Cost-effectiveness as Measured by the EQ-5D (Phase III), The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) ratio will be calculated as total cost of the PCI with HA using IMRT arm (Arm 2) minus total cost of the PCI using 3DCRT arm (Arm 1), divided by the quality adjusted survival of the Arm 1 patients minus the quality adjusted survival of Arm 2 patients., Baseline to two years|Overall Survival (Phase III), Overall survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Overall survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Analysis occurred after all patients had been on study for at least 8 months., From the date of randomization to the date of death or last follow-up. Maximum follow-up time at time of analysis was 7.2 years.|Intracranial Relapse Rate (Phase III), Intracranial relapse is defined as the development of a new brain metastasis as documented on brain MRI with contrast or head CT with contrast. Time to intracranial relapse is defined as time from randomization to the date of first intracranial relapse, last known follow-up (censored), or death without intracranial relapse (competing risk), whichever occurred first. Intracranial relapse rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The distributions of intracranial relapse times are compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. One-year rates are provided here. Analysis occurred at time of the phase III primary analysis., From date of randomization to date of intracranial relapse, death, or last known follow-up, whichever occurred first. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 7.2 years.|White Matter Injury and Hippocampal Volume on Neurocognitive Function (Phase III), Pearson correlation coefficients will be used to assess the effect of hippocampal volume and FLAIR volume change on baseline neurocognitive function, as measured by the HVLT-R, COWA, and TMT, separately for each arm., Baseline to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether the 12-month intracranial relapse rate following hippocampal avoidance (HA)-prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) is non-inferior compared to the rate following PCI for patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC). (Randomized Phase II Component \[Non-Inferiority\]) II. Determine whether HA-PCI reduces the likelihood of 6-month deterioration from baseline in Hopkins Verbal Learning Test (HVLT)-Revised (R) delayed recall compared to PCI for patients with SCLC. (Phase III Component \[Efficacy\])

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare time to cognitive failure, as measured by a battery of tests (HVLT-R, Controlled Oral Word Association (COWA) test, and Trail Making Test (TMT) parts A and B), after PCI versus HA-PCI in SCLC.

II. Compare time to cognitive failure as separately measured by each test (HVLT-R for Total Recall and Delayed Recognition, COWA test, and TMT parts A and B), after PCI versus HA-PCI for SCLC.

III. Compare patient-reported cognitive functioning and other quality of life domains (assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer \[EORTC\] Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-Core \[C\]30 and BN20) between PCI versus HA-PCI for patients with SCLC.

IV. Compare overall survival after PCI versus HA-PCI for patients with SCLC.

V. Compare 12-month intracranial relapse rate (at completion of phase III) and time to intracranial relapse after PCI versus HA-PCI for patients with SCLC.

VI. Evaluate adverse events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) criteria.

VII. Correlate changes in health-related quality of life (HRQOL) domains with changes in cognitive testing outcomes following PCI versus HA-PCI for patients with SCLC.

VIII. Assess cost-effectiveness of HA-PCI (intensity modulated radiation therapy \[IMRT\]) and PCI (3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy \[3DCRT\]) using the EuroQual (EQ)-5-Dimensions (5D)-5L.

IX. Correlate miRNA signatures with cognitive failure in SCLC patients who received PCI and HA-PCI.

X. Evaluate Apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotyping as potential predictor of neurocognitive decline, hippocampal atrophy after brain irradiation and/or differential benefit from hippocampal avoidance.

XI. Evaluate baseline MR imaging biomarkers of white matter injury and hippocampal volumetry as potential predictors of cognitive decline and differential benefit from HA-PCI as compared to PCI.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Collect serum, whole blood, and urine for future translational research analyses.

II. Evaluate baseline magnetic resonance (MR) imaging biomarkers of white matter injury and hippocampal volumetry as potential predictors of cognitive decline and differential benefit from HA-PCI as compared to PCI.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo PCI using 3DCRT daily for 2 weeks.

ARM II: Patients undergo PCI with HA using IMRT daily for 2 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, then every 6 months until 3 years and then annually until death.