Evaluation of the Impact of a Coordinating Nurse in a Personalized Care Program on Quality of Care, Coordination of the Actors and on Quality of Life for Patients With Lung Cancer
The prognosis of patients with lung cancer is related to the stage of the diagnosis : 73% of one-year-survival rate at stage IA and only 13% one-year-survival rate at stage IV. Controlling the timelines in a care program seems crucial to improve prognosis of lung cancer.

The project aims to evaluate the impact of a coordinating nurse (CN) in a personalized care program for patients of thoracic oncology.
Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: EORTC QLQ-C30|BEHAVIORAL: Satisfaction questionnaire - patient|BEHAVIORAL: Satisfaction questionnaire - general practitioner or home nurse|BEHAVIORAL: EORTC QLQ-LC13
Impact of the coordinating nurse on quality of care measured by the variation of timelines in personalized care, Variation of the time between the first appointment with the thoracic oncologist and the first day of anticancer therapy, At visit 1, around 1 month after the beginning of the study
Analysis of the feedback from healthcare professionals outside the thoracic oncology ward, Measured by satisfaction questionnaires submitted to general practitioner or home nurse, 6 months after the beginning of the study|Impact of a coordinating nurse in a personalized care program on the patient's quality of life, Evolution of the scoring results of the EORTC QLQ-C30, At the beginning of the study, then around 3, around 6 and around 12 months later|Impact of a coordinating nurse in a personalized care program on the patient's quality of life, Evolution of the scoring results of the EORTC QLQ-LC13, At study enrollment, then around 3 and around 6 and around 12 months later|Analysis of the feedback from the patient, Measured by satisfaction questionnaires submitted to the patient, Around 3 and around 6 and around 12 months after beginning of study
New strategies therapeutics result in a longer survival rate. However their side effects affect the patient's quality of life. Even if these side effects are ambulatory manageable, they require to be treated promptly and tends to increase the active list of patients of the thoracic oncology.

Due to the alteration in the care provided to lung cancer patient, there is a need to coordinate the available means, inside and outside the hospital, to improve the quality of care and the quality of life of the patient.

Every patient of the thoracic oncology department receives a personalized care program as a routine practice. In this study, a coordinating nurse (CN) will be added to the personalized care program. Patients newly diagnosed with a lung cancer will be randomized either in the group with a CN or in the group without a CN.

The study will last one year maximum for each participant. Their quality of life, their satisfaction of the quality of the personalized care program - and their general practitioner's satisfaction - will be evaluated throughout the study.