Perioperative Care in the Cancer Patient -1, ARCA-1 Study
This study investigates the association of blood transfusions given around the time of surgery (perioperative) with complications after surgery (postoperative), cancer progression, and mortality after major oncologic non-cardiac surgery. The administration of blood products is an important clinical therapy to treat life-threatening blood (hematological) disorders (i.e. anemia, coagulation disorders or thrombocytopenia) in patients with cancer undergoing major non-cardiac surgery. On the other hand, the unnecessary exposure of those patients to blood products can be associated with the occurrence of unwanted severe complications and potentially increase the risk of death. An accurate understanding of the short and long-term outcomes, the patterns of blood transfusions, and the triggers of blood product administration may help researchers design and test the safety of perioperative blood transfusions in patients with cancer.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Medical Chart Review
All causes of mortality, 1 year after major oncologic non-cardiac surgery
Cancer-specific mortality, 1 year after major oncologic non-cardiac surgery|Progression free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the PFS, and the log-rank test will be used to evaluate the difference in PFS between the RBCT group and non-RBCT group. PFS rate at 1 year will be reported. Multivariable Cox proportional hazards models may be used to evaluate the effect of RBCT on PFS with the adjustment of other important covariates., From the date of surgery to the date of progression or death whichever happened first, assessed at 1 year after major oncologic non-cardiac surgery|30 days mortality, 30 days after major oncologic non-cardiac surgery|Rate of perioperative blood products transfusion, During surgery and up to 2 weeks post surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate if perioperative blood transfusions are associated with 1-year mortality.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the association of blood transfusion with postoperative complications, 30 days mortality and cancer progression after major oncologic non-cardiac surgery.

II. To gain knowledge on prevalence and patterns of blood product administration worldwide, the incidence and management of perioperative anemia and the incidence and treatment of perioperative coagulopathies.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo standard of care treatment and their medical records are reviewed at 30 days and at 1 year after surgery.