Pegylated Alfa-2b Interferon Therapy of Patients With Hepatitis C-related Cirrhosis and High Liver Cell Proliferation (P02733/MK-4031-085)
This study aims to compare the role of peginterferon α-2b (50 μg/week) vs. control (no treatment) in the prevention of hepatocellular carcinoma, in adult patients with cirrhosis and initial signs of portal hypertension who did not respond to previous combined therapy with interferon alfa + ribavirin or peginterferon alfa + ribavirin or to interferon alfa monotherapy and with a high proliferation rate before entering the study. The duration of treatment will be 3 years, and the follow-up period will be 2 years.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
BIOLOGICAL: Peginterferon alfa-2b|OTHER: Observation (no treatment)
Number of Participants With the Development of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC), Participants were tested for focal lesions by liver ultrasound and for AFP levels every 6 months the during study (treatment and follow-up).

The development of hepatocellular carcinoma was determined by:

1. the appearance of a focal lesion detected by liver ultrasound with metastases confirmed by fine needle biopsy, or
2. the appearance of a focal lesion detected by ultrasound + alphafetoprotein (AFP) levels in blood \>400 ng/mL., During 3 years of treatment and 2 years of follow-up
Number of Participants With Development of Hepatic Decompensation, The development of hepatic decompensation, defined as worsening of the hepatic function as measured by Child Pugh Score. The Child Pugh score was calculated based on biochemical changes (changes in serum albumin, serum bilirubin, prothrombin time) and clinical impairment (ascites, encephalopathies) or both. Each of the 5 parameters was scored from 1-3, and the Child Pugh Score represented the total score. The maximum score was 15, and a score of 10-15 represents the worst outcome and a life expectancy of 1-3 years., Baseline, During 3 years of treatment and 2 years of follow-up|Survival Time of Participants, Survival time was defined as time from screening visit to the death of the participant and was studied with Kaplan-Meier and Log-rank tests. If a participant did not die, he or she was censored with the last available date., During 3 years of treatment and 2 years of follow-up|Number of Patients With a Virological Response Rate, Virological Response rate was measured by the disappearance of Hepatitis C Virus from serum. Serum samples from participants were analyzed for the

presence of HCV-RNA using a qualitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR)., Baseline and every year during 3 years of treatment|Change in the Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen Labeling Index (PCNA-LI), PCNA-LI was measured at baseline and at 18 months of treatment, and the change in PCNA-LI was calculated.

To measure PCNA-LI, liver tissue samples obtained from biopsies were fixed and immunostained to detect PCNA. PCNA-LI is the percentage of immunohistochemically stained (PCNA positive) cells in 1,000 HCC cells counted. A higher PCNA-LI indicates a worse outcome., Baseline and at 18 months of treatment
Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen Labeling Index (PCNA-LI) at Baseline, Liver tissues obtained from biopsies were fixed and immunostained to detect PCNA. PCNA-LI is the percentage of immunohistochemically stained (PCNA positive) cells in 1,000 HCC cells counted. A higher PCNA-LI indicates a worse outcome., Baseline
This study aims to compare the role of peginterferon α-2b (50 μg/week) vs. control (no treatment) in the prevention of hepatocellular carcinoma, in adult patients with cirrhosis and initial signs of portal hypertension who did not respond to previous combined therapy with interferon alfa + ribavirin or peginterferon alfa + ribavirin or to interferon alfa monotherapy and with a high proliferation rate before entering the study. The duration of treatment will be 3 years, and the follow-up period will be 2 years.