Docetaxel With or Without TAK-117 (MLN1117) in Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of TAK-117 when administered in combination with docetaxel in participants with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and to evaluate efficacy, safety, and tolerability of TAK-117 administered alone and in combination with docetaxel at the RP2D in participants with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: TAK-117
Number of Participants With Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) in Phase 1b, DLT was evaluated according to National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03 and was defined as any of the following events: 1. Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia lasting ≥7 consecutive days; 2. Grade 4 neutropenia with fever and/or infection; 3. Platelet count \<10,000/mm\^3; 4. ≥Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding; 5. Any other ≥Grade 4 hematologic toxicity; 6. Any other ≥Grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity, with following exceptions: ≥Grade 3 arthralgia/myalgia, ≥Grade 3 nausea/emesis, ≥Grade 3 diarrhoea, Grade 3 fatigue, Grade 3 Rash, Grade 3 nonhematological toxicity that could be controlled to ≤Grade 1 with appropriate treatment; 7. Inability to administer at least 75% of planned doses; 8. Clinically significant occurrence per investigator that is a safety risk., Cycle 1 (Up to Day 21)|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of TAK-117 in Combination With Docetaxel 36 mg/m^2 in Phase 1b, The MTD is defined as the dose of TAK-117 in combination with docetaxel 36 mg/m\^2 at which 1 of 6 evaluable participants experience DLT. DLT was evaluated according to NCI CTCAE version 4.03 and was defined as any of the following events: 1. Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia lasting ≥7 consecutive days; 2. Grade 4 neutropenia with fever and/or infection; 3. Platelet count \<10,000/mm\^3; 4. ≥Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding; 5. Any other ≥Grade 4 hematologic toxicity; 6. Any other ≥Grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity, with following exceptions: ≥Grade 3 arthralgia/myalgia, ≥Grade 3 nausea/emesis, ≥Grade 3 diarrhoea, Grade 3 fatigue, Grade 3 Rash, Grade 3 nonhematological toxicity that could be controlled to ≤Grade 1 with appropriate treatment; 7. Inability to administer at least 75% of planned doses; 8. Clinically significant occurrence per investigator that is a safety risk., Cycle 1 (Up to Day 21)|Recommended Phase 2 Dose of TAK-117 in Phase 1b, The recommended phase 2 dose was determined in Phase 1b based on participant dose-limiting toxicities and the maximum tolerated dose., Cycle 1 (Up to Day 21)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in Phase 2, PFS is defined as the time from the date randomization to the date of first documented progressive disease (PD) or death as assessed by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria. PD is defined as 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions for measurable neoplastic disease., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2
Number of Participants With Significant Change in Vital Signs Reported as Adverse Events in Phase 1b, Clinically significant change from baseline in vital sign measures will be assessed. Vital sign measurements included measurements of diastolic and systolic blood pressure, heart rate, and temperature., First dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug (Up to Day 223)|Number of Participants With Significant Change in Physical Examination Reported as Adverse Events in Phase 1b, Physical examination consists of examinations of the following body systems: (1) eyes; (2) ears, nose, throat; (3) cardiovascular system; (4) respiratory system; (5) gastrointestinal system; (6) dermatologic system; (7) extremities; (8) musculoskeletal system; (9) nervous system; (10) lymph nodes; and (11) physical examinations other than body systems described in (1) to (10)., First dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug (Up to Day 223)|Number of Participants With Electrocardiogram (ECG) Findings Reported as Adverse Events in Phase 1b, A standard 12-lead ECG was performed., First dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug (Up to Day 223)|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Change in Clinical Laboratory Tests Reported as Adverse Events in Phase 1b, The number of participants with any markedly abnormal standard safety laboratory values (Chemistry, Hematology and Urinalysis) collected throughout study., First dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug (Up to Day 223)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) in Phase 1b, An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug. A serious adverse event (SAE) is any untoward medical occurrence or effect that at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability / incapacity, is a congenital anomaly / birth defect or is medically important due to other reasons than the above mentioned criteria. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., From first dose of study drug to 30 days after last dose of study drug (Up to Day 223)|Number of Participants With Significant Change in Vital Signs Reported as Adverse Events in Phase 2, Vital signs (blood pressure, pulse rate, and oral temperature) measurements were collected throughout the study., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Number of Participants With Significant Change in Physical Examination Reported as Adverse Events in Phase 2, Physical examination consists of examinations of the following body systems: (1) eyes; (2) ears, nose, throat; (3) cardiovascular system; (4) respiratory system; (5) gastrointestinal system; (6) dermatologic system; (7) extremities; (8) musculoskeletal system; (9) nervous system; (10) lymph nodes; and (11) physical examinations other than body systems described in (1) to (10)., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Number of Participants With Electrocardiogram (ECG) Findings Reported as Adverse Events in Phase 2, Clinically significant changes from baseline in ECGs will be tabulated by time point including any unscheduled measurements., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Change in Clinical Laboratory Tests Reported as Adverse Events in Phase 2, The number of participants with any markedly abnormal standard safety laboratory values (Chemistry, Hematology and Urinalysis) collected throughout study., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) in Phase 2, An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug. A serious adverse event (SAE) is any untoward medical occurrence or effect that at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability / incapacity, is a congenital anomaly / birth defect or is medically important due to other reasons than the above mentioned criteria. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Response Rate in Phase 2, Response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) as assessed by the investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria 1.1. According to RECIST: CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions and PR is defined as 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Disease Control Rate in Phase 2, Disease control rate is defined as percentage of participants with CR + PR + stable disease (SD). According to RECIST: CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions, PR is defined as 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter (LD) since the treatment started., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Duration of Response in Phase 2, The duration of response is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a response to the date of first documentation of progression of disease. As per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions for measurable neoplastic disease., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Time to Progression in Phase 2, Time to progression is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of progression of disease. As per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions for measurable neoplastic disease., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|Overall Survival (OS) in Phase 2, Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death., Approximately 12 months in Phase 2|TAK-117 Plasma Concentration in Phase 1b, Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose and 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose|Cmax: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration for TAK-117, Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose and 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose|Tmax: Time to Reach the Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) for TAK-117, Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose and up to 24 hours post-dose|AUCtau: Area Under the Concentration Time Curve From Time 0 to the Next Dose in Phase 1b for TAK-117, Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose and up to 24 hours post-dose|AUC(Last): Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to the Time of the Last Quantifiable Concentration in Phase 1b for TAK-117, Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose and up to 24 hours post-dose|CL/F: Oral Clearance for TAK-117, Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose and up to 24 hours post-dose|T1/2: Terminal Phase Elimination Half-life (T1/2) for TAK-117, Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose and up to 24 hours post-dose|TAK-117 Plasma Concentrations When Administered 1 Day After Docetaxel in Phase 2, 1 day post docetaxel dose
The drug being evaluated in this study is called TAK-117. TAK-117 is tested in combination with docetaxel versus docetaxel alone for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

This study consisted of 2 phases:

* Phase 1b - dose escalation phase
* Phase 2 - expansion phase.

The study enrolled 14 patients with NSCLC who have been treated with multiple prior lines of therapies will be enrolled for Phase 1b. The participants will receive docetaxel (36 mg/m\^2) intravenous (IV) and TAK-117 tablets, orally administered, once daily in 21-day dosing cycles. The TAK-117 dose will be escalated until recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) is determined.

Each part of the adaptive Phase 2 portion of the study is designed as a stand-alone, randomized study evaluating PFS as the primary efficacy measure in a total of 60 participants between the 2 treatment arms: TAK-117 plus docetaxel versus docetaxel alone. An event-driven analysis of PFS will be performed after each part of Phase 2. On the basis of the PFS analysis of the preceding part of the study, the study may be stopped for efficacy or futility, or proceed to the next part. However, Phase 2 of the study was cancelled.

Study drug will be administered in 21-day dosing cycles. During each phase of the study, participants will be treated with a maximum of 9 cycles of either docetaxel alone or docetaxel plus TAK-117. Subsequently, participants treated with docetaxel plus TAK-117 may continue to receive TAK-117 monotherapy until progression of disease, occurrence of unacceptable toxicities or death.

The maximum duration of treatment for participants will be 12 months unless it is determined that a participant would derive benefit from continued treatment beyond 12 months. Participants will continue to be followed after discontinuation of study drug to collect PFS and OS data. Participants may withdraw from therapy at any time.

This multicenter trial will be conducted in North America. The overall time to participate in this study is up to 24 months.