Phase I Dose-Escalation Trial of Clofarabine Followed by Escalating Doses of Fractionated Cyclophosphamide in Children With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Leukemias
This is a Phase I study designed to determine the MTD and assess the toxicity associated with clofarabine followed by fractionated cyclophosphamide in patients \> 1 year of age or \< 21 years of age with relapsed or refractory acute leukemias. There will be 25 to 35 patients enrolled. Cohorts of 3 to 6 patients each will receive escalated doses of clofarabine followed by fractionated cyclophosphamide until the MTD is reached. There will be no intra-patient dose escalation. Single-agent cyclophosphamide will be administered by 2-hour IVI on Day 0 of cycle 1. On Days 1, 2, and 3 and Days 8, 9, and 10 clofarabine will be administered by IVI 2 hours before each dose of cyclophosphamide (see the treatment schema below). A cycle is defined as 28 days.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myeloproliferative Disorders|Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia|Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia|Acute Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Myelofibrosis|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Clofarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
To determine the feasibility, tolerability, toxicities, and MTD of clofarabine followed by fractionated cyclophosphamide in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute leukemias., 1 cycle
To obtain preliminary descriptive data of the biologic and pharmacodynamic effects of clofarabine followed by fractionated cyclophosphamide on marrow and circulating leukemic blasts in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute leukemias., 1 cycle
This is a Phase I study designed to determine the MTD and assess the toxicity associated with clofarabine followed by fractionated cyclophosphamide in patients \> 1 year of age or \< 21 years of age with relapsed or refractory acute leukemias. There will be 25 to 35 patients enrolled. Cohorts of 3 to 6 patients each will receive escalated doses of clofarabine followed by fractionated cyclophosphamide until the MTD is reached. There will be no intra-patient dose escalation. Single-agent cyclophosphamide will be administered by 2-hour IVI on Day 0 of cycle 1. On Days 1, 2, and 3 and Days 8, 9, and 10 clofarabine will be administered by IVI 2 hours before each dose of cyclophosphamide (see the treatment schema below). A cycle is defined as 28 days.