Efficacy Study of Pharmacokinetic(PK)/Pharmacodynamic(PD) Relationship of Monotherapy MORAb-004 in Metastatic Melanoma
This is a global, Phase 2, open label, dose selection, proof-of-concept study to assess progression free survival in subjects with metastatic melanoma.

Approximately 80 subjects at 29 sites in the U.S., U.K., Germany and Australia will be randomized into one of two dose groups: 2 mg/kg, 4 mg/kg. Weekly treatment will continue until disease progression.

Subjects must have measurable disease by CT Scan or MRI and must have completed at least one prior round of chemotherapy.

Subjects will be assessed for Efficacy, PK/PD, Overall survival, and Safety (Adverse Events/Adverse Events of Interest, Electrocardiograms (ECG's), clinical labs, physical exams/vital signs, tolerability).
Metastatic Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: MORAb-004 (monoclonal antibody)
Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival (PFS) at Week 24, PFS was defined as the time (in weeks) from the date of randomization to the date of the first sign of disease progression (PD) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 1.1, or date of death, regardless of cause. PD greater than or equal to (\>=) 20 percent (%) increase in the nadir of total tumor burden (TTB) (minimum 5 millimeter \[mm\]). Participants who were alive with no disease progression had their PFS time censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. Participants who received a new anti-cancer therapy before disease progression had their PFS time censored at the date of their last tumor assessment before the new anti-cancer therapy was started. PFS was analyzed using Kaplan Meier method., Week 24
Percentage of Participants With PFS at Weeks 16 and 52, PFS was defined as the time (in weeks) from the date of randomization to the date of the first observation of PD (RECIST version 1.1) or date of death, regardless of the cause. PD \>=20% increase in the nadir of TTB (minimum 5 mm). Participants who were alive with no disease progression had their PFS time censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. Participants who received new anti-cancer therapy before disease progression had their PFS time censored at the date of their last tumor assessment before the new anti-cancer therapy was initiated. PFS was based on the Kaplan-Meier method., Week 16 and Week 52|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time (in weeks) from the date of randomization to the date of death, regardless of cause. In the absence of death confirmation, or for participants alive at the time of analysis, the survival time was censored at the date of the last study follow-up. OS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. As per planned analysis, efficacy outcomes was planned to be analyzed until cut-off date (02 December 2013)., Date of first study treatment (Day 1) to date of death or up to approximately 2 years 7 months|Percentage of Participants With Overall Response, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) that occurred (defined by RECIST version 1.1) using CT/MRI. Per RECIST 1.1, CR= disappearance of all lesions; PR greater than or equal to (\>=) 30percent (%) decrease from baseline in TTB. As per planned analysis, efficacy outcomes was planned to be analyzed until cut-off date (02 December 2013)., Date of first study treatment (Day 1) to complete response or partial response, assessed up to approximately 2 years 7 months|Optimal Biologic Dosing (OBD) of Morab-004, OBD is defined as the dose level/exposure level at which three parameters are met: 1) adequate pharmacokinetic (PK) profile with a serum half-life (t1/2) of \>=48 hours, 2) at least minimal demonstration of antitumor efficacy (50% or greater PFS rate at 16 weeks), and 3) change of 25% or greater from baseline value in any of the pharmacodynamic (PD) parameters assessed in the study in 30% of participants at that dose level., Day 1 Cycle 1 (Cycle length = 28 days)
MORAb-004 is a monoclonal antibody directed against endosialin, a cell surface glycoprotein, which is expressed on cells involved in tumor vasculature. Studies have found endosialin to play a key role in tumor growth and neovessel formation in numerous cancer types including melanoma. Preclinical pharmacological studies have shown that MORAb-004 is a potentially useful anti-cancer agent. This clinical trial is being performed to determine the efficacy of MORAb-004 at two dose levels in subjects with metastatic melanoma, as well as to establish serum pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the antibody.