Intravenous Administration of RGI-2001 in Patient Undergoing Allogenic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (AHSCT)
The clinical trial is a Phase 1/2a, open-label, multi-center, dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of RGI-2001 in patients undergoing AHSCT, with radiation or non-radiation myeloablative preparative treatment.

The study will be separated into two parts; a dose escalation phase to assess safety, followed by a large expansion phase to further evaluate the pharmacologic effects of either a Maximum Tolerated Dose, Maximum Feasible Dose or optimal pharmacologically active dose of RGI-2001. The initial dose escalation safety portion of the study (Part 1) will include higher risk patients and limit the unrelated donor transplants. After safety is established in part 1 of the study, the second portion of the study will expand the enrollment criteria and allow transplantation by either related or unrelated donors.

This study will endeavor to identify the dose range at which RGI-2001 has an acceptable safety profile, at which biologic activity is observed, and to guide possible dose levels to utilize in later phase studies based on biological activity.
Graft Versus Host Disease
DRUG: RGI-2001|DRUG: Calcineurin Inhibitors|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Conditioning Regimen|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Mofetil Mycophenolate|DRUG: sirolimus
The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum feasible dose (MFD) of RGI-2001, The primary outcome measures are:

* The incidence and severity of adverse events
* The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum feasible dose (MFD) of RGI-2001, administered as a single intravenous infusion approximately 30 minutes after AHSCT, By day 29
Pharmacodynamic Effects, Evaluate biomarkers to assess the potential pharmacodynamic effects of RGI-2001 through biomarkers and cytokine assessments. Exploratory biomarkers for efficacy in reducing GvHD include IL-2R, TNFR1, HGF. Cytokines will be evaluated for both safety and for evidence of mechanism of action and include IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, MIG, TNF-α and IFN-γ., Within 100 days from AHSCT|Pharmacokinetics of RGI-2001, Obtain pharmacokinetic parameters such as Cmax, Cmin, Tmax, AUC and half-life of the study drug in plasma., Within first 8 days|Efficacy in reducing the intensity of GvHD, The time to onset, peak intensity and course of GvHD after the AHSCT procedure will be monitored according to the Modified Keystone Criteria for Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease., Within the first 100 days after AHSCT|Optimal Dose of RGI-2001, Determine optimal doses of RGI-2001 for further evaluation based on pharmacodynamic response and effectiveness in reducing the intensity of GvHD, Within first 100 days after AHSCT
The clinical trial is a Phase 1/2a, open-label, multi-center, dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of RGI-2001 in patients undergoing AHSCT, with radiation or non-radiation myeloablative preparative treatment.

In Part 1 (Phase 1: Dose Escalation Phase), patients will receive a single intravenous administration of RGI-2001 approximately 30 minutes after completion of the transplant (either allogeneic PBSCs or allogenic bone marrow transplantation (unmodified)) with the dosage based upon the assigned treatment cohort. Eligible patients will be enrolled in five to seven centers in the United States. Patients who are undergoing AHSCT will be enrolled in a sequential group dose-escalating fashion to determine the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic profile, and the MTD or MFD of RGI-2001. It is anticipated that up to six dose levels will be evaluated in Part 1, with an option for an additional cohort (Cohort 7) if the MTD is not reached and pharmacodynamic markers suggest higher doses are warranted.

In Part 2 (Expansion Phase), one or more doses below the MTD or MFD will be selected based on a potential correlation between GvHD and biological activity to further assess safety and biologic activity. Approximately 30 patients who are undergoing either allogeneic PBSCs or allogenic bone marrow transplantation (unmodified) will be enrolled in Part 2 of the study.

Patients will be monitored for safety for 29 days after the transplant procedure.

All patients will be followed for 100 days following transplant procedure for the incidence of acute GvHD, according to the Modified Keystone Criteria for grading acute GvHD (Przepiorka D, et al)