Individualized Exercise Oncology Program for Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer Patients
To test the effect of an individualized exercise oncology program on healthcare utilization, 30-day hospital readmission, pain, and cancer treatment tolerance.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Supervised, individualized exercise oncology program|OTHER: Current standard of care
Missed Fractions, Total number of missed fractions, determined by electronic medical record, 12 weeks|Numbers of Breaks in Cancer Treatment, Defined as missing 3 or more fractions due to patient condition, determined by electronic medical record, 12 weeks|Cost of Emergency Room Visits, Medical expenditure and utilization, for each time a patient utilized an emergency room visit for the purpose of managing health problems in addition to the planned cancer care, determined by electronic medical record., 12 weeks|Encounters, Number of inpatient and outpatient hospital encounters, determined by electronic medical record, 12 weeks|Cost of Total Unplanned Expenditures, Number of hospital readmissions for the same presenting issue, determined by electronic medical record, 12 weeks|Cost of Hospital Inpatient Care, Hospital length of stay, in days, if applicable. Determined by electronic medical record., 12 weeks|Cancer Treatment Adherence, Percentage of patient adherence to their cancer treatment, determined by electronic medical record, 12 weeks|Cancer Treatment Symptom Management Medications, Number of the different types of medications taken by patients for symptom management during their cancer treatment. Determined by electronic medical record., 12 weeks|Cancer Treatment Related Side Effects, Total number of cancer treatment related side effects, 12 weeks|Patient Rated Pain Score, The Short Form-36 survey was used to measure pain. A high score defines a more favorable health state. Each item is scored on a 0 to 100 range, with the lowest and highest possible scores being 0 and 100, respectively., 12 weeks, measured at the start of their exercise program during their initial assessment and at the 12-week follow-up re-assessment.|Cancer TreatmentTtolerance, Measured by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status score. Scale is from 0 to 5, with 0 being high functioning and no restriction and 5 being dead., 12 weeks - ECOG performance status measurements were recorded at baseline and at the 12-week follow up appointment.|Quality of Life Measure: Utilizing McGill Quality of Life Survey and FACT-B Questionnaire, McGill Quality of Life Survey:

Physical Wellbeing (questions 1-4) - minimum score is 0, maximum score is 40. A higher score would be good and lower score would be bad.

Social Wellbeing (questions 12, 14-16) - minimum score is 0, maximum score is 40. A higher score would be good and lower score would be bad.

Emotional Wellbeing(questions 5-7, 13) - minimum score is 0 and maximum score is 40. A higher score would be bad and a lower score would be good Functional wellbeing (questions 8-11) - minimum score is 0, maximum score is 40. A higher score would be good and lower score would be bad.

FACT-BREAST Survey:

Minimum score is 0 and maximum is 148; 0 is not at all and 4 is very much, "good" or "bad" varies depending on the question; overall a higher score is good and a lower score is bad, Baseline was at the time of enrollment and follow up was after 12-weeks.
Adherence Rate, Exercise session adherence rate among the Exercise Group, collected from the Maple Tree Cancer Alliance participant records. Exercise session adherence rate was measured by dividing the total number of sessions scheduled by the total number of exercise sessions actually attended by the exercise group., 12 weeks|Percentage of Participants Who Completed the Study (Attrition Rate), Exercise program attrition rate among the Exercise Group, collected from the Maple Tree Cancer Alliance participant records. Attrition was determined by calculating the percent of participants who completed the study by the total number of participants who started the study., 12 weeks
To test the effect of an individualized exercise oncology program on healthcare utilization, 30-day hospital readmission, pain, and cancer treatment tolerance.