Bortezomib and Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma Who Have Undergone Autologous Stem Cell Transplant
This phase II trial studies the side effects of giving bortezomib together with vorinostat and to see how well it works in treating patients with multiple myeloma who have undergone autologous stem cell transplant. Bortezomib and vorinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving bortezomib together with vorinostat after an autologous stem cell transplant may stop the growth of any cancer cells that remain after transplant.
DS Stage I Plasma Cell Myeloma|DS Stage II Plasma Cell Myeloma|DS Stage III Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Vorinostat
Toxicity as Assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v3.0, The first three months of therapy will be used as the time period in which toxicity will be evaluated and stopping rules for unacceptable toxicity will be implemented. Rules for stopping the study will be based on the rate of withdrawal due to significant toxicity (grade IV, non-hematological, non-metabolic, nonperipheral neuropathy)., The first three months of therapy
Time to Disease Progression in Patients Who Progressed, Patients will be followed for initial response to therapy and for progression of disease. Response criteria will be scored according to International Myeloma Working Group uniform response criteria., Up to 5 years|Survival for All Patients, Up to 5 years|Median Follow-up Survival for All Patients, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the toxicity of the use of vorinostat and bortezomib as maintenance therapy after autologous transplant.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the median time to disease progression.

II. Evaluate survival.

OUTLINE: Patients receive bortezomib intravenously (IV) on days 2 and 5 and vorinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.