NOLAN: Naproxen or Loratadine and Neulasta
The primary objective of the study is to estimate the difference in bone pain between breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy and pegfilgrastim and either no prophylactic intervention, prophylactic naproxen, or prophylactic loratadine.
Bone Pain in Stage I - III Breast Cancer
DRUG: Naproxen|DRUG: Loratadine|BIOLOGICAL: Pegfilgrastim|DRUG: Chemotherapy
Percentage of Participants With Bone Pain (All Grades) in Cycle 1, Bone pain data were captured as part of standard adverse event (AE) reporting., Cycle 1 (approximately 4 weeks, depending on the chemotherapy dosing interval)
Percentage of Participants With Bone Pain (All Grades) by Cycle (2-4) and Across Cycles, Bone pain data were captured as part of standard adverse event (AE) reporting., Cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4 (approximately 4 weeks each, depending on the chemotherapy dosing interval)|Percentage of Participants With Severe Bone Pain by Cycle and Across Cycles, Bone pain data were captured as part of standard adverse event reporting. Severe bone pain is defined as grade 3 or 4 according to common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 3 grading criteria: Grade 1 = Mild, Grade 2 = Moderate, Grade 3 = Severe, and Grade 4 = Life-threatening or disabling., Cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4 (approximately 4 weeks each, depending on the chemotherapy dosing interval)|Mean Patient-reported Bone Pain by Cycle and Across Cycles, Participants completed a brief bone pain survey once per day for 5 days beginning the day they received their pegfilgrastim injection. The bone pain survey collected the severity of pain using a 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain) scale. Mean patient-reported bone pain values are the average of each participant's bone pain values across survey days 1-5 within each cycle. Across all cycles the mean is the average of each patient-reported bone pain value across all survey days 1-5 and across all cycles. An analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment as explanatory term was used., Five consecutive days during each cycle beginning on the day of pegfilgrastim administration (Day 2, 3, or 4 of each cycle)|Maximum Patient-reported Bone Pain by Cycle and Across Cycles, Participants completed a brief bone pain survey once per day for 5 days beginning the day they received their pegfilgrastim injection. The bone pain survey collected the severity of pain using a 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain) scale. Maximum patient-reported bone pain is the maximum of each participant's bone pain values across survey Days 1-5 within each cycle. Across all cycles the maximum is the maximum of each patient-reported bone pain value across all survey days 1-5 and across all cycles. An ANOVA model with treatment as explanatory term was used., Five consecutive days during each cycle beginning on the day of pegfilgrastim administration (Day 2, 3, or 4 of each cycle)|Area Under the Curve (AUC) for Patient-reported Bone Pain, Patient-reported bone pain AUC was calculated using the trapezoidal rule with bone pain scores from day 1 to 5 for each cycle. The AUC across cycles is the average of AUCs across the cycle., Five consecutive days during each cycle beginning on the day of pegfilgrastim administration (Day 2, 3, or 4 of each cycle)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Severity was graded using CTCAE version 3. A serious adverse event (SAE) is defined as an adverse event that meets at least 1 of the following serious criteria: • fatal; • life threatening; • requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; • results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; • congenital anomaly/birth defect; • other medically important serious event.

The investigator assessed each adverse event for relatedness to investigational product(s) or other protocol-required therapies., From first dose of investigational product (IP, naproxen or loratidine) or first dose of pegfilgrastim (Peg), whichever occurred first, until 30 days after last dose, up to 24 weeks.
In this study, the investigational products are naproxen, a non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID), and loratadine, an anti-histamine. Both agents are being investigated as prophylactic medications to reduce the incidence and/or severity of bone pain in breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant or neoadjuvant myelosuppressive chemotherapy and pegfilgrastim prophylaxis.

Pegfilgrastim treatment is used to stimulate bone marrow to produce more neutrophils to help fight infections in patients undergoing chemotherapy.