A Culturally-Tailored Mobile Health and Social Media Physical Activity Intervention for Improving Physical Activity in Hispanic or Latino/Latina Adolescent and Young Adult Childhood Cancer Survivors, Walking Juntos Study
This clinical trial tests the impact of a culturally-tailored home-based physical activity program on physical fitness in Hispanic or Latino/Latina adolescent and young adult (AYA) childhood cancer survivors. After treatment for cancer, some AYA survivors experience long-term effects from the cancer and its treatment including weight gain, fatigue and decreased physical fitness. Hispanic or Latino/Latina survivors may have a higher risk of these effects compared to non-Hispanics. Regular physical activity helps maintain healthy weight, energy levels and overall health. Participating in a culturally-tailored home-based physical activity program may help increase physical activity in Hispanic or Latino/Latina AYA childhood cancer survivors.
Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Goal Setting|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Media Intervention|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Reward|OTHER: Text Message-Based Navigation Intervention|OTHER: Text Message-Based Navigation Intervention
Moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA), MVPA will be measured with a research grade accelerometer. Will report the mean change from baseline to the 11-12-week post randomization timepoint by trial arm alongside corresponding confidence intervals estimated under a linear mixed effects model., Baseline to 11-12 weeks post randomization
Sedentary time, Sedentary time will be measured with a research grade accelerometer. Will report the mean change from baseline to the 11-12-week post randomization timepoint by trial arm alongside corresponding confidence intervals estimated under a linear mixed effects model., Baseline to 11-12 weeks post randomization|Global functioning, Global functioning will be measured using Spanish language versions of the Pediatric Quality of Life inventory (PedsQL) 4.0 Generic Core Scales. Will report the mean change from baseline to the 11-12-week post randomization timepoint by trial arm alongside corresponding confidence intervals estimated under a linear mixed effects model., Baseline to 11-12 weeks post randomization|Physical functioning, Physical functioning will be measured using Spanish language versions of the Pediatric Quality of Life inventory (PedsQL) 4.0 Generic Core Scales. Will report the mean change from baseline to the 11-12-week post randomization timepoint by trial arm alongside corresponding confidence intervals estimated under a linear mixed effects model., Baseline to 11-12 weeks post randomization|Social functioning, Social functioning will be measured using Spanish language versions of the Pediatric Quality of Life inventory (PedsQL) 4.0 Generic Core Scales. Will report the mean change from baseline to the 11-12-week post randomization timepoint by trial arm alongside corresponding confidence intervals estimated under a linear mixed effects model., Baseline to 11-12 weeks post randomization|Fatigue, Fatigue will be measured using the18-item PedsQL 4.0 Multidimensional Fatigue Scale in Spanish or English. Will report the mean change from baseline to the 11-12-week post randomization timepoint by trial arm alongside corresponding confidence intervals estimated under a linear mixed effects model., Baseline to 11-12 weeks post randomization
Change in cardiopulmonary fitness, Change in cardiopulmonary fitness will be measured using the 2-Minute Step Test and heart rate monitor., At baseline and up to final evaluation at 11-12 weeks post-randomization|Change in resting heart rate, Change in resting heart rate will be measured using the 2-Minute Step Test and heart rate monitor., At baseline and up to final evaluation at 11-12 weeks post-randomization
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Use an iterative approach to develop a culturally-tailored multilevel remote-based physical activity (PA) intervention among a total of 20 Latinx adolescent and young adult survivors of childhood cancer (AYA survivors), 8-12 whose preferred language is English and 8-12 whose preferred language is Spanish, using the StepByStep intervention as a starting point. (Stage 1) II. Conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test the potential efficacy of the culturally-tailored remote-based PA intervention (versus \[vs.\] Fitbit only) with respect to the primary outcome of moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) measured with a research grade accelerometer over 12 weeks among a separate group of 170 Latinx AYA survivors whose preferred language is Spanish or English (n=85 per randomization arm) and who do not meet PA guidelines at baseline. The control group will receive a Fitbit only. (Stage 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Among the patients enrolled to the RCT component of the study, evaluate the potential efficacy of randomization to the intervention relative to control arm with respect to decreasing sedentary time as assessed by a research accelerometer.

II. Evaluate potential efficacy of randomization to the active intervention arm with respect to improvement in reported health-related quality of life.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate potential efficacy of randomization to the active intervention arm with respect to physiological measurements predictive of cardiometabolic health.

II. Determine the acceptability of and guidance on improving the intervention phases in preparation for a fully powered, long term RCT by conducting two rounds of post-trial qualitative interviews among selected consenting participants, n=30 for the intensive intervention phase and n=30 for the maintenance intervention phase. Preferences and barriers for an additional diet and nutrition component will also be explored.

OUTLINE:

STAGE 1: Patients wear a Fitbit physical activity tracker daily, set physical activity goals, receive text messages, and view private social media peer support group content over 7-10 days once every 3 months. Patients also wear a research grade activity measuring device over 1-3 days and participate in a one-on-one interview once every 3 months for 9 months.

STAGE 2: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I (INTERVENTION):

INTENSIVE PHASE: Patients wear a Fitbit physical activity tracker daily and receive weekly reminders to wear the Fitbit for 12 weeks. Patients attend weekly goal setting sessions, receive individualized physical activity goals, view and post private social media peer support group content 2-3 times weekly, and receive badges for 12 weeks.

MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients wear a Fitbit physical activity tracker daily and set their own physical activity goals weekly for 4 weeks. Patients also receive access to the social media account and post content for 4 weeks.

GROUP II (CONTROL): Patients wear a Fitbit physical activity tracker daily for 12 weeks.