Patient Reminders Optimizing Mail-in Prevention Testing for Colorectal Cancer
Screening is an important tool for early colorectal cancer detection, and the most recent evidence suggests that early detection significantly improves survival rates. Current medical guidelines recommend that all people aged 45 to 75 be screened regularly. However, actual rates of screening in the United States are much lower than this.

Colonoscopy is the gold standard in colon cancer screening, serving as both screening and prevention. However there are many barriers to colonoscopy uptake, including lack of awareness, patient reticence, scheduling complexity, and market variation in access. Stool testing is a valuable alternative to colonoscopy for low-risk patients. Exact Sciences is the company that makes Cologuard, which is the current best-in-class stool testing for colon cancer screening.

Despite being a convenient at-home screening option, patient engagement with screening via stool testing has room for improvement. Over 40% of Ascension patients who have a stool testing order placed for them never return the screening kit in the mail.

A large body of research demonstrates that interventions informed by behavioral science can support patients in engaging in a variety of preventative health behaviors. Personalized nudges have proven to be among the most effective types of interventions, along with interventions aimed at helping patients overcome barriers to screening. We aim to test whether behavioral nudges can increase stool testing kit return rates.
Colon Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: Three Messaging Nudges
Percentage kit return at 4 weeks, Percentage of patients who have Cologuard stool testing lab results returned 4 weeks after receiving the intervention, 4 weeks from date first message was sent
Percentage kit return at 8 weeks, Percentage of patients who have Cologuard stool testing lab results returned 8 weeks after receiving the intervention, 8 weeks from date first message was sent|Percentage kit return at 12 weeks, Percentage of patients who have Cologuard stool testing lab results returned 12 weeks after receiving the intervention, 12 weeks from date first message was sent
Screening is an important tool for early colorectal cancer detection, and the most recent evidence suggests that early detection significantly improves survival rates. Current medical guidelines recommend that all people aged 45 to 75 be screened regularly. However, actual rates of screening in the United States are much lower than this, particularly among younger patient cohorts. Screening rates are still lower for patients who are "socially vulnerable" - a measure of the degree to which social and demographic factors make them vulnerable to health disparities.

Colonoscopy is the gold standard in colon cancer screening, serving as both screening and prevention. However there are many barriers to colonoscopy uptake, including lack of awareness, patient reticence, scheduling complexity, and market variation in access. Stool testing is a valuable alternative to colonoscopy for low-risk patients. Exact Sciences is the company that makes Cologuard, which is the current best-in-class stool testing for colon cancer screening.

Despite being a convenient at-home screening option, patient engagement with screening via stool testing has room for improvement. Over 40% of Ascension patients who have a stool testing order placed for them never return the screening kit in the mail.

A large body of research demonstrates that interventions informed by behavioral science can support patients in engaging in a variety of preventative health behaviors. Personalized nudges have proven to be among the most effective types of interventions, along with interventions aimed at helping patients overcome barriers to screening.4 We aim to test whether behavioral nudges can increase stool testing kit return rates.