MUC1 Vaccine for Triple-negative Breast Cancer
RATIONALE:

Vaccines made from peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Giving booster vaccinations may make a stronger immune response and prevent or delay the recurrence of cancer.

PURPOSE:

To evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC + MUCI peptide vaccine in boosting the immunologic response to MUCI in patients with triple-negative BC
Breast Cancer|Inflammatory Breast Cancer|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Triple-negative Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: MUC-1 peptide vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: poly ICLC|BIOLOGICAL: MUC1 peptide-poly-ICLC adjuvant vaccine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay|OTHER: flow cytometry
Proportion of patients showing a positive anti-MUC1 antibody response, Defined as a \>= 2-fold enhancement from baseline anti-MUC1 antibody immunity, or for subjects with no antibody to MUC1 at baseline, any detectable antibody immunity against MUC1. To test the hypothesis of a sufficient immunologic response, we will apply a Simon's optimum 2-stage design. The proportion of patients with an immunologic response will be calculated with a 95% confidence interval using method developed for multistage clinical trials., At week 12 (2 weeks after the 3rd injection)
Safety and toxicity as assessed by NCI CTC, Weeks 0, 2, 4, 10, 12, 52, and 54 and then for 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of MUC1 peptide-poly-ICLC adjuvant vaccine in boosting systemic immunity to MUC1 in women who have completed therapy for AJCC(American Joint Committee on Cancer)stage I-III 'triple-negative' \[i.e., ER(-) PR(-) HER2/neu(-)\] breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity of the MUC1 peptide and poly-ICLC vaccine in this cohort of patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive MUC-1 peptide vaccine subcutaneously (SC) and poly-ICLC vaccine SC in weeks 0, 2, and 10 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Some patients may receive a booster vaccine in week 52. Patients will be followed for study-related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) for a period of 30 days after their last vaccination. If a patient experiences a SAE while participating in this study, they will be followed until the resolution of the SAE.