Stepping Up: A Trial of Activity Monitoring Devices in Patients Undergoing Autologous Stem Cell Transplant
The purpose the research is to obtain preliminary data about the change in fitness from admission to discharge in patients undergoing an Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT) , assessed by the 6 minute walk test as the primary objective and the SF-36 as the secondary objective. All subjects will wear a Fitbit monitor while admitted for the ASCT to record their daily activity.
Multiple Myeloma|Lymphoma|Transplant-Related Disorder
BEHAVIORAL: Feedback
Fitness measured by 6 minute walk test after discharge, Standard 6 minute walk test will be performed, 3-4 weeks
Fitness assessed by SF-36 questionnaire after discharge, Standard SF-36 questionnaire will be completed, 3-4 weeks
This study will enroll 20 subjects with a diagnosis of multiple myeloma or lymphoma (10 with each diagnosis) scheduled to undergo ASCT at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.

After signing the informed consent form, intake data will be collected on all subjects will include age, diagnosis, Karnofsky performance status, and comorbidity index. Subjects will complete an SF-36 questionnaire that assesses their functional and emotional status. Each subject will undergo a 6-minute walk test (6MWT) while wearing a Fitbit monitor to record the number of steps taken. After admission, subjects will be randomly assigned to either the control or intervention group. Subjects in the control arm will receive an activity monitor but the physician, nurse, and patient will not receive any feedback from the device. Patients will be blinded to any data capture from their activity monitor. Participants in the intervention arm will receive an activity monitor and they will receive feedback from the activity tracker and the in-room TV screen. Study participants in this arm will engage with their physicians and nurses around achievement of daily step goals by viewing the in-room TV display of daily step counts on rounds. After discharge, all subjects will again complete the SF-36 questionnaire and perform a 6MWT at a routine clinic visit, within 30 days of the transplant procedure. Descriptive statistics in the form of mean and standard deviation will be used to summarize patient physical activity as measured by 6MWT.