Phase II Study of Oral Metformin for Intravesical Treatment of Non-muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer
A multi-center, open-label, phase II clinical study of metformin in up to evaluable 49 patients with low-grade NMIBC with the aim to determine the overall response to administration of oral metformin for 3 months in a index papillary NMIBC tumour.
Superficial Bladder Cancer|Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Metformin
Overall response, The primary outcome is the objective response rate (complete responses) after 3 months of treatment with metformin. Evaluable patients are those who have received at least 500 mg metformin twice daily for one week and who undergo a cystoscopy for marker lesion removal., 3 months
Time to recurrence, The duration of the time to recurrence of NMIBC after stopping metformin treatment. Patients will be followed for a maximum duration of 5 years., 5 years|Toxicity of metformin treatment, The number of grade 1-4 and grade 5 (fatal) NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE) events during treatment with metformin. All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their first treatment with metformin., 3 months|Partial response, At least 30% reduction in the longest diameter of the marker lesion., 3 months.
A multi-center, open-label, phase II clinical study of metformin in up to 49 patients with low-grade NMIBC with the aim to determine the overall response to administration of oral metformin for 3 months in a index tumour (0.5-1 cm) selected ane measured during cystoscopy. All patients will receive metformin orally at doses up to 1500 mg twice daily. Metformin treatment will start directly after informed consent is obtained. After 3 months of metformin treatment, the effect of metformin on the index lesion is evaluated by performing a transurethral resection of the bladder tumour under anaesthesia. Residual tumour, if present at this evaluation, will be resected. In case of complete disappearance of the index lesion the former tumour area will be biopsied.