High Resolution, 18F-PSMA PET-MRI Before Prostate Cancer HIFU or Radical Prostatectomy
This prospective trial aims to determine if enhanced prostate imaging using two novel imaging technologies (high resolution DWI and 18F-PSMA PET-MRI) will detect prostate cancers not seen on standard multiparametric prostate MRI in patients considered candidates for focal HIFU.
Prostatic Neoplasms|Genital Neoplasms, Male|Urogenital Neoplasms|Neoplasms by Site|Neoplasms|Genital Diseases, Male|Prostatic Disease
DRUG: 18F-PSMA
Primary Endpoint (HIFU): Identification of New Cancers, The grade of the cancer is assessed by biopsy prior to HIFU. Systematic and targeted prostate biopsies assess presence or absence of cancer in each zone of the prostate, including both systematic and targeted zones. Each zone with cancer is graded using the Gleason score (range 6-10, with higher scores associated with more aggressive disease). The primary outcome is for detection of any additional cancer with advanced imaging techniques of hrMRI or PSMA-PET MRI over standard multiparametric MRI. Any cancer is defined as "Gleason 6 or higher." We also did an exploratory analysis looking at detection of additional cancers with Gleason scores of 7 or higher., At time of pre-HIFU biopsy|Primary Endpoint (Prostatectomy):, To determine the sensitivity in detection of prostatic carcinoma of novel imaging modalities of hrMRI and/or F18-PSMA PET compared to reference standard mpMRI in patients scheduled to undergo radical prostatectomy., preoperative PET-hrMRI prior to prostatectomy, less than 3 weeks before surgery
Secondary Endpoint (HIFU):, Negative biopsy rate on systematic and targeted biopsy 6 months following HIFU therapy. Data presented are from both systematic + targeted biopsy as a single unit. For example, a positive biopsy from a given area of the prostate could have come from either systematic or targeted cores., 6 months following standard HIFU therapy|Secondary Endpoint (Prostatectomy):, Specificity of hrMRI, F18-PSMA PET and mpMRI for detecting all tumors and metastasis at 6 months follow up., 6 months following standard HIFU therapy
Exploratory Endpoint:, RNAseq transcriptome analysis of lesions that are positive on mapping biopsy. Sensitivity and specificity of PET-hrMRI for detecting all tumors detected on prostatectomy pathology., After study completion, an average of 6 months
This is a prospective trial to evaluate the effectiveness of 18F-PSMA PET-hrMRI versus standard mpMRI at identifying prostate cancer targets for HIFU therapy.

Participants with clinically localized, unilateral high grade prostate cancer (Gleason score 7-10 prostate cancer localized to one lobe on prior biopsies) OR at high risk for having unrecognized high grade prostate cancer (overall Gleason score 6 with \> half of systematic biopsy cores positive and \> 50% of core involvement in at least one core), interested in HIFU would receive both a standard mpMRI and 18F-PSMA PET-hrMRI.

Participants would then undergo a mapping biopsy using a standard sextant template plus MRI/US-fusion targeted biopsy of any lesion suspicious lesion on mpMRI or PET-hrMRI.