Pre-pectoral Versus Sub-pectoral Implant Placement in Immediate Breast Reconstruction
Despite the popularity and proved safety of prepectoral implant-based reconstruction, there is little evidence on long-term results and variables which could influence surgical outcome. So far, no specific guidelines or indications have been developed for prepectoral technique and heterogeneous inclusion criteria had been used in previous reports. There is a lack of studies documenting outcomes following ADM-assisted prepectoral breast reconstruction, and there are no randomised controlled trial studies that drawing a direct comparison of clinical or patient-reported outcomes between subpectoral and prepectoral groups.

The investigators hypothesized that immediate acellular dermal matrix-assisted implant-based breast reconstruction with prepectoral implant placement would result in less early postoperative pain but more reported implant rippling, requirement of more fat grafting and an equitable safety profile compared with ADM-assisted implant-based breast reconstruction with subpectoral implant placement.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the postsurgical pain, complications and patient-reported outcomes of prepectoral breast reconstruction versus subpectoral implant placement in immediate breast reconstruction.
Mastectomy|Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: immediate acellular dermal matrix-assisted implant-based breast reconstruction with prepectoral implant placement.|PROCEDURE: Immediate acellular dermal matrix-assisted implant-based breast reconstruction with subpectoral implant placement
Postoperative Pain and 24-hour narcotic consumption, Postoperative Pain will be scored using Numerical rating scale. The scale ranges from 0 to 10 indicating the level of pain. Zero indicates the absence of pain, while 10 represents the most intense pain (no pain = 0, mild = 1-3, moderate = 4-6, severe = 7-10)., 24 hours
Mastectomy flap necrosis, Skin loss of mastectomy flap, 4 weeks|Rate of seroma, Episodes of seroma formation requiring aspiration, 4 weeks|Rate of infection, Cellulitis and abscess, 3 months|Rate of Explantation, Loss of implant, 1 year|Number of Revisional surgeries, return to operating room for more surgeries, 1 year|Rate of Wound, incision dehiscence or debridement, 3 months|Rate of Capsular contracture, Tightening, firmness and pain of reconstructive breast, 1 year|BREAST-Q© Pre-operative scale, The BREAST-Q© modules is comprised of the following two overarching themes (or domains): 1) Health-Related Quality of Life (QOL) and 2) Patient Satisfaction. Under each of these domains, there are six subthemes; QOL: 1) Psychosocial, 2) Physical and 3) Sexual well-being; and Patient Satisfaction: 4) Satisfaction with Breasts, 5) Satisfaction with Outcome and 6) Satisfaction with Care. Body image is an important concept for breast surgery patients. Preoperative scales: Satisfaction with Breasts, Psychosocial, Sexual and Physical Well-being Chest

There is no overall or total BREAST-Q© score, only scores for each independent scale. All BREAST-Q© scales are transformed into scores that range from 0-100. The scores are computed by adding the response items together and then converting the raw sum scale score to a score from 0-100. For all BREAST-Q© scales, a higher score means greater satisfaction or better QOL (depending on the scale). The score is from 0 (worst) to 100 (best)., Before Surgery|BREAST-Q© Post-operative, The BREAST-Q© modules is comprised of the following two overarching themes (or domains): 1) Health-Related Quality of Life (QOL) and 2) Patient Satisfaction. Under each of these domains, there are six subthemes; QOL: 1) Psychosocial, 2) Physical and 3) Sexual well-being; and Patient Satisfaction: 4) Satisfaction with Breasts, 5) Satisfaction with Outcome and 6) Satisfaction with Care. Body image is an important concept for breast surgery patients.

Postoperative scales: Satisfaction with Doctor, Medical Team and Office Staff

There is no overall or total BREAST-Q© score, only scores for each independent scale. All BREAST-Q© scales are transformed into scores that range from 0-100. The scores are computed by adding the response items together and then converting the raw sum scale score to a score from 0-100. For all BREAST-Q© scales, a higher score means greater satisfaction or better QOL (depending on the scale).

The score is from 0 (worst) to 100 (best)., 3 months and 12 months
The investigators will employ a single centre RCT with duration of two years (July 1, 2019 - June 30, 2021). Participant recruitment and enrolment will occur at the Women's Health Center for 1 year (July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020), followed by one year (June 30, 2021) of follow-up data collection, data analyses and dissemination.

At the preoperative consultation, the surgeon will determine if the patient is eligible for implant-based immediate reconstruction, using the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

A total of 56 patients or 23 patients per arm will be recruited. Randomization will be accomplished using randomly permuted blocks, and the randomization list will be prepared by a biostatistician with no clinical involvement in this trial. Randomization will be stratified on the basis of center and laterality of reconstruction (i.e., unilateral versus bilateral reconstruction).

The allocation sequence will be concealed by placing each randomization assignment in a sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelope. Consecutive envelopes will be delivered to the operating room by the on-site research study assistant once the mastectomy is complete. To prevent subversion of the allocation sequence, envelopes will not be opened until the attending surgeon confirms the absence of significant mastectomy flap necrosis and the fact that the patient does not undergo a concurrent axillary lymph node dissection.

All patients will be blinded to their treatment arm. Once the treatment arm is revealed, the attending surgeon will advise the surgical team (surgical assistants and operating room nurses) the surgical plan. While the surgical team will be aware of the randomization code, the rest of the postoperative care team (including recovery room staff, day surgery nursing staff, and clinic staff during follow-up visit), outcome assessors, and data analysts will be kept blinded to the intervention performed.

Outcome measures:

At the baseline visit, following informed consent, demographic data (age, BMI, laterality and comorbidities) will be collected. The participant will then complete the following questionnaires: Pre-operative Breast-Q™: The Breast-Q™ Reconstruction Module is a validated PRO developed specifically for patients undergoing breast reconstruction. The questionnaire evaluates patient-reported satisfaction, psychosocial, physical and sexual quality of life \[1\] Primary outcome: Postoperative Pain scores and 24-hour narcotic consumption Secondary outcomes: All outcomes are measured within or at 12 months of the initial surgery.