A Pilot Study Of Ga-68-DOTA-TOC Imaging In Participants With Small Bowel Carcinoid Tumors
This research study is designed to evaluate a type of scan called Ga-68-DOTA-TOC positron emission tomography (PET) scanning as a way of assessing carcinoid tumors.
Small Bowel Carcinoid Tumor
DRUG: Ga-68-DOTA-TOC|DEVICE: Siemens PET/MR scanner|OTHER: Standard Siemens Software|DRUG: LAR Octreotide
Mean Change in SUVmax, The mean change of SUVmax from 68Ga-DOTATOC PET scan obtained at peak and trough octreotide LAR therapy., 2 years|Mean Change in Total Molecular Burden of The Lesions, The mean change of Total Molecular Tumor Burden is measured from 68Ga-DOTATOC PET scan obtained at peak and trough octreotide LAR therapy., 2 Years
Correlation Of Change In Receptor Occupancy With The PFS of patients, 2 years|Progression Free Survival Rate, 2 years
This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining this study intervention.

Many patients who are diagnosed with carcinoid tumor undergo treatment with long acting release (LAR) octreotide. It is presently standard for all patients to receive equal doses of octreotide. However, the response to the treatment with the same dose of medication may vary substantially from one person to another. This study uses a novel form of PET/MR imaging to try and better understand how to treat carcinoid tumors, and may in the future allow doctors to tailor treatment dosing based on PET/MR findings and select the right drug dose for an individual person. It is important to note that the participant method of treatment and the dose of the participant medication (Octreotide LAR) will not change in this study.

The imaging technique used in this study is called Ga-68-DOTA-TOC PET/MR scanning. Ga-68-DOTA-TOC is a radioactive tracer that is given by vein to participants before PET scanning. The scanner then detects radioactivity from the tracer that is attached to cells within the body and uses this information to create images (pictures) on a computer screen that can then be analyzed.

These types of scans are investigational. "Investigational", meaning that the scans are still being studied and that research doctors are trying to find out more about them. It also means that the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved these types of PET scans for this type of cancer.