OPTIMOX1 in Chinese mCRC Patients
Previous OPTIMOX1 study investigated the use of oxaliplatin discontinuation and reintroduction in a novel stop-and-go strategy. Previously untreated patients were randomly assigned to either FOLFOX4 administered every 2 weeks until progression (arm A) or FOLFOX7 for 6 cycles, maintenance without oxaliplatin for 12 cycles, and reintroduction of FOLFOX7 for another 6 cycles (arm B). Data showed that there was no significant difference in median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) between two arms. Furthermore, this study showed lower Grade 3 neurotoxicity rate in arm B (17.9% vs 13.3%, P = 0.12).In order to investigate the efficacy and feasibility of the novel "Stop and go" strategy in Chinese mCRC patients, Prof. Shu Yongqian in JiangShu Province Hospital plans to conduct a randomized controlled study to compare continuous FOLFOX4 vs. FOLFOX4 in a Stop-and-Go Fashion in 1st Line mCRC patients. To avoid the high oxaliplatin dosage related neurotoxicity, FOLFOX4 regimen is chosen in this study.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Oxaliplatin, LV, 5-FU
DDC: Duration of Disease Control, Oct2012
OS, RR, PFS, DCR, safety,, Oct 2015
Previous OPTIMOX1 study investigated the use of oxaliplatin discontinuation and reintroduction in a novel stop-and-go strategy. Previously untreated patients were randomly assigned to either FOLFOX4 administered every 2 weeks until progression (arm A) or FOLFOX7 for 6 cycles, maintenance without oxaliplatin for 12 cycles, and reintroduction of FOLFOX7 for another 6 cycles (arm B). Data showed that there was no significant difference in median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) between two arms. Furthermore, this study showed lower Grade 3 neurotoxicity rate in arm B (17.9% vs 13.3%, P = 0.12).In order to investigate the efficacy and feasibility of the novel "Stop and go" strategy in Chinese mCRC patients, Prof. Shu Yongqian in JiangShu Province Hospital plans to conduct a randomized controlled study to compare continuous FOLFOX4 vs. FOLFOX4 in a Stop-and-Go Fashion in 1st Line mCRC patients. To avoid the high oxaliplatin dosage related neurotoxicity, FOLFOX4 regimen is chosen in this study.