Rituximab With or Without Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Minimal Residual Disease-Negative Mantle Cell Lymphoma in First Complete Remission
This phase III trial studies rituximab after stem cell transplant and to see how well it works compared with rituximab alone in treating patients with in minimal residual disease-negative mantle cell lymphoma in first complete remission. Immunotherapy with rituximab, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving chemotherapy before a stem cell transplant helps kill any cancer cells that are in the body and helps make room in the patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells) to grow. After treatment, stem cells are collected from the patient's blood and stored. More chemotherapy is then given to prepare the bone marrow for the stem cell transplant. The stem cells are then returned to the patient to replace the blood-forming cells that were destroyed by the chemotherapy. Giving rituximab with or without stem cell transplant may work better in treating patients with mantle cell lymphoma.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspirate|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab and Hyaluronidase Human
Overall survival (OS) in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients in minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative complete remission (CR) who undergo auto-hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) followed by rituximab versus (vs.) maintenance rituximab alone, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate OS, including medians and confidence intervals. Comparison of OS between treatment arms will be conducted using a one-sided log-rank test stratified with mantle cell lymphoma International Prognostic Index (MIPI)-c score and induction regimen., Time between randomization and death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years
Progression-free survival (PFS) in MCL patients in MRD-negative CR who undergo auto-HCT followed by rituximab vs rituximab alone, The method of Kaplan and Meier will be used to estimate PFS, and stratified log-rank test will be used to compare PFS between two arms., From randomization to the earliest of documented disease progression or death without progression, assessed up to 10 years|PFS in MRD-negative PR patients, MRD-positive CR patients, MRD-positive PR patients, and MRD-indeterminate patients who undergo auto-HCT followed by rituximab, Will be estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier., From randomization to the earliest of documented disease progression or death without progression, assessed up to 10 years|OS in MRD-negative PR patients, MRD-positive CR patients, MRD-positive PR patients, and MRD-indeterminate patients who undergo auto-HCT followed by rituximab, Will be estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier., Time between randomization and death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Rate of complications in MCL patients undergoing maintenance rituximab, Up to 10 years|MRD status in MCL patients who were MRD-positive prior to auto-HCT, Conversion rate will be reported together with confidence intervals., At 100 days after HCT|Incidence of adverse events, Will be evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The primary safety analysis will be based on the toxicity population, and the analysis will be performed by treatment received., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare overall survival in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients in minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative first complete remission (CR) who undergo autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (auto-HCT) followed by maintenance rituximab versus (vs.) maintenance rituximab alone (without auto-HCT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare progression-free survival in MCL patients in MRD-negative CR who undergo auto-HCT followed by maintenance rituximab vs. maintenance rituximab alone.

II. To define the overall survival and progression-free survival at 2 and 5 years of chemosensitive but MRD-positive CR patients who undergo auto-HCT followed by 3 years of maintenance rituximab.

III. To define the overall survival and progression-free survival at 2 and 5 years of chemosensitive but MRD-positive partial response (PR) patients who undergo auto-HCT followed by 3 years of maintenance rituximab.

IV. To define the overall survival and progression-free survival at 2 and 5 years of MRD-negative PR patients who undergo auto-HCT followed by 3 years of maintenance rituximab.

V. To define the overall survival and progression-free survival at 2 and 5 years of MRD-indeterminate patients who undergo auto-HCT followed by 3 years of maintenance rituximab.

VI. To describe the rate of complications (serious infection, hospitalization, need for intravenous immune globulin) in MCL patients undergoing maintenance rituximab following auto-HCT.

VII. To determine the prognostic impact of MRD status at day 100, in MCL patients who were MRD-positive (including MRD-positive CR and MRD-positive PR) prior to auto-HCT.

EXPLORATORY TOBACCO USE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events (both clinical and hematologic) and dose modifications).

II. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and psychological symptoms.

III. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication utilization.

IV. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive standard of care preparative chemotherapy and undergo auto-HCT. Beginning 100-140 days after transplant, patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) or rituximab and hyaluronidase human subcutaneously (SC) or any approved rituximab biosimilar at the approved dose once every 8 weeks for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients receive standard of care induction chemotherapy. Beginning 40-180 days after completion of chemotherapy, patients receive rituximab or rituximab and hyaluronidase human or any approved rituximab biosimilar at the approved dose, as in Group I.

Patients undergo positron emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT) or PET/CT throughout the study. Patients may undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study. Patients also may undergo bone marrow biopsy and aspirate during screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 and 6 months for 10 years.