A Study of Trastuzumab Emtansine in Participants With Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (HER)2 Immunohistochemistry (IHC)-Positive, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This is a Phase 2, multicenter study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of trastuzumab emtansine administered as a single-agent in participants with HER2-positive (HER2 IHC 2+ or HER2 IHC 3+) advanced or metastatic NSCLC. Participants will be treated with trastuzumab emtansine administered intravenously at a dose of 3.6 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) on Day 1 of 21-day cycles until disease progression (as assessed by the investigator), unmanageable toxicity, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab Emtansine
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response as Per Investigator Assessment According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v. 1.1), Objective response is defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) determined on two consecutive assessments ≥ 4 weeks apart, based on investigator assessment according to RECIST, Version 1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions; and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 millimeters (mm). PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From Day 1 to disease progression (PD) or death from any cause, up to the clinical cutoff date (approximately 22 months)
Percentage of Participants Who Died, From Day 1 to death from any cause, up to the study completion date (approximately 43 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from first study drug administration to death from any cause., From Day 1 to death from any cause, up to the study completion date (approximately 43 months)|Percentage of Participants With PFS Event of Disease Progression, as Per Investigator Assessment According to RECIST v. 1.1, or Death, PFS is defined as the time from first study drug administration to first documented disease progression, based on investigator assessment using RECIST, v1.1, or death from any cause during the study, whichever occurs first. Disease progression is defined as: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; the appearance of one or more new lesions., From Day 1 to PD or death from any cause, up to the study completion date (approximately 43 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Per Investigator Assessment According to RECIST v. 1.1, PFS is defined as the time from first study drug administration to first documented disease progression, based on investigator assessment using RECIST, v1.1, or death from any cause during the study, whichever occurs first. Disease progression is defined as: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; the appearance of one or more new lesions., From Day 1 to PD or death from any cause, up to the study completion date (approximately 43 months)|Percentage of Participants With DOR Event of Disease Progression, Assessed According to RECIST v1.1, DOR is defined as the time from the initial documentation of response (CR or PR using RECIST, v1.1) to documented disease progression using RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause during the study. CR: disappearance of all target lesions; and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Disease progression: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; the appearance of one or more new lesions., From first documented objective response to PD or death from any cause, up to the study completion date (approximately 43 months)|Duration of Objective Response (DOR) Assessed According to RECIST v1.1, DoR is defined as the time from the initial documentation of response (CR or PR using RECIST, v1.1) to documented disease progression using RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause during the study. CR: disappearance of all target lesions; and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Disease progression: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; the appearance of one or more new lesions., From first documented objective response to PD or death from any cause, up to the study completion date (approximately 43 months)|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit as Per Investigator Assessment According to RECIST, v1.1, Clinical benefit is defined as having a CR or PR or stable disease (using RECIST, v1.1) at 6 months. Participants with no post-baseline response assessment are considered as experiencing no clinical benefit. CR: disappearance of all target lesions; and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Stable disease: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for disease progression, taking as reference the smallest sum while in the study. Disease progression: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; the appearance of one or more new lesions., From Day 1 to PD or death from any cause, up to the study completion date (approximately 43 months)|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious AEs (SAEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the study drug. A SAE is any experience that: results in death, is life-threatening, requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or is medically significant., From Day 1 to 30 days after last dose of study drug, up to the study completion date (approximately 43 months)|Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) for Trastuzumab Emtansine and Total Trastuzumab, Cmax is the 0-21 day maximum observed concentration of a drug and was measured in blood serum., Pre-dose (within 2 days) and 30 minutes (min) after end of infusion (infusion length= 100 min or less) on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3 (one cycle=21 days); at treatment discontinuation/early termination, up to primary analysis, approx. 22 months|AUCinf for Trastuzumab Emtansine and Total Trastuzumab, AUC (from zero to infinity) represents the total drug exposure over time in blood serum., Pre-dose & 30 minutes (min) post-infusion (inf.) on Day (D) 1 of Cycles (C) 1 & 3; post- inf. on D 2, 3, 4 or 5, 8, & 15 of C 1, & pre- inf. on D1 of C2 & D1 of C 4 (C=21 D); at discontin./termination, up to primary analysis, approx. 22 months|Elimination Half-Life (t1/2) for Trastuzumab Emtansine and Total Trastuzumab, t1/2 is the time required for the drug serum concentration to be reduced to half., Pre-dose & 30 minutes (min) post-infusion (inf.) on D 1 of C 1 & 3; post- inf. on D 2, 3, 4 or 5, 8, & 15 of C 1, & pre- inf. on D 1 of C 2 & D 1 of C 4 (C=21 days); at treatment discontin./early termination, up to primary analysis, approx. 22 months|Volume of Distribution (Vss) for Trastuzumab Emtansine and Total Trastuzumab, Vss is the volume of distribution of study drug at steady state., Pre-dose & 30 minutes (min) post-infusion (inf.) on D1 of C1 & 3; post- inf. on D2, 3, 4 or 5, 8, & 15 of C 1, & pre- inf. on D 1 of C 2 & D1 of C 4 (C=21 days); at treatment discontin/early termination, up to primary analysis, approx. 22 months|Clearance (CL) for Trastuzumab Emtansine and Total Trastuzumab, CL is a measure of the body's elimination of a drug from blood serum over time., Pre-dose & 30 minutes (min) post-infusion (inf.) on D 1 of C 1 & 3; post- inf. on D 2, 3, 4 or 5, 8, & 15 of C 1, & pre- inf. on D 1 of C 2 & D 1 of C 4 (C=21 days); at treatment discontin/early termination, up to primary analysis, approx. 22 months|Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) for N2'- Deacetyl-N2'-(3-mercapto-1-oxopropyl)-Maytansine (DM1), Cmax is the maximum observed concentration of a drug and was measured in blood plasma., Pre-dose (within 2 days) and 30 minutes (min) after end of infusion (infusion length= 100 min or less) on Day 1 of Cycle 1 (one cycle=21 days); at treatment discontinuation/early termination,up to primary analysis, approx. 22 months|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADAs), The presence of ADAs in blood serum is an indication of the body's immune response to a drug., Pre-dose (within 2 days) on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3; at treatment discontinuation/early termination,up to primary analysis, approx. 22 months
This is a Phase 2, multicenter study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of trastuzumab emtansine administered as a single-agent in participants with HER2-positive (HER2 IHC 2+ or HER2 IHC 3+) advanced or metastatic NSCLC. Participants will be treated with trastuzumab emtansine administered intravenously at a dose of 3.6 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) on Day 1 of 21-day cycles until disease progression (as assessed by the investigator), unmanageable toxicity, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first.