Response Rate and Side Effects of Preoperative Chemotherapy (TOX Regimen) in Patients With Locally Advanced Operable Gastric Adenocarcinoma
Early stage diagnosis of gastric cancer has ensued different approaches in its resection strategies. In order to increase the proportion of cases that undergo radical resection and reduce the recurrence rate, different pre-operative treatments are introduced. Here, the investigators investigate an active preoperative chemotherapeutic regimen to in patients with locally advanced gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: TOX
Pathologic Response rate, A single expert pathologist evaluates the pathologic outcome of the chemotherapy regimen after the completion of courses. Participants are divided into 3 groups including complete pathologic response, partial pathologic response and pathologic stable disease., Participants are assessed after 4 chemotherapy courses 3 weeks apart, an expected period of 12 weeks from starting the study treatment protocol.
clinical Response rate, A single expert clinician evaluates the clinical outcome of the chemotherapy regimen after 2 primary courses 3 weeks apart. Evaluation is done with regards to the "TNM" scoring of gastric cancer (T for the size and expansion of the tumor, N for lymph node involvement, M for distant metastasis). Participants are divided into 4 groups including clinically progressive disease, complete clinical response, partial clinical response and clinically stable disease., Participants are assessed after 2 courses of Chemotherapy 3 weeks apart, an expected period of 6 weeks from starting the study treatment protocol.
Early stage diagnosis of gastric cancer has ensued different approaches in its resection strategies. In order to increase the proportion of cases that undergo radical resection and reduce the recurrence rate, different pre-operative treatments are introduced. Here, the investigators investigate an active preoperative chemotherapeutic regimen to in patients with locally advanced gastric cancer.