Translating Research Into Practice: Patient Navigation for Breast Cancer
The TRIP Project aims to overcome barriers to widespread implementation and dissemination of evidence-based practices that will improve the delivery of guideline-concordant care to vulnerable women with breast cancer. To accomplish this goal the study team will create (a) regional patient registries; (b) systematic screening for social barriers to care with a personalized referral plan; and (c) patient navigation services that integrate into one model of care to improve the quality and effectiveness of care delivery, for minority and/or low-income women with breast cancer in Boston.
Cancer, Breast
OTHER: TRIP Patient Navigation Intervention
Time-to-treatment Post-diagnosis, The receipt of care will be defined as initiation of care within 365 days. This will be a continuous outcome defined as the number of days from definitive tissue biopsy (Time 0) to treatment initiation (Time 1). Treatment initiation is defined as the date of first cancer treatment: surgical, radiation, or systemic therapy (including chemotherapy, immunotherapy, targeted therapy, hormonal therapy). Time to treatment initiation can take any value from 0 days to 365 days (study period). The clinical outcome will be derived from data in the patient's medical record., Within 365 days of enrollment
This community-engaged program will demonstrate the feasibility of community-academic partnerships to provide innovations in information sharing and systems implementation targeted to reduce treatment disparities. Patient navigators will be able to utilize the patient database to track their patients throughout their treatment, and receive guidance regarding recommended social resources to patients experiencing hardships via the social determinants platform.

Who: The four Massachusetts Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) hubs (Boston University, Harvard University, Tufts University, and University of Massachusetts) partnered with the Boston Breast Cancer Equity Coalition, and the 5 hospitals that care for women with breast cancer.

Patient population: about 1,300 vulnerable inner city women with risk for delay in breast cancer care. Massachusetts (MA) Cancer Registry data identified the following characteristics of Boston residents with greatest delays in breast cancer treatment: Black, Hispanic, non-English speaking, and public health insurance. Five health care institutions care for \>90% of these women:

1. Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (site PI: Ted James, MD)
2. Boston Medical Center (PI: Tracy Battaglia MD, MPH)
3. Brigham Women's Hospital/Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (PI: Jennifer Haas MD, MPH)
4. Massachusetts General Hospital (site PI: Beverly Moy, MD)
5. Tufts Medical Center (PI: Karen Freund MD, MPH)

University of Massachusetts Medical Center (PI: Stephenie Lemon, PhD) will play an integral role in the planning and implementation of the TRIP intervention but is not a clinical site.