A Phase 2 Study of ASONEP™ to Treat Unresectable and Refractory Renal Cell Carcinoma
This Phase 2a study will investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of ASONEP™ (sonepcizumab/LT1009) when administered intravenously once a week, every 4 weeks (or cycle), to subjects with refractory renal cell carcinoma (RCC) until the disease progresses. Subjects who have failed 3 prior treatments for RCC including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and/or mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors or who have tumors that cannot be surgically removed will be eligible for screening.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: ASONEP
Progression-Free Survival, The study will use a two-cohort design based on an 8-week PFS rate. Treatment will be considered promising if at least 12 out of the first 22 eligible subjects entered in the Cohort 1 of the study are progression free at Week 8. Enrollment of Cohort 2 will then proceed and be considered worthy of further evaluation if at least 25 out of 39 eligible subjects are progression free at Week 8. If no efficacy signal is observed after enrollment of 22 subjects in Cohort 1, the second cohort will not be enrolled and the clinical study may be stopped., 8 weeks
Safety and Tolerability - Incidence and frequency of adverse events and serious adverse events, The incidence and frequency of adverse events and serious adverse events, 8 weeks
Pharmacokinetics Trough Concentrations, Descriptive statistics (mean, median, standard deviation and coefficient of variation) will be used to summarize trough concentrations. For subjects testing positive for anti-drug antibodies (ADA) to ASONEP, the relationship between plasma ADA titers and ASONEP trough concentrations will be evaluated., Pre-dose, weeks 1, 2, 4 of Cycle 1; pre-dose, weeks 2, 4 of Cycle 2|Tumor Response Rate, Imaging-based tumor assessments will be performed and response determined according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, 8 weeks|Changes in Surrogate Markers, Blood samples will be drawn for lymphocyte, antibody, cytokine, VEGF and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) analysis, 8 weeks|Changes in Anti-drug Antibodies, Plasma samples will be evaluated for presence of ADA. If presence of ADA in plasma is confirmed, titers of anti-ASONEP will be determined., 8 weeks
LT1009-Onc-002 is a Phase 2a open-label, multi-center study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ASONEP (sonepcizumab/LT1009) monotherapy in subjects with advanced, unresectable, refractory RCC who have previously failed up to 3 therapies, including VEGF and/or mTOR inhibitors. Two cohorts will be enrolled for a total of up to 39 subjects. Subjects will receive an intravenous (IV) infusion of ASONEP™ over 90 minutes at 24 mg/kg once a week and progression-free survival (PFS) will be assessed after 8 weeks of treatment. Cohort 1 will enroll approximately 22 subjects. A second cohort of up to 17 subjects will be enrolled if at least 12 out of 22 subjects from Cohort 1 demonstrated PFS at 8 weeks. Weekly dosing will take place from the date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first.