A Study to Examine Olaparib Maintenance Retreatment in Patients With Epithelial Ovarian Cancer.
The OReO study will be a Phase IIIb, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre study to assess the efficacy and tolerability of Olaparib retreatment, versus matching placebo, in non-mucinous epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients (including patients with primary peritoneal and/or fallopian tube cancer)
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Active Comparator: Olaparib tablets|DRUG: Placebo
Efficacy: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS (per RECIST 1.1) was defined as the time from randomisation until the date of Investigator assessed objective radiological disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of disease progression). Objective progression (per RECIST 1.1) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of the target lesions and an absolute increase of \>5 mm, or an overall non-target lesion assessment of progression or a new lesion. Patients who have not progressed or died at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the latest date of assessment from their last evaluable RECIST assessment., At randomization visit and at every 12 weeks (+/- 7 days) until objective radiological disease progression as determined by the investigator or other discontinuation criteria are met (assessed upto 3.8 years)
Efficacy: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomisation until death due to any cause. Any patient not known to have died at the time of analysis was censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive, From randomisation till Long-term follow-up (12-weekly beyond 30 days after last dose of study treatment) assessed upto 3.8 years|Efficacy: Time to Progression by Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup (GCIG) Criteria, Time to progression by RECIST or CA-125 or death is defined as the time from randomisation to the earlier date of RECIST progression or CA-125 progression or death by any cause. Patients without a CA-125 progression or a RECIST progression who are still alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of their last evaluable RECIST assessment and/or their last available CA-125 measurement, whichever is the earliest at the time of analysis. Patients that do not have any evaluable RECIST assessments or any CA-125 results post-randomisation will be censored at the date of randomisation, At screening (Visit 1) and at every 12 weeks (±7 days), until objective disease progression, based on progressive serial elevation of serum CA-125 according to the GCIG criteria, or until discontinuation for other reasons (assessed upto 3.8 years)|Efficacy: Time to First Subsequent Treatment Commencement (TFST), TFST was assessed as time from randomisation to first subsequent treatment commencement or death if this occurs before commencement of first subsequent treatment. Any patient not known to have had a further subsequent therapy or death was censored at the last known time to have not received subsequent therapy, From follow-up i.e. 30 days after last dose of study medication till end of study (assessed every 12 weeks upto 3.8 years)|Efficacy: Time to Second Subsequent Treatment Commencement (TSST), TSST was assessed as time from randomisation to second subsequent treatment commencement or death if this occurs before commencement of second subsequent treatment. Any patient not known to have had a further second subsequent therapy or death was censored at the last known time to have not received second subsequent therapy, From follow-up i.e. 30 days after last dose of study medication till end of study (assessed every 12 weeks upto 3.8 years)|Efficacy: Time to Study Treatment Discontinuation (TDT), TDT was assessed as time from randomisation to study treatment discontinuation or death if this occurs before discontinuation of study treatment. Any patient not known to have died at the time of analysis and not known to have discontinued study treatment was censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive, From follow-up 30 days after last dose of study medication till long-term follow-up i.e. 12-weekly beyond 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Efficacy: Change From Baseline in Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL), Health related quality of life (HRQoL) of Olaparib maintenance retreatment compared to placebo as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Ovarian (FACT-O) Trial Outcome Index (TOI) was determined. HRQoL was analysed using the FACT-O tool by mixed model for repeated measures (MMRM) analysis of the change from baseline in TOI score. FACT-O TOI is scored from O to 100 with higher scores denoting better quality of life. The higher the score, the better the HRQoL., At Baseline, and from Day 1 until objective disease progression (assessed upto 2 years)|Number of Patients With Adverse Events (AEs), and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), All AEs/serious adverse events (SAEs) reported during the study were recorded., At Baseline and from Day 1 till follow-up i.e. 30 days after last dose of study medication (assessed upto 3.8 years)|Number of Patients With Adverse Event of Special Interest (AESI)., All AESIs reported during the study were recorded., At Baseline and from Day 1 till long-term follow-up i.e. 12-weekly beyond 30 days after last dose of study treatment (assessed upto 3.8 years)
The OReO study will investigate the efficacy and safety of Olaparib maintenance re-treatment in patients with relapsed non-mucinous EOC, who have had disease progression following maintenance therapy with a Polyadenosine 5'diphosphoribose \[poly (ADP ribose)\] polymerisation inhibitor (PARPi) and a complete or partial radiological response to subsequent treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy or may have no evidence of disease (if optimal cytoreductive surgery was conducted prior to chemotherapy), and no evidence of a rising CA-125. Patients will be enrolled on the basis of their breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA1, BRCA2) status into one of two cohorts (BRCA1/2 \[+ve\] and BRCA1/2 \[-ve\]). The BRCA1/2 (+ve) and BRCA1/2 (-ve) cohorts will be randomised separately. Within each cohort, patients will be randomised by prospective allocation in a 2:1 ratio (Olaparib: matching placebo).