Vaccine Therapy Plus Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Locally Recurrent Stomach Cancer or Esophageal Cancer
RATIONALE: Vaccines may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining vaccine therapy with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining vaccine therapy and chemotherapy in treating patients who have metastatic or locally recurrent stomach cancer or esophageal cancer.
Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: G17DT Immunogen|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: fluorouracil
To determine whether a concomitant G17DT-chemotherapy regimen affects tumor response in subjects with gastric or gastroesophageal cancer., 6 months to 1 year
Time to disease progression, best overall response, and survival will be evaluated in the intent-to-treat population and the evaluable population., 6 months to 1 year
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine a safe and immunogenic combination of G17DT with cisplatin and fluorouracil in patients with chemotherapy-naive metastatic or locally recurrent gastric or gastroesophageal cancer. II. Determine the safety profile and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the tumor response rate, disease stabilization, best overall response, time to progression, time to treatment failure, and overall survival in patients treated with this regimen. IV. Determine the correlation of immunological response with clinical efficacy and benefit in patients treated with this regimen. V. Determine the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to one of four treatment regimens. Regimen A: Patients receive high-dose G17DT intramuscularly (IM) on days 7, 35, and 63. Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 1-3 hours on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over days 1-5 every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. If inadequate immune response is seen on Regimen A, subsequent patients are treated on Regimen B. If unacceptable toxicity is seen on Regimen A, subsequent patients are treated on Regimen C. If inadequate immune response and unacceptable toxicity are seen on Regimen A, or if unacceptable toxicity is seen on Regimen B or inadequate immune response is seen on Regimen C, then subsequent patients are treated on Regimen D. Regimen B: Patients receive high-dose G17DT IM on days 1, 28, and 56. Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 1-3 hours on day 35 followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over days 35-39 every four weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Regimen C: Patients receive low-dose G17DT IM on days 7, 35, and 63 with chemotherapy as in regimen A. Regimen D: Patients receive low-dose G17DT IM on days 1, 28, and 56 with chemotherapy as in regimen B. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on day 7, every 2 weeks for 10 weeks, and then every 4 weeks thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-75 patients will be accrued for this study within 5-30 months.