FOLFOX, Botensilimab, and Balstilimab for the Treatment of Localized Rectal Cancer Before Surgery
This phase II trial tests how well fluorouracil, oxaliplatin and leucovorin calcium (folinic acid) (FOLFOX) with botensilimab and balstilimab given before surgery (neoadjuvant) works in treating patients with rectal adenocarcinoma that has not spread to other parts of the body (localized). Currently, neoadjuvant therapy for rectal cancer includes chemotherapy and chemoradiation. Despite these aggressive treatments, only about half of patients achieve a complete clinical response. In fact, over half of rectal cancer patients go on to have surgery and often suffer post-surgery complications involving urine and bowel problems. Thus, there has been an increased focus on non-surgical treatments. Chemotherapy drugs, such as fluorouracil, oxaliplatin and leucovorin calcium, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as botensilimab and balstilimab, may help the body's immune system attack the tumor, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving neoadjuvant FOLFOX with botensilimab and balstilimab may improve the rate of complete response and decrease the need for surgery and radiation therapy in patients with localized rectal adenocarcinoma.
Rectal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Rectal Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Balstilimab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Botensilimab|DRUG: Capecitabine|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Digital Rectal Examination|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Biopsy|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Sigmoidoscopy
Complete clinical response (cCR) rate, Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages will be used for categorical variables. Univariate logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (OR) and 90% confidence interval (CI) for cCR, At 3 months after treatment
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR is calculated as the number of patients with complete response (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version \[v\] 1.1) divided by the total number of treated/evaluable subjects. Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages will be used for categorical variables. Univariate logistic regression was used to estimate OR and 90% CI. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate hazard ratios (HR) with 95% CI., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AE) and serious adverse events (SAE), AE and SAE will be described and graded at all dose levels using Common Terminology Criteria in Adverse Events v 5.0. Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages will be used for categorical variables., Up to 90 days post-treatment|Disease free survival (DFS), Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages will be used for categorical variables. Univariate logistic regression was used to estimate OR and 90% CI. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate HR with 95% CI. DFS distributions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of study enrollment until the recurrence of disease or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 3 years post-treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS), Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages will be used for categorical variables. PFS distributions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Kaplan-Meier method was used to plot PFS curves, and the log-rank test was applied to compare the distribution between groups. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate HR with 95% CI., From the date of study enrollment until objective tumor progression or death, assessed up to 5 years|Pelvic recurrence rate, Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages will be used for categorical variables., At 3 years after treatment|Duration of response (DOR), Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages will be used for categorical variables. DOR distributions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From treatment response to progression or death, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Data will be summarized using descriptive statistics for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages will be used for categorical variables. OS distributions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Kaplan-Meier method was used to plot OS curves, and the log-rank test was applied to compare the distribution between groups. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate HR with 95% CI., From the date of study enrollment to the date of death, assessed up to 5 years post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the complete clinical response rate for patients with localized rectal cancer treated with neoadjuvant FOLFOX + botensilimab + balstilimab (FOLFOX-BB).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of FOLFOX-BB in patients with localized rectal cancer treated with neoadjuvant FOLFOX + botensilimab + balstilimab (FOLFOX-BB).

II. To estimate 3 year disease free survival rates in patients treated with FOLFOX-BB.

III. To estimate 3 year pelvic recurrence rates in patients with localized rectal cancer treated with neoadjuvant FOLFOX + botensilimab + balstilimab (FOLFOX-BB).

IV. To estimate the duration of response in patients with localized rectal cancer treated with neoadjuvant FOLFOX + botensilimab + balstilimab (FOLFOX-BB).

V. To evaluate 5 year survival rates in patients in patients with localized rectal cancer treated with neoadjuvant FOLFOX + botensilimab + balstilimab (FOLFOX-BB).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine changes in tumor microenvironment in response to FOLFOX-BB. II. To assess serial blood biomarkers to identify potential correlations with treatment response and outcomes.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive leucovorin calcium intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on day 1 of each cycle. Patients also receive botensilimab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1 and 4 and balstilimab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 14 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with complete clinical response may continue to receive balstilimab alone for an additional 12 cycles. Patients without complete clinical response may receive radiation therapy once daily (QD) on weekdays and capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) concurrently on days of radiation therapy per standard of care. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection, biopsy with endoscopy examination (exam), sigmoidoscopy, digital rectal exam, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patient are followed at 30 and 90 days, then every 3 months within 1 year of start of treatment, followed by every 6 months for up to 2 years.