Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Intermediate or High-Risk Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
This pilot early phase I trial studies pembrolizumab in treating patients with slow growing (smoldering) multiple myeloma with intermediate or high-risk of spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Smoldering Plasma Cell Myeloma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate is defined as patients who have achieved partial response or higher as described per IMWG criteria for multiple myeloma after 8 cycles of therapy with pembrolizumab. Will be measured according to International Myeloma Working Group Criteria (IMWG) criteria. Response rate will be estimated accordingly. Each cycle has a duration of 21 days., From cycle 1 to cycle 8, up to 168 days
Number of Participants That Had Progression to Multiple Myeloma, Progressive disease assessed by IMWG criteria for multiple myeloma after 8 cycles of therapy with pembrolizumab., At 30 months from study entry|Clinical Benefit Rate, Minor response or better assessed by IMWG criteria for multiple myeloma after 8 cycles of therapy with pembrolizumab, From cycle 1 to cycle 8, up to 168 days|Overall Survival, Participants in a study or treatment group who are still alive for a certain period of time after they were diagnosed with or started treatment for a disease, Time of start of treatment to death from any cause up to 2 years and 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the overall response rate after 8 cycles of treatment according to the International Myeloma Working Group Criteria (IMWG).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine time to progression to multiple myeloma (TTP) at 30 months from study entry.

II. To determine overall survival (OS). III. To determine duration of response (DOR). IV. To determine the clinical benefit rate (CBR) after 8 cycles of treatment according to the modified IMWG Criteria for multiple myeloma (MM).

V. To evaluate safety and tolerability of single agent treatment in this population.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity at complete remission (CR).

II. Molecular profiling (including whole exome sequencing and gene expression profiling) and cellular (including flow cytometry) profiling at baseline and/or at progression using bone marrow aspirate samples and peripheral blood.

III. Immunophenotypic characterization of dendritic, T-, B-, natural killer (NK)- and natural killer T (NKT)-cells, and inhibitory/activation markers on tumor cells at baseline and at completion of 8 cycles of therapy in bone marrow aspirate samples and/or peripheral blood.

IV. Evaluation of changes in PD-L1 and PD-1 expression at baseline/end of 8 cycles of treatment and correlate with clinical response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months.