Treatment With AZD4547 for Recurrent Malignant Glioma Expressing FGFR-TACC Gene Fusion"
The investigators will look for the presence of the fusion gene in all patients operated on for glioma. This search will be limited to all gliomas that show no IDH1 mutation, the latter being sought in both routine and anomalies never co-existing.

The hypothesis is that the rate of progression-free survival in grade IV gliomas and III without IDH1 mutation, with the usual chemotherapy, only 15% at 6 months (ie, 85% of patients relapse before 6 months of treatment), must be with this new treatment 35% (primary endpoint).

The main objective is the evaluation of disease-free survival at 6 months.
Recurrent IDHwt Gliomas With FGFR3-TACC3 Fusion|Recurrent IDHwt Gliomas With FGFR1-TACC1 Fusion
DRUG: AZD4547
Progression free survival measured according to RANO (Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology) criteria, To assess the efficacy of AZD4547 by measuring the rate of Progression Free Survival at 6 months (PFS6) in recurrent malignant glioma patients with FGFR-TACC fusion., 6 months
Overall response rate measured according to RANO criteria, To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma with FGFR-TACC fusion based on Overall Response Rate for patients with a measurable residue., 6 months|Duration of PFS, To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma with FGFR-TACC fusion based on the duration of PFS, 12 months|Overall survival, To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma with a FGFR-TACC fusion based on Overall Survival AZD4547, 12 months|Safety of AZD4547 (Number of patients who experienced grade III-IV (CTCAE v4.0) toxicity related to the drug), 6 months|Pharmacokinetic of AZD4547: Maximum Plasma Concentration [Cmax], Dosages will be performed at the cycle 2 or 3: predose, 2, 3, 4 and 6h post-dose|Pharmacokinetic of AZD4547: Area Under the Curve [AUC])., Dosages will be performed at the cycle 2 or 3: predose, 2, 3, 4 and 6h post-dose|Pharmacokinetic of AZD4547: Residual Plasma Concentration, Dosages will be performed at the cycle 2 or 3: predose, 2, 3, 4 and 6h post-dose
3% of GBM and IDHwt gliomas have a highly oncogenic FGFR-TACC gene fusion that confers high sensitivity to FGFR inhibitors to tumor cells, in vitro and in vivo. Preclinical data shows that expression of FGFR-TACC fusions confers sensitivity to FGFR inhibitors (including AZD4547) to GBM models.AZD4547 (AstraZeneca) is a potent and selective inhibitor of FGFR-1, 2 and 3 receptor tyrosine kinases. Preclinical data have shown some CNS penetration. Some of the important adverse events are hyperphosphatemia, and ocular complications. The primary objective and assessment criterion is to assess the efficacy of AZD4547 by measuring the rate of Progression Free Survival at 6 months (PFS6) in recurrent malignant glioma patients with FGFR-TACC fusion.Secondary objectives and assessment criteria are: - To characterize the safety, tolerability and PK of AZD4547 in glioma patients

* To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma with FGFR-TACC fusion based on Overall Response Rate for patients with a measurable residue.
* To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma with FGFR-TACC fusion based on the duration of PFS
* To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma with a FGFR-TACC fusion based on Overall Survival AZD4547 Exploratory objectives - To elucidate the mechanism of response and resistance (primary and secondary) by exploratory biomarker analysis Experimental design: This is a phase II study in patients diagnosed with a FGFR3-TACC3 or FGFR1-TACC1 fusion positive glioma presenting with a recurrence of the disease after chemotherapy and radiotherapy. RNA will be systematically screened for the presence of FGFR-TACC in each of the 11 participating centers, and IHC for FGFR3 hyperexpression. The investigators also encourage a wide use of FGFR3 IHC in non participating centers in order to identify additional potential candidates who can be referred to one of the 11 centers for assessment of FGFR-TACC expression by RNA analysis..

Patients will receive AZD4547 at a dose of 80mg bd on a continuous schedule, until disease progression. With the following hypothesis: P0: PFS6=15%, P1: PFS6=35%, with alpha=5% and power=80%, an initial cohort of 12 patients will be treated. If objective anti-tumor effects are observed, the cohort will be expanded to include a total number of 38 subjects. Grade II gliomas are also eligible but they will constitute an extra small cohort.