Efficacy and Safety of COVID-19 Vaccine in Cancer Patients
This study gathers information about how a cancer patient responds to COVID-19 vaccine during cancer treatment compared to healthy individuals. The information gained may help determine how effective currently available COVID-19 vaccines are in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy and learn more regarding how long an immune response will last compared to healthy individuals.
COVID-19 Infection|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Antibody response to COVID-19 vaccine after vaccination in cancer patients and health individuals, Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to compare between baseline and other 3 time points (before the second vaccination, 3 months, and 12 months after the second vaccination)., Up to 12 months
Adverse events of COVID-19 vaccines in cancer patients and health individuals, Will use descriptive statistics (mean, median, range for continuous variables and frequency/percentage for categorical variables) to analyze demographic data including age, ethnicity, and comorbidity in healthy individuals and cancer patients as well as cancer type and current cancer treatment in cancer patients in association with adverse events after the vaccination., Up to 12 months|T cell response to COVID-19 vaccine after vaccination in cancer patients and health individuals, Up to 12 months
Incidence and severity of COVID-19 infection after the vaccination in cancer patients and health individuals, Will use descriptive statistics (mean, median, range for continuous variables and frequency/percentage for categorical variables) to analyze demographic data including age, ethnicity, and comorbidity in healthy individuals and cancer patients as well as cancer type and current cancer treatment in cancer patients in association with incidence as well as severity of subsequent COVID-19 infection after the vaccination., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the antibody response to COVID-19 vaccine after vaccination. II. To assess the adverse events of COVID-19 vaccines in cancer patients. III. To determine the incidence and severity of COVID-19 infection after the vaccination.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline (prior to first COVID-19 vaccination), prior to second vaccination, 1, 6, and 12 months after the last vaccination. Patients receiving a booster vaccine will undergo blood collection prior to and 1-3 months after vaccination. Patients who receive the types of COVID-19 vaccines that do not require the second injection skip blood sample collection at this time point. This study will collect information regarding the type of COVID-19 vaccine received, date of vaccine injection, and any side effects associated with the COVID-19 vaccine that trial participant encountered. This study will also review the medical record for outcomes and information related to the blood testing.