Study of GSK3359609 With Pembrolizumab and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-Platinum Chemotherapy in Participants With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate if the addition of GSK3359609 to pembrolizumab in combination with 5FU-platinum based chemotherapy improves the efficacy of the pembrolizumab combination with 5FU-platinum based chemotherapy in participants with recurrent or metastatic (R/M) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). This randomized, double-blinded, Phase II/III study will compare the combination of GSK3359609 with pembrolizumab and 5FU-platinum chemotherapy to placebo in combination with pembrolizumab and 5FU-platinum chemotherapy in participants with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC of the oral cavity, oropharynx, hypopharynx or larynx.
Neoplasms, Head and Neck
DRUG: Feladilimab|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Platinum based chemotherapy|DRUG: Fluorouracil (5FU)
Overall Survival (OS) in mITT Population, OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Kaplan-Meier estimate for the median OS is presented, along with associated 95% confidence interval, estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to approximately 7 months|OS in Programmed Death Receptor-ligand 1 (PD-L1) Combined Positive Score (CPS) ≥1 Population, OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death due to any cause. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells. Kaplan-Meier estimate for the median OS is presented, along with associated 95% confidence interval, estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to approximately 7 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version (v)1.1 in mITT Population, PFS per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Kaplan-Meier estimate for the median PFS is presented, along with associated 95% confidence interval, estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to approximately 7 months
PFS Per RECIST v1.1 in the PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, PFS per RECIST v1.1 was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells. Kaplan-Meier estimate for the median PFS is presented, along with associated 95% confidence interval, estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to approximately 7 months|Milestone OS Rate at 12, 24 and 36 Months in mITT Population, Milestone OS rate at 12, 24, and 36 months was not evaluated., Months 12, 24 and 36|Milestone OS Rate at 12, 24 and 36 Months in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, Milestone OS rate at 12, 24, and 36 months was not evaluated. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Months 12, 24 and 36|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Per RECIST v1.1 in mITT Population, ORR per RECIST v1.1 was defined as the proportion of the participants who have a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response per RECIST v1.1 based upon investigator assessment. As a randomized double-blind study in which primary endpoints are OS and PFS, the confirmation of CR and PR was not required. Rate and associated 2-sided 95 percent Exact (Clopper-Pearson) Confidence Intervals are provided for each treatment arm which are unadjusted., Up to approximately 7 months|ORR Per RECIST v1.1 in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, ORR per RECIST v1.1 was defined as the proportion of the participants who have a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response per RECIST v1.1 based upon investigator assessment. As a randomized double-blind study in which primary endpoints are OS and PFS, the confirmation of CR and PR was not required. Rate and associated 2-sided 95 percent Exact (Clopper-Pearson) Confidence Intervals are provided for each treatment arm which are unadjusted. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 7 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Per RECIST v1.1 in mITT Population, DCR per RECIST v1.1 based upon investigator assessment, was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR or PR at any time plus stable disease (SD) meeting the minimum time of 15 weeks. A status of SD≥15 weeks will be assigned if the follow-up disease assessment has met the SD criteria at least once after the date of randomization at a minimum of 14 weeks (98 days) considering a one-week visit window. Rate and associated 2-sided 95 percent Exact (Clopper-Pearson) Confidence Intervals are provided for each treatment arm which are unadjusted., Up to approximately 7 months|DCR Per RECIST v1.1 in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, DCR per RECIST v1.1 based upon investigator assessment, was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR or PR at any time plus stable disease (SD) meeting the minimum time of 15 weeks. A status of SD≥15 weeks will be assigned if the follow-up disease assessment has met the SD criteria at least once after the date of randomization at a minimum of 14 weeks (98 days) considering a one-week visit window. Rate and associated 2-sided 95 percent Exact (Clopper-Pearson) Confidence Intervals are provided for each treatment arm which are unadjusted. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 7 months|Duration of Response (DoR) Per RECIST v1.1 in mITT Population, DoR per RECIST v1.1 is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until first documented disease progression per RECIST v1.1 based upon investigator assessment or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, among participants who demonstrated CR or PR as the best overall response per RECIST v1.1. Kaplan-Meier estimate for the median DoR is presented, along with associated 95% confidence interval, estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to approximately 7 months|DoR Per RECIST v1.1 in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, DoR per RECIST v1.1 is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until first documented disease progression per RECIST v1.1 based upon investigator assessment or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, among participants who demonstrated CR or PR as the best overall response per RECIST v1.1. Kaplan-Meier estimate for the median DoR is presented, along with associated 95% confidence interval, estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 7 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) in Safety Population, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention, Up to approximately 37.2 months|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) in Safety Population, SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect and other situations according to medical or scientific judgement., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI) in Safety Population, AESI were defined as events of potential immunologic etiology, including immune-related AEs (irAEs)., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Number of Participants With AEs in Programmed Death Ligand-1 (PD-L1) Combined Positive Score (CPS ≥1) Population, Any untoward or unfavorable medical occurrence in a participant, including any abnormal sign (for example, abnormal physical exam or laboratory finding), symptom, or disease, temporally associated with the participant's participation in the research, whether or not considered related to the participant's participation in the research. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Number of Participants With SAEs in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect and other situations according to medical or scientific judgement. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Number of Participants With AESIs in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, AESI were defined as events of potential immunologic etiology, including immune-related AEs (irAEs). CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Severity of AEs in Safety Population, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. Severity for each AE was reported during the study and assigned a grade according to the NCI-CTCAE v5.0. from Grade 1 through Grade 5. Grade 1= mild toxicity; Grade 2 = moderate toxicity; Grade 3 = severe toxicity; Grade 4 = life-threatening or disabling toxicity, Grade 5 = death related to toxicity., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Severity of SAEs in Safety Population, A SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, any other situation such as important medical events according to medical or scientific judgement. Severity for each SAE was reported during the study and assigned a grade according to the NCI-CTCAE v5.0. from Grade 1 through Grade 5. Grade 1= mild toxicity; Grade 2 = moderate toxicity; Grade 3 = severe toxicity; Grade 4 = life-threatening or disabling toxicity, Grade 5 = death related to toxicity. Data of participants experiencing SAEs of Grade \>= 3 has been presented., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Severity of AESIs in Safety Population, AESI were defined as events of potential immunologic etiology, including immune-related AEs (irAEs). Severity of each AESI was reported during the study and was assigned a grade according to the NCI-CTCAE. AESIs severity were graded on a 5-point scale as: 1 = mild; discomfort noticed, but no disruption to daily activity, 2 = moderate; discomfort sufficient to reduce or affect normal daily activity, 3 = severe; inability to work or perform normal daily activity, 4 = life-threatening consequences and 5 = death related to AE. Data of participants experiencing AESIs of Grade \>= 3 have been presented., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Severity of AEs in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. Severity for each AE was reported during the study and assigned a grade according to the NCI-CTCAE v5.0. from Grade 1 through Grade 5. Grade 1= mild toxicity; Grade 2 = moderate toxicity; Grade 3 = severe toxicity; Grade 4 = life-threatening or disabling toxicity, Grade 5 = death related to toxicity. Data of participants experiencing AEs of Grade \>= 3 have been presented. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Severity of SAEs in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, A SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, any other situation such as important medical events according to medical or scientific judgement. Severity for each SAE was reported during the study and assigned a grade according to the NCI-CTCAE v5.0. from Grade 1 through Grade 5. Grade 1= mild toxicity; Grade 2 = moderate toxicity; Grade 3 = severe toxicity; Grade 4 = life-threatening or disabling toxicity, Grade 5 = death related to toxicity. Data of participants that experienced SAEs of Grade \>= 3 have been presented. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Severity of AESI in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, AESI were defined as events of potential immunologic etiology, including immune-related AEs (irAEs). Severity of each AESI was reported during the study and was assigned a grade according to the NCI-CTCAE. AESIs severity were graded on a 5-point scale as: 1 = mild; discomfort noticed, but no disruption to daily activity, 2 = moderate; discomfort sufficient to reduce or affect normal daily activity, 3 = severe; inability to work or perform normal daily activity, 4 = life-threatening consequences and 5 = death related to AE. Data of participants that experienced AESIs of Grade \>= 3 have been presented., Up to approximately 37.2 months|Number of Participants With Dose Modifications in Safety Population, Number of participants with dose modifications (including dose interruptions, dose delays, dose reductions and treatment discontinuations) were reported by each interventional component., Up to approximately 7 months|Number of Participants With Dose Modifications in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, Number of participants with dose modifications (including dose interruptions, dose delays, dose reductions and treatment discontinuations) were reported by each interventional component. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 7 months|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in Pain in mITT Population, TTD in pain is defined as the time from randomization to the first definitive meaningful deterioration from baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Item Library(EORTC IL51) Questionnaire pain domain, i.e. an increase from baseline of at least 8.33 observed at all subsequent non-missing visits. The EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire 35-Item Head and Neck Module (QLQ-H\&N35) is a head and neck specific module with multi-item scales. The mouth pain, swallowing, speech problems, opening mouth, coughing, feeding tube, and trouble with social eating domains were administered and referred to as the EORTC IL51. The questionnaire scores for each scale and single-item measure are averaged and transformed linearly to present a score ranging from 0-100. A high score represents a high/healthy level of functioning. Kaplan-Meier estimate for the median TTD is presented, along with associated 95% confidence interval, estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to approximately 7 months|TTD in Pain in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, TTD in pain is defined as the time from randomization to the first definitive meaningful deterioration from baseline in the EORTC IL51 pain domain, i.e. an increase from baseline of at least 8.33 observed at all subsequent non-missing visits. The EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 is a head and neck specific module with multi-item scales. The mouth pain, swallowing, speech problems, opening mouth, coughing, feeding tube, and trouble with social eating domains were administered and referred to as the EORTC IL51. The questionnaire scores for each scale and single-item measure are averaged and transformed linearly to present a score ranging from 0-100. A high score represents a high/healthy level of functioning. Kaplan-Meier estimate for the median TTD is presented, along with associated 95% confidence interval, estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells to the total number of viable tumor cells., Up to approximately 7 months|TTD in Physical Function in mITT Population, TTD in physical function (PF) is defined as the time from randomization to the first definitive meaningful deterioration from baseline in the PF T-score, i.e. a decrease from baseline of at least 2.4 observed at all subsequent non-missing visits, as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System - Physical Function (PROMIS PF 8c).The PROMIS PF 8c is an 8-item fixed length short form derived from the PROMIS Physical Function item bank. It includes a 5-point scale with three sets of response options. Scores on the PROMIS PF 8c are reported on a T score metric (mean = 50 and SD = 10), with higher scores reflecting better physical functioning., Up to approximately 7 months|TTD in Physical Function in PD-L1 CPS ≥1 Population, TTD in PF is defined as the time from randomization to the first definitive meaningful deterioration from baseline in the PF T-score, i.e. a decrease from baseline of at least 2.4 observed at all subsequent non-missing visits, as measured by the PROMIS PF 8c.The PROMIS PF 8c is an 8-item fixed length short form derived from the PROMIS Physical Function item bank. It includes a 5-point scale with three sets of response options. Scores on the PROMIS PF 8c are reported on a T score metric (mean = 50 and SD = 10), with higher scores reflecting better physical functioning. CPS was defined as the ratio of the combined number of PD-L1 expressing tumor cells and immune cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) to the total number of viable tumor cells, Up to approximately 7 months
The purpose of this study is to evaluate if the addition of GSK3359609 to pembrolizumab in combination with 5FU-platinum based chemotherapy improves the efficacy of the pembrolizumab combination with 5FU-platinum based chemotherapy in participants with recurrent or metastatic (R/M) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). This randomized, double-blinded, Phase II/III study will compare the combination of GSK3359609 with pembrolizumab and 5FU-platinum chemotherapy to placebo in combination with pembrolizumab and 5FU-platinum chemotherapy in participants with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC of the oral cavity, oropharynx, hypopharynx or larynx.