Phase 2 Study of MGCD265 in Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With Activating Genetic Alterations in MET
MGCD265 is an orally administered receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets MET and other receptors. This study is a Phase 2 trial of MGCD265 in patients with locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that has activating genetic changes of the MET gene (mutation or amplification \[increase number of gene copies\]). Testing for tumor gene changes can be performed in tumor tissue or blood samples. Patients must have previously received treatment with chemotherapy. The number of patients to be enrolled will depend on how many enrolled patients experience tumor size reduction. MGCD265 will be administered orally, twice daily. The study is designed to evaluate whether the number of patients experiencing tumor size reduction is substantially higher than would be expected with other available treatments.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: MGCD265
Objective Response Rate, Objective disease response is defined as the percent of patients documented by investigator assessment to have a confirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) in accordance with the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) for target and non-target lesions as assessed by CT or MRI. CR is defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease; PR is defined as \>=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions; Stable Disease (SD) is concluded when the response does not qualify for CR, PR or Progression; Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target measurable lesions above the smallest sum observed with a minimum absolute increase of 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of pre-existing non-target lesions., Up to 3 months
Duration of Response, Duration of Response (DR) will be defined as the time from date of the first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR) to the first documentation of Objective Progression of Disease (PD) or to death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD., From date of the first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR) to the first documentation of Objective Progression of Disease (PD) or to death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD, assessed up to 24 months.|Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) will be defined as the time from date of first study treatment to first PD or death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD. Per RECIST 1.1, Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target measurable lesions above the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease in the sum is observed during therapy) with a minimum absolute increase of 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of pre-existing non-target lesions., The time from date of first study treatment to first PD or death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD, up to 24 months.|1-Year Survival Rate, 1-Year Survival will be defined as the probability of survival at 1 year after the first dose., From date of first study treatment to death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival will be defined as the time from date of first study treatment to death due to any cause, From date of first study treatment to death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months.|Number of Patients Experiencing Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Number of patients experiencing treatment-emergent adverse events., Date of first dose to 28 days after the last dose, up to an average of 5.1 months on treatment.|Blood Plasma Concentration of MGCD265 - AUC0-6, Blood samples for PK assessment were to be taken on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. The number of patients reported for each PK parameter was dependent on the actual number of blood samples collected post-dose., Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose.|Blood Plasma Concentration of MGCD265 - Cmax, Blood samples for PK assessment were to be taken on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. On Cycle 2, samples were collected on Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 6 hours post-dose (4-8 hours). Note: Assessment of Cmax and Tmax are limited by the sparse blood sampling schedule post dose (i.e., only 2 blood draws post-dose in Cycle 1 and only 1 sample collected post-dose in Cycle 2). The number of patients reported for each PK parameter was dependent on the actual number of blood samples collected post-dose., Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. Cycle 2, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 6 hours post-dose (4-8 hours).|Blood Plasma Concentration of MGCD265 - Ctrough, Blood samples for PK assessment were to be taken on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. On Cycle 2, samples were collected on Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 6 hours post-dose (4-8 hours). The number of patients reported for each PK parameter was dependent on the actual number of blood samples collected post-dose., Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. Cycle 2, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 6 hours post-dose (4-8 hours).|Blood Plasma Concentration of MGCD265 - Accumulation Ratio AUC0-6, Blood samples for PK assessment were to be taken on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. The number of patients reported for each PK parameter was dependent on the actual number of blood samples collected post-dose. Accumulation Ratio AUC0-6 = AUC0-6 C1D15/ AUC0-6 C1D1., Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose.|Blood Plasma Concentration of MGCD265 - Accumulation Ratio Cmax, Blood samples for PK assessment were to be taken on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. The number of patients reported for each PK parameter was dependent on the actual number of blood samples collected post-dose. Accumulation Ration Cmax = Cmax C1D15/ Cmax C1D1., Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose.|Blood Plasma Concentration of MGCD265 - Peak to Trough Ratio, Blood samples for PK assessment were to be taken on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. The number of patients reported for each PK parameter was dependent on the actual number of blood samples collected post-dose. Peak to trough ratio calculated as C1D15 Cmax/Ctrough., Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose.|Blood Plasma Concentration of MGCD265 - Tmax, Blood samples for PK assessment were to be taken on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose. Note: Assessment of Cmax and Tmax are limited by the sparse blood sampling schedule post dose (i.e., only 2 blood draws post-dose in Cycle 1 and only 1 sample collected post-dose in Cycle 2). The number of patients reported for each PK parameter was dependent on the actual number of blood samples collected post-dose., Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose and at 2 hours (1-3 hours) and 6 hours (4-8 hours) post-dose.|Assess Correlation Between Selected Tumor Gene Alterations Using Different Analytical Techniques in Tumor Tissue and Circulating Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (ctDNA) - MET Activating Mutations, Only a sub-set of patients had different molecular techniques completed, therefore a correlation analysis was not performed. Patients with positive identification by two different analytical techniques are tabulated for MET Activating Mutations., At baseline|Assess Correlation Between Selected Tumor Gene Alterations Using Different Analytical Techniques in Tumor Tissue and Circulating Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (ctDNA) - MET Gene Amplifications, Only a sub-set of patients had different molecular techniques completed, therefore a correlation analysis was not performed. Patients with positive identification by two different analytical techniques are tabulated for MET Gene Amplifications., At baseline|Assess Change in Genetic Alteration Status in ctDNA With MGCD265 Treatment Over Time in the Selected Population, At baseline and at time of confirmation of response to treatment|Blood Plasma Concentration of Soluble MET (sMET) Biomarker, MET Activating Mutations in ctDNA. Change from Baseline - Cycle 2 Day 15 - Pre-Dose Standard Deviation not evaluable, Cycle 1 and Cycle 2
If testing has not already been performed, the study will provide for the testing.