Chiglitazar/Metformin in Non-obese Women With PCOS
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine and metabolic disorders in women of reproductive age, and its prevalence rate is from 9% (NIH criteria) to 18% (Rotterdamcriteria). It is clinically characterized by hyperandrogenism, persistent anovulation, and polycystic ovarian changes. Moreover it is often accompanied by insulin resistance and obesity. Now, metformin is not only an antihyperglycemic drug, it also corrects insulin resistance and hyperandrogenism in polycystic ovary syndrome. Chiglitazar is a novel peroxisome proliferation activated receptor (PPAR) agonist. Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus by moderate activation of PPARα, PPARγ and PPARδ, improving insulin sensitivity, regulating blood glucose, and promoting fatty acid oxidation and utilization. However, there is limited evidence for its treatment of insulin resistance in women with PCOS. Therefore, investigators applied chiglitazar and metformin to two groups of PCOS patients to understand their effects on insulin resistance.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Chiglitazar|Metformin
DRUG: Chiglitazar|DRUG: Metformin
Plasma insulin level, Changes in insulin level before and after treatment, Three months
Total testosterone, Changes in total testosterone (TT), Three months|Sex hormone-binding globulin, Changes in sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), Three months|Ratio of luteinizing hormone to follicular estrogen, Changes in ratio of luteinizing hormone to follicular estrogen (LH/FSH), Three months|BMI and WHtR, Anthropometric indices, including height, weight, waist-to-height ratio (WHtR) and BMI, were assessed at baseline and at 12 weeks after randomization via a standardized protocol., At baseline and at 12 weeks after randomization via a standardized protocol.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine and metabolic disorders in women of reproductive age, and its prevalence rate is from 9% (NIH criteria) to 18% (Rotterdamcriteria). It is clinically characterized by hyperandrogenism, persistent anovulation, and polycystic ovarian changes. Moreover it is often accompanied by insulin resistance and obesity. Now, metformin is not only an antihyperglycemic drug, it also corrects insulin resistance and hyperandrogenism in polycystic ovary syndrome. Chiglitazar is a novel peroxisome proliferation activated receptor (PPAR) agonist. Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus by moderate activation of PPARα, PPARγ and PPARδ, improving insulin sensitivity, regulating blood glucose, and promoting fatty acid oxidation and utilization. However, there is limited evidence for its treatment of insulin resistance in women with PCOS. Therefore, investigators applied chiglitazar and metformin to two groups of PCOS patients to understand their effects on insulin resistance.