Prophylactic Irradiation of the Para-Aortic Lymph Nodes and Supraclavicular Lymph Nodes in Locally Advanced Uterine Cervical Cancer
This study is an open-label, randomized study, which is designed to investigate the efficacy of Extended-field irradiation (EFI) on reducing recurrences at the para-aortic lymph node (PAN) and supraclavicular lymph nodes, and also on improving disease-free survival of locally advanced uterine cervical cancer. This study includes a translational research component in that all the primary tumors and lymph node are stained with Sema4c, before randomization. According to the investigators study result, patients with more pelvic lymph node metastasis are more likely to develop distant metastasis including the recurrences at PAN and supraclavicular lymph node. Primary cervical cancer tissues and lymph nodes are examined for expression of Sema4c just after registration, and before the patients are randomized to each arm (pelvis only vs. EFI). The investigators expect a higher benefit of EFI in patients with Sema4c-positive lymph node.
Cervical Cancer
RADIATION: Prophylactic Irradiation of the Para-Aortic Lymph Nodes and supraclavicular lymph nodes in Locally Advanced Uterine Cervical Cancer|RADIATION: Prophylactic Irradiation of the Para-Aortic Lymph Nodes and supraclavicular lymph nodes in Locally Advanced Uterine Cervical Cancer
To evaluate the efficacy of the Extended-Field Irradiation on the recurrence rate in para-aortic lymph nodes, supraclavicular lymph nodes and the disease-free survival rate of the patients with locally advanced uterine cervical cancer, 5 years
To evaluate overall survival, toxicities and quality of life (QOL) of the patients treated by EFI compared to the control group of patients, 5 years
This study is an open-label, randomized study, which is designed to investigate the efficacy of Extended-field irradiation (EFI) on reducing recurrences at the para-aortic lymph node (PAN) and supraclavicular lymph nodes, and also on improving disease-free survival of locally advanced uterine cervical cancer. This study includes a translational research component in that all the primary tumors and lymph node are stained with Sema4c, before randomization. According to the investigators study result, patients with more pelvic lymph node metastasis are more likely to develop distant metastasis including the recurrences at PAN and supraclavicular lymph node. Primary cervical cancer tissues and lymph nodes are examined for expression of Sema4c just after registration, and before the patients are randomized to each arm (pelvis only vs. EFI). The investigators expect a higher benefit of EFI in patients with Sema4c-positive lymph node.