Validation of a Screening Scale for Misuse of Opioid Analgesics
In oncology, pain is one of the main symptoms of discomfort. It has a significant impact on the quality of life.The use of opioid analgesics is recommended for the treatment of moderate to severe cancer pain.The misuse of opioid analgesics is an international public health problem.Different scales have been developed to help the prescriber screen for the risk of misuse in the general population. Patients with cancer-related pain are also at risk for aberrant opioid-related behaviors, misuse or addiction.

The main objectif of this study is to validate of the screening scale for the misuse of opioid analgesics in patients with chronic pain related to cancer. (Prescription Opioid Misuse Index - POMI).
Cancer|Pain|Opioid Analgesic Adverse Reaction
OTHER: Questionnaires
POMI scale score - Prescription Opioid Misuse Index, 8-item self-assessment scale, day 1|POMI scale score - Prescription Opioid Misuse Index, 8-item self-assessment scale, day 15
QCD, Visual Analogue Scales (VAS) for assessing the intensity and daily impact of pain (0-10), day 1|QCD, Visual Analogue Scales (VAS) for assessing the intensity and daily impact of pain (0-10), day 15|Sociodemographic characteristics, Questionnaire about Sociodemographic characteristics of patients, day 1|Lifestyle habits, other consumption, Questionnaire about Lifestyle habits, other consumption, day 1|Analgesic treatments, Questionnaire about Ongoing analgesic treatments, day 1|Use of analgesics, Question evaluating the use of analgesics in the context of anticipating pain, day 1|Use of analgesics, Question evaluating the use of analgesics in the context of anticipating pain, day 15
The study takes place in 2 phases.

Test phase :

Questionnaire no. 1 constitutes the data for the TEST phase: it includes socio-demographic data, medical and family history, lifestyle, treatments, 5 questions from the Concise Pain Questionnaire (QCD), the French version of the POMI scale, the diagnostic criteria of the DSM-V and two questions concerning anxiety associated with pain and therapeutic education.

Retest phase :

questionnaire no. 2 10 to 15 days later.