Phase II Trial of Combination Anti-PD-1 and Aldesleukin for Metastatic Melanoma and Renal Cell Carcinoma
Background:

Aldesleukin is used to treat metastatic or advanced melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. Pembrolizumab is used to treat many cancers including melanoma. Researchers want to see if these drugs can be used together to produce better results in people with these types of cancer.

Objective:

To learn if the combination of pembrolizumab and aldesleukin can be used to treat metastatic or advanced melanoma and renal cell cancer.

Eligibility:

Adults aged 18 years or older who have metastatic or advanced melanoma or renal cell carcinoma.

Design:

Participants will be screened with:

* Medical history
* Physical exam
* Electrocardiogram
* Blood and urine tests
* Ability to perform tasks of daily living
* Imaging scans (CT, MRI, PET, and/or X-rays). They may get a contrast agent to enhance the images.
* Photographs, if needed

Some of these tests will be repeated during the study.

Participants will receive the study drugs by IV (a plastic tube that is put into a vein) for 4 days. A second cycle of treatment will be given 21 days later. They will stay in the hospital for each of the cycles in the first course of treatment. After 2 months, their cancer will be evaluated. They may receive a second course of pembrolizumab alone on Days 1 and 21. They will not have to stay in the hospital for this course.

About 30 days after treatment ends, participants will have a safety follow-up visit. Then they will have visits every 3 months for up to 1 year, and then every 6 months for up to 4 years. Follow-up can also be done by phone, email, and mail. If their cancer gets worse, they will stop having visits.

Participation will last for 5 years.
Metastatic Melanoma|Advanced Locoregional Melanoma|Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Clear Cell Histology
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Aldesleukin
Response rate in treatment refractory disease, Determine the rate of objective response (using RECIST v1.1 criteria), 8 weeks after Course 1 Cycle 1 then after Course 2, every 3 months x 3 (up to one year), every 6 months x 8 (up to five years)
Progression Free Survival, Elapsed duration from enrollment to progression of disease, Every 2-6 months for up to 5 years|Response rate in treatment naive melanoma, Determine the rate of objective response (using RECIST v1.1 criteria), 8 weeks after Course 1 Cycle 1 then after Course 2, every 3 months x 3 (up to one year), every 6 months x 8 (up to five years)|Safety and tolerance, Using standard CTCAE 5.0, First dose through 30 days after last treatment
Background:

High-dose interleukin-2 was approved by the FDA for the treatment of metastatic melanoma and renal cell carcinoma, with overall response rates of 15-16%. Complete regression of disease was seen in 6-7% of participants with many long-term durable responses. The regimen has not been widely adopted due to complexities in management and the development of alternative effective therapies, such as monoclonal antibodies targeting immune checkpoints (ipilimumab, pembrolizumab, nivolumab) or small molecule inhibitors.

Pembrolizumab was approved by the FDA for the treatment of metastatic melanoma based on a series of studies demonstrating objective response rates from 21-34%. There remains a considerable population of participants with disease that never responded to treatment, in addition to participants with short durations of response prior to recurrence.

There has been limited clinical investigation of the combination of interleukin-2 and pembrolizumab. The hypothesis under investigation is that non-specific activation of the immune system with both positive stimulation (aldesleukin) and release of negative regulation (pembrolizumab) may have meaningful clinical impact for participants with limited therapeutic options.

Objectives:

Primary:

To determine the objective response rate as determined by RECIST 1.1 criteria to combined aldesleukin and pembrolizumab in participants with advanced melanoma refractory to anti-PD-1 therapy and treatment-refractory metastatic renal cell carcinoma

Secondary:

To determine progression free survival with the combined regimen

To determine the toxicity profile of this treatment regimen

To determine the objective response rate as determined by RECIST 1.1 criteria to combined aldesleukin and pembrolizumab in participants with treatment-na(SqrRoot) ve advanced melanoma

Exploratory:

To evaluate clinical and laboratory correlates of response

To perform immunologic correlative studies of peripheral blood, tumor, and/or tumor infiltrating lymphocytes including but not limited to phenotype and functional analysis of longitudinal samples

Eligibility:

Participants must be/have:

Age \>= 18 years of age.

ECOG performance status of 0 or 1.

Expected survival of greater than 6 months.

Histologically or cytologically confirmed melanoma or renal cell cancer, as follows:

Cohort 1: Metastatic melanoma or advanced locoregional melanoma not amenable to curative surgical resection and refractory to anti-PD-1 therapy.

Cohort 2: Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (clear cell histology) refractory to at least one line of PD1/PDL1 based therapy.

Cohort 3: Metastatic or advanced locoregional melanoma not amenable to curative surgical resection na(SqrRoot) ve to anti-PD-1 therapy.

No allergies or hypersensitivity to high-dose aldesleukin or pembrolizumab administration.

No concurrent major medical illnesses or any form of immunodeficiency.

No history of Grade 3/4 immune-related adverse events affecting major organ systems associated with the administration of single agent pembrolizumab or nivolumab.

Design:

Study treatment will be given in two courses. A course shall consist of two cycles (each 21 days) of treatment. Cycles in Course 1 shall consist of pembrolizumab (200 mg IV) infusion on the morning of Day 1 with aldesleukin (IL-2) administration (600,000 IU/kg intravenous bolus every eight hours) to begin later that day. IL-2 will be administered to tolerance or to a maximum of 10 doses.

A second cycle of treatment will begin during Week 4 (Day 22-28).

Approximately two months from the beginning of therapy, participants will be evaluated for response including physical exam, clinical laboratory testing, and cross-sectional imaging.

Participants that do not demonstrate progressive disease will receive a second course of pembrolizumab alone, if clinically appropriate.

Participants with stable disease will be monitored until disease progression (every 3 months x 3) up to one year.

Participants with an objective response will be monitored until disease progression (every 3 months x 3, every 6 months x 8) up to five years.