Oocyte Freezing for Fertility Preservation in Benign Ovarian Tumors
Benign ovarian cysts are frequent during women's life. They are diagnosed with pelvic pain or fortuitously during an ultra-sonographic exam. In case of persistence,a surgery will be necessary to identify the nature of the cyst and assess its benignity. In some case, cysts are recurrent and multiple surgeries are needed leading to a significant risk of ovarian damage by follicular depletion. Oocyte cryopreservation is no longer considered as an experimental technique of Fertility Preservation since 2013 as it has been recognized to be efficient and safe. According to reproductive medicine scientific committees and the French ethic law, fertility preservation has to be proposed in every situation of infertility risk. To date, there is no cohort study dedicated to fertility preservation by oocyte freezing in this specific subgroup of patients. The purpose of the study is to prospectively evaluate the oocyte number and quality after controlled ovarian hyperstimulation in patients with recurrent ovarian cysts.
Endometriosis|Dermoid Cyst|Mucinous Cyst
Number of mature oocytes eligible for cryopreservation, After 15 days of controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH)
Percentage of immature or morphologically abnormal oocytes, Real-time, the day of egg retrieval|Number of mature follicles (≥15 mm) and intermediary (10-14 mm) during ovarian stimulation, The day of HCG triggering at the end of ovarian stimulation|Questionnaire on tolerance and complications, A systematic telephone interview will be carried out 48 to 72 hours after the oocyte puncture to judge the tolerance of the procedure., One week after the egg retrieval
Benign ovarian cysts are frequent during women's life. They are diagnosed with pelvic pain or fortuitously during an ultra-sonographic exam. In case of persistence,a surgery will be necessary to identify the nature of the cyst and assess its benignity. In some case, cysts are recurrent and multiple surgeries are needed leading to a significant risk of ovarian damage by follicular depletion. Oocyte cryopreservation is no longer considered as an experimental technique of Fertility Preservation since 2013 as it has been recognized to be efficient and safe. According to reproductive medicine scientific committees and the French ethic law, fertility preservation has to be proposed in every situation of infertility risk. To date, there is no cohort study dedicated to fertility preservation by oocyte freezing in this specific subgroup of patients. The purpose of the study is to prospectively evaluate the oocyte number and quality after controlled ovarian hyperstimulation in patients with recurrent ovarian cysts.