Study of Cryoablation for Metastatic Lung Tumors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of cryoablation therapy used to treat tumors in participants with pulmonary metastatic disease. This study is to enroll participants who will undergo cryoablation of at least 1 metastatic pulmonary tumor that is less than or equal to 3.5 centimeter (cm). Participants will be followed 24 months post their cryoablation procedure.
Neoplasm Metastasis
DEVICE: Cryoablation
Local Tumor Control for Each Index Tumor as Measured by Imaging at Month 12, Local tumor control defined as the absence of local treatment failure 12 months following study cryoablation based on site-reported data. Local control was achieved if the 3-axis measurement (that is, the greatest trans-axial diameter plus the 2 perpendicular diameters) of a tumor at Month 12 was less than 20% larger than the 3-axis measurement of the tumor at Month 1 following study cryoablation. A separate evaluation of local tumor control at Month 12 following cryoablation was completed per index tumor. Month 1 data served as the baseline for this analysis; if Month 1 data was missing, Month 3 data were used. Tumors with a local failure at the prior study visit and those with repeat cryoablation procedures prior to Month 12 were counted as failures. Imaging for assessment of tumor measurements was performed using CT or 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography-CT with or without contrast., Month 1 (Month 3 if Month 1 Data was missing) and Month 12
Number of Participants With an Intra- or Post-operative Adverse Event, a Serious Adverse Event, or an Unanticipated Adverse Device Effect, The number of participants with the following categories of adverse events is presented: an intra-operative, a post-operative, a serious adverse event, or an unanticipated adverse device effect. The adverse events that are presented are related to the cryoablation procedure. A summary of serious and all other non-serious adverse events, regardless of causality, is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., Baseline up to 30 days post-cryoablation
Local Tumor Control for Each Index Tumor at Month 18 and Month 24, Local tumor control defined as the absence of local treatment failure 18 and 24 months following study cryoablation based on site-reported data. Local control was achieved if the 3-axis measurement (that is, the greatest trans-axial diameter plus the 2 perpendicular diameters) of a tumor at Month 12 was less than 20% larger than the 3-axis measurement of the tumor at Month 1 following study cryoablation. A separate evaluation of local tumor control at Month 12 following cryoablation was completed per index tumor. Month 1 data served as the baseline for this analysis; if Month 1 data was missing, Month 3 data were used. Tumors with a local failure at the prior study visit and those with repeat cryoablation procedures prior to Month 12 were counted as failures. Imaging for assessment of tumor measurements was performed using CT or 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography-CT with or without contrast., Month 1 (Month 3 if Month 1 Data was missing), Month 18 and Month 24|Overall Participant Survival Post-cryoablation, Overall survival rate was defined as the time in days from the first cryoablation procedure to death. Participants who were alive were censored at the date of the last visit., Up to Month 24|Time to Metastatic Lung Disease Progression Beyond the Index Tumor(s), Time to metastatic lung disease progression beyond the index tumor was defined as the time in days from the first cryoablation procedure to metastatic disease beyond the index tumor site. Participants without metastatic lung disease progression were censored at the date of their last visit or their date of death (due to any cause)., Up to Month 24|Time to Overall Cancer Progression, Time to overall cancer progression was defined as the time in days from the first cryoablation procedure to cancer progression (that is, any location of active cancer disease). Participants without cancer progression were censored at the date of their last visit or their date of death (due to any cause)., Up to Month 24|Local Tumor Control With Additional Cryoablation Galil Medical Technology Treatment(s) of a Previously Treated Index Tumor, Local tumor control, defined as absence of local treatment failure 12 months following study cryoablation based on site-reported data, was achieved if 3-axis measurement (that is, greatest trans-axial diameter plus 2 perpendicular diameters) of a tumor at Month 12 was \<20% larger than 3-axis measurement of the tumor at Month 1 following study cryoablation. Separate evaluation of local tumor control at Month 12 following cryoablation was completed per index tumor. Follow-up visits were re-started after additional treatment, per study protocol and continued through the Month 24 visit after the last study cryoablation. Month 1 data served as baseline for analysis; if Month 1 data was missing, Month 3 data were used. Tumors with a local failure at prior study visit and with repeat cryoablation procedures prior to Month 12 were counted as failures. Tumor measurement imaging performed using CT or 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography-CT with or without contrast., Up to Month 12|Time to Untreatable Metastatic Lung Disease Control With Cryoablation (Free From Metastatic Lung Disease), Time to untreatable metastatic lung disease control with cryoablation is defined as the time in days from the first cryoablation procedure to the time when the metastatic lung disease cannot be treated with cryoablation. The percentage of participants free from metastatic disease that is untreatable with cryoablation at the intervals of time of Days 181 to 365 and Days 495 to 730 is presented., Month 12 (Days 181-365) and Month 24 (Days 495-730)|Time to Untreatable Metastatic Lung Disease Control With Focal Therapy (Free From Metastatic Lung Disease), Time to untreatable metastatic lung disease control with focal therapy defined as the time in days from the first cryoablation procedure to the time when the metastatic lung disease cannot be treated by focal (for example, ablation, surgery, SBRT) intervention for control of metastatic lung disease. The percentage of participants free from metastatic disease that is untreatable with focal therapy at the intervals of time of Days 181 to 365 and Days 495 to 730 is presented., Month 12 (Days 181-365) and Month 24 (Days 495-730)|Cryoablation Technical Success at Month 1, A technically successful treatment was defined by the presence of an ablation zone, ground glass opacity, or frank consolidation encompassing the targeted index tumor(s) at no later than the 1 month follow up visit after the cryoablation procedure. Technical success rates and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using random effects logistic regression on a tumor level., Up to Month 1|Change From Baseline in Physical Function as Assessed by the Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) Scale at Months 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24, The KPS scale is a standard way of measuring the ability of cancer participants to perform ordinary tasks. KPS may be used to determine a participant's prognosis and to measure changes in a participant's ability to function. Assessments were made by examining the change in the baseline scores to those reported post-operatively. KPS scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score means the participant is better able to carry out daily activities., Baseline, Month 1, Month 3, Month 6, Month 12, Month 18, and Month 24|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life Over Time as Assessed by the Short Form-12 (SF-12) Generic Measure at Month 1 and Month 3, The SF-12 is a shortened version of the well-known SF-36. The SF-12 assesses 8 domains (physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health problems, bodily pain, social functioning, general mental health, role limitations due to emotional problems, vitality, general health perception). The shorter instrument provides a general measurement of quality of life. Assessments were made by examining the change in the baseline scores to those reported post-operatively. The scores range from 0 to 100. A higher value indicates a better quality of life of the participant., Baseline, Month 1 and Month 3
Treatment for pulmonary metastatic disease may include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or a combination of treatments. However, several variables may exclude participants from these treatments such as multiple tumors, multiple previous surgeries, pulmonary dysfunction, or co-morbid medical conditions. For these participants, percutaneous cryoablation may be a suitable option.

Ablation of metastatic lung tumors is a rapidly expanding area within interventional oncology. Cryotherapy, radiofrequency, laser, and microwave have all been shown to be effective. Cryotherapy offers a wide range of anatomic and tumor treatment options because of the ability to visualize the ice under imaging guidance and the preservation of collagenous tissue structure. Cryoablation has been extensively performed in the prostate and kidney with favorable outcomes reported in the literature. More recently, cryoablation has been shown to be safe in the treatment of lung tumors with CT guidance.