Study of Lonsurf in Combination With Gemcitabine and Nab-Paclitaxel in Patients With Advanced (PDAC)
The purpose of this study is to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of lonsurf, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel in Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC)
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Lonsurf|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab-Paclitaxel
Frequency of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Number of DLTs observed, 28 days (Cycle 1)
Frequency of adverse events in the safety evaluable population, safety and toxicity data will be assessed using NCI CTCAE v5.0, from start of treatment until 30 days after treatment discontinuation (i.e up to 2 years)|Response rate to the combination of lonsurf, gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel in the efficacy evaluable population, Using RECIST 1.1, from start of treatment until treatment discontinuation (i.e. up to 2 years)|Median Overall Survival (mOS) of the treated population, from start of treatment until death or last known follow up (i.e up to 2 years)|Median Progression-free Survival (mPFS) of the treated population, from start of treatment until disease progression or last follow up (i.e. up to 2 years)|Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) as defined by (complete response + partial response + stable disease), 8 weeks|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire, Scale scores were calculated by averaging items within scales and transforming average scores linearly. All of the scales range in score from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning whereas a high score for a symptom scale or item represents a high level of symptomatology or problems., Day 1 of each cycle(each cycle is 28 days),from start of treatment until disease progression or discontinuation of treatment (i.e. up to 2 years)
This is a single-institution, prospective, phase I dose escalation trial of lonsurf combined with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel using the 3+3 design. This study will enroll 18 patients over 12-15 months.

Primary Objective To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of lonsurf, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel

Secondary Objectives

1. Examine safety and toxicity of the combination
2. Estimate response rate to the combination
3. Estimate median overall survival (mOS) of the treated population
4. Estimate median progression free survival (mPFS) of the treated population
5. Estimate disease control rate (DCR) at 8 weeks
6. Evaluate quality of life while receiving the combination therapy