Vaginal Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) in Postmenopausal Breast Cancer Survivors on Aromatase Inhibitors
The purpose of this research is to gather information on the safety and effectiveness of Intrarosa®, also known as Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), and prasterone. By doing this study, the investigators hope to learn if Intrarosa® can improve vaginal discomfort. Participants will be assigned to one of two groups. One group will use Intrarosa® once a day. The other group will use Replens™ two times a week.
Vaginal Atrophy|Postmenopausal Symptoms|Breast Cancer Female|Long-term Survivors
DRUG: Vaginal Dehydroepiandrosterone|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Vaginal Polycarbophil Moisturizer
Difference in Vaginal Maturation Index (VMI) Response From Baseline to Week 12, The change in the subject's calculated VMI from baseline to the end of treatment at 12 weeks (±1 week). VMI = 1.0 x %S + 0.5 x %I + 0.0 x %P cells, which is the same as VMI = %S + (0.5 x %I) when simplified. It has a potential range of 0-100. A VMI of 65-100 suggests a normal premenopausal environment, 50-64 indicates a moderate estrogenic effect, and \< 50 indicates atrophy., Baseline and 12 weeks (±1 week)
Difference in Vaginal pH From Baseline to Week 12, Vaginal pH was used as an objective physiologic marker to determine the improvement in vaginal atrophy. pH is a measure of acidity and alkalinity and can range from 0 to 14, with 7 being neutral. Lower pH scores are acidic and higher pH scores are basic or alkaline. A normal healthy vaginal pH is 4.5. As the vaginal epithelium becomes thinner and more atrophic, the mucosa has less glycogen content and less lactobacilli to convert the glycogen into lactic acid, which results in an increase in the vaginal pH., 12 weeks (±1 week)|Difference in Dyspareunia Scores on the Brief Sexual Symptom Checklist for Women (BSSC-W) From Baseline to Week 12, The Dyspareunia Score on the BSSC-W asks if there is a problem with pain during sex. A difference score of 0 indicated no change in whether it was a problem. The min and max are both 0 which makes the range also 0. Only 2 participants had week 12 scores. These scores were both 1. (So the min and max were 1 with the range being 0.) Of the baseline scores, these 2 participants both had scores of 1 again. (So the min and max for these 2 participants were both 1 with a range of 0.) If we include these 2 participants with the other 6 who have baseline dyspareunia scores on the BSSC-W, then 7 participants has a score of 1 and 1 participant had a score of 0. This would make the min, max, and range 0, 1, and 1 respectively. As for which value represents a better or worse outcome, 1 indicates presence of dyspareunia while 0 indicates absence of dyspareunia, so 1 is a worse outcome than 0. Subscales are not combined here to produce a total score., 12 weeks (±1 week)|Difference in Vaginal Dryness Scores on the Brief Sexual Symptom Checklist for Women (BSSC-W) From Baseline to Week 12, The min and the max are both 0 which make the range also 0. These were obtained from subtracting each participant's score at baseline from their score at week 12. Only 2 participants had week 12 scores. These scores were both 1. Of the baseline scores, these 2 participants both had scores of 1 again. If 2 participants with the other 6 have baseline dyspareunia scores on the BSSC-W, then 7 participants have a score of 1 and 1 participant had a score of 0. This would make the min, max, and range 0, 1, and 1 respectively. As for which value represents a better or worse outcome, 1 indicates presence of vaginal dryness (problem with decreased vaginal lubrication) while 0 indicates absence of vaginal dryness (or an absence of this problem of decreased vaginal lubrication), so 1 is a worse outcome than 0. Subscales are not combined here to produce a total score., 12 weeks (±1 week)|Difference in Dyspareunia Subscale Scores on the Female Sexual Dysfunction Index (FSFI) From Baseline to Week 12, The Dyspareunia Subscale Score on the Female Sexual Dysfunction Index ranges from 0-5 with higher scores indicating better sexual function, so less dyspareunia., 12 weeks (±1 week)|Difference in Vaginal Dryness Subscale Scores on the Female Sexual Dysfunction Index (FSFI) From Baseline to Week 12, The Vaginal Dryness (or Lubrication) Subscale Score on the Female Sexual Dysfunction Index ranges from 0-5 with higher scores indicating better sexual function, so more lubrication., 12 weeks (±1 week)|Difference in Quality of Life on the Quality of Life - Cancer Survivor Version (QOL-CSV) From Baseline to Week 12, The Quality of Life - Cancer Survivor Version ranges from 0-10 with higher scores indicating a higher quality of life. T here are only 2 difference scores for each of the 4 subscales. The min, max, and ranges of these Well-Being Subscales: Physical -1.00, -0.62, and 0.38. Psychological -0.72, 0.94, and 1.67. Social 0.75, 1.25, and 0.50. Spiritual -1.57, 3.29, and 4.86. For Psychological the min, max, and range are 2.61, 6.83, and 4.22. For Social the min, max, and range are 2.63, 7.38, and 4.75. For Spiritual the min, max, and range are 4.43, 8.43, and 4.00. A negative difference score indicates a worsening of quality of life while a positive score indicates that qualify of life got better. Subscales were not combined here to produce a total score. For the baseline and week 12 scores on the QOL-CSV, higher scores mean higher quality of life., 12 weeks (±1 week)
This will be a two-armed, randomized Phase II trial. All study subjects will be asked to fill out a simple 5-question sexual functioning survey. If any concern about sexual functioning is noted, the subject will also be asked to fill out a more extensive Sexual functioning tool, to help determine which domain of sexual functioning is the most bothersome.

Subjects who complete the initial screening will be randomly assigned to the Intrarosa® or Replens™ arm by a 1:1 ratio. Subjects randomized to the Intrarosa® arm will use 6.5 mg daily for 12 weeks (±1 week). Subjects randomized to the Replens™ arm will use a vaginal applicator two times per week for 12 weeks.

At baseline and at 12 weeks, subjects will undergo a physical exam including clinical breast and gynecological exam. During gynecologic exams, the vaginal Potential of Hydrogen (pH) will be determined and a swab of vaginal epithelium sent for determination of the Vaginal Maturation Index (VMI) and Maturation Value (MV). These will be used as objective physiologic markers to determine the improvement in vaginal atrophy. The cytologist's reading specimens will be blinded.

Additionally, all study subjects will be asked to fill out questionnaires at baseline and again in 12 weeks.