A Study of Nivolumab +/- Nab-paclitaxel in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The optimal prioritization of second-line chemotherapy and immune therapy based on demographic or biomarker data is an area of ongoing investigation. The hypothesis of this study is that there may be an additive or synergistic antitumor effect of combined chemotherapy and nivolumab in the second-line treatment of NSCLC as an important concept to test in a clinical trial. Previously treated NSCLC remains a setting of unmet clinical need despite recent clinical research progress. Early progression for a subset of NSCLC patients receiving nivolumab is a specific area of clinical need.
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic|Non-Small Cell Carcinoma of Lung, TNM Stage 4|Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Recurrent
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel
Progression-Free Survival, This study will compare the progression-free survival of patients with advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer whose cancer has progressed after standard first-line platinum based doublet chemotherapy is improved with nivolumab plus nab-paclitaxel compared to nivolumab alone. A progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., 13 months
Nab-paclitaxel will be added to standard nivolumab therapy in previously treated advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer to help prevent early progression and to improve progression free survival. The primary endpoint will be to determine if the addition of nab-paclitaxel to nivolumab improves progression free survival compared to nivolumab alone. Retrospective studies will be conducted to analyze blood based immune biomarkers, and tumor biomarkers to better understand the effect that nivolumab combined with chemotherapy has on the immune system in NSCLC. Patients with advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer who have progression of cancer after receiving platinum doublet chemotherapy will be randomized to receive nivolumab with or without nab-paclitaxel. Patients on both arms will receive a maximum of one year of therapy with the option to retreat at progression.