iConquerFear Program for the Treatment of Fear of Cancer Recurrence in Patients With Localized Renal Cell Carcinoma
This trial investigates whether an online intervention, iConquerFear, can reduce fear of cancer coming back (recurrence) and anxiety in patients with renal cell carcinoma that is restricted to the site of origin, without evidence of spread (localized). This intervention is an online adaptation of a highly effective face-to-face treatment for fear of recurrence that teaches strategies for: controlling worry and excessive threat monitoring, modifying unhelpful beliefs about worry, developing appropriate monitoring and screening behaviors, addressing cancer-related existential change, promoting values-based goal setting, and reducing uncertainty by providing information about cancer and treatment. The information learned may help others with renal cell carcinoma who also have a fear of cancer recurrence.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention - Complete iConquerFear program|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Feasibility - Accrual, at least 90% of the desired accrual goal is reached within 12 months, 1 year|Feasibility - completion of Interventions, At least 70% of patients complete 3/5 intervention sessions, assessed as follows:

i. ≥70% of patients complete first intervention session ii. ≥70% of patients complete second intervention session iii. ≥70% of patients complete third intervention session, 1 year|Feasibility - retention/evaluation, ≥70% of patients have at least 2 of 3 evaluable time points, assessed as follows: i. All patients will have timepoint 1 assessment, which is required at time of accession ii. ≥70% of patients must be evaluable at timepoint 2 or timepoint 3 \[in rare cases, patients will skip in intermediary time point but compelete a later timepoint evaluation\], 1 year
Preliminary effects of iConquerFear program - FCR 7, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) will be used to explore changes in scores over time, separately for the metrics obtained from Fear of Cancer Recurrence-7 item scale (FCR-7)

All instruments will be scored according to validated instructions. All available time points will be used in each analysis.

Fear of Cancer Recurrence-7. This is a 7-item scale that assesses the degree of FCR, with a cutoff score of 17 or above indicative of moderate and a cutoff score of 27 or above indicative of severe FCR., Baseline (T1), immediately after the intervention expected at 5 weeks after baseline (T2), and at 2 months follow-up (T3, 2 months following T2)]|Preliminary effects of iConquerFear program - (PROMIS)-Anxiety, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) will be used to explore changes in scores over time, separately for the metrics obtained from Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-Anxiety.

All instruments will be scored according to validated instructions. All available time points will be used in each analysis.

PROMIS Emotional Distress: Anxiety. This 8-item measure assesses symptoms of anxiety on a 5-point scale (1=never, 5=always). Scores range from 7-35 with higher scores indicating greater severity of anxiety., Baseline (T1), immediately after the intervention expected at 5 weeks after baseline (T2), and at 2 months follow-up (T3, 2 months following T2)]|Preliminary effects of iConquerFear program - PROMIS -depression, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) will be used to explore changes in scores over time, separately for the metrics obtained from Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-depression.

All instruments will be scored according to validated instructions. All available time points will be used in each analysis.

PROMIS Emotional Distress: Depression. This 8-item measure assesses symptoms of depression on a 5-point scale (1=never, 5=always). Scores range from 8-40 with higher scores indicating greater severity of depression., Baseline (T1), immediately after the intervention expected at 5 weeks after baseline (T2), and at 2 months follow-up (T3, 2 months following T2)]|Preliminary effects of iConquerFear program - FACT-G, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) will be used to explore changes in scores over time, separately for the metrics obtained from Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-General (FACT-G).

All instruments will be scored according to validated instructions. All available time points will be used in each analysis.

Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-General (FACT-G). A 27-item self-related scale measure QoL across four domains of 'well-being' (physical, social/family, emotional and functional) on a 4-point Likert scale. Scores range from 0-28 for the physical, social/family and functional subscales, 0-24 for the emotional subscale and 0-108 for the total score. Higher scores indicate higher quality of life., Baseline (T1), immediately after the intervention expected at 5 weeks after baseline (T2), and at 2 months follow-up (T3, 2 months following T2)]
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess feasibility and acceptability of the iConquerFear program for patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

II. To assess preliminary effects of the program on Fear of Cancer Recurrence-7 item scale (FCR-7), Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-anxiety, PROMIS-depression, and Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-General (FACT-G).

III. Explore differences in feasibility and efficacy of iConquerFear by sociodemographic or clinical factors.

OUTLINE:

Patients complete 5 sessions of iConquerFear program online over 5 weeks. Patients also complete questionnaires at baseline, after the intervention, and 2 months later.