Mitoxantrone, Prednisone Plus Sorafenib in Taxane-Refractory Metastatic Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer (HRPC)
The purpose of this research study is to determine if the combination of mitoxantrone, prednisone and sorafenib will improve the time to progression of advanced stage metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer.
Metastatic Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Mitoxantrone|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Sorafenib
Median Time to Progression (TTP) by Imaging, Time to progression is defined as the time from treatment start until objective tumor progression. The median time to progression is the parameter used to describe TTP., Radiologic imaging was repeated after every 4 cycles (approximately every 12 weeks) during study treatment.
Correlation of Biochemical Criteria (PSA, Prostate-specific Antigen) With Objective Imaging, The test of association assesses the null hypothesis that the frequency of PSA response is the same for patients with and without a favorable imaging response. PSA response required a 50% reduction of the baseline PSA result that was confirmed three weeks later. Favorable imaging response is defined as stable disease, partial response, or complete response per RECIST guidelines. The Fisher's exact test was used to test this hypothesis., PSA was evaluated on day 1 of every cycle (approximately every 3 weeks) during study treatment. Radiologic imaging was repeated after every 4 cycles (approximately every 12 weeks) during study treatment.|Quality of Life (QoL), The subject answers questions from the following 6 categories: general physical symptoms, treatment side effects, distress, despair, impaired performance, and impaired ambulation. Each question has a scale from 0 through 10, where 0 is not a problem and 10 is as bad as possible. The scores for the 6 categories are combined and normalized, and used to describe overall quality of life. Because normalized scores are created using a look-up index, there is no clearly defined maximum value. In practice, the maximum value for the combined scale is 73.5., The Patient Care Monitor questionnaire was administered on day 1 of every cycle (approximately every 3 weeks) during study treatment.|Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from treatment start until death from any cause. The median overall survival time is used to measure OS., Overall survival was measured from day 1 of treatment until the end of treatment and then every 3 months thereafter until death.
The primary objective of this study is to test the hypothesis that the combination of Mitoxantrone, Prednisone and Sorafenib in taxane-refractory patients with metastatic hormone refractory prostate cancer (mHRPC) will result in an improvement of the median time to progression (TTP). Since the median (i.e 50% of patients) TTP for Mitoxantrone/Prednisone is 3 months, our hypothesis is that 70% will have not progressed at 3 months with this investigational combination. Progression will be assessed by radiologic imaging criteria.

The early stopping point is 21 subjects. If 10 or fewer subjects with tumor favorable response are observed when 21 subjects are accrued then the null hypothesis is accepted and the trial is terminated. If 16 or more subjects with tumor favorable response are observed when 21 subjects are accrued then the alternative hypothesis is accepted and the trial is terminated. The probability of early stopping under the null is 0.51, and under the alternative is 0.39. If the trial progresses until 42 subjects are evaluated and 24 or more subjects with favorable response are observed then the null hypothesis is rejected. This design minimizes the average sample number under the null, which is 31.2.