Multi-omics Study on the Pathogenesis of Malignant Transformation of Adenomyosis
This study is to explore the driving genes and the molecular mechanism of malignant transformation of adenomyosis. This study acquired the formalin fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue of patients pathologically conformed endometrial carcinoma arising in adenomyosis (EC-AIA) treated at Peking Union Medical College Hospital from July 15, 2017 to July 15, 2019. The formalin fixed paraffin-embedded tissues from patients pathologically diagnosed with adenomyosis during this time period were also included as control specimens. The eutopic endometrium, normal adenomyosis tissue, and EC-AIA tissue were harvested from the FFPE tissue from patients with EC-AIA. The normal eutopic endometrium and normal adenomyosis tissue were obtained by laser microdissection. The driving genes and potential molecular mechanism of EC-AIA will be found by the technology of whole exome sequencing and transcriptomics (RNA-sequencing).
Adenomyosis|Endometrial Cancer|Ectopic Endometrial Tissue|Eutopic Endometrium|Genomics|Transcriptomics
GENETIC: whole exome sequencing and RNA-sequencing
Frequencies of somatic driving mutations, The differences of distributions and frequencies of somatic driving mutations will be compared between eutopic ectopic endometrium, and cancer tissues by whole exome sequencing, One year|Frequencies of alteration of RNA expression, The alteration of RNA expression, including mRNA, miRNA, and lncRNA will be compared between eutopic and ectopic endometrium, and cancer tissues by transcriptome sequencing, One year
This study is to explore the driving genes and the molecular mechanism of malignant transformation of adenomyosis. This study acquired the formalin fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue of patients pathologically conformed endometrial carcinoma arising in adenomyosis (EC-AIA) treated at Peking Union Medical College Hospital from July 15, 2017 to July 15, 2019. The formalin fixed paraffin-embedded tissues from patients pathologically diagnosed with adenomyosis during this time period were also included as control specimens. The eutopic endometrium, normal adenomyosis tissue, and EC-AIA tissue were harvested from the FFPE tissue from patients with EC-AIA. The normal eutopic endometrium and normal adenomyosis tissue were obtained by laser microdissection. The driving genes and potential molecular mechanism of EC-AIA will be found by the technology of whole exome sequencing and transcriptomics (RNA-sequencing).