Cyclosporine, Pravastatin Sodium, Etoposide, and Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of etoposide and mitoxantrone hydrochloride when given together with cyclosporine and pravastatin sodium and to see how well they work in treating patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Cyclosporine may inhibit efflux of cancer drugs out of cancer cells and may thereby improve chemotherapy treatment for AML. Pravastatin sodium may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the nutrients needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as etoposide and mitoxantrone hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving cyclosporine together with pravastatin sodium, etoposide, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride may kill more cancer cells
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: pravastatin sodium|DRUG: mitoxantrone hydrochloride|DRUG: etoposide|PROCEDURE: bone marrow aspiration
Maximum Tolerated Doses Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride and Etoposide When Combined With Cyclosporine and Pravastatin Sodium, Determine the doses of mitoxantrone and etoposide that, when combined with CSA and pravastatin, meet minimum standards for both efficacy and toxicity and have the highest efficacy rate among several mitoxantrone and etoposide doses.

Assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., After completion of first 2 courses, up to 22 weeks
CR/CRi, Describe the disease-free survival of patients that achieve Complete Remission (CR)/CR with inadequate recovery of peripheral blood cell counts (CRi).

Categorized according to criteria recommended by an International Working Group., After completion of first 2 courses, up to 22 weeks|Disease-free Survival of Patients That Achieve CR/CRi, Describe the disease-free survival of patients that achieve CR/CRi., Up to 4.5 years|Frequency and Severity of Regimen-associated Toxicities, Estimate the frequency and severity of regimen-associated toxicities, along with 28-day mortality after start of study treatment, At 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated doses of mitoxantrone (mitoxantrone hydrochloride) and etoposide in combination with pravastatin (pravastatin sodium) and cyclosporine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the complete remission (CR)/CR with incomplete peripheral blood count recovery (CRi) rate after up to 2 cycles of induction therapy.

II. Describe the disease-free survival of patients that achieve CR/CRi. III. Estimate the frequency and severity of regimen-associated toxicities, along with 28-day mortality after start of study treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I/II, dose-escalation study of etoposide and mitoxantrone hydrochloride in combination with pravastatin sodium and cyclosporine.

Patients receive cyclosporine intravenously (IV) continuously on days 5-9. Patients also receive pravastatin sodium orally (PO) every 6 hours on days 1-10, etoposide IV continuously on days 5-9, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV continuously on days 5-9. Treatment repeats for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving CR/CRi may receive 2 additional courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 month.