An Observational Study of Erlotinib (Tarceva) as Second-line Treatment in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer After Failure of Pemetrexed in First-line Therapy
This prospective, multicenter observational study will evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of Tarceva (erlotinib) as second-line treatment in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have progressed after pemetrexed-containing first-line chemotherapy. Eligible patients will be followed until withdrawal of consent, lost-to-follow-up, or study termination, whichever occurs first.
Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the first dose of erlotinib to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred earlier. Progressive disease was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter of target lesions recorded since treatment started, or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Baseline to the end of the study (up to 2 years)
Best Overall Response, Reported are the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD). The best overall response to treatment was determined by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). A CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions (TL) or the disappearance of all non-TLs. A PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of TLs, taking as reference the baseline SLD. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for a PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest SLD since treatment started for TLs and the persistence of 1 or more non-TL(s). PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SLD of TLs, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded since treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs., Baseline to the end of the study (up to 2 years)|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from Baseline until death from any cause., Up to 2 years|Percentage of Participants Who Developed Rash, Up to 2 years|Percentage of Participants Who Developed Diarrhea, Up to 2 years
This prospective, multicenter observational study will evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of Tarceva (erlotinib) as second-line treatment in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have progressed after pemetrexed-containing first-line chemotherapy. Eligible patients will be followed until withdrawal of consent, lost-to-follow-up, or study termination, whichever occurs first.