Palbociclib After CDK and Endocrine Therapy (PACE)
This research study is studying three combinations of drugs as treatments for breast cancer.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* Fulvestrant
* Fulvestrant with Palbociclib
* Fulvestrant with Palbociclib and Avelumab
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Avelumab
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), According to RECIST v1.1 Criteria (Investigator Assessment), Progression-Free Survival (PFS), according to RECIST v1.1 criteria (investigator assessment): the time from randomization to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression were censored at date of last disease assessment (tumor assessments). The date of progression was the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was objectively documented; if death was the defining event, it must have happened within 2 intervals of the last disease assessment, otherwise PFS was censored at last disease assessment. The length of PFS was calculated as PFS time (months) =\[progression/death date(censor date) - randomization date + 1\]/30.4375., Tumor were assessed every 8 weeks until 24 weeks, then every 12 weeks. The median PFS follow-up time at database lock was 12.1 months (range 1 day to 50.1 months).
Overall Response Rate, According to RECIST v1.1 Criteria (Investigator Assessment), Objective Response (OR): best overall response of complete response or partial response. Response was primarily evaluated in this study using the criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1). For example, target lesions: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. See RECIST 1.1 manuscript for further details on overall assessment based on target lesions, non-target lesions and new lesions. The Overall Response Rate (with 2-sided 90% CIs) were estimated according to treatment assignment and subgroup., Tumor were assessed every 8 weeks until 24 weeks, then every 12 weeks. The median follow-up time for overall response rate at database lock was 12.1 months (range 1 day to 50.1 months).|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability), The frequency (and %) of patients who are reported as having grade 3-5 treatment-related adverse events were summarized. From starting the first dose of study treatment to 30 days (90 days for arm C) after last dose administration of study treatment or study discontinuation, whichever was earlier. Afterwards only SAEs attributed to study treatment were reported., The median follow-up time for adverse event was 5.4 months (range 1.6 months to 51.2 months).
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied and the researchers are trying to find out more about it- for example, the side effects it may cause, and the activity of a drug, or combination of drugs, against a cancer.

In this research study, the investigators are evaluating the activity of fulvestrant alone, fulvestrant and palbociclib, or fulvestrant, palbociclib, and avelumab combined, in participants with metastatic hormone receptor positive HER2 negative breast cancer that has previously stopped responding to prior palbociclib and endocrine therapy.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved both palbociclib and fulvestrant as treatment options for this disease, however the use of palbociclib has not been studied in people who have previously been treated with palbociclib. The FDA has not approved avelumab as a treatment for any disease.

Palbociclib is a drug that may stop cancer cells from growing. Palbociclib blocks activity of two closely related enzymes (proteins that help chemical reactions in the body occur), called Cyclin Dependent Kinases 4 and 6 (CDK 4/6). These proteins are part of a pathway, or a sequence of steps, which is known to promote cancer cell growth. Laboratory testing has shown that palbociclib may stop the growth of hormone receptor positive breast cancer. Palbociclib is FDA-approved as therapy for metastatic hormone receptor positive HER2 negative breast cancer in combination with endocrine therapy in the first line setting, and in combination with fulvestrant for pre-treated disease. It is not known whether cancers that have grown despite prior palbociclib treatment are still sensitive to palbociclib.

Endocrine therapy prevents growth of hormone receptor positive breast cancer by blocking stimulation of cancer cells by estrogen. During this study, the endocrine therapy will be fulvestrant. Fulvestrant is a drug that is approved by the FDA for treatment of metastatic hormone receptor positive breast cancer.

The immune system is the body's natural defense against disease. The immune system sends a type of cells called T cells throughout the body to detect and fight infections and diseases-including cancers. One way the immune system controls the activity of T cells is through the PD-1 (programmed cell death protein-1) pathway. However, some cancer cells hide from T-cell attack by taking control of the PD-1 pathway and this stops T cells from attacking cancer cells.

Avelumab is an antibody designed to block the PD-1 pathway and helps the immune system in detecting and fighting cancer cells. An antibody is a protein produced by the body's immune system when it detects harmful substances. Previous studies show that the administration of antibodies which block the PD-1 pathway can lead to tumor destruction.

In the laboratory, adding avelumab to fulvestrant and palbociclib appears to improve effectiveness. It is not known whether this is true in humans