Neoadjuvant Plus Adjuvant Treatment With Cemiplimab in Cutaneaous Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Neoadjuvant plus adjuvant treatment with immunotherapy may have an anti-tumor activity and reduce the risk of relapse in patients with high risk surgically resectable stage III cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.
Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Cemiplimab
Major pathological response rate, \<10% remaining viable tumour cells in resected primary tumor, 43-71 days
Recurrence-free survival, RFS - the time from start of treatment until disease recurrence (local, regional or distant) or death from any cause, At 6 and 12 months postoperative|Overall Survival, OS - the time from the date of first dose until the date of death from any cause, Until three years from last infusion|Prevalence of related AEs, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events by grade as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Through study treatment completion, an average of 17 months|Use of selected biomarkers to detect molecular and immunophenotypic changes, Predictive biomarkers and thier changes in tumor and blood samples will be correlated with pathological response and patient's outcome, At screening 1 and 2, at surgery, every 12 weeks during adjuvant and at recurrence of disease untill an average of 1 year from surgery
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC) is the second most common skin cancer in US. It is associated with a surgical cure rate \>95% in early stage disease but a small percentage of patients develop unresectable locally advanced or metastatic CSCC. The 2018 FDA approval of Libtayo was based on a combined analysis of data from an open-label, multi-center, non-randomized Phase 2 trial known as EMPOWER-CSCC-1 (Study 1540) and two advanced CSCC expansion cohorts from a multi-center, open-label, non-randomized Phase 1 trial (Study 1423). Conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy can induce tumor responses but is often poorly tolerated, specially among older patients with CSCC. CSCC has higher mutation burden than any tumor type and immunosuppression is a known risk factor. Furthermore, PD-L1 expression has been associated with high risk disease1 suggesting that CSCC may be responsive to PD-1 checkpoint blockade.

Cemiplimab is a human anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody, under study for patients with unresectable locally advanced and/or regionally or metastatic CSCC. It has been studied in a phase I dose escalation, where a durable radiologic complete response was achieved in CSCC patients.2-3 In this study, the partial response was 25% in locally advanced and 60% in metastatic CSCC,stable disease was 31.3% in locally advanced and 10% in metastatic CSCC, progressive disease was 25% in locally advanced and 20% in metastatic CSCC with an overall response rate of 46.2% and a disease control rate of 69.2%. The 2018 FDA approval of Libtayo was based on a combined analysis of data from an open-label, multi-center, non-randomized Phase 2 trial known as EMPOWER-CSCC-1 (Study 1540) and two advanced CSCC expansion cohorts from a multi-center, open-label, non-randomized Phase 1 trial (Study 1423). Together, the trials represent the largest prospective data set in advanced CSCC. The major efficacy outcome measures for the integrated analysis of EMPOWER-CSCC-1 and the two CSCC expansion cohorts were confirmed objective response rate (ORR), as assessed by independent central review (ICR), and ICR-assessed duration of response (DOR).

Across the entire population, the overall response rate (ORR) at a median follow-up of 8.9 months was 47% (95% CI, 38-47). The complete response (CR) rate was 4% and the partial response (PR) rate was 44%. The duration of response ranged from 1 month to over 15 months. Sixty-one percent of patients had a duration of response ≥6 months.

Among 75 patients with metastatic CSCC, the ORR was 47% (95% CI, 35-59). The CR rate was 5% and the PR rate was 41%. The duration of response ranged from 3 months to over 15 months. Sixty percent of patients had a duration of response ≥6 months. In the 33 patients with locally advanced disease, the ORR was 49% (95% CI, 31-67), comprising all PRs. The duration of response ranged from 1 month to over 13 months. Sixty-three percent of patients had a duration of response ≥6 months.

Cemiplimab therefore produced rapid, deep and durable tumor reductions in target lesions.

Cemiplimab appears to be active regardless PD-L1 expressione in the tumor and no apparent association between PD-L1 IHC results and objective responses was determined. Cemiplimab was generally well tolerated in CSCC, and most commonly associated with fatigue (23.1% prevalence), arthralgia, rash maculopapular, diarrhea, nausea, hypothyroidism (7.7%) of any grade.

The advantage of neoadjuvant trials is the availability of blood and tumor tissue samples before and after systemic therapy for the conduct of novel mechanistic and biomarker studies in the circulation and the tumor microenvironment.

Based on the available results to date, the investigators aim to conduct a phase II single arm trial to define the role of neoadjuvant plus adjuvant immunotherapy in patients with stage III CSCC. This approach has the potential to define whether neoadjuvant treatment with cemiplimab has antitumor activity and whether it reduces the risk of relapse after surgery.