A Study of Ramucirumab (LY3009806) Versus Placebo in Participants With Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Elevated Baseline Alpha-Fetoprotein
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ramucirumab in participants with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and elevated baseline alpha-fetoprotein. Participants will be randomized to ramucirumab or placebo in a 2:1 ratio (Main Global Cohort and China Maximized Extended Enrollment \[MEE\] Cohort). Participants may also receive ramucirumab if eligible to be enrolled in Open-Label Expansion (OLE) Cohort.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Ramucirumab|DRUG: Placebo
Overall Survival (OS), OS time was measured from date of randomization to date of death from any cause. Participants who were not known to have died on or before the date of data cut-off, OS data was censored on the last date (on or before the cut-off date) the participant was known to be alive., From Date of Randomization to Death from Any Cause (Up to 28 Months)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as time from the date of randomization to the date of first observation of objective progression or death from any cause., From Randomization to Objective Progression or Death from Any Cause (Up to 28 Months)|Time to Radiographic Progression, Time to radiographic progression is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first observation of objective progression., From Randomization to Objective Progression (Up to 28 Months)|Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR): Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve a best overall response of complete response (CR) + partial response (PR). ORR = CR + PR. CR is the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalisation of tumour marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Tumor marker results must have normalized. Best overall response is classified based on the overall responses assessed by study investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1., From Randomization to Objective Progression (Up to 28 Months)|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Minimum Serum Concentration (Cmin) Before 2nd, 4th, 7th, and 10th Infusion, PK Cmin of Ramucirumab Blood samples were collected at specified time points, and in the event of an infusion-related reaction, for assessment of ramucirumab serum concentrations., Predose, Weeks 2, 6, 12 and 18, Day 1; Up to 3 Days Before Infusion (14-Day Cycles)|PK: Serum Concentration Maximum (Cmax) After 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th and 10th Ram Infusion, PK Cmax of Ramucirumab Blood samples were collected at specified time points, and in the event of an infusion-related reaction, for assessment of ramucirumab serum concentrations., Weeks 0, 2, 6, 12 and 18, Day 1; 1 hour to 1.5 hours Post End of Infusion (14 day-Cycles)|Percentage of Participants With Anti-Ramucirumab Antibodies, Percentage of participants with positive treatment emergent anti-drug antibodies was summarized by treatment group. A treatment-emergent ADA (TEADA) was defined as: having a negative ADA at baseline and an ADA titer greater than or equal to 1:20 (that is (i.e.), greater than 2-fold from the minimal required dilution of 1:10) any time post baseline (i.e., treatment-induced); or a 4-fold or greater change in ADA titer from baseline for participants that had a detectable ADA titer at baseline (i.e., treatment boosted)., Predose Cycle 1: 7 Days prior to First Infusion, Cycle 4: 3 Days Prior to Infusion, Cycle 7 through Follow Up (Up to 28 Months)|Time to Deterioration of Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) Hepatobiliary Symptom Index-8 (FHSI-8), The FACT Hepatobiliary Symptom Index (FHSI-8) is a instrument with specific focus regarding the most frequent and concerning symptoms experienced by participants with hepatobiliary malignancies, including lack of energy, nausea, pain, weight loss, pain in back, fatigue, jaundice, stomach pain or discomfort. The (FHSI-8) questionnaire was used to assess the time to deterioration of FSHI-8 total score issued from the date of randomization to the first date observing deterioration, with the deterioration threshold defined as a decrease ≥ 3-points from baseline. In case of no deterioration, the participants were censored at the time of the last FSHI-8 item recording. FHSI-8 total score ranges from 0 to 32 where "0" is a severely symptomatic participant and the highest score indicates an asymptomatic participant. Kaplan-Meier method Hazard ratio was used to estimate (Ramucirumab versus Placebo) and 95% Confidence Interval (CI) (Wald) were estimated from un-stratified/stratified Cox model., From Randomization to the First Date of Deterioration Observation (≥ 3-point decrease) (Up to 28 Months)|Change From Baseline in EuroQol 5-Dimension 5-Level (EQ-5D-5L) Questionnaire, The EQ-5D-5L is a nonspecific and standardized instrument for use as a measure of self-reported health status (EuroQol Group 1990; Herdman et al. 2011). Participants completed the 5-level (no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems), 5-dimension (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression) questionnaire concerning their current health state. A unique EQ-5D-5L health state scale ranges from 0 to 100 and is defined by combining 1 level from each of the 5 dimensions. Participants indicated their current health status by marking on a continuum ranging from 100 (best imaginable health state) to 0 (worst imaginable health state)., From Randomization through End of Study (Up to 28 Months)|Time to Deterioration in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS), Time to deterioration in ECOG PS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first date observing ECOG PS 2 (ie, deterioration from baseline status of 0 \[fully active\] or 1 \[restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out light work\]). Participants without PS deterioration were censored at their last documented assessments of 0 or 1. Assessments included ECOG Performance Status (PS): 2- Ambulatory and capable of all selfcare but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours, 3 -Capable of only limited selfcare, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours, 4 -Completely disabled, cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair, 5- Dead., From Randomization through First Date of Deterioration Observation (ECOG PS≥2) (Up to 28 Months)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ramucirumab in participants with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and elevated baseline alpha-fetoprotein. Participants will be randomized to ramucirumab or placebo in a 2:1 ratio (Main Global Cohort and China Maximized Extended Enrollment \[MEE\] Cohort). Participants may also receive ramucirumab if eligible to be enrolled in Open-Label Expansion (OLE) Cohort.