The French Gut-colo
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most common type of cancer worldwide. The European Union recommends national CRC screening for people aged between 50 and 74. Generally, an immunological test called FIT (Fecal Immunochemical Test), based on the quantitative detection of human haemoglobin, is performed on a stool sample. If the haemoglobin level is above the recommended threshold, a colonoscopy is recommended to detect colorectal lesions. Recent studies have identified potential microbiota signatures associated with colon cancer. In this study, we will analyze the microbiota of a population aged 50 to 75 years undergoing colonoscopy as part of routine care in order to confirm the presence of microbiota signatures associated with the presence of adenomas, advanced adenomas and CRC.
Patients Aged 50-75 and Requiring Colonoscopy
Measurement of true-negative, true-positive, false-negative and false-positive rates after colonoscopy, associated with the new test based on metagenomic analysis and clinical data., up to 4 years
Define and compare the true-negative, true-positive false-negative and false-positive rates after colonoscopy associated with the new test compared with those of the FIT test, up to 4 years|Compare the rates of true negatives, false-negative true positives and false-positives after colonoscopy associated with the new test with those of the FIT test: number of cases aggregated at 5 years, 10 years, 15 years and 20 years., up to 20 years
Many CRC risk factors, such as obesity, low physical activity, a diet low in fibre and high in fat and red meat, and chronic inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, are known to interact with the intestinal microbiota. Recent studies have identified microbiota signatures associated with colon cancer. These CRC signatures could be used as a solid basis for future screening tests.

This study is an ancillary study of "Le French Gut" study (NCT05758961), a national contribution aiming to collect 100,000 faecal samples and associated nutritional and clinical data. Here, the aim is to identify microbiota profiles associated with the presence of adenomas, advanced adenomas and colorectal cancer (CRC), which would make it possible to recommend follow-up colonoscopies in a more targeted way than the current screening method. The study involves 2,500 patients aged between 50 and 75 who were due to undergo colonoscopy as part of their routine care. Patients recruited in this way will take part in the main "Le French Gut" study, will undergo a colonoscopy as part of their routine care and will complete 2 specific questionnaires relating to their personal and family history as well as their dietary habits in order to assess the risk factors for colorectal cancer as accurately as possible. The FIT test will be carried out as part of routine care with home sampling at the same time as stool sampling using the stool collection kit from the "French Gut" study (same stool sample).

Metagenomic fecal analysis will be coupled with a federated artificial intelligence tool incorporating data collected as part of the French Gut study and specific parameters describing the level of CRC risk. The diagnostic value of the signatures will be compared with that of the FIT test currently used for CRC screening.The ultimate aim is to develop more accurate, non-invasive ways of predicting CRC risk, based on a non-invasive fecal swab that can be taken at home.