Pembrolizumab and Lenvatinib in Advanced Cervical Cancer
This is a phase II trial of combination therapy of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib in patients with locally advanced or metastatic cervical cancer that had failed first line of therapy. The hypothesis is the combination of lenvatinib and pembrolizumab will overcome vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-mediated immunosuppression to enhance the response of patients with locally advanced or metastatic cervical cancer.
Cervical Cancer|Metastatic Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Objective Response Rate, To evaluate the clinical activity (as assessed by objective response rate \[ORR\]) of specific pembrolizumab-lenvatinib combination., up to 2 years
Duration of response, To evaluate the clinical activity (as assessed by duration of response (DoR)) of pembrolizumab-lenvatinib combinations. DOR: length of time tumor continues to respond to the treatment., up to 2 years|Progression Free survival, To evaluate the clinical activity (as assessed by progression-free survival \[PFS\]) of pembrolizumab-lenvatinib combinations. PFS: Time from treatment initiation to the first documented disease progression per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1 as assessed by local site or death, whichever occurs first., up to 2 years|Overall survival, To evaluate the clinical activity (as assessed by overall survival \[OS\]) of pembrolizumab-lenvatinib combinations. OS: Time from treatment initiation to death due to any cause., Cycle 1 Day 1, Day 1 of each cycle (each cycle is 21 days), every 12 weeks after end of treatment|Incidence of adverse events, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab-lenvatinib combination:

Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events (AEs) according to NCI CTCAE Version 5.0., Day 1 of each cycle (each cycle is 21 days), up to 2 years|Incidence of study drug discontinuation due to Adverse Events, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab-lenvatinib combination: Number of Participants Discontinuing Study Drug Due to AEs., Day 1 of each cycle (each cycle is 21 days), up to 2 years
The primary endpoint of this phase II study is to determine the objective response rate (partial response \[PR\] + complete response \[CR\]) of specific pembrolizumab-lenvatinib combination therapy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic cervical cancer. The phase II portion of the trial will follow Simon's minimax two-stage design1.

In the Stage 1, 11 patients will be accrued. If 1 or fewer patients among these 11 patients achieve an objective response with the pembrolizumab-lenvatinib combination therapy, the combination therapy will be rejected and the trial stopped. However, if there are 2 or more patients who exhibit response in the Stage 1, then an additional 24 patients will be entered into the Stage 2, for a total of 35 patients in this phase II study. If 9 or more patients exhibit response among these 35 patients, then the treatment will be considered for further investigation. Any unplanned interim analysis will utilize the sequential conditional probability ratio test (SCPRT)2, which allows an early assessment of statistical evidence for both efficacy and futility, and provides a discordance probability that early trend could be reversed should the trial continue to enroll all 35 patients.