A Study of LDK378 in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Harboring ROS1 Rearrangement
Lung cancer is the most leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Most of the patients with lung cancer are advanced stage at the time of diagnosis.

The two oncogenes that are important in lung cancer are epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and K-ras, mutated in 10% and 15% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Large-scale DNA sequencing efforts have identified mutations in BRAF, PI3KCA and ERBB2 that together represent another 5% of NSCLC patients. The success of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as gefitinib or erlotinib, and more recently ALK/MET TKI, crizotinib, highlights the need to develop more genetically matched therapies. Therefore, genetic classification of lung cancer has become increasingly important along with the advances with targeted therapies.

ROS1 is a receptor tyrosine kinase with constitutive kinase activity. ROS1 was previously discovered in cell lines where ROS1 fused with other proteins to act as a driver oncogene. In 2007, Rikova et al reported ROS1 fusion as driver mutations in NSCLC cell line (HCC78; SLC34A2-ROS1) and NSCLC patient (CD74-ROS1). Li et al also found about 1% of samples harboring CD74-ROS1 fusion in 202 resected lung adenocarcinomas from never smokers. The incidence was as high as 10% in East Asian population. Currently there are now at least 13 ROS1 fusion variants involving 8 fusion partners (CD74-, SLC34A2-, FIG-, TPM3-, SDC4-, LRIG3-, ERZ-, KDERL2-) identified in ROS1 positive NSCLC.

Interestingly, preclinical and clinical data have shown ROS1-positive tumors are sensitive to crizotinib, because of potentially high common amino acid residues in the kinase domain between ALK and ROS1, which explain why crizotinib can inhibit both ROS1 and ALK to similar extent. Preliminary report from a phase I clinical trial of crizotinib in the ROS1-positive NSCLC expansion cohort showed an overall response rate (ORR) of 57%. Given that crizotinib has made remarkable clinical outcomes in phase I trial of ALK-positive NSCLC patients, clinical development of ROS1 inhibitors, including crizotinib, should be accelerated to provide targeted therapies to ROS1-positive NSCLC patients.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Harboring ROS1 Rearrangement
DRUG: LDK378(Ceritinib)
(ORR) overall response rate, The primary purpose is to investigate the overall response rate (ORR) of LDK378 by independent review committee (IRC) (Tumor assessment will measure the change of tumor size)., 2 years
PFS (progression-free survival ) in months, Progression-free survival in months, up to 2 years|OS (overall survival) in months, Overall survival in months, up to 5 years|DCR (disease control rate) in percentage, Disease control rate in percentage, After study completion (an average of 2 year)|Incidence of Treatment-related adverse events in AE event name and grade, Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, After study completion (an average of 2 year)
Recently, our group found the prevalence of ROS1 rearrangement reached up to 3.2% in clinically selected population (never smokers) and 5% in genetically selected population (EGFR-/ALK-wild-type). These data strongly suggests that ROS1 rearrangement is a potential therapeutic target with relatively high incidence. In this study, investigator confirmed the presence of ROS1 fusion by RT-PCR and correlation between FISH and IHC (Cell Signaling Technology®).

LDK378 is an orally highly selective and potent ALK kinase inhibitor. In preclinical studies, LDK378 has much lower IC50 values than crizotinib in cell lines engineered to express ROS1 rearrangement (0.15 nM versus 3 nM) and is approximately 20-fold more potent. LDK378 is a potent inhibitor of tumor growth in rodent models of both ALCL and NSCLC.

Investigators suggest a phase II trial of LDK378 in advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients with ROS1 rearrangement. The aim of current trial is to evaluate the antitumor efficacy and safety profile of LDK378.