The Effects of CO2 Pneumoperitoneum at Different Temperature in Laparoscopic Surgery
Objective: It is recommended to heat and humidify CO2 in laparoscopic surgery to prevent postoperative pain and hypothermia but information about its effects on hemodynamic and respiratory parameters is limited. The investigators aimed to investigate the effects of standard and heated-humidified CO2 on hemodynamic and respiratory parameters.

Study design: One hundred patients who underwent laparoscopic hysterectomy for benign pathology were divided into two groups: Group CD (cold-dry) patients were administered standard CO2, while Group HH (heated-humidified) patients were administered 95% humidified insufflation at 37°C. Hemodynamic and respiratory parameters, body temperature, pain score and blood count parameters were recorded.
Benign Neoplasm of Cervix Uteri|Gynecological Laparoscopy
PROCEDURE: Group HH (heated-humidified)
hemodynamic parameters: diastolic and mean blood pressure, diastolic and mean blood pressure, In the operation period|body temperature, body temperature, In the operation period|respiratory parameters: tidal volume, tidal volume, In the operation period
Visual Analogue Scale, The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) consists of a straight line with the endpoints defining extreme limits such as 'no pain at all' and 'pain as bad as it could be'.(VAS:0 no pain, VAS:10 very severe pain), 24 hour|morphine consumption, pain, 24 hour
The sample consisted of 100 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I-II patients aged 40-65 who underwent laparoscopic hysterectomy for benign pathology. The patients were divided into two groups according to a randomization scheme created by a computer: Group CD (cold-dry) patients were administered dry CO2 via insufflator at room temperature (21°C), while Group HH (heated-humidified) patients were administered 95% humidified CO2 insufflation at 37°C. The study was planned as a randomized and double-blind study, where patients were not informed of their group.During the operation and in the postoperative period, the patients were followed up by two different anesthetists. All patients were given information and training on the anesthesia method, the use of the patient-controlled-analgesia (PCA) device and the visual analog scale (VAS) the day before the operation. The patients' demographic data (age, weight, height, etc.) and their basal systolic, diastolic and mean blood pressures and heart rates were measured prior to the operation and recorded on the case report form.