PROSPECT: Chemotherapy Alone or Chemotherapy Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer Undergoing Surgery
The standard treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer involves chemotherapy and radiation, known as 5FUCMT, (the chemotherapy drugs 5-fluorouracil/capecitabine and radiation therapy) prior to surgery. Although radiation therapy to the pelvis has been a standard and important part of treatment for rectal cancer and has been shown to decrease the risk of the cancer coming back in the same area in the pelvis, some patients experience undesirable side effects from the radiation and there have been important advances in chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation which may be of benefit. The purpose of this study is to compare the effects, both good and bad, of the standard treatment of chemotherapy and radiation to chemotherapy using a combination regimen known as FOLFOX, (the drugs 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), oxaliplatin and leucovorin) and selective use of the standard treatment, depending on response to the FOLFOX. The drugs in the FOLFOX regimen are all FDA (Food and Drug Administration) approved and have been used routinely to treat patients with advanced colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: FOLFOX (chemotherapy)|OTHER: 5 FUCMT (chemoradiation)|PROCEDURE: surgery|PROCEDURE: magnetic resonance imaging or endorectal ultrasound
Pelvic R0 Resection Rate, Number of Participants with Pelvic R0 Resection, Up to 5 years|DFS, Disease-free Survival (DFS): The distribution of DFS by group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. 5 year disease free rates by treatment group with confidence intervals based on Kaplan-Meier curves will be reported. Log-rank test will be used to compare DFS between two treatment groups. Hazard ratio with confidence interval will be estimated based on Cox proportional hazard model. The Cox proportional hazard model will be used for multivariate analysis., Up to 5 years
Pathologic Complete Response, Pathologic Complete Response (pCR): The pCR rate is defined as number of patients who achieve pCR divided by total number of patients included in the analysis population (see definition in Section 16.3.3.1) in each group. Patients who didn't undergo surgery will be classified as non-pCR. Point estimate and confidence interval (according to approach of Duffy and Santner) will be calculated by treatment groups. Chi-square test will be used to compare the pCR rates between groups., Up to 8 years|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS): OS is defined as time from randomization to the date of death due to all causes. The distribution of OS by group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Five year survival rates by treatment group with confidence intervals based on Kaplan-Meier curves will be reported. Logrank test will be used to compare OS between two treatment groups. Hazard ratio with confidence interval will be estimated based on Cox proportional hazard model. The Cox proportional hazard model will be used for multivariate analysis., Up to 5 years|Rates of Receiving Pre- or Post-operative 5FUCMT, Rates of Receiving 5FUCMT: For selective group patients, the proportion of patients who received 1) pre-operative 5FUCMT, 2) post-operative 5FUCMT, 3) either pre or post-operative 5FUCMT, and confidence intervals (according to approach of Duffy and Santner) will be reported., Up to 5 years|Local Recurrence (TLR):, Time to Local Recurrence (TLR): The distribution of TLR by group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. 5 year local recurrence free rates by treatment group with confidence intervals based on Kaplan-Meier curves will be reported. The comparison of the cumulative incidence of local recurrence between groups, treating distant recurrence and death as competing risks using the test of Gray (Annals of Statistics, 1988) will be conducted., Up to 5 years|Neoadjuvant Rectal Score, neoadjuvant rectal (NAR) score =\[5 \* pN - 3(cT - pT) + 12\]\^2/9.61. cT is an element of the set {1, 2, 3, 4}, pT is in {0, 1, 2, 3, 4}, and pN is in {0, 1, 2}. cT clinical tumor stage, pT pathologic tumor stage, pN pathologic nodal stage. Low (NAR \<8), intermediate (NAR = 8-16), and high (NAR \>16). Low is better and high is worse., Up to 5 years
OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase II/III study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance status (0 or 1 vs 2) and randomized to 1 of 2 treatment regimens. Patients will receive full supportive care while on this study.

OBJECTIVES:

Primary

1. Phase II component: To assure that neoadjuvant FOLFOX followed by selective use of 5FUCMT group (Group 1) maintains the current high rate of pelvic R0 resection and is consistent with non-inferiority for time to local recurrence (TLR).
2. Phase III component: To compare neoadjuvant FOLFOX followed by selective use of 5FUCMT (Group 1) to standard 5FUCMT (Group 2) with respect to the primary endpoint of the Disease-Free Survival (DFS).

Secondary

1. To determine if the neoadjuvant FOLFOX followed by selective use of 5FUCMT (Group 1) is non-inferior to the standard group 5FUCMT (Group 2) with respect to the proportion of patients who achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR) at the time of surgical resection.
2. To determine if the neoadjuvant FOLFOX followed by selective use of 5FUCMT (Group 1) is non-inferior to the standard 5FUCMT (Group 2) with respect to overall survival.
3. To evaluate and compare the adverse event profile and surgery complications between two groups.
4. To estimate the proportion of patients in the selective group (Group 1) who receive: 1) pre-operative 5FUCMT; 2) post-operative 5FUCMT; 3) either pre- or post-operative 5FUCMT.
5. To determine if the neoadjuvant FOLFOX followed by selective use of 5FUCMT (Group 1) is non-inferior to the standard 5FUCMT (Group 2) with respect to Local Recurrence (TLR)
6. To determine if the neoadjuvant FOLFOX followed by selective use of 5FUCMT (Group 1) is non-inferior to the standard 5FUCMT (Group 2) with respect to Neoadjuvant Response Score (NAR)

Event monitoring of patients will continue up to 8 years post randomization.