Swiss Multi-centre, Randomized, Placebo Controlled Trial of Pregabalin for Prevention of Persistent Pain in High Risk Patients Undergoing Breast Cancer Surgery
This study will test the benefits and risks of using pregabalin perioperatively to prevent persistent postoperative pain in patients at high risk (\>30%) of developing such pain after breast cancer surgery.
Persistent Postoperative Pain
DRUG: Pregabalin|DRUG: Placebos
incidence of "clinically important pain" at 3 months after surgery, "Clinically important pain" is defined by: taking analgesics for pain at the surgical site OR average resting pain at the surgical site \>3/10 OR average movement-induced pain at the surgical site \>5/10., 3 months
Pregabalin-related side effects, blurred vision or diplopia, somnolence or sleepiness, abnormal thinking, confusional state, disturbed attention, and falls, as well as the effects noted in the "generic assessment of side effects" GASE questionnaire, 10 days|retention rates of pregabalin treatment, 30 days|acute pain intensity and patient-reported pain outcome at 24h, PAIN-OUT questionnaire, 24 hours|pain intensity at rest and movement, pain interference, Brief Pain Inventory, BPI, 3, 6, and 12 months|neuropathic pain, incidence of neuropathic pain defined as a DN4-self-evaluation score ≥4, 3, 6, and 12 months|patient-reported relevance of pain, response to the question: "do you consider your pain as significant?", 3, 6, and 12 months|Patient-reported acceptance of the preventive treatment, response to the question "In retrospect, do you consider the preventive treatment worthwhile, given your pain outcome and your experience of taking the medication?"), 3 months|Expectations about treatment benefits before treatment and after, responses to the questions: "How much pain do you expect 3 months from now?"" "How efficient do you think the study treatment is against the long-term pain (i.e. what is the success rate in %)?" "How well do you think it will work for you? (i.e. reduction in pain score 0-10)". Beliefs about treatment attribution after 10 days of treatment (question: "Do you think that you received the real drug or the placebo?"), 10 days
BACKGROUND Persistent postsurgical pain occurs in more than 30% of patients undergoing breast cancer surgery. Evidence that gabapentinoids such as pregabalin may reduce the incidence of persistent postsurgical pain is ambiguous, potentially because in previous trials prophylactic treatment was administered to every patient undergoing surgery. The patients at low risk of long term pain, were exposed to side effects without much benefit to expect.

AIM Validating or refuting the utility of pregabalin to prevent long term post-operative pain in patients at high risk of persistent pain after breast cancer surgery.

METHODS Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of pregabalin (2\*150mg from the day before breast cancer surgery until 2 weeks after surgery) in patients at high risk of persistent pain (\>30%). High-risk patients are identified by a risk score derived from a previous observational study. The main outcome is the incidence of clinically important pain (necessitating analgesic treatment, or having an intensity of \>3 at rest or \>5 on movement) at 3 months after surgery. Secondary outcomes are: incidence of neuropathic pain, pain interference, and incidences at 6 and 12 months of follow-up. In addition, side effects of pregabalin and the retention rate during the treatment period will be monitored, as well as patient expectancies.

RELEVANCE This is the first study for prevention of persistent postoperative pain which targets only high-risk patients, thus lowering a false negative outcome and averting the risk of side effects for patients at low risk.

The study is powered to show a reduction of the incidence of clinically important pain at 3 months of 20%. In the case the study shows that this can be achieved and pregabalin is well tolerated, the preventive use of pregabalin for breast cancer surgery would be justified at least in high-risk patients. On the other hand, a negative result would indicate the futility of pregabalin prevention, which is already in routine use in many hospitals.