Survivorship Intervention Program in Western Kenya: Study Protocol
In this study protocol, the investigators described a survivorship intervention program that will be performed at a referral hospital in Western Kenya. This will be a non-randomized prospective cohort study with a sequential hybrid effectiveness - implementation design. The study comprises of an educational component for caregivers of childhood cancer survivors and a follow-up component targeting healthcare providers with survivorship training and implementation of a late effects documentation tool.

Through these interventions the investigators aim to:

1. increase follow-up adherence of childhood cancer survivors;
2. increase caregivers' and healthcare providers' knowledge about childhood cancer diagnoses, treatment and the corresponding late effects risks;
3. document late effects at a childhood cancer outpatient clinic;
4. evaluate program implementation and satisfaction among recipients and providers.
Pediatric Cancer|Survivorship
BEHAVIORAL: Educational Program (video, information booklet, Survivorship Card)|BEHAVIORAL: Follow-Up Program (form and healthcare provider training)
Percentage of non-adherent study participants, When survivors do not appear at a scheduled visit within four weeks before or after the scheduled date., 24 months: at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months.|Percentage of participants lost to follow-up, When survivors miss a scheduled appointment and do not revisit the follow-up clinic after a missed appointment for more than six months., 24 months: at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months.|Reasons for non-adherence (questionnaire), Reasons for non-adherence (death, relapse, other logistic issues) will be explored through a phone call., 24 months: at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months.|Intentions to revisit the follow-up clinic (questionnaire), Intentions to revisit the follow-up clinic (yes/no, what can hospital do to support participant in adhering to follow-up visit) will be explored through a phone call., 24 months: at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months.
Caregiver knowledge (questionnaire), Caregivers' knowledge about disease history, treatment exposure, associations between treatment and late effects, follow-up care, late effects risk and risk perception.

Levels of knowledge (number of accurate/inaccurate/unknown responses), and knowledge uptake (changes in number of accurate responses) progression will be followed over time., Two months prior to survivor's treatment completion, assessed up to six months after completion of treatment|Healthcare provider knowledge (questionnaire), Caregivers' and healthcare providers' knowledge about disease history, treatment exposure, associations between treatment and late effects, follow-up care, late effects risk and risk perception according

Levels of knowledge (number of accurate/inaccurate/unknown responses), and knowledge uptake (changes in number of accurate responses) progression will be followed over time., From start healthcare provider training up to six months after the completion of the training session|Follow-Up Form documented late effects prevalence, The prevalence of late effects will be described as the percentage of individual survivors visiting the outpatient clinic for the duration of one year that reported a symptom (yes/no) as documented in the follow-up forms.

Late effects are categorized into physical outcomes (e.g. relapsed disease, heart failure), physical aspects of quality of life (e.g. fatigue, challenges exercising), psychosocial aspects of quality of life (e.g. anxiety, exclusion), neurocognitive aspects of quality of life (memory, educational problems) according to the International Childhood Cancer Outcome Project., 12 months: weekly.|Reach caregivers (Implementation measures data collection tool), Percentage eligible caregivers having received the booklet, video and Survivorship Card, characteristics of caregivers included in the study, 24 months: weekly|Reach healthcare providers (Implementation measures data collection tool), Percentage eligible healthcare providers trained, Characteristics of healthcare providers included in the study, 12 months: weekly.|Adoption caregivers (Implementation measures data collection tool), Percentage study participants taking the Survivorship Card to clinic appointment, 24 months: at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months|Adoption healthcare providers (Implementation measures data collection tool), Percentage eligible survivors having received the follow-up form in clinic; Percentage follow-up forms completely filled by clinician; Investigations and referrals done; Actions adhering to form instructions, 12 months: weekly.|Caregiver satisfaction (questionnaire), Satisfaction questionnaire rating satisfaction on a 3-point Likert scale (highest score indicating maximum satisfaction, and lowest score indicating maximum satisfaction for inverse questions). Values can range from minimum 1 (Disagree) to maximum 3 (Agree)., At 6 months after receiving the educational intervention|Healthcare provider satisfaction (questionnaire), Satisfaction questionnaire rating satisfaction on a 5-point Likert scale (highest score indicating maximum satisfaction, and lowest score indicating maximum satisfaction for inverse questions). Values can range from minimum 1 (Strongly Disagree) to maximum 5 (Strongly Agree)., At 6 months after receiving the healthcare provider training|Caregiver recommendations, Open question exploring recommendations to improve educational intervention, At 6 months after receiving the educational intervention|Healthcare provider recommendations, Open question exploring recommendations to improve the Follow-Up Form, At 6 months after receiving the healthcare provider training
This non-randomized prospective cohort study will be performed at a referral hospital in Western Kenya. Hundred caregivers of children diagnosed with cancer, who will complete treatment within two months, will be enrolled and followed for 24 months after completion of treatment. A caregiver control group receiving usual care will be recruited and sequentially, caregivers will be included in an intervention group to attend an educational group session and receive educational materials (video, booklet and Survivorship Card). Primary study outcome will be survivors' follow-up adherence. Survivors will be considered lost to follow-up after missing a scheduled appointment and subsequently do not revisit the clinic for more than six months. Mixed models regression analyses will be performed to determine intervention effects on follow-up adherence and secondly on caregiver survivorship knowledge uptake. Additionally, healthcare providers will be trained on follow-up care, whereafter a form will be introduced at the outpatient clinic to document late effects in pediatric survivors attending the clinic for the period of a year. Secondary outcomes will be late effects prevalence as documented in the Follow-Up Form and healthcare provider survivorship knowledge uptake. Implementation measures (reach, potential effectiveness, adoption, satisfaction and maintenance) will be evaluated for both programs.