Erlotinib Plus Carboplatin and Paclitaxel in Ovarian Carcinoma
This phase II trial is studying the side effects of giving erlotinib together with carboplatin and paclitaxel and to see how well it works in treating patients with stage III or stage IV ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. Biological therapies such as erlotinib may interfere with the growth of tumor cells and slow the growth of the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy such as carboplatin and paclitaxel use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.
Brenner Tumor|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Ovarian Clear Cell Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Serous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: erlotinib
Pathologic Complete Response Rates, Pathologic complete response was defined as having no pathologic or cytologic evidence of disease following surgical reassessment., Up to 7 years|The Percentage of Participants Experiencing Toxicty (Grade 2 and Grade 3/4) Associated With the Combined Regimen, Adverse event assessment, For the duration of the study up to 7 years
To Measure EGFR Gene Amplification in Tumor Specimens, The duration of the study for up to 7 years|To Determine Progession Free Survival With the Addition of OSI-774 (Tarceva) to the Combination of Paclitaxel and Carboplatin, The duration of the study|To Determine the Tolerability of Twelve Months of Maintenance Treatment, Twelve months of maintenance
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish whether the addition of OSI-774 (Tarceva) to the combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin encourages pathologic complete response (pCR) rates in patients with Stage III optimally cytoreduced (stratum 1) and Stage III suboptimally cytoreduced or Stage IV (stratum 2) ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube carcinomas when used as front line therapy.

II. To determine the degree and type of toxicity associated with this combined regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish baseline epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), truncated EGFR (EGFRvIII), phosphorylated EGFR (pEGFR) and related signal transduction pathway protein expression levels (such as the mitogen activated protein kinase p-ERK, AKT phosphorylation and Her2/neu) in tumor samples obtained pretreatment, and to correlate these with achieving pCR.

II. To describe changes in EGFR, EGFRvIII, pEGFR expression levels and other related signal transduction pathway expression occurring during treatment with OSI-774 in combination with chemotherapy.

III. To determine the effect of the addition of OSI-774 (Tarceva) to the combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin on progression-free interval in patients with Stage III optimally cytoreduced (stratum 1) and Stage III suboptimally cytoreduced or Stage IV (stratum 2) ovarian or primary peritoneal carcinomas when used as front line therapy.

IV. To determine the tolerability of twelve months of maintenance treatment with OSI-774 for patients achieving pCR, and to measure the progression-free interval for this population.

V. To document cutaneous effects of OSI 774 prospectively, and to correlate the degree of skin rash with clinical and translational endpoints.

OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized study. Patients are stratified according to disease stage (stage III with optimal residual disease vs stage III with suboptimal residual disease or stage IV).

Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive oral erlotinib daily. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a pathologic complete response, those initially suboptimally debulked with a response, and patients who elect not to undergo surgical reassessment but who achieve a complete clinical response receive maintenance erlotinib for an additional 12 months.