Study of Nintedanib Plus Bevacizumab in Advanced Solid Tumors
Angiogenesis, the development of new blood vessels, plays an important role in the disease development and tumor growth in many solid organ malignancies. Bevacizumab was the first anti-angiogenic drug to be approved in solid tumors and has shown advantageous activity with multiple tumor types. However, the responses from Bevacizumab are often transient due to the tumor's manipulative abilities to circumvent the usual pathways to find salvage pathways instead.

Nintedanib has demonstrated anti-tumor activity in non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer, colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, and renal cell cancer. The combination of Bevacizumab and Nintedanib are being proposed to target the tumor's manipulation processes to generate alternate pathways for angiogenesis thus creating a potential benefit to delay tumor growth.
Renal Cell Carcinoma|Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Non-squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Platinum-refractory Ovarian Carcinoma|Cervical Carcinoma
DRUG: Nintedanib|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Number of participants with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability, Adverse event reporting will be graded following the National Cancer Institute of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0., Initial dose of study drug until four weeks after the last dose or until death, whichever occurs first|Maximum tolerable dose of Nintedanib, The maximum dosage of drug that yields acceptable toxicity levels., Baseline up to three years
Objective tumor response rate, Response will be evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1)., up to 100 weeks|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to the first documentation of tumor progression. Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used., Baseline up to three years|Plasma level of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), Correlative analysis will be conducted using Chi-square tests and Spearman rank correlations. Differences between responders and non-responders will utilize the Kruskal-Wallis test., Baseline up to two years|Plasma level of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), Correlative analysis will be conducted using Chi-square tests and Spearman rank correlations. Differences between responders and non-responders will utilize the Kruskal-Wallis test., Baseline up to two years|Plasma level of vascular endothelial growth factor and receptor (VEGF-R), Correlative analysis will be conducted using Chi-square tests and Spearman rank correlations. Differences between responders and non-responders will utilize the Kruskal-Wallis test., Baseline up to two years|Plasma level of phosphatidylinositol-glycan biosynthesis class F protein (PIGF), Correlative analysis will be conducted using Chi-square tests and Spearman rank correlations. Differences between responders and non-responders will utilize the Kruskal-Wallis test., Baseline up to two years|Plasma level of fibroblast growth factor (FGF), Correlative analysis will be conducted using Chi-square tests and Spearman rank correlations. Differences between responders and non-responders will utilize the Kruskal-Wallis test., Baseline up to two years
This is an open-label, phase I dose-escalation study of Nintedanib combined with standard-dose Bevacizumab for advanced solid tumors in which Bevacizumab has an indication. The primary endpoints will be safety and tolerability of the drug combination and a determination of recommended Phase II dose for Nintedanib in combination with standard dose Bevacizumab.

The first three patients will be treated with Nintedanib daily plus Bevacizumab on day one of each three week cycle. If there are no dose limiting toxicities, then three additional patients will be treated with the same drugs with Nintedanib at a slightly higher level. Finally, a third cohort of three patients will be dosed at an even higher level. Once the maximum tolerated dose of Nintedanib is reached, then an additional six patients will be treated at that dose in combination with Bevacizumab until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities.