S0028, Gemcitabine and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Cancer of the Urinary Tract
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Giving more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining gemcitabine and paclitaxel in treating patients who have advanced or recurrent cancer of the urinary tract.
Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Urethral Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: paclitaxel
Determine the Feasibility of Accruing Patients With Metastatic Bladder Cancer Who Are 70 and Older to Chemotherapy Protocols, Sixty patients aged 70 years and older were to be accrued to the study. The feasibility of accrual was determined that accrual of 3 patients per month in the age 70 and older range would allow for an expeditiously conducted phase II trial. If, after a 3 month start-up period, 3 or more patients aged 70 years and older were accrued per month for the duration of the trial, it was deemed reasonable to consider further trials in this elderly population., 66 months (protocol activated on 7/1/2001 and closed to accrual on 12/15/2006)
Overall Confirmed Response Rate in the Patients Age 70 and Older (Complete and Partial Response), Complete response (CR) is defined as complete disappearance of all measurable and non-measurable disease. No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Partial response (PR) applies only to patients with least one measurable lesion. Greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of longest diameters of all target measurable lesions., every week for the first 4 weeks and then every 3 weeks for up to 19 weeks|Progression-free Survival in Patients Aged 70 Years and Older, Measured form date of registration to date of first observation of progression disease, death due to any cause, symptomatic deterioration, or early discontinuation of treatment., 0-5 years|Overall Survival (OS) in Patients Aged 70 Years and Older, Measured from date of registration to date of death due to any cause., 0-5 years|Number of Patients With Grade 3 Through Grade 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drug, Adverse Events (AEs) are reported by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 2.0. For each patient, worst grade of each event type is reported. Grade 3 = Severe, Grade 4 = Life-threatening, Grade 5 = Fatal., Patients were assessed for adverse events weekly after protocol treatment for cycle 1 (1 cycle = 21 days) and then weekly for the first 2 weeks of protocol treatment for cycle 2-6 and after completion of protocol treatment.|Feasibility of Patient-reported Outcome Measures for Patients Aged 70 Years and Older: Form Submission Rate, Patients were required to complete three self-administered questionnaires at entry, prior to the administration of any cytotoxic therapy: the Medical Conditions Questionnaire, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living Form that evaluates functional status, and the Feelings Questionnaire that evaluates depression status. Feasibility is defined in four ways: 1) submission rates for each of three patient self-administered questionnaires (\> 60%); 2) the number of items missing within each scale (\< 5%); 3) a description of the level of assistance required for self-administration of the questionnaires; and 4) the average amount of time it takes patients to complete each of the three questionnaires. Level of assistance is defined as the need to 1) read the questionnaire to the patient, 2) explain the meaning of items, 3) explain the response format, and 4) complete the questionnaire for the patient; an other category of assistance will be included., at study entry (prior to administration of any treatment)|Feasibility of Patient-reported Outcome Measures for Patients Aged 70 Years and Older: Median Time of Complete Forms, Patients were required to complete three self-administered questionnaires at entry, prior to the administration of any cytotoxic therapy: the Medical Conditions Questionnaire, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living Form that evaluates functional status, and the Feelings Questionnaire that evaluates depression status. Feasibility is defined in four ways: 1) submission rates for the each of three patient self-administered questionnaires (\> 60%); 2) the number of items missing within each scale (\< 5%); 3) a description of the level of assistance required for self-administration of the questionnaires; and 4) the average amount of time it takes patients to complete each of the three questionnaires. Level of assistance is defined as the need to 1) read the questionnaire to the patient, 2) explain the meaning of items, 3) explain the response format, and 4) complete the questionnaire for the patient; an other category of assistance will be included., at study entry (prior to administration of any treatment)|Assess the Feasibility of Patient-reported Outcome Measures for Patients Aged 70 Years and Older: at Least One Type of Assistance Required, Patients were required to complete three self-administered questionnaires at entry, prior to the administration of any cytotoxic therapy: the Medical Conditions Questionnaire, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living Form that evaluates functional status, and the Feelings Questionnaire that evaluates depression status. Feasibility is defined in four ways: 1) submission rates for the three patient self-administered questionnaires (\> 60%); 2) the number of items missing within each scale (\< 5%); 3) a description of the level of assistance required for self-administration of the questionnaires; and 4) the average amount of time it takes patients to complete each of the three questionnaires. Level of assistance is defined as the need to 1) read the questionnaire to the patient, 2) explain the meaning of items, 3) explain the response format, and 4) complete the questionnaire for the patient; an other category of assistance will be included., at study entry (prior to administration of any treatment)
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the feasibility of enrolling patients aged 70 years and older with advanced or recurrent urothelial cancer to a structured phase II study.
* Determine the anticancer efficacy of gemcitabine and paclitaxel, in terms of objective response rate and 2-year survival, in these elderly patients.
* Assess the toxicity and tolerability of this regimen in these elderly patients.
* Determine the feasibility of using standardized self-report measures of comorbidity, depression, and functional status in these patients.
* Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these elderly patients and validate this data against similar parameters in patients aged under 60 years.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (70 and over vs under 60).

Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a maximum of 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients (60 age 70 and over and 20 under age 60) will be accrued for this study.