An Observational Prospective Cohort Study Using an Actigraphy Device.
This study focuses on whether or not physical activity and sleep quality correlate with the health of prostate and breast cancer patients. The activity data will be acquired using wearable actigraphy devices, which the subjects will wear for the duration of seven days. The sleep quality will be measured using a combination of actigraphy and the mandarin version of the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and the Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ). By using this combination, the investigators will not only measure the objective physical activity while the patient is asleep, but also the subjective sleep quality. The questionnaire will also function as control data for the accuracy of the actigraphy device.

This study will recruit approximately 30 breast or prostate cancer patients. The participants will wear a wearable actigraphy device for 7 consecutive days, which will provide accurate and objective movement and sleep data. This data is linked to a unique Identification number (ID), which will be noted in the participant's case report. This case report also contains the participant's information and answers to the questionnaires.
Neoplasm of Breast (Disorder)|Carcinoma of Prostate (Disorder)
DEVICE: Actigraphy device
Change will be assessed on the quality of life of breast and prostate cancer patients., It will be measured using the scores of the Quality of Life questionnaire., The time frame will be 8th day after enrolment of each respondent|Change will be assessed for the influence of physical activity on the Quality of Life of breast and prostate cancer patients., It will be measured using the physical activity data from the actigraphy device., The time frame will be daily for 8 days after enrolment of each respondent
Study whether sleep quality and the quality of life scores of breast and prostate cancer patients are correlated, This will be measured using a combination of the PSQI questionnaire and movement data during nighttime for the sleep quality, and the quality of life questionnaire scores., The time frame will be 8th day after enrollment of each respondent
Physical inactivity is a common issue amongst breast cancer patients. Previous studies have shown that physical activity can be beneficiary to both the cancer outcomes and the quality of life.

However, most comparable studies had western populations or included some participants of Asian descent at best. Given the growing importance of effective and efficient follow-up care \[1\] and the lack of research on physical activity and sleep quality in relation to the Quality of Life (QoL) of cancer patients in Asian countries, the investigators aim to monitor the physical activity, sleep quality and subjective QoL of Taiwanese breast- and prostate cancer patients. Hence the investigators' main research question is: "Does physical and/or sleep activity affect the quality of life of (Taiwanese) breast and prostate cancer patients?". If this would be the case, the results might cover the bases for an intervention study aimed at improving physical and/or sleep quality in these cancer patients.

This study focuses on whether or not physical activity and sleep quality correlate with the health of prostate and breast cancer patients. The activity data will be acquired using wearable actigraphy devices, which the subjects will wear for the duration of seven days. The sleep quality will be measured using a combination of actigraphy and the mandarin version of the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). By using this combination, the investigators will not only measure the objective physical activity while the patient is asleep, but also the subjective sleep quality. The questionnaire will also function as control data for the accuracy of the actigraphy device.

Lastly, the quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30). This will provide an insight in the quality of life of the subjects, which will enable the investigators to draw a conclusion whether or not physical activity and sleep quality are related to the quality of life.

This study will recruit approximately 30 breast or prostate cancer patients. The participants will wear a wearable actigraphy device for 7 consecutive days, which will provide accurate and objective movement and sleep data. This data is linked to a unique ID, which will be noted in the participant's case report. This case report also contains the participant's information and answers to the questionnaires.

To retrieve results from the dataset, the data analysis will be divided in two parts: correlation between sleep quality and the Quality of Life, and between physical activity and the Quality of Life. Before commencing with the analysis itself, the data will be checked for outliers and missing data.