A Trial of Radiofrequency Ablation for Anal Intraepithelial Neoplasia Using the HALO Ablation System
This is a Single-center prospective pilot trial involving up to 22 subjects. This study will assess the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) to the anal canal using the FDA cleared HALO Ablation System to eradicate anal HSIL lesions in HIV-negative subjects with intra-anal intraepithelial neoplasia (AIN). The study intervention will demonstrate that a reasonable proportion of subjects will be histologically cleared of their anal HSIL within the ETZ in a tolerable and relatively safe manner
HIV-negative Subjects With Intra-anal Intraepithelial Neoplasia Containing High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions
DEVICE: Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) using the HALO Ablation System
Clearance of Anal HSIL (High Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (HSIL), Participants with histologic clearance of anal HSIL within the ETZ (eligible treatment zone) at 12 months from first RFA treatment, 12 months
Feasibility and Ease of Technique, Technical feasibility of applying RFA to the anal canal. Physician's assessment of ablation as optimal (complete ablation) versus sub-optimal (incomplete ablation)in the affected area in the anal canal.

Data not collected and could not be analyzed, 12 months|Tolerability, Subject tolerability of the RFA procedure as measured by severity. Mild: Awareness of signs and symptoms, but easily tolerated; are of a minor irritant type; causing no loss of time from normal activities; symptoms would not require medication or a medical intervention; asymptomatic lab findings; marginal clinical relevance; signs and symptoms are transient.

Moderate: Discomfort severe enough to cause interference with usual activities; minimal intervention.

Severe: Incapacitating with inability to do work or usual activities; signs and symptoms may be of systemic nature or require medical evaluation or treatment., 12 months|Adverse Events, Any related adverse event occuring in patients enrolled in this study. Event type and relationship to the device or procedure will be measured., 12 months|Progression of HSIL to Cancer, Histologic progression of HSIL to cancer as measured in biopsies read at the central pathology lab. Data not collected and could not be analyzed., 12 months
This is a Single-center prospective pilot trial involving up to 22 subjects. This study will assess the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) to the anal canal using the FDA cleared HALO Ablation System to eradicate anal HSIL lesions in HIV-negative subjects with intra-anal intraepithelial neoplasia (AIN). The study intervention will demonstrate that a reasonable proportion of subjects will be histologically cleared of their anal HSIL within the ETZ in a tolerable and relatively safe manner