Onvansertib in Combination With Gemcitabine and Nab-paclitaxel for the Treatment of Patients With Locally-advanced, Unresectable, or Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
This phase II trial studies how well onvansertib in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel works in treating patients with pancreatic ductal carcinoma (PDAC) that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced), that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable), or that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Onvansertib is a small chemical molecule that binds and stops the function of of PLK1 in tumor cells. By attacking the PLK1 protein, onvansertib is thought to reduce tumor cells ability to replicate and grow; causing them to die. Chemotherapy drugs, such as gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy with onvansertib may kill more tumor cells in patients with locally-advanced, unresectable, or metastatic pancreatic ductal carcinoma.
Locally Advanced Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Onvansertib|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: Electrocardiography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined as the percentage of participants that achieve a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version \[v\]1.1 criteria). Using the Group 1 efficacy analysis set, an estimate of ORR will be reported with 95% exact confidence interval (CI)., Up to 3 months after last dose of study intervention
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) and serious AEs, Using safety analysis set, the incidence of having treatment-emergent AEs and SAEs per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0 will be determined for participants that received at least one dose of onvansertib. The 95% CI will be reported with the point estimate of toxicity rate., Up to 30 days after last dose of study intervention|Disease control rate (DCR), Defined as percentage of participants who have achieved CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) (per RECIST v1.1 criteria) for at least 16 weeks from initiating study treatment. Using the Group 1 efficacy analysis set, the estimate of DCR will be reported with 95% exact CI., Up to 1 year after last dose of study intervention|Duration of response (DOR), Using the Group 1 efficacy analysis set, DOR will characterized using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method at specific timepoints (e.g., 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24 months; median DOR), along with corresponding 95% CI., From the date of first response (CR, PR, or SD ≥ 16 weeks [per RECIST v1.1 criteria]) to date of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year after last dose of study intervention|Time to progression (TTP), Using the Group 1 efficacy analysis set, the time to progression distribution will be characterized using the KM method. KM curves of TTP will be presented. Median TTP, quartiles and TTP rate after specific time points (e.g., 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24 months; median TTP) will be estimated from the survival curves. All these parameter estimates will be reported together with their 95% CIs., From the start of study intervention until first objectively documented date of disease progression, assessed up to 1 year after last dose of study intervention|Progression-free survival (PFS), The estimated distribution of the PFS will be plotted using KM curves and reported with median survival and 95% CIs if available., From first dose of study drug to the first date of objectively documented disease progression, or death by any cause, assessed up to 1 year from last dose of study intervention|Overall survival (OS), The estimated distribution of the OS will be plotted using KM curves and reported with median survival and 95% CIs if available., From date of first dose of study drug to the date of death by any cause, assessed up to 1 year after last dose of study intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess preliminary response to treatment with onvansertib and gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel (GnP).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of onvansertib in combination with GnP. II. To assess the rate of disease control following treatment with onvansertib and GnP in patients with PDAC.

III. To estimate the duration of response (DOR). IV. To estimate the time to disease progression. V. To estimate the progression-free survival associated with onvansertib and GnP.

VI. To estimate the overall survival associated with onvansertib and GnP.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate therapy induced changes in the tumor and tumor ecosystem.

OUTLINE: This is a safety lead-in study of onvansertib in combination with GnP, followed by a phase II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP 1: Patients receive onvansertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5, 8-12, and 15-19 and gemcitabine intravenously (IV) and nab-paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo electrocardiography at baseline, as well as blood sample collection, tumor biopsy, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and/or positron emission tomography (PET) throughout the trial.

GROUP 2: Patients receive onvansertib PO QD on days 1-10. Patients then receive onvansertib, gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel as in Group 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo electrocardiography at baseline, as well as blood sample collection, tumor biopsy, CT, MRI, and/or PET throughout the trial.

Upon completion of the study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for up to 12 months from date of last dose of study drug.