Prophylactic Mesh Placement During Stoma Closure After Low Anterior Resection
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare the efficacy of using polypropylene mesh for hernia prevention after stoma closure in patients with colorectal cancer and non-mesh repair. The main question it aims to answer is: can mesh help prevent hernia? Participants will be divided into 2 groups: with and without mesh using. They must be followed up for 2 years after enrollment in the study.

Researchers will compare mesh and non-mesh groups to evaluate the benefits and harms of mesh using in hernia prevention.
Neoplasms Malignant|Rectal Cancer|Hernia Incisional|Surgery
PROCEDURE: mesh|PROCEDURE: non-mesh
hernia rate, The rate of parastomal hernias after stoma closure for 2 years., 2 years
90 day surgical morbidity, Complications after stoma closure including hernias, 90 days|Quality of life indicators by HerQLes scale, Quality of life as assessed by Hernia-Related Quality of Life Survey scale (HerQLes) at 30 days, 1 year and 2 years after stoma closure (higher scores are worse), 2 years
This clinical trial is prospective randomized phase III study of the efficacy of polypropylene mesh for hernia prevention after stoma closure in patients with colorectal cancer. We will include in the study group 71 patients with colorectal cancer with ileo- and colostomy. In these patients we will do sublay/interoblique repair in prevention incisional hernias using polypropylene mesh. Our hypothesis is to reduce parastomal hernias rate from 30% to 10% over 2 years. Stratification will be used for patients with \>5 cm vs \<5 cm stoma-site hernia.

The control group will include 71 patients with similar parameters who will undergo stoma closure with layered ligature suturing of the abdominal wall without mesh implantation.

Additional endpoints are the wound infection rate, the complication rate (Clavien-Dindo), the rate of the repeated surgery for hernia at the site of stoma closure. We'll assess the quality of life by HerQLes (Hernia-Related Quality of Life Survey) scale.