Sunitinib Malate and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Liver Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well giving sunitinib malate together with capecitabine works in treating patients with unresectable or metastatic liver cancer. Sunitinib malate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving sunitinib malate together with capecitabine may kill more tumor cells
Adult Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer
DRUG: sunitinib malate|DRUG: capecitabine
Median Progression-free Survival, Analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Progression was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0). Progressive disease (PD) indicates at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., From the start of treatment to time of progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years
Best Response by RECIST Criteria, Incidence rate of best clinical response (complete response \[CR\], partial response \[PR\], stable disease \[SD\], or progressive disease\[PD\]) as assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.0). CR indicates disappearance of all target lesions. PR indicates at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Progressive disease indicates at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Stable disease (SD) indicates neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., From the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence, assessed every 3 months, up to 3 years|Median Overall Survival, Survival estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, From start of treatment until death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival of patients with unresectable or metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treated with sunitinib and capecitabine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall survival, response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RESIST) criteria, alpha fetoprotein (AFP) response, survival at one year, and safety and tolerability.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sunitinib malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and capecitabine PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence or disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years.