The Effects of Exercise on Distress, Quality of Life, and Biomarkers in Ovarian Cancer Survivors
Many individuals with ovarian cancer experience distress, fatigue, weakness, anxiety, and other symptoms that decrease quality of life. Moderate exercise may improve quality of life, decrease distress, and improve biomarkers associated with prognosis in individuals with ovarian cancer. This clinical trial studies how well moderate exercise works in improving distress, quality of life, and biomarkers of angiogenesis and chronic stress in individuals with ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer.
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Carcinosarcoma|Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Malignant Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Carcinosarcoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Carcinosarcoma|Primary Peritoneal Transitional Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Exercise Counseling|OTHER: Aerobic Exercise|OTHER: Physiological Support|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Best Practice
Change in Quality of Life Measured Using the RAND 36-item Short Form Health Survey Physical Component Score, Will be measured using the RAND 36-item Short Form Health Survey Physical Component Score. Mean change from baseline to 24 weeks between the exercise intervention and control group in the RAND 36-item Short Form Health Survey Physical Component Score.

RAND 36-Item Short Form assesses eight subscales including physical functioning, bodily pain, role limitations due to physical health problems, role limitations due to personal or emotional problems, emotional well-being, social functioning, energy/fatigue, general health perceptions, and perceived change in health. Possible scores for each subscale range from 0 to 100. The Physical Component Score (PCS) is an aggregate of the eight subscales using a standardized algorithm, with a mean of 50 and standard deviation of 10 in the general US population. Possible scores range from 20 to 60, with higher scores indicating a better quality of life., Baseline up to 24 weeks|Change in Distress, Measured Using the Perceived Stress Scale, Will be measured using the Perceived Stress Scale. Mean change from baseline to 24 weeks between the exercise intervention and control group in the Perceived Stress Scale.

The Perceived Stress Scale is a 10 item questionnaire with a total score range of 0-40. Higher total scores indicate higher distress., Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in Distress, Measured Using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - Anxiety Subscale, Will be measured using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - Anxiety subscale. Mean change from baseline to 24 weeks between the exercise intervention and control group in the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - anxiety subscale.

The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale includes 2 subscales: anxiety and depression.

The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - anxiety subscale total scores range from 0 to 21; higher scores indicated greater severity of anxiety symptoms., Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in Distress, Measured Using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - Depression Subscale, Will be measured using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - Depression sub scale. Mean change from baseline to 24 weeks between the exercise intervention and control group in the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - Depression subscale.

The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale includes 2 subscales: anxiety and depression.

The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - Depression subscale total scores range from 0 to 21; higher scores indicated greater severity of depression symptoms., Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in IL-6 (Biomarker of Angiogenesis), Mean change from baseline to 24 weeks between the exercise intervention and control group in mean levels of IL-6., Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in VEGF (Biomarker of Angiogenesis), Mean change from baseline to 24 weeks between the exercise intervention and control group in mean levels of VEGF., Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in Nocturnal Cortisol (Biomarker of Chronic Stress), Mean change from baseline to 24 weeks between the exercise intervention and control group in mean level of evening salivary cortisol., Baseline to 24 weeks
OUTLINE:

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (EXERCISE INTERVENTION): Patients meet with exercise physiologist for 1, 60 minute session. Patients then receive individualized exercise prescription with goal of moderate aerobic exercise over 150 minutes per week at home for up to 24 weeks. Patients also receive telephone-based motivational support by exercise physiologist weekly for 24 weeks.

ARM II (CONTROL GROUP): Patients maintain habitual levels of physical activity and receive general education material about ovarian cancer and survivorship for 24 weeks. After 24 weeks, patients are offered exercise intervention.