Adjuvant Toripalimab Plus Chemotherapy for EGFR/ALK Mutation Negative Stage II-IIIB(N2) NSCLC (LungMate-008)
This is a randomized, controlled, double-blind, single-center Phase III clinical study in patients with EGFR/ALK mutation negative stage II-IIIB (N2) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after complete tumor resection. To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of toripalimab compared with placebo combined with platinum-containing dual-drug chemotherapy.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Toripalimab mimetic (placebo)
Disease-free survival (DFS), It refers to the time from radical surgery to relapse or death of a participant due to disease progression. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the latest evaluation date will be used for interpolation (censoring)., up to 40 months
Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., up to 60 months|Safety: frequency of severe adverse events, The frequency of severe adverse events from the participants enrolling to 90 days after the last drug administration or 30 days after surgery or new anti-cancer therapy, which comes first., up to 18 months|Health related quality of life (HRQol), The assessment is made according to the Quality of Life Scale for Lung Cancer Patients (EORTC-QLQ-C30 \& LC13, Version 3). EORTC's QLQ-C30 \& LC13 (V3.0) is a core scale for lung cancer patients, with a total of 43 items. Among them, Item 29 and 30 are divided into seven grades, which are assigned with 1 to 7 scores according to the answer options. The other items are divided into 4 grades: Not at All, A Little, Quite a Bit, and Very Much, assigned with 1 to 4 scores respectively. The higher score, the worse quality., up to 12 months|5-year overall survival rate, Five-year survival rate measures survival at 5 years after treatment., From the completion of the intervention to 5 years.
This is a randomized, controlled, double-blind, single-center Phase III clinical study in patients with EGFR/ALK mutation negative stage II-IIIB (N2) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after complete tumor resection. To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of toripalimab compared with placebo combined with platinum-containing dual-drug chemotherapy.