Safety & Efficacy Study High Dose Evomela Injection for MA Conditioning in MM Patients With Autologous Transplantation
The purpose of this trial is to confirm the safety and efficacy of high-dose Melphalan HCL for Injection (Propylene Glycol-Free) as a myeloablative conditioning regimen in multiple myeloma patients (MM) undergoing autologous transplantation.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: High-Dose Melphalan HCL for Injection (Propylene Glycol-Free)|OTHER: Autologous Transplantation
Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, AE coding will be performed using the MedDRA Version 11.0 or greater. The severity of the toxicities will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE Version 4.0 whenever possible. AEs occurring when treatment starts on Day -3 through Day + 100 will be recorded in the AE section of the eCRF and causality will be assigned by the Principal Investigator., Up to Day +100|Mucositis Severity according to World Health Organization Scoring System, The baseline measurement will be the last assessment prior to receiving the first dose of study treatment. The on-treatment period will be defined as the day after the first dose of study treatment to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment. The incidence of severe mucositis (WHO Grade 3 or 4) will be summarized by frequencies and percentages. In addition, the incidence of oral mucositis will be summarized by WHO grade. Time from start of the first dose of study medication to peak oral mucositis score will also be calculated., Until Day +30|Mouth Pain Scores according to a Visual Analog Scale, Baseline VAS for mouth pain and dysphagia will be the VAS score collected prior to receiving the first dose of study medication. Analyses of changes and/or percent changes from baseline in the VAS scores will be analyzed for each time point collected during the 30 day on-treatment period. The minimum and maximum VAS scores during the 30 day on-treatment period will also be calculated for mouth pain and dysphagia, and the time to the minimum and maximum VAS scores will be summarized descriptively., Until Day +30|Treatment Related Mortality, TRM, which is defined as death not due to disease progression before Day +90/+100, will be calculated. This outcome measure will be summarized by the cumulative incidence estimated with 95% confidence intervals., Up to Day +100
MM response according to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria., Definition of active MM, clonal bone marrow plasma cells \>10% or biopsy-proven bony or extramedullary plasmacytoma and any one or more of the following CRAB features and myeloma-defining events: Evidence of end organ damage that can be attributed to the underlying plasma cell proliferative disorder and one or more biomarkers of malignancy (MDEs) defined in the criteria., At the Day +100 visit|Myeloablation, Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \<0.5 × 109/L, absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) \<0.1 × 109/L, platelet count \<20,000/mm3, or bleeding requiring transfusion., Up to Day +30|Neutrophil engraftment, ANC \>0.5 × 109/L × first 3 consecutive daily assessments, Up to Day +100|Platelet engraftment, Untransfused platelet measurement \>20,000/mm3 × first 3 consecutive daily assessments, Up to Day +100|Non-engraftment, Failure to reach an ANC \>0.5 × 109/L × 3 consecutive daily assessments by Day +100., Up to Day +100
The sponsor of the current study is now Acrotech Biopharma, divested from Spectrum Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Spectrum), which licensed the Melphalan HC1 for Injection (Propylene Glycol-Free) product from Ligand Pharmaceuticals , formerly CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (CyDex). This new injectable form of melphalan HCL incorporates Captisol®, β cyclodextrin sulfobutyl ether sodium salts (also known as \[SBE\]7m-β-CD), into the product. Captisol is present to facilitate the use of an all aqueous diluent (normal saline) for reconstitution and administration of the freeze-dried product in place of the propylene glycol-ethanol diluent necessary for the currently used melphalan intravenous product. Captisol provides for solubilization and improved stability of the all aqueous reconstituted and diluted infusion solution.

This is the second of two studies supporting product registration. This study will be a multicenter study of high-dose Melphalan HCL for Injection (Propylene Glycol-Free) conducted in 60 patients who have symptomatic MM and qualify for autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT).

During the Study Period, patients will receive 100mg/m2 of either Melphalan HCL for Injection (Propylene Glycol-Free) on Day -3 and on Day -2 for a total dose of 200mg/m2. Blood samples (5 timepoints post infusion) for population pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation will be withdrawn through an indwelling i.v. cannula on the first day of administration of melphalan (Day -3) for all patients and then additional blood samples (2 timepoints post infusion) drawn in a subset of patients on the second day of melphalan administration (Day -2).

Following one day of rest after the high dose myeloablative conditioning (Day -1), patients will receive an autologous graft (Day 0).