The Immediate Effect of Applying Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) on Sympathetic Ganglion and Gastrocnemius for Popliteal Blood Flow
This study aims to evaluate the immediate hemodynamic effects of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) on the popliteal artery and vein. Vascular issues like PAOD and DVT are common in patients with diabetes, obesity, or immobility due to increased resistance and reduced blood flow. Traditional treatments (medication or surgery) are not always feasible, prompting interest in TENS as an alternative. Although primarily used for pain relief, TENS may enhance blood flow. This research compares different stimulation frequencies (80 Hz vs. 4 Hz) and sites (gastrocnemius muscle vs. thoracolumbar sympathetic ganglia) to identify the most effective configuration.
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS)|Popliteal|Blood Flow|Sympathetic Ganglia
DEVICE: Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation，TENS
Doppler ultrasound measurement of changes in popliteal fossa blood flow, Using Doppler ultrasound to measure blood flow before, during, immediately after, and 15 minutes after electrical stimulation to observe the effects of electrical stimulation on blood flow., 45 minutes
heart rate, oximeter to measure heart rate before, during, immediately after, and 15 minutes after electrical stimulation to observe the effects of electrical stimulation on heart rate., 45 minutes
This study aims to evaluate the immediate hemodynamic effects of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) on the popliteal artery and vein. Vascular issues like PAOD and DVT are common in patients with diabetes, obesity, or immobility due to increased resistance and reduced blood flow. Traditional treatments (medication or surgery) are not always feasible, prompting interest in TENS as an alternative. Although primarily used for pain relief, TENS may enhance blood flow. This research compares different stimulation frequencies (80 Hz vs. 4 Hz) and sites (gastrocnemius muscle vs. thoracolumbar sympathetic ganglia) to identify the most effective configuration.