Pilot Study to Improve Therapeutic Outcomes for Dysphagia After Radiation Therapy
Patients with head and neck cancer treated with chemoradiation, often develop a treatment associated dysphagia. The common complaint is foods sticking in the pharynx. This study seeks to test the Iowa Oral Performance Instrument (IOPI) in the management of treatment induced dysphagia following chemoradiation for oral, pharyngeal, laryngeal, hypopharyngeal cancer. This pilot study seeks to compare standard exercise therapy plus IOPI to standard exercise alone to determine if recovery is enhanced and to determine if rate of recovery is accelerated.
Dysphagia|Oral Pharyngeal Cancer
DEVICE: Iowa Oral Performance Instrument
Tongue Pressure Generation (i.e. Tongue Strength) in Kilopascals (kPa) Using the IOPI Device, Change in tongue strength from baseline measurements; 2nd measurement collected post treatment (approximately 8 weeks from baseline), 8 weeks
Airway Protection During Swallowing, Penetration-aspiration scale score of the modified barium swallow (MBS) data for small, thin liquids Scores are determined primarily by the depth to which material passes in the airway and by whether or not material entering the airway is expelled.

Minimum 1 Maximum 8 Lower is better The score being evaluated is an absolute score at the time of collection and not the change over time., 8 week|Change Over Time of Pharyngeal Residue After Swallowing, The change in pharyngeal retention measured using the normalized residue ratio scale (NRR) is being assessed.

The NRR quantifies the amount of residue remaining in the valleculae and pyriform sinuses after a swallow as a ratio of the total area of each of these two pharyngeal spaces.

Value represents the area of space that is occupied by barium at the end of a swallow.

The change from baseline to 8 weeks is documented.

A positive change (+) is worsening of symptoms. A negative change (-) is bettering of symptoms., 8 week|Swallowing Impairment-Self Report, Patient perceived outcome measure related to their view of their swallowing problem/difficulties at that point in time.

Eating Assessment Tool (EAT-10). Minimum score 0 Maximum score 40 Higher score is worse Number reported is final overall score, 8 week|Swallowing Impairment, visual analog scale related to patient perceived swallowing impairment at that point in time.

Minimum - 0 Maximum - 100 Higher is worse Score reported is the overall score at that time and not a change from baseline., 8 week|Swallowing Impairment-Objective, functional oral intake scale (FOIS) The Functional Oral Intake Scale is an ordinal scale that is used to assess the current status and meaningful change in the oral intake.

Minimum - 1 Maximum - 7 Higher is better Score reported is the overall score at that point in time and not a change from baseline., 8 week
Patients with head and neck cancer treated with chemoradiation, often develop a treatment associated dysphagia. The common complaint is foods sticking in the pharynx. This study seeks to test the Iowa Oral Performance Instrument (IOPI) in the management of treatment induced dysphagia following chemoradiation for oral, pharyngeal, laryngeal, hypopharyngeal cancer. This pilot study seeks to compare standard exercise therapy plus IOPI to standard exercise alone to determine if recovery is enhanced and to determine if rate of recovery is accelerated.