Obatoclax and Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Aggressive Relapsed or Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
Obatoclax may stop the growth of non-Hodgkin lymphoma by blocking blood flow to the cancer. Bortezomib and obatoclax may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving obatoclax together with bortezomib may kill more cancer cells. This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of obatoclax when given together with bortezomib and to see how well they work in treating patients with aggressive relapsed or recurrent non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: obatoclax mesylate|DRUG: bortezomib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated dose of obatoclax mesylate when administered with bortezomib, Defined as the highest dose tested in which fewer than 33% of patients experienced DLT attributable to the study drug(s), when at least six patients were treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. Graded according to the NCI CTCAE, Version 3.0., 35 days
Toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures, time of onset (i.e. course number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by course., Up to 26 weeks after completion of study treatment|Pharmacokinetics of obatoclax mesylate when administered with bortezomib, Dose 1 of course 1, pre-infusion, 1 and 2 hours into the infusion, immediately prior to the end of the infusion, then at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 24, 48, 72, and 168 hours
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose of obatoclax mesylate when administered with bortezomib in patients with aggressive relapsed or recurrent non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

II. To describe the toxicities of this regimen at each dose studied in these patients.

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetic behavior of this regimen in these patients.

IV. To obtain preliminary information regarding the effect of obatoclax mesylate on several apoptotic regulatory pathways.

V. To document all clinical responses in these patients to this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

PHASE I: Patients receive obatoclax mesylate IV over 3 hours followed by bortezomib IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

Treatment repeats every 35 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Pharmacokinetic evaluations of obatoclax mesylate are conducted in all patients during the first course.

PHASE II: Patients receive obatoclax mesylate IV over 3 hours followed by bortezomib IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 at the maximum tolerated dose determined in phase I.

Treatment repeats every 35 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 26 weeks.