Pilot Study of the eHealth Application "Cancer Patients Better Life Experience" (CAPABLE) - Italy
The purpose of the CAPABLE study is to compare health-related quality of life in renal cell carcinoma patients who use or do not use a mobile-based application to monitor adverse events for cancer treatment at home. As secondary objectives, the study investigates the usability of the system and its generalizability to other cancer types
Renal Cell Carcinoma Metastatic|Breast Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer|Thyroid Cancer|Ovary Cancer|Lung Cancer|Stomach Cancer
DEVICE: CAPABLE cohort
Change in health-related QoL outcomes in RCC patients, The primary objective of this study is to investigate whether HRQoL of RCC patients eligible for systemic treatment can be improved by a patient-centred mobile coaching- and monitoring system, 6 months after the enrollment
User experience of the CAPABLE system in RCC patients, This study will gather qualitative and quantitative information to quantify usefulness, easiness, acceptability and feasibility of the end users' solutions. The patient app will be assessed also in terms of perceived impact and support derived from the digital technologies. The health professional web application will be evaluated to understand to what extent this can be integrated and adopted in the clinical practice, 6 months after the enrollment|User experience of the CAPABLE system in other cancer types patients, To evaluate the generalizability of the system on other cancer types, the user experience study is performed also on patients with cancer types different from RCC (e.g Breast, Ovary, Head\&Neck cancer). The patient app will be assessed also in terms of perceived impact and support derived from the digital technologies. The health professional web application will be evaluated to understand to what extent this can be integrated and adopted in the clinical practice, 6 months after the enrollment
The study is designed as a prospectively enrolling, quasi-experimental cohort study in cancer patients, eligible for systemic treatment.

The CAPABLE cohort will receive the smartphone application and a multi-sensorial smartwatch (ASUS VivoWatch 5 HC-B05). Patients will be asked to use the system for at least 6 months after enrollment. If, after 6 months, a patient wants to keep using the system, he will be allowed to do so, until the end of the study. Questionnaires on health-related quality of life will be administered to the patients on baseline (T0) and every three months (T1 and T2). Lost to follow-up data will be included in intention-to-treat analysis. Qualitative and quantitative user experience studies will be done at enrollment, after 3 months and at the end of the follow-up period with the CAPABLE system. Results of this interventional study will be compared with a control cohort consisting of renal cell carcinoma patients, recruited in 2021 with the same inclusion criteria as this study population, but receiving standard care (ICSM CE number 2546, dated 13/04/2021 and amended on 09/02/2022).