Seizure Prophylaxis in Patients With Glioma or Brain Metastasis
This protocol is designed to assess the need for seizure prophylaxis in the perioperative period for patients undergoing neurosurgical procedure (gross-total resection, sub-total resection or biopsy) for suspected diagnosis of new, recurrent or transformed glioma (WHO grade I-IV) and brain metastasis. This will be determined by observing the impact of Lacosamide (LCM), Levetiracetam (LEV), or no anti-epileptic drug (AED) on whether visits to the emergency department (ED) or hospital re-admissions occur within 30 days after procedure. A secondary endpoint will evaluate the safety and tolerability of LCM and LEV. Exploratory endpoints will evaluate admission duration for the procedure, number of post-operative provider communications (telephone, email, and additional clinic encounters, etc.), and patient risk factors associated with post-operative seizure.
Glioma|Glioma of Brain|Brain Tumor
DRUG: Lacosamide|DRUG: Levetiracetam
Percentage of Patients With an ED Visit/Hospital Readmission Within 30 Days of Craniotomy, The primary objective of this study is to assess the impact of LCM, LEV or, no AED in patients undergoing craniotomy for suspected new, recurrent or transformed glioma (WHO Gr I-IV) or brain metastasis on ED visits and readmissions within 30 days of craniotomy., 30 days following surgery
Number of Participants With an Adverse Event Within First 30 Days After Craniotomy, Adverse events related to LCM, LEV, and no drug within first 30 days after craniotomy., 30 days following surgery
The protocol will assess the need for AED prophylaxis during the post-operative period in patients undergoing neurosurgical procedure for a suspected diagnosis of glioma (WHO grade I-IV) and brain metastasis. Patients (n=116) will be consented and randomized at their pre-operative assessment, either at their pre-operative clinic visit or in the ED, if that is the time of their initial presentation prior to surgery. There will be three arms to the study - patients will be randomized to LCM, LEV, or control (no AED). Randomization will be stratified by suspected grade (LGG vs HGG) and brain metastasis. The AED can be initiated anytime within 48 hours before neurosurgical procedure.

Doses will be either LCM 100mg twice a day (BID) (Arm A), LEV 1000mg BID (Arm B), or no AED (Arm C). If a patient is randomized to Arm C and undergoes tumor mapping, the patient is allowed to receive one dose of AED in the operating room. If a patient is randomized to Arm A or Arm B and takes the morning dose of their AED, they do not need an intra-operative dose of AED. If a patient has a seizure during the post-operative period, AEDs will be adjusted at the discretion of the treating physician. However, if a patient has intolerable side effects, patients will be changed to a different dose of the same medicine before consideration of another AED \[i.e., BID to four times a day (QID) dosing if patient experiences diplopia on LCM\].

Patients with high-grade tumors (newly-diagnosed or transformed) will be treated with standard radiation and temozolomide therapy per the Stupp protocol 25,70. For these patients, an AED taper will be initiated at the first clinic visit after completion of radiation. For patients with a low-grade tumor or recurrent disease of any grade or brain metastasis, an AED taper will be initiated at the first scheduled post-operative visit, approximately 6-10 weeks after the operation. LCM will be tapered by 100mg a week one week at a time. LEV will be tapered 500-1000mg one week at a time.