Partial Cystectomy & Extended Pelvic Lymph Node Dissection With SOC Perioperative Systemic Therapy
The goal of this clinical trial is to determine if a partial cystectomy with extended pelvic lymph node removal will be effective at treating Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer instead of a complete cystectomy with extended pelvic lymph node removal. This clinical trial aims to determine the safety and oncologic efficacy of the intervention, and to examine patient-reported quality of life outcomes in participants. Participants will receive the standard pre-surgery treatment for approximately 4 to 6 weeks. After the pre-surgery treatment is completed, participants will undergo a partial cystectomy with extended pelvic lymph node dissection. After surgery, participants will receive adjuvant systemic therapy.
Malignant Neoplasm of Bladder|Muscle Invasive Bladder Carcinoma
DRUG: Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy|PROCEDURE: Partial cystectomy with Extended pelvic lymph node dissection|DRUG: Adjuvant systemic therapy
Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS), Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS) is defined as the time from post-surgery baseline scan (revealing no recurrent/metastatic disease) until the first occurrence of either local or distant recurrence as assessed by CT or MRI and/or biopsy. The primary outcome of distant RFS will be assessed via Kaplan-Meier analysis, Up to 24 months from date of post-surgery baseline scan
Presence of Post-operative Complications, The Clavien-Dindo classification will measure post-operative complications. The Clavien-Dindo Classification of Post-operative Complications is a tool to assess complications following surgical treatment. This tool ranks complications on a scale of seven levels, with level 1 being the least complicated and 7 being the worst complication resulting in death. The average classification at 90 days will be assessed and reported., At 90 days after surgery|Median Bladder RFS, The median duration of bladder recurrence-free survival at 2 years., Up to 24 months from date of post-surgery baseline scan|Median Muscle-Invasive Bladder RFS, The median duration of muscle-invasive bladder recurrence-free survival at 2 years., Up to 24 months from date of post-surgery baseline scan|Median Bladder-Intact Survival, The median duration of bladder-intact survival at 2 years., Up to 24 months from date of post-surgery baseline scan|Median Cancer-Specific Survival, The median duration of cancer-specific survival at 2 years., Up to 24 months from date of post-surgery baseline scan|Changes in Genitourinary-specific HRQoL, The mean changes in Genitourinary-specific HRQoL will be reported. The HRQoL survey is composed of five functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social functioning), three symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain), a global health status/QoL, and six single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). The scales and single-item measures range from 0 - 100, with higher values representing a higher response level., Up to 24 months from date of post-surgery baseline scan
Radical cystectomy (surgical removal of the bladder) with pelvic lymph node dissection and urinary diversion, with neoadjuvant chemotherapy in eligible participants, is the standard of care in participants with muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC). While this has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of MIBC, it has risk of perioperative morbidity and impacts quality of life. Partial cystectomy (surgical removal of a portion of the bladder) is one option for bladder-sparing treatment of select bladder cancer participants and is included in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network bladder cancer treatment guidelines. This treatment has the advantage of less invasive treatment with a lower risk of surgical complication and better health-related quality of life (HRQOL) while providing pathologic staging, however there are limited data on outcomes with this treatment, especially patient-reported HRQOL outcomes. Additionally, much of the existing literature on efficacy of this treatment predates the use of advanced imaging in preoperative staging and advances in surgical technique including use of minimally-invasive surgical approaches and enhanced-recovery post-operative care paths. Given these limitations in the existing literature, the aim of this clinical trial is to examine the safety and efficacy and HRQOL outcomes of partial cystectomy with extended pelvic lymph node dissection, with standard of care perioperative systemic therapy in eligible participants.