Capecitabine, Cyclophosphamide, Lapatinib Ditosylate, and Trastuzumab in Treating Patients With HER2-Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well capecitabine, cyclophosphamide, lapatinib ditosylate, and trastuzumab work in treating patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine and cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving capecitabine and cyclophosphamide daily may kill more tumor cells. Lapatinib ditosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of the tumor to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving capecitabine, cyclophosphamide, lapatinib ditosylate, and trastuzumab together may be an effective treatment for breast cancer.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: lapatinib ditosylate|BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as duration of time from the first dose of study drug to the first documentation of Progressive Disease (PD) by investigator assessment using RECIST 1.1 or death on study due to any cause on or before the data cutoff date, whichever occurred first. PD: \>=20% increase (\>=5 mm absolute increase) in the sum of target lesion measurements, compared to the smallest sum on study (including baseline), or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, evaluated as a whole, such that it is clear that treatment has failed and disease is progressing, regardless of the status of the target lesions., From study entry to the date of first documented disease progression (assessed every 6 weeks) or death due to any cause, whichever came first, approximately 63 months.
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) is complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) recorded from study entry until disease progression based on RECIST v1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., From study entry until disease progression/recurrence (maximum duration: 351 weeks)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Participants with a best response of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) sustained for ≥24 weeks, as assessed using RECIST v1.1. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions, including target and non-target lymph nodes reduction to \<10 mm in short axis. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, compared to the sum at baseline. SD: Neither PR nor progression of disease (PD) criteria met. SD follow PR only when sum increases by less than 20% from the nadir, but previously seen 30% decrease from baseline no longer hold. PD: \>=20% increase (\>=5 mm absolute increase) in the sum of target lesion measurements, compared to the smallest sum on study (including baseline), or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, evaluated as a whole, such that it is clear that treatment has failed and disease is progressing, regardless of the status of the target lesions., From study entry until the date of the first documented disease progression of date of death whichever came first, assessed for approximately 351 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), OS is the duration from study entry to death. Participants last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., From study entry until death from any cause or date of last contact (up to 70 months)|Number of Participants With Any Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Assessment based on CTCAE version 4.0 toxicity criteria. For the detailed list of adverse events see the adverse event module., ****Time Frame: Adverse events were collected from first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after last dose of treatment, up to 63 months (number or treatment given ranged from 2 cycles to 85 cycles).
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression free survival (PFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR).

II. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (CBR; complete response, partial response, and stable disease for \>= 24 weeks).

III. To estimate the overall survival (OS).

IV. To assess the safety and tolerability.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive capecitabine orally (PO) once daily (QD), cyclophosphamide PO QD, and lapatinib ditosylate PO QD on days 1-21 and trastuzumab intravenously (IV) on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.