GM-CSF for Maintenance of Prostate Cancer for Patients Responding to Taxotere
This trial is designed to investigate the efficacy and safety of GM-CSF used as a maintenance program in patients with androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC) who have achieved a maximal response on a taxotere or other chemotherapy schedule.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: GM CSF
Time to Disease Progression (TTP), The primary end point of this study is to evaluate time to disease progression (TTP). TTP is defined as the time from starting taxotere until there is evidence of progressive disease (PD) as defined below (radiographically and/or biochemically). PD was defined as more than 20% in the sum of longest diameter of measurable lesions compared to baseline, and/or evidence of new lesions on imaging studies. Median TTP from GM-CSF administration and Median TTP from start of chemotherapy is being reported, up to 21 months
Response Rate (PSA), Biochemical PR (Partial Response) was defined as a PSA that decreases by 50% and maintains by at least 3 weeks by confirmatory measurement. Biochemical SD (stable disease) was defined as a PSA that was increased by less than 25% or decreased by less than 50% Biochemical PD (progressive disease) was defined as an increase of at least 25% confirmed 3 weeks after., up to 21 months|Response Rate (Radiographic), PR was defined as more than 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of measurable lesions compared to baseline. SD was defined when lesions did not meet criteria for PR or PD. PD was defined as more than 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of measurable lesions compared to baseline, and/or evidence of new lesions at imaging studies. The appearance of 2 or more new boney lesions on bone scan development of cord compression, and pathologic fractures constituted PD., up to 21 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), up to 44 months|Median Number of GM-CSF Cycles, up to 12 months
Patients will be treated on this single arm, open label trial until primary end point is met, patient's withdrawal, or investigator's discretion. After achieving a maximal response on taxotere or other chemo schedule they were eligible to enroll in this trial and begin treatment with maintenance GMCSF for 2 weeks followed by 2 weeks of rest. Once progression was documented the patients were taken off study.