Pembrolizumab Plus Bevacizumab and Chemotherapy for Non-Squamous NSCLC Patients
This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Pembrolizumab in combination with Bevacizumab and chemotherapy in advanced or metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutation.
Non-squamous NSCLC
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Folic acid 350-1000 μg|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin B12 1000 μg|DRUG: Dexamethasone 4 mg
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters) per Response Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1)., Up to approximately 24 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per Response Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) based on blinded independent central review (BICR), or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of ≥1 new lesion was also considered PD., Up to approximately 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrated a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from the first documented evidence of a CR or PR until PD or death. DOR for participants who had not progressed or died at the time of analysis was to be censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. DOR assessments were based on BICR with confirmation. The DOR per RECIST 1.1 for all participants who experienced a confirmed CR or PR is presented., From time of first documented evidence of CR or PR to Up to approximately 24 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant-administered study treatment that did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. The number of participants who experienced an AE is presented., Up to approximately 24 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Any Study Drug Due to an AE, The number of participants who discontinued any randomized study drug due to an AE is presented., Up to approximately 24 months
This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Pembrolizumab in combination with Bevacizumab and chemotherapy in advanced or metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutation.