The Patterns of Activity and Cognition During Treatment (PACT) Study
Aim 1: This pilot study tests the feasibility and acceptability of a mobile app-based behavioral intervention in 40 women receiving chemotherapy for breast cancer. Participants will be randomized to receive app components following a 2x2 factorial design. Feasibility will be assessed by participant recruitment yield, intervention adherence, contamination, and retention. Acceptability will be assessed by participant ratings and perceptions of intervention components as measured at post-intervention (1 month post-chemotherapy).

Aim 2: Examine preliminary efficacy of the intervention components (i.e., Move, Exercise, Core) delivered alone (i.e., main effects) and in combination (i.e., interaction effects; Move+Exercise) on executive function and working memory at post-intervention. These data will inform the sample size needed for a fully-powered randomized controlled trial. Aim 2 outcomes will be measured at pre-intervention (before the first or second chemotherapy cycle) and post-intervention, and include accelerometry and neurocognitive testing.

Exploratory Aim: Explore the effects of the intervention components on correlates of cancer-associated cognitive decline. Exploratory outcomes will be measured at pre- and post-intervention and include patient-reported outcomes, specifically cancer-related fatigue. Participants will also completed brief ecological momentary assessments (EMAs) their mobile phones across four 14-day measurement bursts at pre-intervention, mid-chemotherapy, and 1 month post-chemotherapy to further explore associations among behavioral patterns, cognition, and correlates.
Breast Neoplasms|Breast Cancer Female
BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity|BEHAVIORAL: Attentional Control
intervention attendance, completion of telecoaching sessions, 1 month post-chemotherapy|Participant satisfaction: survey, usability survey, 1 month post-chemotherapy|recruitment yield, number of women who enroll compared to the number of contacts of eligible women required to obtain target sample size, Baseline|retention, proportion of participants providing post-intervention data, 1 month post-chemotherapy|acceptability of intervention: in-depth interview, in-depth interview to gather participant perceptions on the acceptability and usefulness of the mobile app features, 1 month post-chemotherapy
Change in Stroop task performance, Interference score on Stroop task, Baseline, 1 month post-chemotherapy|Change in Task-Switch task performance, Reaction time on Task-Switch, Baseline, 1 month post-chemotherapy|Change in Trails task performance, Completion time of Trails, Baseline, 1 month post-chemotherapy|Change in N-Back task performance, Correct responses on N-back, Baseline, 1 month post-chemotherapy|Change in Spatial Working Memory task performance, Correct responses on Spatial Working Memory task, Baseline, 1 month post-chemotherapy|Change in Auditory Verbal Learning Task (AVLT) performance, Total numbered recalled on AVLT, Baseline, 1 month post-chemotherapy|Change in objective physical activity behavior, Objective activity behavior (average minutes of physical activity per day) will be measured using actigraphy., Baseline, 1 month post-chemotherapy
Change in cancer-related Fatigue, The Functional Assessment in Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) - Fatigue Scale will be used to measure cancer-related fatigue. Scores range from 0-52, with higher scores indicating less cancer-related fatigue., Baseline, 1 month post-chemotherapy|Momentary symptoms, A brief ecological momentary assessment prompted to participants' smartphones will be used to measure momentary symptoms, including anxiety, stress, fatigue, focus, pain, and nausea., 14 days 4 times per day at each of the following time points: baseline, mid-intervention (2-3 months from baseline), 1 month post-chemotherapy
Cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI) is a research priority due to its rising prevalence and dramatic impacts on survivors' quality of life and health long-term. Strong evidence supports the efficacy of physical activity (PA) for improving cognitive function and key CRCI correlates. The aim of the proposed study is to pilot test an innovative, mHealth intervention designed to ameliorate CRCI in women receiving chemotherapy for breast cancer. This study will employ an efficient 2x2 factorial design to compare PA prescriptions targeting frequent PA of any intensity and reduced daily sitting (Move); aerobic exercise (consistent with PA guidelines for cancer survivors; Exercise); both (Move+Exercise); or none (Core). The main and interactive effects of these intervention components on CRCI and its underlying mechanisms will be tested across the breast cancer trajectory. Aim 1: This pilot study aims to test the feasibility and acceptability of the mHealth intervention in 40 women receiving chemotherapy for breast cancer. Feasibility will be assessed by participant recruitment yield, intervention adherence, contamination, and retention. Acceptability will be assessed by participant ratings and perceptions of intervention components as measured at a baseline orientation and at post-intervention (1 month post-chemotherapy). Aim 2: Examine preliminary efficacy of the intervention components (i.e., Move, Exercise, Core) delivered alone (i.e., main effects) and in combination (i.e., interaction effects) on executive function and working memory at post-intervention. These data will inform the sample size needed for a fully-powered randomized controlled trial. Aim 2 outcomes will be measured at pre-intervention (before the first or second chemotherapy cycle) and post-intervention, and include accelerometry and neurocognitive testing. Exploratory Aim: Explore the effects of the intervention components on CRCI correlates. Exploratory outcomes will be measured at pre- and post-intervention and include patient-reported outcomes (e.g., fatigue, depressive symptoms). Participants will also complete brief ecological momentary assessments (EMAs) on their mobile phones across four 14-day measurement bursts to further explore associations among behavioral patterns, cognition, and CRCI correlates. To test the specific aims, women diagnosed with breast cancer and scheduled to receive 3-6 months of chemotherapy (N=40) will be randomized to receive select mHealth intervention components, including Core (attentional control), Move, Exercise, or Move+Exercise (n=10 each condition). Data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and axial coding (Aim 1); analysis of covariance and standard mean difference (Aim 2 and Exploratory); and hierarchical linear modeling (Exploratory). Findings will provide the necessary pilot data to support a grant application for a fully-powered trial.