Talazoparib in Treating Patients With Recurrent, Refractory, Advanced, or Metastatic Cancers and Alterations in the BRCA Genes
This phase II trial studies how well talazoparib works in treating patients with cancers that have returned after a period of improvement, do not respond to treatment, or have spread to other parts of the body, and have alterations in the breast cancer, early onset (BRCA) genes. Talazoparib may cause tumor cells to die by blocking an enzyme that protects the tumor cells from damage.
Advanced Malignant Neoplasm|ATM Gene Mutation|BRCA1 Gene Mutation|BRCA2 Gene Mutation|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm|PALB2 Gene Mutation|Recurrent Malignant Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Talazoparib
Clinical benefit by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1, Evaluated separately in each cohort. Calculated using posterior probabilities along with corresponding credible intervals., Up to 1 year
Progression free survival, Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 1 year|Overall survival, Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 1 year|Duration of response, Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 1 year
Molecular markers that may predict clinical benefit, Marker values will be compared between patients with and without clinical benefit using chi-squared or Fisher exact tests for categorically-scaled markers and Wilcoxon rank sum tests for interval- and ordinal-scaled markers. Only those significant on univariate analysis will be combined into a single logistic regression model to assess their independent effects on clinical benefit. Analyses will be performed both within and across the five cohorts., Baseline|Pharmacodynamic markers in blood and plasma that may predict outcome, Regulation of poly-adenosine triphosphate ribose activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be correlated with response. Effect of treatment on proteomic profile and cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid will be assessed as exploratory endpoints., Up to week 4|BRCA1/2 alterations in archival tissue, Concordance between archival tissue and pre-treatment biopsies will be assessed using kappa statistics., Baseline|BRCA1/2 alterations in pretreatment biopsies, Concordance between archival tissue and pre-treatment biopsies will be assessed using kappa statistics., Baseline|Genomic alterations in tumor deoxyribonucleic acid, Concordance between tumor and circulating free deoxyribonucleic acid will be assessed using kappa statistics., Baseline|Genomic alterations in circulating free deoxyribonucleic acid, Concordance between tumor and circulating free deoxyribonucleic acid will be assessed using kappa statistics., Up to week 4|Change in marker levels, The markers described yield interval-scaled values that may not be normally distributed, so differences between baseline and 2-week values will be assessed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test., Baseline to 2 weeks|Baseline proteomic signature and pharmacodynamic response by reverse phase protein array, Pharmacodynamic effect of talazoparib on proteomic signature will be assessed by reverse phase protein array and correlated with response, clinical benefit, as well as best response as percentage tumor change., Baseline|Archival immunohistochemistry staining, Immunohistochemistry staining will be assessed via the H-score which can be treated as an interval-scaled variable. The concordance correlation coefficient as well as the Altman-Bland approach will be used to assess the concordance between archival immunohistochemistry staining and baseline biopsy immunohistochemistry staining. In addition, PTEN will be assessed (PTEN loss, no loss). Concordance between archival tissue and pre-treatment biopsies will be assessed using kappa statistics., Baseline|Baseline biopsy immunohistochemistry staining, Immunohistochemistry staining will be assessed via the H-score which can be treated as an interval-scaled variable. The concordance correlation coefficient as well as the Altman-Bland approach will be used to assess the concordance between archival immunohistochemistry staining and baseline biopsy immunohistochemistry staining. In addition, PTEN will be assessed (PTEN loss, no loss). Concordance between archival tissue and pre-treatment biopsies will be assessed using kappa statistics., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the PARP inhibitor talazoparib achieves clinical benefit (complete response \[CR\], partial response \[PR\] or stable disease \[SD\] \> 24 weeks) in metastatic or inoperable locally advanced or locally recurrent cancer patients who have somatic mutations or deletions of BRCA1 or BRCA2, mutations or homozygous deletions in other BRCA pathway genes, and germline mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA 2 with cancers other than breast or ovarian cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of talazoparib in this patient population. (Across-indication) II. To determine baseline molecular markers (deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\], ribonucleic acid \[RNA\] and protein) or scores (e.g., microsatellite instability positives, and somatic mutation burden) that may predict clinical benefit. (Within-indication) III. To determine pharmacodynamic (PD) markers in tumor, blood and plasma that may predict outcome. (Within-indication) IV. To determine concordance of BRCA1/2 alterations in archival tissue and pre-treatment biopsies. (Within-indication) V. To determine concordance of genomic alterations in tumor and circulating free DNA. (Within-indication) VI. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) in patients. (Within-indication) VII. To evaluate the duration of response (DOR) in patients. (Within-indication) VIII. To evaluate the overall survival (OR) in patients. (Within-indication)

OUTLINE:

Patients receive talazoparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks for 1 year.