Talimogene Laherparepvec in Treating Patients With Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Transitional Cell Carcinoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of talimogene laherparepvec and to see how well it works in treating patients with non-muscle invasive bladder transitional cell carcinoma. Biological therapies, such as talimogene laherparepvec, use substances made from living organisms that may attack specific tumor cells and stop them from growing or kill them.
Stage 0 Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage 0a Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage 0is Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage I Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Talimogene Laherparepvec
Incidence of treatment-related toxicities according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03 (Dose escalation), The distribution for the maximum observed grade for each adverse event will be tabulated and reported with 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years|Pathologic T0 rate (Dose expansion), Point estimates and 95% confidence intervals will be obtained for each dose level of talimogene laherparepvec. Will be estimated for the expansion cohort and compared with the null hypothesis rate separately by using one-sample proportion test., At 6 months|Relapse-free survival rate (Dose expansion), Point estimates and 95% confidence intervals will be obtained for each dose level of talimogene laherparepvec. Will be estimated for the expansion cohort and compared with the null hypothesis rate separately by using one-sample proportion test., From study start until recurrence of disease or death from any cause, assessed at 2 years
Change in antigen presenting cell (APC) within bladder tumor tissue by immunohistochemical (IHC) assessment, APC infiltration (CD68+, CD11c+, or CD83+) will be assessed by IHC staining, and quantitated by the number of APCs/um\^2. Therefore, the number of APCs will be normalized per unit area. APC will be enumerated from 3 tissue regions: tumor/benign tissue interface (from here on referred to as the ?tumor interface?), tumor center, and benign glands, Baseline up to 2 years|Change in circulating immune cells following intravesical talimogene laherparepvec, by flow cytometric assessment, Flow cytometry will be performed in both pre- and post-treatment peripheral blood mononuclear cells to determine the change in T cell activation (both regulatory T cells and T effector cells) after intravesical talimogene laherparepvec therapy. Descriptive statistics for continuous measurements will be used to summarize the changes., Baseline up to 2 years|Change in T cell and other immune cell infiltration within bladder tumor tissue by IHC assessment, T cell tumor infiltration (of selected T cell subsets) will be scored by IHC assessment, and scored by the number of T cells/um\^2. Therefore, the number of T cells will be normalized per unit area. T cell-infiltration for both the pre- treatment diagnostic biopsy specimen and the post-treatment specimen will be quantitated in this fashion. Separate scores will be reported for further characterization of T cell infiltration for tumor interface, tumor center, and benign tissue., Baseline up to 2 years|Herpes simplex virus (HSV) status assessed by rate of HSV seroconversion in patients who were previously HSV-seronegative and relationship between HSV status and immunologic infiltration within tumor, In patients who were previously HSV-seronegative, the proportion of patients with HSV seroconversion will be reported, with 95% confidence intervals. The relationship between APC infiltration and baseline HSV status will be reported as a binary outcome: positive or negative. Patients with baseline HSV negative status who experience seroconversion will be assessed by the chi-square test separately., Up to day 43|Viral replication as measured by viral titers, Viral replication will be assessed by urinary viral titers drawn and assessed by polymerase chain reaction and cellular based assays as previously described. These assays will be performed prior to each dose, as well as at +1 hour (h), +2 h, +24 h and +168 h, with a window of 6 hours for the +24 and +168 h to accommodate for logistical issues patients returning to the clinic. Results will be summarized descriptively as change from baseline using appropriate statistical methods., Up to 2 years
Antibody responses measured by spotted antigen arrays, To characterize antibody responses to a broad panel of antigens, sera will be collected at baseline and 6 weeks following therapy, and profiled using spotted antigen array. After standard preprocess of the protein array data, Cluster and Treeview software will be used for unsupervised clustering of the data with Pearson correlation and complete linkage. For each array, an antigen is identified as being detected if its value is above the median. To determine the number of up- and down modulated antibodies, the difference in log2 intensity values of pretreatment and posttreatment samples will be, Up to 6 weeks following therapy|Apoptosis by IHC assessment of cleaved caspase-3, Will be scored on a 0-100 continuous scale based on % area that is positive for stain in regions of tumor. Special attention will be paid to areas of high grade tumor for scoring purposes; areas of interface, benign, and tumor tissue will be scored separately. For each subject, the change in cleaved caspase-3 IHC score following talimogene laherparepvec will be calculated in order to characterize the biological impact of talimogene laherparepvec in NMIBC. Descriptive statistics for continuous measurements will be used to summary the IHC score change for each location. Furthermore, univariate a, Up to 2 years|Change in PD-L1 expression by IHC assessment, For each subject, the change in PD-L1 expression score defined as either an increase of decrease by at least 1 (on a scale of 1-3) following talimogene laherparepvec will be calculated for exploratory characterization of the impact on PD-L1 expression of talimogene laherparepvec in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. Descriptive statistics for categorical measurements will be used to summary the PD-L1 expression change for each location. Furthermore, univariate analysis (proportion test) will be applied to explore the PD-L1 expression score change between locations., Baseline up to 2 years|Pyroptosis by IHC assessment of cleaved caspace-1, Will be scored on a 0-100 continuous scale based on % area that is positive for stain in regions of tumor. Special attention will be paid to areas of high grade tumor for scoring purposes; areas of interface, benign, and tumor tissue will be scored separately. For each subject, the change in cleaved caspace-1 IHC score following talimogene laherparepvec will be calculated in order to characterize the biological impact of talimogene laherparepvec in NMIBC. Descriptive statistics for continuous measurements will be used to summary the IHC score change for each location. Furthermore, univariate a, Up to 2 years|T cell receptor deep sequencing of tissue samples from pre-treatment biopsies, Up to 2 years|T cell receptor deep sequencing of tissue samples from post-treatment resected tissues, Up to 2 years|T cell responses to candidate antigens measured by IFNgamma enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot assay, Up to 2 years
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of talimogene laherparepvec and to see how well it works in treating patients with non-muscle invasive bladder transitional cell carcinoma. Biological therapies, such as talimogene laherparepvec, use substances made from living organisms that may attack specific tumor cells and stop them from growing or kill them.