Phase III of RRM1 & ERCC1 Directed Customized Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Patients With NSCLC
This is a clinical research study to evaluate if chemotherapy in the experimental arm (E) results in a better outcome compared to patients in the standard of care arm (C).

2:1 randomization to experimental arm (E) or standard arm (C). In arm E, treatment of dual-agent chemotherapy will be selected based on RRM1 and ERCC1 expression at the protein level. In arm C, treatment of dual-agent chemotherapy will be gemcitabine/carboplatin, i.e., standard of care.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The data of first documented disease progression or death, as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), was recorded, and the time interval from randomization to that date was calculated for each patient and used to generate Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and to calculate the PFS at 6 months., 6 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS at 12 months, determined from the date of randomization. The time interval from randomization to the date of death was calculated for each patient and used to generate Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and to calculate the overall survival., 12 months|Response Rate (RR), Number of participants per response category. Response to treatment was determined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., 6 months
Before each cycle, blood tests, vital signs, interim medical history, and a physical exam will be performed. Patients will be carefully checked so that immediate intervention can be initiated should an adverse event (i.e. hypersensitivity) occur.

The last treatment cycle according to the study will be cycle #6, or any earlier cycle. Certain tests will be done within 28 days after the last drug infusion. These include physical exam, vital signs, temperature, weight, adverse event evaluation, imaging studies, and blood work.

The study doctor will see the participants every 6 to 8 weeks for at least 12 months after they start treatment. After that, the participants will be followed every 3 months for an additional 24 months.