Certolizumab in Combination With Chemotherapy for Patients With Stage IV Lung Adenocarcinomas
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of certolizumab when it is given with the chemotherapy drugs cisplatin and pemetrexed. Cisplatin and pemetrexed are two chemotherapy drugs used in the treatment of lung cancer. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, certolizumab has on the patient and lung cancer.
Stage IV Lung Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Certolizumab|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: pemetrexed
Maximum tolerated does (MTD), A standard 3+3 dose-escalation scheme will be used to test two doses of certolizumab: dose level A (200mg) and dose level B (400mg), in combination with the standard dose of chemotherapy. In addition, two de-escalation doses are planned, if dose level A proves too toxic: dose level C (chemotherapy at 75% of the standard dose + certolizumab 200mg) and dose level D (chemotherapy at 75% of the standard dose + certolizumab 400mg)..The MTD is the highest dose at which ≤ 1/6 patients experiences a DLT. Please see the dose escalation schema for exact dose level details., 2 years
Progression-free survival (PFS), Patients will be followed from the first drug administration until disease progression (by RECIST 1.1) or death, whichever comes first. Patients alive who have not progressed by the end of the study time will be censored at the time of the last available follow-up. PFS probability will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods., 2 years|Immunohistochemical staining, Biopsies will be performed pre- and post-treatment in all patients and will undergo immunohistochemical staining of TNF-alpha, CXCL1/2, and S100A8/9. Staining will be scored from 0-4. The difference in IHC score from post-treatment to baseline will be compared between patients who have, at minimum, evidence of stable disease during treatment (CR+PR+SD) and the remaining patients, using non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of certolizumab when it is given with the chemotherapy drugs cisplatin and pemetrexed. Cisplatin and pemetrexed are two chemotherapy drugs used in the treatment of lung cancer. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, certolizumab has on the patient and lung cancer.