International Trial of Selumetinib in Combination With Dexamethasone for the Treatment of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia
This trial is to investigate the combination of selumetinib and dexamethasone in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in both adults and children. Phase I is to find the most suitable dose of selumetinib to safely give with dexamethasone. Phase II will use this dose to find out how well the combination works.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Adult|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Pediatric|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, in Relapse|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Recurrent
DRUG: Selumetinib|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Phase I: The occurrence/non-occurrence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in the trial defined assessment period, During cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase II: Response to treatment as measured by morphological response, At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase II: For patients with CNS involvement only response to treatment as measured by clearance of Cerebral Spinal Fluid (CSF) blasts, At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
Phase I & II: The occurrence of adverse events (AEs) as measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4, From cycle 1 day 1 until 28 days after End of Treatment (6 cycles, each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I & II: The occurrence of adverse events (AEs) as measured by causality assessment, From cycle 1 day 1 until 28 days after the last treatment (6 cycles, each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I & II: Pharmacokinetic variables of selumetinib in combination with dexamethasone from the concentration time profile measured by area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), At cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 4 and cycle 2 day 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I & II: Pharmacokinetic variables of selumetinib in combination with dexamethasone from the concentration time profile measured by the peak plasma concentration (Cmax), At cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 4 and cycle 2 day 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I & II: Pharmacokinetic variables of selumetinib in combination with dexamethasone from the concentration time profile measured by the time to reach peak plasma concentration (Tmax), At cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 4 and cycle 2 day 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I & II: Pharmacokinetic variables of selumetinib in combination with dexamethasone from the concentration time profile measured by the time required for the concentration of the drug to reach half of its original value (t1/2), At cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 4 and cycle 2 day 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I: Response to treatment assessed by complete remission rate as measured by morphological response in bone marrow (BM), At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I: Response to treatment assessed by complete remission rate as measured by minimal residual disease (MRD) response in BM, At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I: For patients with CNS involvement only response to treatment assessed by complete remission rate as measured by clearance of CSF blasts, At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I & II: Difference in pharmacokinetics of selumetinib (ΔAUC) when selumetinib is administered as single agent, At cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 4 and cycle 2 day 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase I & II: Difference in pharmacokinetics of selumetinib (ΔAUC) when selumetinib is administered in combination with dexamethasone, At cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 4 and cycle 2 day 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase II: The occurrence/non-occurrence of DLTs in the trial defined assessment period, During cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Phase II: MRD response in BM, At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
Exploratory pharmacodynamic biomarker studies including levels of phosphorylated Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) by flow cytometry as well as retrospective messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) profiling, including Bcl-2-like protein 11 (BIM), Cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 4 and End of Treatment (6 cycles, each cycle is 28 days)
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer worldwide. The overall newly diagnosed ALL cure rate is approaching 90% however children with relapsed ALL often do not survive. The frequency of ALL in adults is significantly lower however more challenging to treat compared to childhood ALL. Adult ALL is more resistant to chemotherapy and patient have reduced treatment tolerance (particularly the elderly population) therefore overall survival rates are low. Therefore there is a need to develop more effective treatment which improves survival rates for this patient population.

Those eligible in the paediatric setting are in their second or further relapse, often after a previous allogeneic stem cell transplant (SCT), and usually in a palliative situation. Adult patients who are not suitable for more intensive therapy can enter the trial in first relapse. The trial offers an out-patient based treatment approach of this heavily pre-treated patient group. The trial includes patients with B-cell precursor and T-ALL irrespective of Central Nervous System (CNS) disease status.CNS positive patients and patients with T-ALL are usually excluded from other early phase clinical trials. If treatment is successful, patients could continue with other therapies/trials once complete remission achieved (e.g. Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cell therapy).

Selumetinib is a small molecule inhibitor of MEK, a protein in the RAS-pathway. Mutations in genes in the RAS pathway have been found in a large proportion of patients with ALL. Selumetinib targets this over-activated pathway to arrest cancer cell growth. Dexamethasone is a steroid important in the treatment of leukaemia to stimulate the death of cancer cells. The SeluDex trial is for patients with relapsed or refractory RAS-pathway mutated ALL.

The primary objective of this trial in Phase I is to see what dose of selumetinib can safely be given in combination with dexamethasone in participants. During Phase II, the primary objective is to assess the preliminary information regarding the effectiveness of this combined treatment.