A Study of Definitive Therapy to Treat Prostate Cancer After Prostatectomy
To assess the safety of treating men with oligometastatic prostate cancer with the following therapy: (1st) Systemic chemo-hormonal therapy with up to 6-months (\~24 weeks) of adjuvant androgen deprivation and up to 6 cycles of chemotherapy, (2nd) definitive local tumor control with adjuvant radiation therapy, and (3rd) consolidative stereotactic radiation to oligometastatic lesions. The men will receive a total of 2 years of androgen deprivation. Androgen blockade will be the same throughout the course of treatment.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Leuprolide Acetate|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Bicalutamide|RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate
Efficacy as Assessed by 3-year Prostate-specific Antigen Progression-free Survival Rate, To evaluate efficacy of multimodality therapy in men, defined as the 3 year Prostate-specific antigen progression-free (Prostate-specific antigen\<0.2 ng/ml) survival rate among men who have non-castrate testosterone levels 2 years after enrollment., 3 years
Safety of the 3 Years Multimodality Therapy Assessed Using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4 Criteria and the Clavien-Dindo Classification, To assess the safety of multimodality therapy in men presenting with newly diagnosed oligometastatic prostate cancer after prostatectomy. Toxicities related to neoadjuvant therapy, radiation therapy, or stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) will be assessed using CTCAE version 4 criteria. Surgical toxicities will be assessed using the Clavien-Dindo Classification, 3 years|Time to Prostate-specific Antigen Recurrence, To investigate the time from an undetectable Prostate-specific antigen (≤0.2 ng/mL) until the Prostate-specific antigen is \>0.2 over two time-points., 3 years
Adjuvant treatment (month 1 through \~6): All patients will be treated with up to 6 months of androgen deprivation, plus up to 6 cycles of docetaxel chemotherapy. Following docetaxel therapy, patients with a Prostate-specific antigen response of at least a 50% decrease from baseline, will proceed to maximum consolidative therapy.

Radiation (month 7 though \~11): After completion of adjuvant chemotherapy, the men will be treated with definitive local therapy with adjuvant radiation therapy (RT). After definitive local therapy, patients will be treated with consolidative stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to the metastatic sites (if present).

Follow up: Patients will continue on androgen deprivation for a total of 2 years. They will be followed clinically and monitored with serum testosterone and Prostate-specific antigen until 2-years after completion of ADT (Androgen deprivation therapy) treatment. Androgen blockade will be the same throughout the course of treatment.