VR Ultrasound Guided Breast Localization
To determine if a virtual reality simulation will reduce pain and anxiety in patients undergoing an ultrasound guided breast localization procedure (traditional wire, savi scout or a radiofrequency identification tag).
Breast Neoplasm Female
DEVICE: Oculus Go Virtual Reality Goggles
Subjective Pain Assessment: Visual Analog Scale, Pain Measured with the Visual Analog Scale. Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) is a measurement instrument that tries to measure a characteristic or attitude that is believed to range across a continuum of values and cannot easily be directly measured. The individual will score their pain level by circling a number 0 - 10 at baseline, pre-operative, and post-operatively. The scale range includes 0-10 scales, with \< 2 =well controlled, 2 - 5: partly controlled, \> 5: uncontrolled., Immediate post-procedure
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI: Y-6 item), The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory uses a 4 point Likert scale to assess how much worry, tension or apprehension the subject experiences in his or her present circumstances (state anxiety) and how much anxiety represent a personality characteristic (trait anxiety). Items emphasize the frequency of particular symptoms (ranging from 1 = not at all to 4 = very much). The range of possible scores for form Y of the STAI varies from a minimum score of 20 to a maximum score of 80 on both the STAI-T and STAI-S subscales. STAI scores are commonly classified as "no or low anxiety" (20-37), "moderate anxiety" (38-44), and "high anxiety" (45-80)., Immediate post-procedure|Patient Satisfaction, Patients in both groups will be asked to rate their satisfaction with their procedures using a five point likert scale (ranging from 1 = definitely disagree to 5 = definitely agree)., Immediate post-procedure
Heart Rate, Empatica E4 watch is a wearable device that collects real-time physiological data. This wristband is equipped with photoplethysmogram sensors for computing Heart Rate (HR). Heart rate will be reported in beats per minute (bpm)., Immediate post-procedure|Temperature, Empatica E4 watch is a wearable device that collects real-time physiological data. The photoplethysmogram sensor from the watch will measure temperature. Temperature will be reported in degrees Celsius., Immediate post-procedure|Blood Volume Pulse Signal, Empatica E4 watch is a wearable device that collects real-time physiological data. The photoplethysmogram sensor from the watch will measure variation of volume of arterial blood under the skin resulting from the heart cycle computing Blood Volume Pulse (BVP). Blood Volume Pulse will be measured in beats min-1., Immediate post-procedure|Galvanic Skin Response, The Empatica E4 watch is a wearable device that collects real-time physiological data. The photoplethysmogram skin electrodes from the watch will capture the Galvanic Skin Response (GSR), also named Electrodermal Activity (EDA) and Skin Conductance (SC) or the measure of the continuous variations in the electrical characteristics of the skin. GSR will be reported in units of micro-Siemens (μS)., Immediate post-procedure
Needle localizations for breast cancer surgery are required to identify cancerous tissue before surgery. Currently this procedure is done with or without a local anesthetic. Patients report anxiety regarding cancer and cancer-related procedures. Different types of needle localization may have different pain and anxiety based on their duration, complexity, and invasiveness. This research is designed to determine if VR simulated environment can reduce pain and anxiety.

Our aim is to study the efficacy of a virtual environment in reducing pain and procedural anxiety. It is intended for patients undergoing an ultrasound guided breast localization procedure that have had an abnormal breast biopsy. The overall aim is to discover an efficacious nonpharmacologic method to lower pain and anxiety during a standard of care procedure.