Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab Coformulation (MK-7684A) or Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab Coformulation Plus Docetaxel Versus Docetaxel for Metastatic Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) With Progressive Disease After Platinum Doublet Chemotherapy and Immunotherapy (MK-7684A-002, KEYVIBE-002)
The main purpose of this study is to compare pembrolizumab/vibostolimab coformulation (MK-7684A) plus docetaxel or pembrolizumab/vibostolimab coformulation to normal saline placebo plus docetaxel. Participants with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and progressive disease (PD) after platinum doublet chemotherapy and treatment with one prior anti- programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/ programmed cell death ligand 1(PD-L1) monoclonal antibody (mAb). MK-7684A is a coformulation product of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab. The dual primary hypotheses of the study are pembrolizumab/vibostolimab coformulation plus docetaxel and pembrolizumab/vibostolimab coformulation is superior to normal saline placebo plus docetaxel with respect to progression free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by blinded independent central review (BICR).
Metastatic Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab coformuation|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) Assessment, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by BICR is presented., Up to approximately 21 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per RECIST 1.1 by BICR Assessment, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a confirmed complete response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a partial response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experience a CR or PR as assessed by BICR based on RECIST 1.1 is presented., Up to approximately 21 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Up to approximately 21 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST 1.1 by BICR Assessment, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (Disappearance of all target lesions) or confirmed PR (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. The DOR as assessed by BICR is presented., Up to approximately 21 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. Number of participants who experienced an AE is reported., Up to approximately 21 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. Number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE is reported., Up to approximately 18 months
Participants may receive additional 17 cycles of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab (each cycle length = 21 days) for an additional 1 year of treatment as second course phase at investigator's discretion.