Incidence and Prevalence of Cancer in People Living With HIV/AIDS at Cancer Centers in Latin America
This trial studies the frequency of incident and prevalent of cancer in people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) at cancer centers in Latin America. By counting how many people living with HIV/AIDS have cancer at these specific centers, researchers may better understand how they are being treated and cared for. This may help researchers to understand what new studies may be helpful for those areas in the future.
HIV Infection|Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1 Positive|Malignant Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Medical Chart Review|OTHER: Survey Administration
Estimates of Site-specific Incident Cases and Site-specific Prevalence of Cases Presenting With Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Cancer Presenting Over 9 Months at the Clinical Sites, The primary endpoint will be the estimates of site-specific frequency of new diagnosis and existing cases (recurrence and surveillance) presenting with HIV and cancer presenting over 1 year, 9 months (21 months) at the clinical sites., Up to 21 months|Mean Cases Per Month of New Cases Were Estimated Along With Corresponding 95% Poisson Confidence Interval by Study Site., The mean cases per month of incidence will be estimated along with corresponding 95% Poisson confidence interval. The number of cases will be counted and mean cases per months will be estimated. Duration of observation was 21 months.

This summary was based on the study site., 21 months|Mean Cases Per Month of New Cases Were Estimated Along With Corresponding 95% Poisson Confidence Interval by Cancer Type., The mean cases per month of incidence will be estimated along with corresponding 95% Poisson confidence interval. The number of cases will be counted and mean cases per months will be estimated. Duration of observation was 21 months.

This summary was based on the cancer type., 21 months|Mean Cases Per Month of Existing Cases Were Estimated Along With Corresponding 95% Poisson Confidence Interval by Study Site., The mean cases per month of prevalence will be estimated along with corresponding 95% Poisson confidence interval. The number of cases will be counted and mean cases per months will be estimated. Duration of observation was 21 months.

This summary was based on the study site., 21 months|Mean Cases Per Month of Existing Cases Were Estimated Along With Corresponding 95% Poisson Confidence Interval by Cancer Type, The mean cases per month of prevalence will be estimated along with corresponding 95% Poisson confidence interval. The number of cases will be counted and mean cases per months will be estimated. Duration of observation was 21 months.

This summary was based on the cancer type., 21 months
Information on the Use of Diagnostic Testing in HIV-positive Individuals, The frequency of diagnostic testing modalities will be summarized for cancer., Up to 21 months|HIV Treatment and Disease Characteristics of HIV-positive Individuals Diagnosed With Cancer, For each cancer, summary statistics will be used to describe the HIV treatment regimens and disease characteristics., Up to 21 months|Information on the Treatment for Cancers Diagnosed in HIV-positive Individuals, The frequency of the Treatment for Cancers Diagnosed in HIV-positive Individuals will be summarized., Up to 21 months|CD4 of HIV-positive Individuals Diagnosed With Cancer, CD4 percent of HIV-positive Individuals Diagnosed With Cancer will be summarized., Baseline|HIV Viral Load of HIV-positive Individuals Diagnosed With Cancer, HIV viral load of HIV-positive Individuals Diagnosed With Cancer will be summarized, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the number of diagnosed cancers in people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) presenting to participating clinical sites in Latin America, and estimate site-specific prevalence based on all presenting cancers (new diagnosis, recurrence, and surveillance cases) and site-specific incidence based on newly diagnosed cancers.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Obtain information on the use of diagnostic testing and treatment for the cohort of diagnosed HIV-associated cancer participants.

II. To collect information on participant characteristics for diagnosed HIV-associated cancers (e.g., antiretroviral therapy \[ART\] regimen, current CD4 count, current viral load, etc.).

OUTLINE:

Patients respond to surveys and/or undergo medical record review at baseline and at 4 weeks.