Dynamic Contrast Enhancement Computed Tomography for Evaluating Tumor Perfusion in Patients With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Receiving Targeted Therapies: Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) Scramble
This is a companion protocol to MD Anderson Cancer Center study 2010-0085 (Sequential Therapy in Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma Therapy: The "START" Trial).

The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if dynamic contrast enhanced computed tomography (DCE-CT) scans can help researchers learn if the study drug received as part of study 2010-0085 (either everolimus, bevacizumab, or pazopanib) is working.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Perfusion CT scan
Tumor Blood Flow (BF) Reduction, Changes in perfusion parameters assessed at first re-staging (approximately 8 weeks) and shortly after initiating therapy (2 - 7 days), for three different therapies using organ-directed DCE-CT tumor assessments. Tumor BF of index lesions computed using commercially available software (GE CT perfusion) using the same index lesion assessed on follow-up scans., From 4 weeks prior to first dose to 8 weeks post treatment
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is calculated from the start of the study until disease progression., 3 years
To perform a DCE-CT scan, a small amount of a special dye (called "CT contrast medium") is injected by vein into the body. Several CT images are then taken over a few minutes to learn how much dye spreads outside of the tumor. This can show how much blood flows to and from the tumor. By performing DCE-CT scans after several weeks on treatment, researchers may learn if changes in blood flow may be a sign that the treatment is working.

Study Procedures:

If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have a DCE-CT scan to check the status of the disease at the following times:

* Within about 4 weeks before you begin treatment on study 2010-0085.
* Eight (8) weeks after starting treatment on study 2010-0085.

Before each of the DCE-CT scans are performed, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check your kidney function.

If your doctor thinks it is needed, you will also have a standard-of-care CT scan at these timepoints to check the status of the disease.

Length of Study:

Your participation in this study will be over after the scan(s) 8 weeks after starting treatment on study 2010-0085. You will be taken off of this study if you leave the 2010-0085 study early.

This is an investigational study. The DCE-CT scan is commercially available. Using DCE-CT scans to check the status of kidney cancer is investigational.

Up to 120 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.