Mutant CALR-peptide Based Vaccine in Patients With Mutated CALR Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
The primary objective of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of administrating mutated-CALR peptide Vaccine to patients with MPN. The researchers plan to enroll 10 patients over a 12 month period. Maximum length of participation in 80 weeks. Patients will be asked to complete questionnaires, bone marrow biopsies, research lab collection, and standard of care lab draw. This research will be taking place only at The Mount Sinai Hospital, specifically at the Ruttenberg Treatment Center.
Myelofibrosis|Essential Thrombocythemia|MPN
DRUG: Peptide-based vaccine|DRUG: Poly ICLC
Number of Participants with Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), The Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) rate, defined as the proportion of patients with at least 1 grade 3 or higher AE considered to be at least possibly related to the treatment with Poly ICLC and CALR vaccines., 32 weeks
Number of Adverse Events, The type, incidence, severity, seriousness, and relatedness of adverse events (AEs) per NCI CTCAE v5.0., Week 32|Number of laboratory abnormalities, Number of observations, severity, and relatedness of clinical laboratory tests (hematology, biochemistry), Baseline through Week 32|Change in Immune Milieu Composite, Changes in the immune milieu (which is a composite of expression of cytokines, presence of antibodies, alterations in number and phenotype of immune cells and induction of vaccine-specific T cell response) due to the vaccines as compared to baseline values., Baseline through Weeks 55 or 80|Change in CALR VAF, The % change in driver mutation burden (CALR VAF) as compared to baseline, Baseline through Weeks 55 or 80|Proportion of participants who normalize their platelet number, The proportion of patients who normalize their platelet number and/or achieve platelets less than 600 if started with platelet above 600., Week 32 and weeks 55 or 80|Proportion of participants achieving response, The proportion of patients achieving response or improvement in their disease status by ELN/IWG criteria for the categories: Complete Response; Partial Response; Clinical Improvement and Stable Disease, Baseline and Week 32|Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form (MF-SAFv4.0), The proportion of patients who achieve improvement in quality of life as assessed by the by the Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form. Each of the items are scored 0 to 10, with total score from 0 to 100, with higher score indicating more symptoms., Week 32 and weeks 55 or 80
Current MPN treatments are geared towards symptom palliation and not on changing the natural course of the disease. Mutations in calreticulin gene (CALR) is the second most common driver mutation in ET and MF patients (30%). All CALR mutations identified to date in MPN patients result in the formation of an altered protein with an identical 36-amino acid sequence in the C-terminus. This altered protein results in a MPN-specific shared neo-antigen. The mutated CALR neoantigen present in patient with MPN represents an ideal antigen for targeted immunotherapy as it is stably and specifically expressed by the malignant cells and is absent in the normal tissues. CALR neoantigen is immunogenic, effector T cells are capable of recognizing this neo-antigen, and hematopoietic cells carrying the mutation can be potently killed by these specific effector T-cells in vitro.

The researchers believe that a mutated-CALR vaccine will enhance mutated-CALR-specific T cell immunity in MPN patients carrying CALR mutations, which in turn would target and eliminate CALR+ malignant cells, thereby leading to improved clinical outcomes in this patient population.