Cytoreductive Surgery (CRS) With/Without HIPEC in Gastric Cancer With Peritoneal Carcinomatosis
Patients with histological proven gastric cancer (including cancer of the esophagogastric junction (AEG)) and synchronous peritoneal carcinomatosis, who fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria, can be recruited in this study. There are two treatment groups (A and B). The chemotherapy applied intravenously is the same in both groups and is approved for the treatment of gastric cancer. Patients with negative or unknown HER-2 status will be administered Epirubicin, Oxaliplatin and Capecitabine (EOX). Patients with positive HER-2 status will be treated with Cisplatin, Capecitabine and Trastuzumab (CCT).

The chemotherapy is followed by surgical cytoreduction in both groups. Patients randomized into group B will be treated with an intraperitoneal (in the abdominal cavity) chemoperfusion with Mitomycin C and Cisplatin .

Patients in both groups receive 3 cycles of postoperative chemotherapy within 4-12 weeks after the surgical procedure and are followed up for 30 months.

If progress of the tumor is detected the patient will no longer be treated according to the study therapy. Patients of group B may get a HIPEC intervention without surgical cytoreduction if contraindication to the drugs applied can be excluded.
Malignant Neoplasm of Stomach|Secondary Malignant Neoplasm of Peritoneum|Secondary Malignant Neoplasm of Other and Unspecified Sites
PROCEDURE: HIPEC
The primary outcome measure is overall survival, Overall survival from randomisation up to end of study, follow up every 3 months till 2.5 years, Death or 2.5 years
30 days complication-rate, 30 days complication-rate. Complications are ranked from grade 0-5 according to CTCAE V4.0, 30 days postoperative|time to progress, time to progress of tumor, follow up every 3 months till 2.5 years, follow up every 3 months till 2.5 years end of study, 2.5 years|time to other distant metastases, time to other distant metastases follow up every 3 months till 2.5 years, end of study follow up every 3 months till 2.5 years|quality of life, quality of life (EORTC QLQ-30, STO 22). Every 6 months to 2,5 years, Every 6 months to 2,5 years
frequency of toxicity and adverse events, frequency of toxicity and adverse events, visit 1-11 (every 3 weeks) and thereafter every 3 months up to 2.5 years. AE is documented with the date of the begin and the end of the AE and the intensity according to CTCAE V4.0, every 3 weeks) and thereafter every 3 months up to 2.5 years end of study|frequency of necessary secondary surgical procedures and the length of hospitalisation, frequency of necessary secondary surgical procedures and the length of hospitalisation every 6 months up to 2.5 years . The date of the begin and the end is daocumented as well as the reasons, end of study, every 6 months up to 2.5 years
The objective of the trial is to compare the treatment of patients with peritoneal metastasized gastric cancer including carcinoma of the AEG (Adenocarcinoma of the oesophago-gastric-junction) without evidence of other distant metastases treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by cytoreduction with intraperitoneal chemoperfusion (HIPEC) and postoperative chemotherapy (Group B) and patients treated with cytoreduction alone after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and postoperative chemotherapy (Group A).

Hypothesis of the trial is that surgical cytoreduction with intraperitoneal chemoperfusion (Group B) is superior to cytoreduction alone (Group A) in terms of overall survival.

The trial is designed as a prospective, randomized, open, multicenter and parallel group study.