Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy With or Without Darolutamide for OligoRecurrent Prostate Cancer
The current trial will test the combination of darolutamide with SBRT, in oligometastatic recurrent hormone sensitive prostate cancer. We hypothesize that the addition of short-term darolutamide improves metastasis-free survival when added to SBRT without a detrimental impact on the QoL. Considering the large reluctance of both patients and physicians to be randomized to observation, we propose to use the historical data from previous reported randomized trials (STOMP and ORIOLE) as a comparator to explore as a secondary endpoint.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Cancer Recurrent|Prostate Cancer Metastatic|Metastatic Cancer|Oligometastasis
DRUG: Darolutamide|RADIATION: metastasis-directed treatment
Metastasis-free survival, Metastasis-free survival is defined as time between randomization and the appearance of a new metastatic recurrence (any M1) as suggested by PET-CT or death due to any cause., 2 year
Clinical progression-free survival, Clinical progression-free survival is defined as the time between randomization and the appearance of a new lesion (any N1 or M1), a local recurrence as suggested by PET-CT, symptoms related to progressive PCa, or death due to any cause., 2 year|Biochemical relapse-free survival, For patients who had previous RP at initial diagnosis, a biochemical recurrence is defined by any confirmed PSA rise above 0.20 ng/ml with a confirmatory rise at least 2 weeks later. For patients who had previous RT to the prostate at initial diagnosis, a biochemical recurrence is defined as the nadir + 2ng/ml (Phoenix definition). Non-responders are considered to have a biochemical recurrence in case a second measurement at least 2 weeks later confirms a rising PSA, 2 year|Time to next systemic therapy, Time to next systemic therapy is defined as the initiation of any PCa systemic treatment. Systemic therapy will typically be initiated on progression and/or development of new metastases, but indications are at the discretion of the physician., 4 year|Castrate resistant-free survival, Time to castration resistant disease is defined as the time from trial randomization until castration resistant status, 4 year|Prostate cancer-specific survival, PCa-specific survival will be read as the time from trial randomization to the date of death due to PCa., 4 year|Overall survival, Overall survival will be read as the time from trial randomization to the date of death from any cause., 4 year|Toxicity: acute toxicity, Radiotherapy toxicity will be assessed according to NCI CTCAE v5.0., 3 months|Toxicity: late toxicity, Radiotherapy toxicity will be assessed according to NCI CTCAE v5.0., 2 year|Patient reported QOL as per EORTC-QLQ C30, Validated questionnaire assessing different health-related parameters (psychological, physical and social well-being) in cancer patients. A higher score of a symptom scale or item indicates a worse condition; a higher score of a functional scale or global health status/QoL indicates a better condition. A clinically meaningful change is defined as a change from baseline of at least 10 points (i.e., about one-half standard deviation) in either direction., 2 year|Patient reported QOL as per EORTC-QLQ PR25, Validated questionnaire assessing the health-related QOL of prostate cancer patients. A higher score of a symptom scale or item indicates a worse condition; a higher score of a functional scale or global health status/QoL indicates a better condition. A clinically meaningful change is defined as a change from baseline of at least 10 points (i.e., about one-half standard deviation) in either direction., 2 year
As of the 2018 EAU guidelines, PSMA PET-CT is now recommended for prostate cancer patients with a rising PSA following local therapy, resulting in an increase in patients with conventional imaging M0, but novel imaging M1-state. This creates a new class of patients for which no clear guidelines exist on the optimal management. It became clear that there is no real consensus nor data on how these patients should be treated.

In 1995, a new approach was proposed, hypothesizing that patients with a limited number of metastases (oligometastases) might benefit from eradication of metastases by means of local therapy, or metastasis-directed therapy. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), a novel radiotherapy technique for metastatic and primary prostate cancer treatments, has emerged as a highly precise radiotherapy method able to eradicate small metastases with acceptable toxicity. Nevertheless, responses following SBRT were not always durable. To improve response rates and time to new metastases, additional steps should be taken balancing with potential added toxicity. One of the logical steps would be to combine SBRT with temporary androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) as this combination therapy is standard of care for primary PCa and locally recurrent PCa17. However, ADT, negatively impacts quality of life (QoL) even when used temporary. Anti-androgen or androgen receptor (AR) pathway inhibitors (ARpI) may circumvent these side effects by suppressing AR transcription by competitive inhibition of AR, without lowering systemic testosterone. The current trial will test the combination of darolutamide with SBRT, in oligometastatic recurrent hormone sensitive prostate cancer. We hypothesize that the addition of short-term darolutamide improves metastasis-free survival when added to SBRT without a detrimental impact on the QoL.