Hybrid APC Therapy in Early Central Lung Neoplasms
1.1 Aims：This cohort study aims to investigate the clinical value of Hybrid APC for treatment of early central lung neoplasms.

1.2 methods：A total of 30 patients with early central lung neoplasms will be included in this open, multicenter, prospective study. Primary observation endpoint is recorded at 3 months follow-up, and after 3 months patients could be continued to follow up. The data are expressed in terms of mean and percentage. The categorical variables are analyzed by chi-square test, and the four table data is analyzed using the exact probability method. The continuous variable analysis is used by t test. Statistical analysis is performed with SPSS 20.0 software. P \< 0.05 is considered statistically significant.
Lung Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Hybrid APC
Successful remission rate:, successful remission is defined as absence of intraepithelial neoplasia in biopsies of original locations at 3 months after HybridAPC upon follow up, 3 months
Complications, possible complications include perforation, bleeding, fever, stenosis, cough and etc., 3 months
This is a prospective, multicenter, and cohort study. Study subjects: patients with early central lung neoplasms meet inclusion/exclusion criteria and could receive interventional therapy.

There are 3 study site in this study and a total of 30 patients with early central lung cancer will be included.

HybridAPC is integrated with traditional APC and water-jet technique, which has been successfully applied for endoscopic treatment of mucosal lesions in GI, such as Barrett esophageal and lesions in colon. Submucosal injection of water jet can elevate superficial lesion, and then APC can be more effective in ablation of superficial tumor with a protection for muscular layer. The application of HybridAPC in respiratory intervention could theoretically protect cartilage, adventitia, reduce damage and formation of scare, and increase ablation energy to reach radical treatment.