Healing Touch or Guided Imagery In Treating Pain, Fatigue, Nausea, and Anxiety in Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy
This randomized clinical trial studies healing touch or guided imagery in treating pain, fatigue, nausea, and anxiety in patients undergoing chemotherapy. Healing touch and guided imagery may help treat complications caused by chemotherapy. It is not yet known whether healing touch or guided imagery is more effective in treating pain, fatigue, nausea, and anxiety in patients undergoing chemotherapy
Anxiety Disorder|Fatigue|Malignant Neoplasm|Nausea and Vomiting|Pain
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: therapeutic touch|BEHAVIORAL: management of therapy complications|BEHAVIORAL: management of therapy complications|PROCEDURE: standard follow-up care
Change scores for each patient on pain scale, Collected using a 10 point visual analog scale for pain, fatigue, nausea, and anxiety. Analyzed initially using descriptive statistics. Compared among the 3 groups using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) models and 2-sample t-tests., Approximately 6 months|Change scores for each patient on fatigue scale, Collected using a 10 point visual analog scale for pain, fatigue, nausea, and anxiety. Analyzed initially using descriptive statistics. Compared among the 3 groups using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) models and 2-sample t-tests., Approximately 6 months|Change scores for each patient on nausea scale, Collected using a 10 point visual analog scale for pain, fatigue, nausea, and anxiety. Analyzed initially using descriptive statistics. Compared among the 3 groups using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) models and 2-sample t-tests., Approximately 6 months|Change scores for each patient on anxiety scale, Collected using a 10 point visual analog scale for pain, fatigue, nausea, and anxiety. Analyzed initially using descriptive statistics. Compared among the 3 groups using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) models and 2-sample t-tests., Approximately 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the provision of healing touch or guided imagery during outpatient chemotherapy is associated with decreased pain, fatigue, nausea and anxiety when compared to standard outpatient treatment protocols.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive 30 minutes of healing touch therapy comprising magnetic clearing, pain drains, hands in motion/hands still and mind clearing.

ARM B: Patients listen to guided imagery audiotapes for 30 minutes

ARM C: Patients receive standard of care.