Iodine I 131 Monoclonal Antibody BC8 Before Autologous Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma or Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 when given before autologous stem cell transplant in treating patients with Hodgkin lymphoma or non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has returned after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies, such as iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8, can find cancer cells and carry cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Giving iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 before an autologous stem cell transplant may kill more cancer cells.
Recurrent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|RADIATION: Iodine I 131 Monoclonal Antibody BC8|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of I-131-BC8 That Can be Delivered Prior to Transplant, Dose escalation/de-escalation will be conducted by the "two-stage" approach introduced by Storer. Escalation will continue until a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) occurs. A DLT will be defined as a therapy-related grade III or IV Bearman (transplant) toxicity. The MTD is estimated to be the dose that is associated with a toxicity rate of 25% (Bearman grade 3-4)., Within 30 days post-transplant|I-131 Activity Administered, At time of I-131 therapy
Adverse Events, Descriptive statistics will be calculated. DLT will be defined by the Bearman Scale that is designed to address the specific toxicities associated with transplantation., Up to 6 years|Overall Survival, Up to 6 years|Progression-free Survival, number of people with progression free survival, Up to 6 years|Relapse Rate, Number of relapse, Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximally tolerated dose of 131I-BC8 (anti-cluster of differentiation \[CD\]45) (iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8) that can be delivered prior to autologous stem cell transplantation for patients with relapsed/refractory B-non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), T-NHL, or Hodgkin lymphoma (HL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To optimize the protein dose (antibody \[Ab\]) to deliver a favorable biodistribution in the majority of patients.

II. To assess the radiation dose delivered to tumor sites and normal organs by the above therapy.

III. To evaluate the dose-response relationship of radiation-dose to tumor and clinical response.

IV. To estimate the overall and progression-free survival of the above regimen in such patients.

V. To evaluate the toxicity and tolerability of the above therapy.

VI. To evaluate the feasibility of delivering high-dose 131I-BC8 and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) to B-Cell NHL, T-NHL, and HL patients.

VII. To evaluate the ability to reduce infusion reactions via unlabeled BC8 preinfusion.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive a dosimetric dose of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 intravenously (IV) on day -20 and a therapeutic dose on day -11. Before day -20, patients may also receive up to 2 additional dosimetric doses of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 IV approximately 1-2 weeks apart. Patients then undergo autologous stem cell transplantation on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months and then annually thereafter.