Tusamitamab Ravtansine in NSQ NSCLC Participants With Negative or Moderate CEACAM5 Expression Tumors and High Circulating CEA
This is an open label single group, Phase 2, 1-arm study for treatment to evaluate efficacy, safety, and Pharmacokinetic (PK) of tusamitamab ravtansine in nonsquamous non-small-cell-lung-cancer (NSQ NSCLC) participants with negative or moderate CEACAM5 expression tumors and high circulating carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA).

Participants who will be enrolled, will receive tusamitamab ravtansine as monotherapy every two weeks (Q2W) until disease progression, unacceptable adverse event (AE), initiation of a new anticancer therapy, or the participant's or investigator's decision to stop the treatment, whichever comes first. A total of approximately 38 participants are planned to be treated.
Non-squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Tusamitamab ravtansine
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR was defined as percentage of participants with confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as best overall response (BOR) determined per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. The CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). The PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Tumor assessments performed at baseline, and every 8 weeks +/-7 days thereafter, approximately 46 weeks
Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment Emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. An SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose: resulted in death or was life-threatening or required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization or resulted in persistent disability/incapacity or congenital anomaly/birth defect or was a suspected transmission of any infectious agent via an authorized medicinal product. TEAE was defined as AEs that developed, worsened, or became serious during the treatment-emergent period., From first dose of study treatment (Day 1) up to primary completion date (06-Mar-2024), approximately 21 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The PFS was defined as the time from the first study treatment administration to the date of the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever came first as per RECIST v1.1. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of 1 or more new lesions was also considered progression., Tumor assessments performed at baseline, and every 8 weeks +/-7 days thereafter, approximately 46 weeks|Disease Control Rate (DCR), The DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved confirmed CR, PR or stable disease (SD) as BOR as per RECIST v1.1. The CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. The PR was defined as at least a 30%decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage from the baseline study to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters while on the study., Tumor assessments performed at baseline, and every 8 weeks +/-7 days thereafter, approximately 46 weeks|Duration of Response (DOR), The DOR was defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until PD determined per RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. The CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. The PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Tumor assessments performed at baseline, and every 8 weeks +/-7 days thereafter, approximately 46 weeks
40 weeks (up to 4 weeks for screening, a median of 24 weeks for treatment, and a median of 12 weeks for end of treatment assessments and the safety follow-up visit).