Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients with Stage IB-IV Mycosis Fungoides
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating patients with stage IB-IV mycosis fungoides. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Mycosis Fungoides|Sezary Syndrome|Stage IB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage II Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage IIA Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage IIB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage III Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage IIIA Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage IIIB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage IV Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage IVA1 Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage IVA2 Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8|Stage IVB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC V8
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall cutaneous response (cutaneous complete response [CR], cutaneous 90 response [CR90] or cutaneous partial response [PR]), Will be assessed by the Modified Severity Weighted Assessment Tool (mSWAT). All calculated values will use the last-observation-carried forward for any participants who withdraw, are lost to follow up, or exit the study per protocol. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients will be analyzed using Mann-Whitney U for nonparametric data and the student t-test. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., Up to 1 year
Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 90 days after last dose|Changes in mSWAT scores, Summary statistics will be calculated. Proportions of patients will be calculated and described using summary statistics. Proportions of interest are patients having CR, CR90 and PR; patients having stable subcutaneous disease; patients having progressive cutaneous disease; and patients having an overall systemic response rate., Baseline and cycle 9 (each Cycle = 21 days)|Progression free survival, The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. In addition, the progression-free survival rate at 5 years after registration will be reported., Time from registration to relapse or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of response, The distribution of duration of complete response will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 1 year|Time to response, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to CR, CR90 or PR, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. In addition, the overall survival rate at 2 years after registration will be reported., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Biomarker analysis - CD4 pre and post pembrolizumab, Immunohistochemistry will be used to quantify levels of CD4 before and after treatment with pembrolizumab, Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis - CD4 baseline to cycle 2, Immunohistochemisty will be used for change in baseline calculations of CD4 at baseline and end of cycle 2, Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis - CD8 baseline to cycle 2, Immunohistochemisty will be used for change in baseline calculations of CD8 at baseline and end of cycle 2, Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis - PD-1/CD279 baseline to cycle 2, Immunohistochemisty will be used for change in baseline calculations of PD-1/CD279 at baseline and end of cycle 2, Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis - PD-1 baseline to cycle 2, Immunohistochemisty will be used for change in baseline calculations of PD-1 at baseline and end of cycle 2, Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis - PD-1 qualitative, Qualitative measures of the strength of PD-1 expression will use published standardized grading scales for categorical classification purposes., Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis - CD8 pre and post pembrolizumab, Immunohistochemistry will be used to quantify levels of CD8 before and after treatment with pembrolizumab., Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis - PD-1/CD279 pre and post pembrolizumab, Immunohistochemistry will be used to quantify levels of PD-1/CD279 before and after treatment with pembrolizumab, Up to 1 year|Biomarker analysis - PD-L1 pre and post pembrolizumab, Immunohistochemistry will be used to quantify levels of PD- L1 expression before and after treatment with pembrolizumab, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the antitumor activity of pembrolizumab in patients with advanced mycosis fungoides (MF) as initial systemic therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate safety of pembrolizumab in this patient population. II. To evaluate response rates of pembrolizumab in this patient population. III. To determine the progression free survival, duration of response, time to response and overall survival of pembrolizumab in this patient population.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

I. To characterize the histologic features of the anti-tumor response in patients with advanced MF before and after treatment with pembrolizumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 24 cycles or until complete response in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days, and then every 3 months for up to 1 year.