Sun Protection and Tanning Awareness in Rural Schools
Drawing from prior school-based skin cancer prevention programs, we have adapted intervention materials to target rural high schoolers. Program components (including in-class education) will be co-implemented by the research team and participating school staff, with a focus on sustainability beyond the immediate study period. Interviews and surveys following initial implementation will evaluate both the effectiveness of the program.
Melanoma|Adolescents
BEHAVIORAL: Skin cancer prevention educational presentation and activities
Sun protection index scores, Surveys (a baseline and a 1 month follow-up) will be distributed to students to assess changes in sun protection and tanning behaviors as well as knowledge and attitudes about skin cancer prevention. The outcome variable is the students' responses on these surveys and how their responses change over time., Baseline, One month
The STARS study pilot tests a skin cancer prevention intervention adapted for use in rural schools. Participants will be recruited from approximately 14 districts in Utah. We have established collaborations with schools, districts, and the Utah State Board of Education (USBE) and they are committed to partnering with us on this project.

The research coordinator will contact district-level officials who will be asked to express their support of the study when facilitating the coordinator's contact with school principals and teachers (e.g., health teachers, science teachers). The research coordinator will also directly contact school principals and teachers to discuss participation in the study.

An intervention visit, lasting up to 90 minutes, will take place immediately following completion of a baseline survey. This intervention visit may be divided into 2 days, depending on the length of the class periods at the participating schools. During the intervention visit, students will receive general education on skin cancer and skin cancer prevention, complete a skin cancer risk self-assessment tool, and create a sun protection action plan for an outdoor activity.

One month later, participants will receive a brief (15-minute) post-intervention survey via email and/or text.