Virtual Reality in Imaging Review for Cancer Patients
Patients with cancer and their caregivers may have difficulty understanding the site and extent of their disease. Poor comprehension may negatively impact patients and caregivers, leading to increased anxiety, reduced compliance, decreased trust of the physician, and limited shared medical decision making ability. Most patients want to be thoroughly informed, with over a third of cancer patients wishing they had been better informed about side effects that they experienced due to their treatment. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of diagnostic imaging review using 3D virtual reality compared to standard 2D imaging review for patients and their caregiver(s) using a mixed methods approach of survey and qualitative interview based approaches.
Patient Education|Virtual Reality|Diagnostic Imaging|Cancer Patient
OTHER: Survey and interview
Successful Completion of Imaging Review Using Virtual Reality, The percentage of patients able to complete the review of their imaging using virtual reality, During the consultation 1 day visit
Satisfaction and preference, Evaluate patients' and caregivers' satisfaction and preferences regarding diagnostic imaging review using a focused survey, During the consultation 1 day visit|Qualitative feedback regarding imaging review using virtual reality, Collect patients' and caregivers' feedback regarding imaging review using virtual reality through qualitative interviews., During the consultation 1 day visit|Baseline demographics and imaging review experience, Capture baseline demographics, education, and prior experience with diagnostic imaging review., During the consultation 1 day visit|Intervention time interval, Measure the time spent reviewing diagnostic imaging with virtual reality and standard approaches relative to the consultation time, During the consultation 1 day visit
This study will use virtual reality to display the patient's diagnostic imaging in 3D with live volumetric rendering. This study will explore if this approach improves patient and caregiver understanding of their disease. Eligible patients should have available diagnostic imaging consisting of CT, MRI, and/or PET-CT. Prior to their consultation in radiation oncology, patients will complete a survey about their prior experience reviewing their diagnostic imaging. During the consultation, patients and caregivers will be shown their medical imaging in 2D on a computer screen, then in 3D with virtual reality. After the consultation, the patient and caregiver(s) will complete a 2nd survey comparing virtual reality to standard imaging review with domains of perceived understanding, patient preference, and satisfaction. Then, the patient and caregiver(s) will undergo a qualitative interview exploring their experience with virtual reality compared to standard imaging review. The survey questions comparing virtual reality to standard imaging review will be statistically evaluated. The recorded interview session will be qualitatively analyzed using with a mixed methods approach by thematically categorizing the respondents' answers.