Rural Illinois Lung Cancer Screening Initiative
The role of this observational study is to access the feasibility of providing lung cancer screening using a designated nurse navigator through lung cancer screening clinic. Eligible participants will be identified using medical records, eligibility will be confirmed through phone call, screening visits will be scheduled as in-person visit or telehealth visit. Computed tomography screening will be performed at an approved center closer to the individuals place of living and results will be discussed during follow-up in-person visit or telehealth visit.
Lung Cancer
Screening rate, Percentage of individuals screened (completed CT imaging) with and without telehealth, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Early stage diagnosis, Percentage of individuals diagnosed with lung cancer at an early stage of the disease, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Time to treatment initiation, Number of days from diagnosis to treatment initiation will be calculated for each patient diagnosed with lung cancer, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Adherence to Screening, Percentage of of individuals undergoing yearly screening with and without telehealth, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Cost, Overall cost from pre-screening to screening and follow-up with and without telehealth, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
The long-term goal is to establish healthcare practices to increase adherence to lung cancer screening among high-risk individuals. The overall objective in this application is to establish a lung cancer screening initiative to proactively identify and screen eligible patients for LDCT using a designated nurse practitioner (NP) along with telehealth. The central hypothesis is that use of a designated NP along with telehealth will increase lung cancer screening via LDCT among high-risk, racial/ethnic minority, and rural/sub-urban patients. The rationale for this proposal is use of a NP and telehealth will help overcome the barriers physicians face in identifying eligible patients for LDCT including collecting additional information to determine eligibility, discussing the pros and cons of LDCT, providing smoking cessation/abstinence counseling, making shared decisions, and documenting this information in the patients' charts.

In this prospective cohort study the nurse practitioner (NP) will proactively identify eligible individuals for LDCT using EMRs that are shared across the Department of Family and Community Medicine at SIU. These patients will be contacted and those agreeing to undergo screening will be given a referral to a nearby LDCT center. The NP will follow-up with the patients with the results of the LDCT and will refer them for further management to their primary care physician. If the results are negative for nodules then they will be followed up on a yearly basis until the participants are older than 80 years or have other life-threatening health issues.