LC Drug Eluting Bead for Treatment of Liver Cancer Which Cannot be Surgically Removed
Advanced HCC represents a high unmet medical need with a poor prognosis and few therapeutic options. Patients who present with HCC beyond the currently accepted Milan criteria are not eligible to be listed for liver transplantation. The proposed study offers local regional therapy to a defined population of patients beyond Milan criteria as an attempt to downstage them to eligibility for liver transplant.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: LC Bead loaded with doxorubicin
The Number of Patients in the Cohort Effectively Downstaged to Transplant Eligibility With the LC BeadTM, Advanced HCC represents a high unmet medical need with a poor prognosis and few therapeutic options. Patients who present with HCC beyond the currently accepted Milan criteria are not eligible to be listed for liver transplantation. The proposed study offers local regional therapy to both a defined population of patients beyond Milan criteria as an attempt to downstage them to eligibility for liver transplant as well as those individuals within Milan criteria as an attempt to maintain their eligibility., 36 months
The Objective Tumor Response Rate in Patients With HCC Treated With LC BeadTM Using EASL and RECIST Criteria, 36 months|Symptomatic and Quality-of-life Measures in Patients Treated With the LC BeadTM, 36 months|The Local Effects of the LC BeadTM in the Explanted Liver of Those Patients Who go on to Receive Liver Transplantation, 36 months
LC BeadTM is a new product specifically designed for TACE. LC BeadTM microspheres can be loaded with doxorubicin (Trade name: adriamycin), a chemotherapeutic anthracycline glycolide agent widely accepted for treatment of HCC. This novel bead slowly releases the ionically bound chemotherapeutic agent rather than administering a bolus of chemotherapy as is the case with many alternative methods of TACE. Thus, the LC BeadTM offers the potential advantage of less toxicity and prolonged tumor exposure.

This study offers local regional therapy to a defined population of patients beyond transplant criteria as an attempt to downstage them to eligibility for liver transplantation. This study will make an important contribution to understanding the beads' local effect as seen in the explanted livers of those patients who go on to receive a liver transplant. Additionally, we will examine the impact of this novel treatment tool on patients' quality of life.