Virtual Human Delivered Nutrition Module for Colorectal Cancer Prevention
This study uses the opinions of adults between the ages of 45 and 73 years old to develop and test an interactive nutrition module for use in an existing colorectal cancer screening intervention using virtual human technology. The main questions answered include:

* What content do adults want to receive from a web-based interaction about colorectal cancer screening and nutritional risks for colorectal cancer?
* Does a brief interaction with a virtual human delivering tailored cancer prevention information impact cancer prevention intentions and attitudes among a national sample of geographically rural U.S. adults?

This study will contribute to knowledge of what messages and graphics promote understanding of cancer risk and promote screening with the potential to promote behaviors that reduce cancer risk.
Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: virtual technology - high interactive|OTHER: virtual technology - low interactive|OTHER: non-colorectal cancer related module
Risk Perceptions for Colorectal Cancer, Items measured on a 7-point Likert scale, (e.g. "My chances of getting colorectal cancer are high"), where 1 is strongly disagree and 7 is strongly agree., up to 2 hours|Intentions to Screen for Colorectal Cancer, Two individual items assessed intentions to screen:

1. A single item measured intentions to screen for colorectal cancer (readiness to screen) adapted from (Boonyasiriwat, Hung, Hon, et. al, 2014.) Participants answer the following prompt: "Please indicate what best represents your plans for colorectal cancer screening". Response options str: 1 point = I am not planning to screen in the next 6 months; 2 points = I am thinking about screen, but not in the next 6 months; 3 points = I am considering screening in the next 6 months and 4 points for = I am already taking steps to screen in the next 6 months. Higher scores =higher readiness to screen (better outcome). Min. score = 1 ; Max. score =4.
2. a single item assessed intentions on a Likert Scale. Question: "I want to get screened for colorectal cancer" where: 1 = strongly disagree-7 = strongly agree). Min. score = 1 - Max. score is 7. Higher scores indicate a stronger desire to obtain screening (better outcome)., up to 2 hours|Information Seeking Behavior, Does participant click on link to more information. The survey platforms event tracking feature will be used to track clicks (yes/no) for more information., up to 2 hours
The study occurred in two phases. Phase one was a qualitative aim that collected feedback from participants in iterative cycles of focus groups and individual think-aloud interviews. Phase one feedback was analyzed and applied to develop a tailored, web-based prototype that addressed participant desires for an intervention to address colorectal cancer prevention and nutrition risk education. The prototype was a brief conversation delivered by an interactive Virtual Health Assistant (virtual character with audio and visual elements that mimic a conversation with a human).