MR-HIFU Treatment of Painful Osteoid Osteoma
To determine treatment safety and efficacy of MR-HIFU ablation of painful Osteoid Osteoma (OO) in children and young adults.
Osteoid Osteoma
DEVICE: MR-HIFU treatment
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.5, CTCAE v.5 will be used, 12 months|Pain relief as assessed by pain medication usage, The patient pain and medication diary will be used, 12 months|Pain relief as assessed using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS), The VAS is a continuous numerical pain scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain), 12 months|Pain relief as assessed by using the PROMIS Pain Interference short form, The PROMIS Pain Interference Short Form consists of 8 questions on pain. Each question will be rated from 0 (never), 1 (almost never), 2 (sometimes), 3 (often), and 4 (almost always), 12 months|Quality of life as assessed by using the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) v4.0, The PedsQL is a 23-item, 4 scale, and 2 domain instrument measuring physical, social, emotional, and cognitive well-being. Each question will be rated from 0 (never) to 4 (almost always), 12 months|Quality of life as assessed by using the Symptom Distress Scale (SDS), SDS is a 10-item Likert format instrument that measures symptom intensity and distress. Each question will be rated from 1 (no problems in the area) to 5 (worst problems in this area), 12 months
Number of participants with change in nidus size (mm) as assessed via MRI, Number of participants with change in nidus size (mm) as assessed via MRI, 12 months|Number of participants with change in nidus vascularity as assessed via MRI, Number of participants with change in nidus vascularity as assessed via MRI, 12 months|Number of participants with changes in soft tissue and marrow edema as assessed via MRI, Number of participants with changes in soft tissue and marrow edema as assessed via MRI, 12 months
Osteoid Osteoma (OO) is a benign, but painful, bone tumor commonly occurring in children and young adults. Definitive treatment options are CT-guided radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and less commonly, open surgical resection. RFA is less invasive than surgery, but it still requires drilling from the skin through muscle and bone. It also exposes the patient and operator to ionizing radiation.

Magnetic Resonance guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (MR-HIFU) provides precise and controlled delivery of focused ultrasound energy inside a lesion using an external applicator, without any incisions or drilling. MR-HIFU has been successfully used to treat painful bone metastases in adult clinical trials. Several recent reports, including two publications from our group, show that MR-HIFU is a feasible and safe treatment for OO.

MR-HIFU ablation of OO may provide a better alternative to surgical resection or RFA as it is completely non-invasive and does not require ionizing radiation. These two qualities of MR-HIFU are especially beneficial in growing children and young adults. Furthermore, MR-HIFU OO ablation is quick, with expected total procedure time of less than two hours. Such short treatments offer additional safety benefits from reduced anesthesia / sedation requirement compared to surgery and RFA.

The investigator's group has performed the first pilot clinical trial in the U.S. to evaluate MR-HIFU treatment for painful osteoid osteoma (PI: K.V. Sharma, NCT02349971). This trial shows that MR-HIFU ablation is feasible, well tolerated, and can be safely performed in a pediatric cohort. Based on these results, the investigators propose a pivotal clinical trial designed to evaluate treatment efficacy as the next logical step required for clinical translation. The investigators hypothesize that noninvasive and radiation-free MR-HIFU ablation for osteoid osteoma will be a clinically effective treatment, with success rate comparable to that currently reported for RFA.