Improvement in Breast Skin Sensibility After Breast Reconstruction: a Comparison of 3 Surgical Techniques
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if nerve sutures in free flap breast reconstruction can optimize sensibility in the reconstructed breast in patients opting for DIEP flap breast reconstruction due to breast cancer or genetic conditions. Affected women 18 to 80 years old can be included. The main question is:

If a nerve suture was carried out, can pressure be felt better on the reconstructed breast after 12 months? If a nerve suture was carried out, will better sensibility and quality of life be felt and perceived (questionnaire) at 12 and 24 months after the initial operation ? Researchers will compare two different nerve suture techniques and no nerve suture to one another to see if and which nerve suture optimizes sensibility.

Participants will have regular visits and follow-up controls, during which

* their sensibility will be tested multimodally,
* they will fill out questionnaires
* skin biopsies will be taken.
Breast Cancer Surgery|Reconstruction Breast Surgery|Sensitization|DIEP Flap Breast Reconstruction
PROCEDURE: Nerve Suture
Semmes-Weinstein-Monofilament-Test, The results of one modality of the sensory testing, the Semmes-Weinstein-Monofilament-Test for pressure perception.

The breast will be divided into 9 zones, which will all be measured with the Semmes Weinstein monofilament 20-piece full kit (unit: grams of force) at the given time (see time frame)., At 12-months-follow-up
Change in breast sensation, Semmes-Weinstein monoflament The breast will be divided into 9 zones, which will all be measured with the Semmes Weinstein monofilament 20-piece full kit at the given times (see time frame).

The resulting monofilament values (unit: grams of force) are examined over the various specified periods and the delta is determined., day-1/1week/3/6/12/24 months postop|Sensory recovery to DIEP flap, 2-point-discrimination, i.e. threshold distance between two points that are perceived as separate in millimeters. Instrument: Aesthesiometer. 9 zones of the breast., 12 months postop|Change in breast sensation, 2-point-discrimination, i.e. threshold distance between two points that are perceived as separate in millimeters. Instrument: Aesthesiometer. 9 zones of the breast.

Measurement at the specified times (see time frame), determination of the delta., day-1/1week/3/6/12/24 months postop|Sensory recovery to DIEP flap, Vibration perception with tuning forks of 256 and 32 Hz. Binary: yes/no on 9 zones of the breast., 12 months postop|Change in breast sensation, Vibration perception with tuning forks of 256 and 32 Hz. 9 zones of the breast. Binary: yes/no Evaluation of the difference in the number of zones of the breast with perception of vibration, delta over different time points., day-1/1week/3/6/12/24 months postop|Sensory recovery to DIEP flap, Temperature perception. Metal rods of 6°C and 37°C. Patients have to indicate which rod feels colder that the other. Capacity of differentiation of temperature: yes/no on 9 zones of the breast., 12 months postop|Change in breast sensation, Temperature perception. Metal rods of 6°C and 37°C. Patients have to indicate which rod feels colder that the other. Capacity of differentiation of temperature: yes/no on 9 zones of the breast. Testing at given time points (see time frame), Calculation of delta of number of zones with distinction., day-1/1week/3/6/12/24 months postop|Sensory recovery to DIEP flap, Temperature surface. FLIR thermal camera, flap monitor versus whole breast and contralateral breast surface temperature, difference in temperature in degree Celsius., 12 months postop|Change in breast sensation, Temperature surface. FLIR thermal camera, flap monitor versus whole breast and contralateral breast surface temperature, difference in temperature in degree Celsius. Calculation of delta over given time points (see time frame), day-1/1week/3/6/12/24 months postop|Sensory recovery to DIEP flap, Sharp/dull:

Instrument system used: 18G needle / cotton swab, on nine areas of the breast.

* Each area will be tested 3 consecutive times with both objects (i.e., 6 measurements per area)
* The distinction between prick and gentle pressure will be considered successful if the patient responds correctly 5 times out of 6 or 6 times out of 6 (distinction ability: yes/no), 12 months postop|Change in breast sensation, Sharp/dull:

Instrument system used: 18G needle / cotton swab, on nine areas of the breast.

* Each area will be tested 3 consecutive times with both objects (i.e., 6 measurements per area)
* The distinction between prick and gentle pressure will be considered successful if the patient responds correctly 5 times out of 6 or 6 times out of 6 (distinction ability: yes/no) Delta calculation over given time points (see time frame), day-1/1week/3/6/12/24 months postop|Breast-specific health-related QoL, Breast-Q®, 12 months postop|Breast-specific health-related QoL (change over time), Breast-Q®, delta of points over time (see time frame), Day -1, 12 &24 months postop|Operative time, Minutes for nerve coaptation(s), At time of 1st operation|Changes to DIEP flap skin, Proteomics, neuroprotein quantification, A) Pilot study Postoperatively at any time of follow-up-interventions. B) Main study At time of 1st operation and at 6-months-follow-up|Sensory recovery to DIEP flap, 2-point-discrimination, i.e. threshold distance between two points that are perceived as separate in millimeters. Instrument: Aesthesiometer., 12 months postop
Breast reconstruction with autologous tissue is one of the most important methods: The DIEP (deep inferior epigastric artery perforator) flap is today's workhorse in autologous reconstruction. Routinely, the arteries and veins of the donor- and recipient sites are connected, but not the nerves. The sensory recovery is an undervalued aspect despite the disadvantages of insensate flaps. Connection of the abdominal flap skin's nerves to the breast region's nerves allows sensitized reconstruction. The research project aims to make sensitized flap-based breast reconstruction the standard method by proving its superiority, using the sensory testing with Semmes-Weinstein-Monofilament (pressure threshold) as the primary outcome measured before surgery and 12 months post-surgery. Therefore, patients will be randomized in three groups:

1. sensitization with direct nerve suture or
2. autograft or
3. no sensitization. Moreover, no previous studies have analyzed the potential changes in flap skin with proteomics, thus justifying our secondary objective.

The hypothesis is that flaps with nerve suture(s) have better sensibility. The main outcome will be the sensory testing (pressure threshold). As secondary outcomes the questionnaire will show the patients' quality of life, and the proteomic analysis, should, according to our hypothesis, show that quantity and expression of the proteins of flap skin with nerve suture are closer to normal skin than without nerve suture.