A Phase II Trial of MLN8237 in Patients With Metastatic Castrate Resistant and Neuroendocrine Prostate Cancer
This study will evaluate the response rate of MLN8237 in patients with histologically confirmed or clinically suspected metastatic neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC). MLN8237 is an orally administered Aurora kinase A inhibitor that has demonstrated broad antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo. In preclinical models, aurora kinase inhibition resulted in dramatic and preferential anti-tumor activity in NEPC with suppression of neuroendocrine marker expression.
Small Cell Prostate Cancer|Neuroendocrine Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma Plus > 50% Immunohistochemical Staining for Neuroendocrine Markers
DRUG: MLN8237
Response Rate, as Assessed by CT/MRI and Bone Scan, of Treatment With MLN8237 for Patients With Neuroendocrine Prostate Cancer, Evaluated per RECIST 1.1 guidelines: Complete response (CR) is defined as complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable lesions by physical examination or imaging studies and normalization of PSA with no appearance of new lesions for \> 1 month. Partial response (PR) is defined as a 30% 56 or greater reduction in the sum longest unidimensional diameter of all measurable lesions. There may be no new lesions. Stable Disease (SD) is characterized by patients who do not meet the criteria of PR and who are without signs of progressive disease for at least 1 month. Disease Progression (DP) is defined as a greater than 20% increase in the sum longest unidimensional diameters of the indicator lesions or the appearance of new lesions. Bone scan progression (evaluable disease only) is defined by PCWG2 criteria. Per consensus guidelines in CRPC, to be considered measurable, lymph nodes need to be at least 2 cm in greatest dimension and 1.5 cm in short axis., one year
Progression-free Survival in Response to Therapy, Patients will be followed for survival endpoints following completion of this study until death., 3 years|Overall Survival in Response to Therapy, Patients will be followed for survival endpoints following completion of this study until death, 3 years|Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Test Response Rate, PSA to be followed every cycle to determine response., 2 years|Circulating Tumor Cell (CTC) Response, CTC counts by CellSearch will be performed at baseline, at 4-6 weeks, and upon progression to determine response., 2 years
This is a multi-institutional single-arm, open-label Phase 2 trial evaluating MLN8237 in patients with histologically confirmed or clinically suspected metastatic neuroendocrine prostate cancer. Subjects will be treated with MLN8237 at 50 mg twice daily for 7 days repeated every 21 days. Individual dose reductions will be made on the basis of the AEs observed. Therapy will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity as a result of MLN8237, or withdrawal of patient consent. Patients will be followed with history, physical, and blood tests at each visit to monitor for toxicity. Response and progression will be evaluated by CT/MRI scan and bone scan after every 3 cycles and determined using RECIST v1.1. PSA and serum chromogranin A and NSE will be followed every cycle. CTC counts by CellSearch will be performed at baseline, at 4-6 weeks, and upon progression. Patients will be followed for survival endpoints following completion of this study until death.