Nivolumab and Multi-fraction Stereotactic Radiosurgery With or Without Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent Grade II-III Meningioma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of nivolumab when given together with multi-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery and to see how well they work with or without ipilimumab in treating patients with grade II-III meningioma that has come back (recurrent). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab and ipilimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Stereotactic radiosurgery is a specialized radiation therapy that delivers a single, high dose of radiation directly to the tumor and may cause less damage to normal tissue. Giving nivolumab and multi-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery with or without ipilimumab may work better in treating patients with grade II-III meningioma.
Grade 2 Meningioma|Grade 3 Meningioma|Recurrent Meningioma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Maximum tolerated combination of radiosurgery and nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab (Phase I), Up to 100 days|Incidence of adverse event profile (Phase I), Will be evaluated by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The number and percentage of subjects experiencing each type of adverse event will be tabulated by severity, and relationship to treatment. If appropriate, confidence intervals will be used to characterize the precision of the estimate. A complete listing of adverse events will also be tabulated, and will provide details including severity, relationship to treatment, onset, duration, and outcome. Laboratory data measured on a continuous scale will be characterized by summary statistics (mean and standard deviation)., Up to 100 days|Objective response rate (Phase II), Up to 100 days|Objective radiological response (Phase II), Will include either complete response or partial response as assessed on magnetic resonance imaging per the modified Macdonald Criteria. 80% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 100 days
Progression-free survival, 80% confidence intervals will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier product limit methods., At 6 months|Overall survival, 80% confidence intervals will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier product limit methods., Up to 100 days|Changes of peripheral T-cells, Each T-cell subset will be quantified as a percentage of the overall T-cell population by normalizing to CD3+ cells. Linear mixed model for repeated measurement data will be used to assess the change over time as well as the differences between subgroups (e.g., responders vs. non-responders) for immunogenicity and other biomarkers (i.e., frequency of CD8+Ki67+PD1+ T-cells, etc.). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves will also be used to assess the overall predictive ability and to explore the optimal cut-off points for baseline biomarkers to differentiate responders versus non-responders., Baseline up to 100 days
Deoxyribonucleic acid sequencing, Will be explored by comparing the differences in theses biomarkers between responders versus non-responders using t-test or Mann-Whitney rank-sum test as appropriate. Permutation test will be used to determine whether the observed difference is larger than might be expected by chance, while the null distribution of test statistics will be generated using 10,000 permutation samples where the response status will be randomly re-shuffled. The observed test statistics will be compared to the null distributions. For each outcome, the permuted p-value will be the fraction of permuted samples that resulted in a small statistic than the original sample., Up to 100 days|Ribonucleic acid expression, Will be explored by comparing the differences in theses biomarkers between responders versus non-responders using t-test or Mann-Whitney rank-sum test as appropriate. Permutation test will be used to determine whether the observed difference is larger than might be expected by chance, while the null distribution of test statistics will be generated using 10,000 permutation samples where the response status will be randomly re-shuffled. The observed test statistics will be compared to the null distributions. For each outcome, the permuted p-value will be the fraction of permuted samples that resulted in a small statistic than the original sample., Up to 100 days|Neoantigen signature, Will be explored by comparing the differences in theses biomarkers between responders versus non-responders using t-test or Mann-Whitney rank-sum test as appropriate. Permutation test will be used to determine whether the observed difference is larger than might be expected by chance, while the null distribution of test statistics will be generated using 10,000 permutation samples where the response status will be randomly re-shuffled. The observed test statistics will be compared to the null distributions. For each outcome, the permuted p-value will be the fraction of permuted samples that resulted in a small statistic than the original sample., Up to 100 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the maximum tolerated combination and safety profile of multi-fraction radiosurgery with concurrent nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab for recurrent radiation-relapsed high-grade meningioma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) of multi-fraction radiosurgery with concurrent nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab for recurrent radiation-relapsed high-grade meningioma. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate duration of overall response, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of recurrent radiation-relapsed high-grade meningioma patients treated with the combination of multi-fraction radiosurgery and nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze the immunophenotype changes of peripheral T-cells during the treatment with multi-fraction radiosurgery in combination with nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab.

II. To perform molecular profiling assays on pretreatment/baseline archival tumor, including, but not limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES) and messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq), in order to IIa. Identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers (such as neoantigen signature or mutation burden) beyond any genomic alteration by which treatment may be assigned.

IIb. Identify resistance mechanisms using genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)- and RNA-based assessment platforms.

III. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

IV. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the National Cancer Institute Early-Phase and Experimental Clinical Trials Biospecimen Bank (EET Biobank).

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of nivolumab followed by a phase II study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo multi-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery on days 1, 3, and 5.

COHORT B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 2 weeks for 12 doses (6 months) and then every 4 weeks for additional 6 months. Patients also receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 6 weeks for 4 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo multi-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery on days 1, 3, and 5.

Patients undergo brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may also undergo echocardiogram (ECHO) as clinically indicated.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 100 days.