A Clinical Trial to Evaluate Safety and Efficacy of Endovascualr Denervation in Treatment of Cancer Pain
A prospective, multicenter, self-control clinical trial aim to enroll 110 patients suffered from upper abdominal (liver, pancreas, stomach, etc.) cancers . Patients who have taken at least one opioid drug for pain for two weeks and still have a VAS pain scale greater than 6 will receive endovascular denervation (EDN). They will be followed up for 3 months. The VAS scales, quantity of analgesics as represented by morphine equivalent and quality of life scores will be compared before and after EDN. Safety parameters such as arterial deformation, embolism, infection, liver and kidney functions will also be monitored.
Liver Cancer|Pancreas Cancer|Stomach Cancer|Bile Duct Cancer
DEVICE: Endovascular Denervation
Visual Analog Scale Changes over the time, Pain scale is evaluated as Woodforde Visual Analig Scale (VAS) method. The scale is from 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain, and 10 being unbearable pain., Pre-treatment; 1, 3, 15, 30, 60, and 90 days after treatment.
Morphine Equivalent Changes over the time, All analgesics used will be calculated to Morphine Equivalent using published conversion factors., Pre-treatment; 1, 3, 15, 30, 60, and 90 days after treatment.|Quality of Life Score Changes over the time, Qulaity of Life Scores are obtained using Functional Assessment of Cancer Theray-Generic Scale (FACT-G) (v 4.0) sale. The score is from 0 to 108, with 0 being no quality of life, and 108 being highest quality of life., Pre-treatment; 1, 3, 15, 30, 60, and 90 days after treatment.
A prospective, multicenter, self-control clinical trial aim to enroll 110 patients suffered from upper abdominal (liver, pancreas, stomach, etc.) cancers . Patients who have taken at least one opioid drug for pain for two weeks and still have a VAS pain scale greater than 6 will receive endovascular denervation (EDN). They will be followed up for 3 months. The VAS scales, quantity of analgesics as represented by morphine equivalent and quality of life scores will be compared before and after EDN. Safety parameters such as arterial deformation, embolism, infection, liver and kidney functions will also be monitored.