Gingival Crevicular Fluid Vaspin and Omentin Levels in Obese Patients With Chronic Periodontitis
Our objective in this case-control intervention study, therefore, was to explore the effect of nonsurgical periodontal therapy on the GCF levels of vaspin and omentin in patients with chronic periodontitis in order to determine the usefulness of vaspin and omentin as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker of periodontal disease.
Obesity|Periodontitis
OTHER: non surgical periodontal treatment|OTHER: Gingival crevicular fluid collection
Biochemical parameters (Vaspin and omentin), The changes in levels of vaspin and omentin 6 weeks after periodontal treatment determined by ELISA. The changes in levels of vaspin and omentin were analyzed to determine diagnostic and prognostic potential as a biomarker of periodontal disease., Baseline and 6 weeks after treatment
Tumor necrosis factor alfa, The changes in levels of tumor necrosis factor alfa 6 weeks after periodontal treatment determined by ELISA., Baseline and 6 weeks after treatment|Probing pocket depth, The changes in probing pocket depth after periodontal treatment.Probing pocket depth was measured for determining severity of disease and clinic outcome., Baseline and 6 weeks after treatment|Clinical attachment level, The changes in clinical attachment level after periodontal treatment. Clinical attachment level was measured for determining severity of disease and clinic outcome., Baseline and 6 weeks after treatment|Gingival index, The changes in gingival index after periodontal treatment. Gingival index was recorded for classifying and evaluating (coronally) gingival inflammation. Also, gingival index was also analyzed to detect the relationship between vaspin, omentin and tumor necrosis factor alfa., Baseline and 6 weeks after treatment|Plaque index, The changes in plaque index after periodontal treatment. Plaque index was recorded for determining and classifying oral hygiene status., Baseline and 6 weeks after treatment|Bleeding on probing, The changes in bleeding on probing after periodontal treatment. Bleeding on probing was recorded for classifying and evaluating (apically) gingival inflammation., Baseline and 6 weeks after treatment
All individuals underwent a full-mouth periodontal examination, which included probing pocket depth (PPD), clinical attachment level (CAL), plaque index (PI), gingival index (GI), bleeding on probing (BOP). BMI and WHR were used for assessing obesity. In addition, HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose levels were used for elimination of diabetes mellitus. Based on the periodontal and anthropometric measurements, individuals (n=76) were divided into four groups: the periodontal-healthy group (n=19), chronic periodontitis group (n=19), periodontal-healthy with obesity group (n=19) and chronic periodontitis with obesity group (n=19). Periodontitis patients received nonsurgical periodontal therapy. GCF sampling and clinical periodontal parameters were assessed before and 6 weeks after therapy. Vaspin, omentin, and TNF-α levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.