Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Stage III-IV Melanoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of vaccine therapy in treating patients with stage III-IV melanoma that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced). Vaccines made from peptides or antigens may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IIIB Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIC Skin Melanoma|Stage IV Skin Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Human Hsp110-gp100 Chaperone Complex Vaccine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
MTD of recombinant human hsp110-gp100 chaperone complex melanoma vaccine based on the probability of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4, DLT is defined as grade 3 or 4 toxicity or grade 3 injection site toxicity, with the exception of grade 3 rigors/chills which will be tolerated for 48-72 hours if attributable to vaccine reaction., Up to 30 days after the last vaccine dose
Objective tumor response according to RECIST version 1.1, Recombinant hsp110-gp100 chaperone complex vaccine specific cell mediated and humoral immune responses elicited by the chaperone complex vaccine as well as the effect of dose and serial administration on these responses will be assessed through the correlative science studies., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and clinically appropriate dose of human heat shock protein (hsp)110-gp100 chaperone complex melanoma vaccine (recombinant hsp110-gp100 chaperone complex vaccine) to recommend a phase II dose in stage IIIB/C and stage IV metastatic melanoma patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the effect of the recombinant human hsp110-gp100 chaperone complex vaccine on measurable clinical tumor.

II. To determine gp100 and hsp110 specific cell mediated and humoral immune responses elicited by the chaperone complex vaccine.

III. To determine the effect of dose and serial administration of the chaperone complex vaccine on cell mediated and humoral immune responses.

IV. To quantify patient characteristics (human leukocyte antigen \[HLA\] subtype, immune cell function, etc.) that may correlate with immune response to the chaperone complex vaccine.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive recombinant hsp110-gp100 chaperone complex vaccine intradermally (ID) on days 1, 15, and 43 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 months.