Chemo4METPANC Combination Chemokine Inhibitor, Immunotherapy, and Chemotherapy in Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
The purpose of this study is to determine if combination treatment with cemiplimab, motixafortide, gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel is effective in decreasing the size of the tumor(s), if it will prolong life in patients, and if it's safe. The treatment consists of standard chemotherapy (gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel) which is FDA approved and is standard treatment for patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Participants will receive immunotherapy (cemiplimab) which activates the body's immune system to attack cancer cells. Cemiplimab is FDA approved for treatment of skin cancer but not for pancreas cancer. Participants will also receive Motixafortide, a new medication which has shown in the laboratory to help immunotherapy work better. Motixafortide has been tested together with immunotherapy (Pembrolizumab), and chemotherapy (5-Fluorouracil and liposomal Irinotecan) and was deemed safe to test additional patients. Motixafortide has not been tested with the specific immunotherapy (Cemiplimab) and chemotherapy (gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel) which participants will receive and is being tested in this clinical trial.
Pancreatic Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Motixafortide|DRUG: Cemiplimab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel
Overall Response Rate (Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR)), Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all lesions. Partial response is defined as ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, in the absence of CR, new lesions, and unequivocal progression in non-target lesions., 16 weeks
Incidence of Treatment Related Toxicities, All participants will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their first treatment with the study drugs. The counts of treatment-related toxicities will be reported by type and severity according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5., Up to 5 years|Median Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of first treatment with study drug to the time of death from any cause or last follow-up if alive., Up to 5 years|Median Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time from first treatment with the study drug to the earliest of either disease progression or death from any cause., Up to 5 years|Duration of Clinical Benefit, Duration of clinical benefit is defined as the time from first treatment with the study drug to the earliest of either disease progression or death from any cause in subjects who achieved a CR, PR, or stable disease (SD)., Up to 5 years|Disease Control Rate, The number of participants that achieve disease control rate (CR+PR+SD) by 16 weeks., 16 weeks
Pancreas adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive pancreatic cancer for which little progress has been made towards effective treatment. This is a Phase 2 open-label, multi-center study for patients with treatment-naïve metastatic PDAC. The goal of the study is to assess the preliminary efficacy of a CXCR4 antagonist (motixafortide), (cemiplimab), gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel compared based on the response rate to historical controls in first line metastatic PDAC. Subjects will be treated with 5 days of motixafortide daily alone in the priming phase, followed by motixafortide twice a week, cemiplimab once every three weeks and and standard of care chemotherapy (gemcitabine and nabpaclitaxel).