Study Comparing Bevacizumab + Temsirolimus vs. Bevacizumab + Interferon-Alfa In Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma Subjects
Primary objective: Comparison of independently assessed progression free survival (PFS) in subjects administered Bevacizumab + Temsirolimus vs. those administered Bevacizumab + Interferon-Alfa. Secondary objectives: safety, Investigator assessed PFS, objective response rate (independently assessed), and overall survival.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Temsirolimus|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Interferon-Alfa 9MU
Progression-Free Survival (PFS): Independent-Assessment, PFS was defined as the interval from the date of randomization until the earlier date of progression or death. Progression was assessed by independent imaging reviewers using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria which is 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions from nadir (the lowest blood counts); measurable increase in non-target lesion; appearance of new lesions., Baseline until disease progression, initiation of new anticancer treatment, or death, assessed every 8 weeks (up to cut-off date: 19 April 2012)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS): Investigator-Assessment, PFS was defined as the interval from the date of randomization until the earlier date of progression or death. Progression was assessed by investigator imaging reviewers using RECIST criteria which is 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions from nadir (the lowest blood counts); measurable increase in non-target lesion; appearance of new lesions., Baseline until disease progression, initiation of new anticancer treatment, or death, assessed every 8 weeks (up to cut-off date: 19 April 2012)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (Complete Response/Partial Response): Independent-Assessment, Percentage of participants with OR based assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to RECIST. Confirmed response were those that persisted on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions (target and/or non target). PR were those with at least 30% decrease in sum of the longest dimensions of target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions, with non target lesions not increased or absent., Baseline until disease progression, initiation of new anticancer treatment, or death, assessed every 8 weeks (up to cut-off date: 19 April 2012)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause, censored at the last date known alive. Death was determined from adverse event data (where outcome was death) or from follow-up contact data (where the participant current status was death)., Baseline until death due to any cause, assessed every 8 weeks (up to cut-off date: 19 April 2012)
Primary objective: Comparison of independently assessed progression free survival (PFS) in subjects administered Bevacizumab + Temsirolimus vs. those administered Bevacizumab + Interferon-Alfa. Secondary objectives: safety, Investigator assessed PFS, objective response rate (independently assessed), and overall survival.