Software-Aided Imaging (Morfeus) for Confirming Tumor Coverage With Ablation in Patients With Liver Tumors, the COVER-ALL Study
This phase II trial studies how well software-aided imaging works in confirming tumor coverage with ablation (the removal or destruction of a body part or tissue or its function) on patients with liver tumors. The current standard for targeting tumor cells and evaluating the outcome of a liver ablation procedure is a visual inspection of the pre- and post-procedure computed tomography (CT) scans. Software-aided imaging systems, such as Morfeus, may help to improve the accuracy and effectiveness of liver ablation.
Malignant Liver Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Ablation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Image-Guided Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Impact of software use on the minimal margins of ablated lesions properly covered by ablation on a three-dimensional analysis, Will assess whether applying biomechanical models increase the minimal margins of ablated lesions properly covered by ablation on a three-dimensional analysis. The average minimum ablation margins will be compared between two arms using a 2-sample t-test (or Wilcoxon rank-sum test). The means and corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be reported for both arms of the study., Up to 2 years
Local tumor progression-free survival (LTPFS), Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate LTPFS and 95% confidence intervals for the quantiles of the LTPFS function based on the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be calculated for each arm., From date of ablation to earliest date of progression at the ablated lesion, assessed up to 2 years|Intra-hepatic progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate intra-hepatic progression-free survival and 95% confidence intervals for the quantiles of the intra-hepatic progression-free survival function based on the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be calculated for each arm., From date of ablation to earliest date of progression at the ablated lesion, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate overall survival and 95% confidence intervals for the quantiles of the overall survival function based on the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be calculated for each arm., From date of ablation to death, assessed up to 2 years|Complication rates, Standard summary statistics will be computed for complication rates and compared between arms., Up to 2 years|Quality of life, Standard summary statistics will be computed for quality of life and compared between arms., Up to 2 years|Liver function, Standard summary statistics will be computed for liver function and compared between arms., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate if the intra-procedure feedback of a biomechanical deformable registration volumetric image method during percutaneous ablation will increase the minimal ablation margins on a three-dimensional computed tomography-generated analysis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether applying the proposed method during percutaneous ablation improves local tumor progression-free survival (LTPFS) rates.

II. Evaluate impact of software use on procedure workflow.

III. Impact of software use on complication rates, quality of life, liver function.

IV. Evaluate oncological outcomes (intra-hepatic and overall progression-free survivals, and overall survival).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo standard of care ablation.

ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care ablation with software-aided imaging (Morfeus).

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1, 3, and 6 months, and then at 1 and 2 years.