Memory-like Natural Killer (NK) Cell Therapy in Patients With Renal Cell Carcinoma or Urothelial Carcinoma
The goal of this research study is to establish the safety and then to explore the effectiveness of infusing the combination of cytokine-induced memory-like (CIML) natural killer (NK) cells, a type of immune cell in the blood that is collected and bathed in special proteins to help identify and treat curtained advanced cancers, combined with low dose IL-2, which is a cytokine that activates immune cells, in advanced clear cell renal cell carcinoma and urothelial carcinoma.

Names of the study therapies involved in this study are/is:

* CIML NK cell therapy (a NK cell therapy)
* IL-2 (a type of cytokine)
Renal Carcinoma|Renal Cell Carcinoma|Urothelial Carcinoma|Chromophobe Renal Cell Carcinoma|Translocation Renal Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Cytokine Induced Memory-like Natural Killer (CIML NK) Cells|DRUG: Interleukin-2 (IL-2)
Feasibility Failure Rate (FFR), Feasibility is defined as the ability to collect cells, generate product, and administer CIML NK plus 6-day maintenance culture cells to participants. FFR is defined as the proportion pf participants that do not achieve the feasibility during the maintenance phase., Observation period up to 98 days.
The purpose of this research study is to obtain information on the feasibility of CIML NK cell therapy with IL-2 to treat advanced clear cell renal cell carcinoma and urothelial carcinoma. This is the first time that the specific combination of CIML NK cells and IL-2 will be given to humans.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved CIML NK cells post Maintenance Culture as a treatment for renal cell carcinoma or urothelial carcinoma.

The FDA has approved IL-2 as a treatment for renal cell carcinoma but the dose used will be lower than the approved dose, as IL-2 is intended to support the CIML NK cells.

This research study involves screening for eligibility, collection of natural killer (NK) cells in a process called leukapheresis, treatment visits, X-rays, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans, blood tests, urine tests, echocardiograms, electrocardiograms (ECGs), and tumor biopsies.

Participants will be in this research study for up to 5 years from the CIML NK cell infusion.

It is expected that about 10 people will take part in this research study.

This research is supported by a grant from the Kidney Cancer Association.