Dendritic Cell Immunotherapy Against Cancer Stem Cells in Glioblastoma Patients Receiving Standard Therapy
Open, randomized study of a trivalent dendritic cell therapy compared to standard therapy in primary treated patients with IDH wild-type, MGMT-promotor methylated glioblastoma. The IMP is dendritic cells transfected with mRNA of survivin, hTERT og autologous tumor stem cells derived from tumorspheres.
Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic cell immunization|DRUG: Adjuvant temozolomide
Progression free survival, Defined as time from first surgery to first certain progress of contrast enhancing tumor or clinical progression, according to the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria., 2 years
Overall survival, Survival from the time of diagnosis., 2 years from inclusion|Patient reported quality of life, overall, Evaluated by EORTC Quality of Life Questionaire (QLQ-C30), a questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Scale 30 to 120 points, where higher is worse., 2 years from inclusion|Patient reported quality of life, brain specific, Evaluated by EORTC Quality of Life Questionaire, Brain module (QLQ-BN20). The brain cancer module is meant for use among brain cancer patients varying in disease stage and treatment modality. Scale 20 to 80 points, where higher is worse. It should always be complemented by the QLQ-C30., 2 years from inclusion|Immunological response, skin, Evaluated by delayed type hypersensitivity reaction in skin., 2 years from inclusion|Immunological response, cellular, Evaluated by lymphocyte clonal analysis., 2 years from inclusion|Adverse events, Classified according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., 2 years from inclusion
Autologous leukapheresis for enrichment of PBMCs is performed after enrollment of the patient into the trial. Ex vivo generated DCs will be frozen and stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen.

At first surgery, tumor biopsies will be cultured under sphere-forming conditions under ex vivo conditions for enrichment of glioblastoma stem cells. mRNA will purified and amplified from these autologous tumor stem cells.

At specified intervals patients randomized to the vaccine group will receive intradermal injections of DCs transfected with mRNA from autologous tumor stem cells, survivin and hTERT. Injections will be given as three separate injections at three separate sites.

Vaccination will be continued for as long as there are vaccines available.