Improving Patient-Centered Communication in Breast Cancer Through Patient and Provider Interventions
This trial studies the effectiveness of two interventions on patient reported outcomes of patient centered communication and decision making about breast cancer treatment. The first intervention consists of enhancements to an existing patient-facing breast cancer treatment decision tool called iCanDecide that supports the management of worry, distress, and anxiety as compared to an existing tool. The second intervention consists of a clinician dashboard that populates information after patients view either website regarding any ongoing issues or concerns.
Anatomic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Decision Aid iCanDecide - ESE website|OTHER: Decision Aid iCanDecide - S website|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Training|OTHER: Media Intervention|OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Patient knowledge about risks and benefits of local regional treatment, Will be defined as the percentage of correct answers (range: 0-100%) from a 5-item scale previously developed and pilot tested where higher percentages indicate increased knowledge of treatment risks and benefits of local regional treatment. Because the interventions are fully crossed (with intervention and control patients within both intervention and control practices for every time period), the intervention effect of iCanDecide-E and the intervention effect of the clinician dashboard (CDB) will be obtained from a single linear mixed-effects model for the continuous primary outcome measure patient knowledge., At 4-5 weeks post patient randomization
Patient self-efficacy in dealing with breast cancer, Will be defined as the composite score obtained from the 11-item (each rated on a 5-point Likert scale: "strongly disagree" to "strongly agree") validated scale designed to assess breast cancer patients' overall feelings of control of their cancer and worry about their cancer (range: 11 to 55); higher scores indicate increased self-efficacy. Because the interventions are fully crossed (with intervention and control patients within both intervention and control practices for every time period), the intervention effect of iCanDecide-E and the intervention effect of the clinician dashboard (CDB) will be obtained from a single linear mixed-effects model for the continuous secondary outcome measure patient self-efficacy., At 4-5 weeks post patient randomization|Patient cancer worry, Will be defined as the total score obtained from the 8-item (each rated on a 4-point Likert scale: "never" to "almost always") validated Cancer Worry Scale assessing the degree of cancer-related worry (range: 8 to 40); higher scores indicate more frequent worries about cancer. Because the interventions are fully crossed (with intervention and control patients within both intervention and control practices for every time period), the intervention effect of iCanDecide-E and the intervention effect of the clinician dashboard (CDB) will be obtained from a single linear mixed-effects model for the continuous secondary outcome measure patient cancer worry., At 4-5 weeks post patient randomization
The primary and key secondary objectives of the study:

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate that the enhanced iCanDecide (iCanDecide-emotional support enhancement \[ESE\]) intervention is more effective than the standard version (iCanDecide-standard \[S\]) resulting in higher patient knowledge about locoregional treatment risks and benefits.

II. To demonstrate that the activation of the clinician dashboard (CDB) is more effective than not using a CDB, resulting in higher patient knowledge about locoregional treatment risks and benefits.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate that the enhanced iCanDecide (iCanDecide-ESE) intervention is more effective than the standard version (iCanDecide-S), resulting in higher patient-reported breast cancer self-efficacy and lower patient reported cancer worry.

II. To demonstrate that the activation of the clinician dashboard (CDB) is more effective than not using a CDB, resulting in higher patient-reported breast cancer self-efficacy and lower patient reported cancer worry.

OUTLINE: This study is a multi-level trial of SHaDES that has two interventions in a factorial or crossed design: 1) an individually randomized patient-level randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the standard version (iCanDecide-S) vs. a version with innovative emotional support enhancements (iCanDecide-ESE), and 2) a clinic-level stepped-wedge cluster randomized trial to test a Clinician Dashboard (CDB). Twenty-five surgical practices will be recruited for participation. Practices will be randomized to the timing of the CDB intervention, with some practices initiating the CDB intervention right away, while others may initiate the CDB later or perhaps be randomized to "no CDB" period. Clinicians will be asked to use the CDB beginning in the time period to which their practice was randomized and continuing to the end of the study. After registration, clinicians are followed up at 9 and 18 months. After a patient is registered, the patient will be randomized to one of two arms:

ARM I: Patients utilize the iCanDecide - ESE website, then undergo surgery within 5 weeks of registration. Patients may also participate in an audio-recorded phone interview over 20 minutes at 9-12 months post registration.

ARM II: Patients utilize the iCanDecide - S website, then undergo surgery within 5 weeks of registration. Patients may also participate in an audio-recorded phone interview over 20 minutes at 9-12 months post registration.

After study registration, patients are followed up at 4-5 weeks and 9 months.

Patients will be enrolled at participating clinics during the full duration of the study and all enrolled patients will receive a version of the decision support tool (iCanDecide-S; iCanDecide-ESE). These patient-level activities are not influenced by the timing of the practice-level randomization to the CDB.