Venetoclax and Eprenetapopt for the Treatment of Relapsed of Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial investigates the effect of venetoclax and eprenetapopt in treating patients with mantle cell lymphoma that has come back (relapsed) or dose not respond to treatment (refractory). Chemotherapy drugs, such as venetoclax and eprenetapopt, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Eprenetapopt|DRUG: Venetoclax
Overall response rate (complete and partial responses), Will be based on Cheson, Lugano Classification 2014. Its associated exact 95% confidence interval will be presented., At 16 weeks
Complete response rate, Will be based on Cheson, Lugano Classification 2014. Its associated exact 95% confidence interval will be presented., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Progression free survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be utilized., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Duration of response (DOR), Will be summarized by providing the median DOR together with associated 95% confidence interval, using Kaplan-Meier methodology., From the date of achieving earliest response (complete response or partial response) to the date this response is not maintained|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be utilized., From the date of treatment start to date of death or last follow up either on or off study|Frequency of adverse events, Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to study completion|Severity of adverse events, Will be assessed by NCI CTCAE version 5.0., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Relatedness of treatment-emergent adverse events, Will be assessed by NCI CTCAE version 5.0., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy (overall response rate) of the eprenetapopt plus venetoclax combination in relapsed refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients (with/without TP53 aberrations).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile of the eprenetapopt plus venetoclax combination in relapsed refractory MCL patients.

II. To evaluate the overall survival and progression-free survival of the eprenetapopt plus venetoclax combination in relapsed refractory MCL patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive eprenetapopt intravenously (IV) over 6 hours on days 1-4 and venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 5 years, and then annually thereafter.