Chemoradiotherapy in Esophageal or Esophagogastric Junction Cancer
Definitive chemoradiotherapy is the standard of care in unresectable esophageal or esophagogastric cancer. A multidisciplinary approach, including chemotherapy and radiotherapy, is important for these patients. Morerover, molecular targeting agents does not show clear efficacy in EC up to now. Nowadays, the pace of development of cancer immunotherapies is accelerating. Clinical evidence of the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors and adoptive immunotherapies herald the onset of a new era in cancer immunotherapy. There have also been recent developments to provide a promising frontier in extending the use of immunotherpay or targeting agents to radiotherapy. The purpose of this study was to explore the optimal treatment modalities including PD-1/PD-L1 antibody or targeted drug for patients with unresectable esophageal or esophagogastric junction cancer.
Esophagus Cancer|Esophagogastric Junction Cancer|Chemoradiation|Targeted Therapy|Immunotherapy|Chemotherapy Effect
RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Platinum based chemotherapy|DRUG: Paclitaxel based chemotherapy|DRUG: Immunotherapy|DRUG: 5-FU Analog based chemotherapy|DRUG: Nimotuzumab
Overall survival, 1year|Overall survival, 2 year|Overall survival, 3 year|Overall survival, 5 year
Progression free survival, 1 year, 2 year, 3 year, 5 year|Number of participants with Acute and late toxicities of radiotherapy,chemotherapy and immunotherapy, 3 months|Pathological response rate, Pathological response were classified into three grades.Grade I signifies that there is little shrinkage in the tumor; only mild regression in the tumor cells is observed under themicroscope. Grade II shows gross reduction in size of the tumor and marked regression in the cancer cells microscopically, yet viable nests of cancer tissue are still visible. Grade III implies complete or almost total resolution of the tumor on exploration, and disappearance of the tumor tissue microscopically; only remnants of degenerated cancer cells can be seen (so-called ghost cancer cells)., 3 months|R0 resection rate, 3 months|Locoregional recurrence free survival, 1 year, 2 year, 3 year, 5 year|Distant metastasis free survival, 1 year, 2 year, 3 year, 5 year
Analysis of correlation between radiomics signature extracted by LASSO and the number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., 1 year, 2 year, 3 year, 5 year|Radiomics analysis, Analysis of correlation between radiomics signature extracted by LASSO and the rate of participants who achieve pathological complete response (pCR) and the overall survival based on MRI and CT simulation., 1 year, 2 year, 3 year, 5 year
Definitive chemoradiotherapy is the standard of care in unresectable esophageal or esophagogastric cancer. A multidisciplinary approach, including chemotherapy and radiotherapy, is important for these patients. Morerover, molecular targeting agents does not show clear efficacy in EC up to now. Nowadays, the pace of development of cancer immunotherapies is accelerating. Clinical evidence of the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors and adoptive immunotherapies herald the onset of a new era in cancer immunotherapy. There have also been recent developments to provide a promising frontier in extending the use of immunotherpay or targeting agents to radiotherapy. The purpose of this study was to explore the optimal treatment modalities including PD-1/PD-L1 antibody or targeted drug for patients with unresectable esophageal or esophagogastric junction cancer.