Crizotinib and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Younger Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Solid Tumors or Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of crizotinib when given together with combination chemotherapy in treating younger patients with solid tumors or anaplastic large cell lymphoma that has returned or does not respond to treatment. Crizotinib may stop the growth of tumor or cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, topotecan hydrochloride, dexrazoxane hydrochloride, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and vincristine sulfate, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving crizotinib together with combination chemotherapy may be a better treatment for patients with solid tumors or anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
Childhood Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Childhood Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Neuroblastoma
DRUG: Crizotinib|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexrazoxane Hydrochloride|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Topotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Crizotinib, The MTD of crizotinib administered with combination chemotherapy based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) at which fewer than one-third of patients experience DLT, as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 4.0., Up to 21 days|Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Number of patients of all DLT reported as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. stratified by dose level and study part., Up to 21 days|Area Under the Concentration, Median (min, max) of the area under the concentration time curve for crizotinib assessed in course 1 at 1, 2, 4, 6-8 hours, and 15-21 days post-administration stratified by dose level and study part., Up to 21 days
Response Rate, Number of patients of response-evaluable participants with response (CR/PR) assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 including CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR: at least 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, Up to 2 years|ALK Status and Response to Crizotinib, Number of patients who respond (CR/PR) to crizotinib in combination with either topotecan and cyclophosphamide or vincristine and doxorubicin/dexraroxane stratified by ALK positive or negative status, up to 2 years|MRD Status and Response to Crizotinib, Frequency (%) of patients who respond (CR/PR) to crizotinib in combination with either topotecan and cyclophosphamide or vincristine and doxorubicin/dexraroxane stratified by MRD status, Up to 2 years|ALK Expression for Crizotinib, Median (p25, p75) ALK expression stratified by dose level and study part, Up to 7 days|Acceptability of Crizotinib Capsule Formulation Palatability, Number of patients who at least accept palatability of capsule formulation in the first week, Up to 1 week|Acceptability of Crizotinib Microsphere Formulation Palatability, Number of patients who at least accept palatability of microsphere formation in the first week, Up to 1 week
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) or maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of crizotinib administered orally twice daily in combination with topotecan (topotecan hydrochloride) and cyclophosphamide in children with refractory/relapsed solid tumors or anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL).

II. To define and describe the toxicities of crizotinib in combination with topotecan and cyclophosphamide administered on this schedule.

III. To estimate the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) or maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of crizotinib administered orally twice daily in combination with vincristine (vincristine sulfate) and doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride)/dexrazoxane (dexrazoxane hydrochloride) in children with refractory/relapsed solid tumors or ALCL.

IV. To define and describe the toxicities of crizotinib in combination with vincristine and doxorubicin/dexrazoxane administered on this schedule.

V. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of crizotinib in children with relapsed/refractory cancer when combined with either topotecan and cyclophosphamide or vincristine and doxorubicin/dexrazoxane.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To preliminarily define the antitumor activity of crizotinib in combination with either topotecan and cyclophosphamide or vincristine and doxorubicin/dexrazoxane within the confines of a Phase 1 study.

II. To preliminarily examine the relationship between anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) status in patients with neuroblastoma or ALCL and response to crizotinib in combination with either topotecan and cyclophosphamide or vincristine and doxorubicin/dexrazoxane.

III. To preliminarily examine the relationship between minimal residual disease (MRD) status and clinical response to crizotinib in combination with either topotecan and cyclophosphamide or vincristine and doxorubicin/dexrazoxane in patients with ALCL.

IV. To use a questionnaire to gather preliminary information on the palatability of the oral solution formulation of crizotinib.

V. To examine ALK and MET proto-oncogene (c-Met) expression, copy number and mutations status in archival tumor tissue from solid tumor and ALCL patients.

VI. To use a questionnaire to gather information on the acceptability of the crizotinib capsule formulation.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of crizotinib. Patients are assigned to Part A or Part B based on the treating physician's choice and availability of a reservation. After closure of Part A and Part B, patients are assigned to Part C.

PART A (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 10/3/14): Patients receive crizotinib (oral solution) orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21, cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) once daily (QD) on days 1-5, and topotecan hydrochloride IV QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PART B (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 10/3/14): Patients receive crizotinib (oral solution) PO BID as in Part A. Patients also receive vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, dexrazoxane hydrochloride IV on day 1, and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PART C: Patients receive crizotinib (capsule formulation) PO BID, cyclophosphamide IV QD, and topotecan hydrochloride IV QD as in Part A. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PART D: Patients receive crizotinib (microsphere formulation) PO BID, cyclophosphamide IV QD, and topotecan hydrochloride IV QD as in Part A. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.