Evaluation of Hypoxia in Primary Melanoma
When controlling for tumor present in the Sentinel lymph node (SLN), intranodal hypoxia, as measured by Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CAIX IHC), is associated with worse PFS. This suggests that melanoma tumors may be utilizing deregulated metabolism as a means of propagating themselves to the next station of metastasis. This study aims to prospectively validate previous findings. Patients who are to undergo WLE and SLNB per standard of care (SOC) will be evaluable. It is hypothesized that SLN(s) with increased hypoxia, as measured by pimonidazole staining, will be associated with worse Progression-free Survival (PFS).
Melanoma
DRUG: Pimonidazole
Tumor Hypoxia, Hypoxia (decreased oxygen levels) in the primary tumor in patients with primary melanoma as measured by hypoxyprobe staining in primary tumor through CODEX imaging., Day of surgery|Progression Free Survival, Median number of months from time of surgery to regression, progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined as observable disease upon visual evaluation of surgical (anatomical) site., Up to 5 years (from date of surgery)|Sentinel Lymph Node Hypoxia, Hypoxia (decreased oxygen levels) in the sentinel lymph node (SLN) in patients with primary melanoma as measured by hypoxyprobe staining in primary tumor through CODEX imaging., Day of surgery
Intra-nodal - intra-tumoral hypoxia correlation, Correlation of hypoxia (decreased oxygen levels) in the sentinel lymph node (SLN) with that of the primary tumor in patients with primary melanoma as measured by hypoxyprobe staining in primary tumor through CODEX imaging., Day of surgery
This study aims to prospectively validate previous findings. Having found that deregulated tumor cell metabolism and resultant intra-tumoral hypoxia (ITH) are linked to clinical outcomes in patients with advanced stage melanoma, it was next sought to understand whether hypoxia, utilized as a surrogate of dysregulated metabolism, has significance in patients with earlier stage melanoma. This was done by utilizing banked samples from melanoma patients. Patients with early-stage melanoma who had undergone wide local excision (WLE) and sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) were eligible, involving fifty patients who had a positive SLN, and 50 patients who had a negative SLN. Utilizing novel Vectra panels developed by the Najjar lab, intra-nodal hypoxia was evaluated, as measured by carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX), it was fund that when controlling for tumor present in the SLN, intranodal hypoxia as measured by CAIX IHC is associated with worse PFS. This suggests that tumors may be utilizing deregulated metabolism as a means of propagating themselves to the next station of metastasis.