Determination of the Incidence of Endometriosis and or Adenomyosis in Patients Diagnosed With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, or the Incidence of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome in Patients Diagnosed With Endometriosis and or Adenomyosis
The study was designed as a multicenter, prospective cross-sectional cohort study. The research population will consist of patients under the age of 40, diagnosed with endometriosis and/or adenomyosis and polycystic ovary syndrome, who applied to the obstetrics and gynecology outpatient clinics in 13 centers. According to the results of the sample size analysis, it was planned to terminate the study when 1225 patients with polycystic ovary syndrome and 1225 patients with endometriosis and/or adenomyosis were recruited.
Endometriosis|Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Adenomyosis
OTHER: incidence
Demonstration of the co-occurrence of endometriosis, adenomyosis and polycystic ovarian syndrome in women of reproductive age under 40 years of age in our country., The Co-occurrence rate of endometriosis, adenomyosis and polycystic ovarian syndrome, 1 year
For the diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome, Rotterdam Criteria will be used. Hyperandrogenism will be determined clinically by Ferriman-Gallwey scoring, and biochemically by serum total testosterone and sex hormone initiating globulin (SHBG). 21-24 and 28-31 of menstruation in patients with ovulatory dysfunction, oligomenorrhea (cycles lasting longer than 38 days). It will be determined by measuring the serum progesterone level between days Polycystic ovarian morphology will be determined by transvaginal ultrasonography (8 mHz probe) by calculating the number of antral follicles and ovarian volume. Serum Anti Mullerian Hormone (AMH) will be requested from patients being investigated for polycystic ovary syndrome.

In order to exclude other conditions during the investigation in patients with suspected polycystic ovary syndrome, serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), prolactin (PRL) and 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) levels will be checked in the first 7 days of menstruation.

The diagnosis of endometriosis will be made by the presence of ovarian endometrioma and/or a deep infiltrating endometriosis nodule determined by transvaginal ultrasonography or by palpation of the endometriotic nodule on pelvic examination or surgical confirmation.

The diagnosis of adenomyosis will be made by transvaginal ultrasonography or surgical confirmation.

For polycystic ovary syndrome in patients diagnosed with endometriosis and/or adenomyosis; For endometriosis and/or adenomyosis in patients diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome, the above-described diagnostic investigations will be performed.