A Study of Rucaparib in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer and a Known Deleterious BRCA Mutation
The purpose of this study is to determine whether oral rucaparib is effective in the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer and a known deleterious BRCA mutation.
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Rucaparib
Overall Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by the investigator, Screening, within 7 days prior to the start of every 3rd cycle of treatment, and Treatment Discontinuation Visit. Study to last for ~3 years.
Overall Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by independent radiology review, Screening, within 7 days prior to the start of every 3rd cycle of treatment, and Treatment Discontinuation Visit. Study to last for ~3 years.|Duration of Response (DOR) by RECIST v1.1, Screening, within 7 days prior to the start of every 3rd cycle of treatment, and Treatment Discontinuation Visit. Study to last for ~3 years.|PFS defined as the occurrence of disease progression according to RECIST v1.1, as assessed by the investigator, or death from any cause, Screening, within 7 days prior to the start of every 3rd cycle of treatment, and Treatment Discontinuation Visit. Study to last for ~3 years.|Overall Survival (OS), To be performed continually from first dose of study drug through discontinuation, then every 4 weeks until death, loss to follow-up, withdrawal of consent from study, or closure of the study. Study to last for ~3 years.|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), clinical laboratory abnormalities, and dose modifications, Continuously from signing of informed consent to 28 days after the last dose. Study to last for ~3 years.|Trough (Cmin) level rucaparib concentrations, Cycle 1 Day 15, Cycle 2 Day 15, Cycle 3 Day 1, and Cycle 4 Day 1. Study to last for ~3 years.
Rucaparib is an orally available, small molecule inhibitor of poly-adenosine diphosphate \[ADP\] ribose polymerase (PARP) that inhibits a specific DNA repair pathway known as base excision repair (BER). PARP inhibitors (PARPi) have been shown to effectively kill tumors with a defect in BRCA1 or BRCA2. Clinical benefit has been observed in patients with a gBRCA mutation as well as in those with a somatic BRCA (sBRCA) mutation. Clinical data have also shown that pancreatic cancer patients with a gBRCA mutation benefit from PARPi treatment. Clinical activity of PARP inhibitors in BRCA-mutated pancreatic cancer combined with the paucity of 2nd line therapies support evaluation of rucaparib in pancreatic cancer patients known to harbor a deleterious BRCA mutation.