Pralatrexate for Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
A non-interventional, multicenter, multinational retrospective analysis using electronic case report forms completed by the investigators based on information from patient medical records
Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Pralatrexate
Overall response rate (ORR) including complete remission (CR) and partial remission (PR), retrospective analysis using electronic case report forms completed by the investigators based on information from patient medical records, This is a restrospective study. Data collection and analysis will be done for 6 months.
Progression-free survival (PFS), retrospective analysis using electronic case report forms completed by the investigators based on information from patient medical records, This is a restrospective study. Data collection and analysis will be done for 6 months.|Overall survival (OS), retrospective analysis using electronic case report forms completed by the investigators based on information from patient medical records, This is a restrospective study. Data collection and analysis will be done for 6 months.|Duration of response (DoR), retrospective analysis using electronic case report forms completed by the investigators based on information from patient medical records, This is a restrospective study. Data collection and analysis will be done for 6 months.|Toxicity, This study will investigate the number of participants with grade 3-4 neutropenia, grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia, grade 3-4 anemia and grade 4 febrile neutropenia according to CTCAE v4.0.

This study will also investigate the number of participants with nausea, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, peirpheral neuropathy, and skin rash that are related pralatrexate treatment according to CTCAE v4.0., This is a restrospective study. Data collection and analysis will be done for 6 months.|Tolerability, This study will investigate the dose intensity of pralatrexate based in information from patient medical records., This is a restrospective study. Data collection and analysis will be done for 6 months.
All patients who satisfy the inclusion criteria for this study in each participating institution will be included. Considering the number of participating centers in Korea, Latin America (Mexico, Colombia), and Europe (Switzerland, Israel), the expected number of patients is 50.

This research involves only the collection and analysis of existing data, documents, and records. The information will be recorded by the investigators on a CRF in a way that the subjects cannot be identified directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects. Thus, this study should be reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review Board of each participating institute, and exemption from additional written informed consent should be applied.

1. Age, sex, nationality, ethnicity
2. Ann Arbor stage, disease involved sites, number of extranodal involvement, serum LDH concentration, ECOG performance status, presence of B symptoms, regional lymph node involvement, International Prognostic Index, bone marrow invasion at the time of pralatrexate treatment
3. Dose and schedule of pralatrexate, start date, last treatment date, other treatment modalities