Molecular Testing for the MD Anderson Cancer Center Personalized Cancer Therapy Program
This study performs standardized testing of tumor tissue samples to learn which genes are mutated (have changed) in order to provide personalized cancer therapy options to cancer patients at MD Anderson. This may help doctors use testing information on tumors to identify clinical trials that may be most relevant to patients. Researchers may also use the information learned from this study to develop a database of the different kinds of mutations in cancer-related genes.
Glioma|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Melanoma|Sarcoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Genetic Testing|OTHER: Medical Chart Review
Frequency of mutations and co-mutations, Will be assessed with descriptive statistics along with 95% Wilson score confidence intervals., 20 years|Distributions of mutations (including on gene expressions), Distributions of mutations (including on gene expressions) between different tumor types and levels of clinical-pathological factors will be compared using the chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate for categorical variables, 20 years|Database of somatic mutations and clinical characteristics, Collection and storage of tumor tissue specimens, blood and/or saliva samples of patients with cancer for somatic mutation analysis for assessing patients that may be eligible for new targeted therapy trials., 20 years
Circulating cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) analysis, cfDNA analysis will be performed as an exploratory study to determine the concordance of specific alterations in the plasma and in tumor analysis, and to determine the change in cfDNA burden and mutation profile with treatment., 20 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform standardized molecular analysis for patients at MD Anderson to assist in personalized cancer therapy.

II. To determine the frequency of mutations and co-mutations and other alterations in cancer-related genes in different tumor types.

III. To establish a database of somatic mutations, copy number alterations, gene fusion/translocation information and other biomarker alterations and clinical characteristics that can be used to select patients that may be eligible for new targeted therapy trials.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine enrollment to pathway-targeted therapy trials by cancer genotype and ribonucleic acid (RNA) and protein expression, and plan additional pathway-targeted therapy trials.

II. To determine how somatic and germline mutations in cancer-related genes, other molecular alterations affect response to commonly used anti-tumor therapies and cancer outcomes.

III. To determine genomic alterations and other biomarkers detectable in plasma, exosomes or blood and their predictive value and evolution with treatment IV. To perform multiplex and non-multiplex protein and protein/RNA screening using different platforms such as immunohistochemistry (IHC), immunofluorescence, (IF) mass spectrometry (MS), and nanostring of slides or tissue microarrays.

V. To determine feasibility of identifying actionable targets and rationale drug combinations based on gene expression profiling and systems biology.

VI. To determine feasibility of identifying novel antigens and other targets for novel strategies such as vaccines, immunotherapy and cell surface therapy

OUTLINE:

Patients' previously collected tissue samples are analyzed. Patients may also undergo collection of blood, saliva or buccal samples for analysis. Patients' medical records are reviewed.