Study of Lenalidomide, Venetoclax and Obinutuzumab in Patients With Treatment-Naïve Follicular Lymphoma
The trial will investigate the combination of venetoclax, obinutuzumab and lenalidomide in patients with treatment-naïve follicular lymphoma. Patients will receive induction treatment for 0.5 years with venetoclax, obinutuzumab and lenalidomide followed by maintenance treatment for upto 2 years. Maintenance treatment will be determined by the response at the end of induction. Following completion of treatment patients will be followed up for 3 years after the last patient completes induction treatment.
Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Obinutuzumab|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Dose limiting toxicities (DLT), A toxicity that prevents further administration of the trial treatment at that dose level., During the first 2 cycles of induction during dose escalation which is expected to be completed in 1.5 years.|Recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of venetoclax in combination with lenalidomide and obinutuzumab, The highest dose level at which the incidence of DLT was less than 2/6, During dose escalation (1.5 years)|Complete response (CR) at the end of induction, Investigator assessed CR rate by PET-CT after induction (end of cycle 6) by 2014 Lugano criteria, 3.5 years from first patient commencing treatment|Adverse events (AEs) of venetoclax, lenalidomide and obinutuzumab, Type, grade and relationship to treatment of AEs, assessed according to Common Terminology of Coding of Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0., From signing consent until after completion of study treatment (6.75 years)|Rate of treatment-emergent AEs that require discontinuation or dose modification of study drug, Type and grade of treatment-emergent AEs, assessed according to CTCAE v5.0, requiring discontinuation of study drug or dose reductions or interruptions, From signing consent until after completion of study treatment (6.75 years)|Overall response rate (ORR), Investigator assessed ORR (complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)) by PET-CT assessed by 2014 Lugano criteria after 6 cycles of induction treatment (0.5 years), 3.5 years from first patient commencing treatment|CR at 2.5 years from commencement of induction treatment, CR based on 2014 Lugano criteria, 5.5 years from first patient commencing treatment|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time from enrolment date to the first date of objectively documented progressive disease (PD) or date of death from any cause. Patients without documented progressive disease and who have not died by the end of the study will be censored at the date of last disease assessment., From commencement of treatment to end of study (6.75 years)|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be measured in the subset of patients who achieved CR or PR and it is defined as the time from the first documented disease response to the earliest recurrence or progressive disease. Deceased patients without recurrence or progressive disease will be censored at the date of death., From commencement of treatment to end of study (6.75 years)|Time to next anti-lymphoma treatment (TTNT), TTNT will be measured from enrolment date to date of initiation of next anti-cancer therapy (for follicular lymphoma) or date of death from any cause. Patients who do not start next anti-cancer therapy by the end of the study will be censored at the date of last contact., From commencement of treatment to end of study (6.75 years)|Overall survival (OS), OS will be measured from enrolment date to the date of death from any cause. Patients who have not died by the study close-out date will be censored at their last visit date. Patients who are lost to follow-up before the close-out date and who are not known to have died will be censored at the date they were last known to be alive., From commencement of treatment to end of study (6.75 years)|Quality of life (QoL), QoL will be measured using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lymphoma (FACT-Lym).

The FACT-Lym is a disease-specific 42-item questionnaire that has been validated for the purpose of assessing health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients with various forms of lymphoma.The FACT-Lym consists of FACT-G subscales: Physical Well-Being (7 items), Social/Family Well-Being (7 items), Emotional Well-Being (6 items), Functional Well-Being (7 items), and the Lymphoma subscale: Additional Concerns (15 items). FACT-Lym questions are scored on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 to 4 (0 being not at all and 4 being very much)., From commencement of treatment to end of treatment (5.5 years)
This is a phase Ib/II (dose escalation/dose expansion), single-arm multi-centre clinical trial of venetoclax plus obinutuzumab and lenalinomide in patients with treatment-naïve follicular lymphoma. The trial involves an initial dose escalation phase followed by an expansion phase. Patients in both the dose escalation and expansion phases will receive 6 cycles of induction treatment. After patients finish induction treatment, they will undergo PET-CT scan, the results of which will determine further therapy. Patients in CR or SD/PR from the PET-CT scan result will receive up to 2 years of maintenance therapy. Patients in PD from the PET-CT result will not receive any further study treatment. All patients will be followed up for 3 years after the last patient has completed induction treatment.