2-Step Approach to Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Participants With Hematological Malignancies
This phase II trial studies how well a 2-step approach to stem cell transplant works in treating patients with blood cancers. Giving chemotherapy and total body irradiation before a lymphocyte (white blood cell) and stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cells in the bone marrow including normal blood-forming cells (stem cells) and cancer cells. By giving the donor cells in two steps, the dose of lymphocytes given can be tightly controlled and they can be made more tolerant to the body. When the healthy lymphocytes and stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient, they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can make an immune response against the body's normal cells called graft versus host disease. Giving tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil may stop this from happening.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm
RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation|PROCEDURE: Donor Lymphocyte Infusion|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil
Donor T cell chimerism, For chimerism rates, the method of Atkinson and Brown will be used to allow for the two-stage design. Will be presented with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., At day +28
Donor T cell chimerism, Will be presented with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. For chimerism rates, the method of Atkinson and Brown will be used to allow for the two-stage design., At day +90|Relapse rate, Will be presented with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., At 1 year post-hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT)|Incidence of grades II-IV graft versus host disease (GVHD), Will be presented with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., Within 1 year of HSCT|Rate of treatment-related mortality (TRM), Will be presented with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., At 1 year post-HSCT
Rate of cytomegalovirus, Rate of cytomegalovirus, Up to 100 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether providing a patient with "5+5" dosing in a 2 step matched related donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) increases the percentage of patients who achieve full donor chimerism earlier as defined by 98% or greater donor T cell chimerism at 28 days post HSCT (d+28).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess day (d) +90 chimerism in patients receiving "5+5" dosing. II. To assess post HSCT relapse rates in patients receiving "5+5" dosing. III. To assess rates of grade II-IV graft versus host disease (GVHD) in patients receiving "5+5" dosing.

IV. To assess treatment-related mortality (TRM) in patients receiving "5+5" dosing.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether patients receiving "5+5" dosing have lower rates of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation as compared to patients treated on Thomas Jefferson University (TJU) 08D.85 (1st Generation 2-Step Matched Related Trial).

OUTLINE:

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients undergo total body irradiation (TBI) twice daily (BID) on days -9 to -6.

TRANSPLANT: Patients receive donor lymphocytes intravenously (IV) on day -6 after the last dose of TBI.

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo hematopoietic stem cell transplantation on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus IV beginning on day -1 with taper beginning on day 42 in the absence of GVHD, a suspicion of GVHD, or previous history of GVHD requiring a taper delay. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV BID beginning on day -1 through day 28 in the absence of GVHD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 28, 90, 180, 270, and 365.