A Phase 2 Trial of High-dose Ascorbate for Pancreatic Cancer (PACMAN 2.1)
This clinical trial adds high-dose ascorbate (vitamin C) to the standard of care regimen for metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma (a type of pancreatic cancer). Subjects are randomized between a control group (standard treatment) and an intervention group (pharmacologic ascorbate in addition to the standard treatment).
Pancreatic Neoplasms|Cancer of Pancreas|Cancer of the Pancreas|Neoplasms, Pancreatic|Pancreas Cancer|Pancreas Neoplasms|Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Pharmacological ascorbate
Overall survival, Time, measured in months, from the start of chemotherapy (C1D1) to death from any cause., Every 2 months for up to 20 years post-treatment
Tumor Response, Determine the objective response rate of the disease, assessed every 2 months using CT or MRI, and evaluated/defined using the RECIST criteria (v1.1). Results are provided in nominal categories (CR, PR, SD, PD) as per RECIST., Every 2 months for up to 10 years|Progression free survival, Time, measured in days, it takes disease to progress, where disease progression is defined by the RECIST criteria (v1.1). Timeframe is from radiation day 1 to date of disease progression., Every 2 months for up to 10 years|Adverse event frequency and categorization, Categorize and quantify adverse events using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4). Assessments will be monthly through 30 days past the end of therapy., Monthly through 30 days after end of treatment.
One of the standard treatments for metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma is nab-paclitaxel with gemcitabine. This standard therapy administers chemotherapy once per week for three weeks; patients then get a 'rest week' to complete the cycle (1 cycle = 4 weeks).

This study adds 75 grams of ascorbate (vitamin C, sometimes called pharamcological ascorbate because the dose is so high) to standard therapy. The ascorbate is administered intravenously - through a vein in the arm.

Participants in the control group will:

* receive gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel chemotherapy, which is standard for their cancer.
* undergo imaging which is standard for their cancer and therapy. This can include CT scans, PET scans, and X-rays

Participants in the intervention group will:

* receive 75 grams of ascorbate 3 times per calendar week for each week of the chemotherapy cycle.
* undergo imaging which is standard for their cancer and therapy. This can include CT scans, PET scans, and X-rays
* provide blood samples to determine the biological effects, if any, the ascorbate has on the body during therapy.

This active therapy portion lasts until the disease progresses and a new treatment needs to be adopted - this can be months to years. If disease progresses, participants go back to standard follow-up for their caner and the new/additional therapy their doctors prescribe.

However, it is very important we remain in contact with participants; they will have life-long follow-up for this study.