Effects of Fasting Strategies on Postoperative Recovery and Long-term Prognosis in Patients With Colorectal Cancer
In 2018, colorectal cancer is the third most common malignant tumor in terms of morbidity and second mortality in the world. Surgical resection is still the main treatment for colorectal cancer.With the introduction of the ERAS, the latest international and domestic guidelines for fasting before surgery all advocate shortening the fasting time. For example, 2 hours before surgery, oral take cleared fluids, including water, sugar water, fruit juice, tea and black coffee (without milk) is allowed.Solid food can be consumed 4 hours before surgery, and oral diet should be resumed as soon as possible after surgery. Changes in diet, nutritional status, and physical activity are closely related to the incidence of colorectal cancer. Therefore, we believe that the intestine may be very sensitive to different fasting times during the perioperative period. Prolonging the fasting time may improve the prognosis by improving postoperative insulin resistance, reducing inflammation and protecting anti-tumor immune function in patients with colorectal cancer.Prolonged fasting time seems to be contrary to the results of some studies, and whether it is applicable to patients with tumor surgery is unclear. Therefore, there is an urgent need to conduct large-scale, prospective, randomized controlled clinical studies to clarify the most suitable perioperative fasting strategy (including composition, interval, and amount) for cancer patients, which can not only reduce surgical stress and speed up postoperative rehabilitation,reduce postoperative metastasis and recurrence and improve mid- and long-term prognosis.
Fasting|Immune Suppression|Complication of Surgical Procedure|Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Fasting hours
Disease-free Survival, Defined and calculated as the time from the date of surgery to the first time of colon cancer recurrence or metastasis or cancer-related death, During 2 years after surgery
Overall Survival, Defined and calculated as the time from the date of surgery to the first time of Colon cancer recurrence or metastasis or cancer-related death, During 2 years after surgery|Postoperative pain score and side effects of patient-controlled analgesia, Assessed with visual analogue score ( 0 is no pain and 10 is the most severe pain), During the first 48 hours after surgery|Incidence of delirium, Assessed for delirium using the 3D-CAM instrument, During the first 1 week after surgery|Length of stay in hospital after surgery and total costs after surgery, Length of stay in hospital after surgery and total costs after surgery, During the first 30 days after surgery|Return of bowel function, Measured by the time of first flatus, During the first 30 days after surgery|Neutrophil to Lymphocyte Ratio，LMR,SII, Neutrophil to Lymphocyte Ratio,Lymphocyte to Monocyte ratio,Symstem Imflammatory Index, During the first24、48 and 72 hours after surgery|Serum CA19-9 、CA125、CEA、CA72-4、CA242、AFP、CA15-3、CA50 levels, Tumor Biomaker Level, During 2 years after surgery|Recovery Parameter, Q40 scale score, During the first24、48 and 72 hours after surgery|T Lymphocyte cell count, T lymphocyte cell count before fasting and after fasting, During the first24、48 and 72 hours after surgery|T Lymphocyte cell DNA damage, T lymphocyte cell count before fasting and after fasting, During the first24、48 and 72 hours after surgery|IL-1β，IL-2,IL-4,IL-5,IL-6,IL-8,IL-10,IL-17A,IL-17F,TNF-α，TNF-β，, Inflammatory factor level, During the first24、48 and 72 hours after surgery
As early as a century ago, Investigators proved that diet restriction can prevent the occurrence of transplanted tumors in mice. Following this milestone, many animal studies (from mice to primates) have confirmed that diet restriction can slow the development of spontaneous tumors and transplanted tumors. A study of macaque monkeys for more than 20 years revealed that restricting diet by 30% can reduce the incidence of tumors by 50%, which makes people see the potential value of restricting diet to humans. However, whether diet restriction can also reduce the incidence of human tumors is not entirely clear. The growth of tumor cells requires a nutrient-rich environment, and the lack of glucose and amino acids caused by diet restrictions is very detrimental to tumor cells. Unlike normal cells, tumor cells mainly rely on glycolysis (Warburg effect) rather than energy and biosynthetic precursors provided by oxidative phosphorylation for proliferation. These characteristics make tumor cells extremely sensitive to changes in the surrounding environment, which is called differential stress sensitization (DSS).Investigators found that the use of low sugar and low serum in a cell model to simulate periodic fasting can enhance the sensitivity of human or animal tumor cells to doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, and also found that they were transplanted subcutaneously in mice Melanoma or breast cancer, diet combined with chemotherapy is better than chemotherapy alone; in the mouse metastatic neuroblastoma model, fasting before high-dose chemotherapy can successfully reduce the toxic side effects of chemotherapy drugs and reduce metastasis and prolong the tumor-free survival. Surgery and stress are twin brothers. Surgical resection, blood flow blockage, ischemia-reperfusion injury, tissue damage, local inflammatory factor release, and changes in systemic neuroendocrine and metabolism all affect blood flow, blood coagulation, and immune function. Investgators found restricted diet can reduce the inflammatory response after myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury in mice. Many animal experiments have confirmed that perioperative fasting can effectively protect the liver, kidneys, and brain from organ damage. The specific mechanism may be related to fasting increasing antioxidant enzyme activity, reducing insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and activating the autophagy pathway. Similar to chemotherapy, there is currently no randomized clinical controlled study to evaluate the impact of individualized perioperative dietary regimens (such as restricted diet) on the prognosis of tumor surgery.

In 2018, colorectal cancer is the third most common malignant tumor in terms of morbidity and second mortality in the world. Surgical resection is still the main treatment for colorectal cancer.With the introduction of the ERAS, the latest international and domestic guidelines for fasting before surgery all advocate shortening the fasting time. For example, 2 hours before surgery, oral take cleared fluids, including water, sugar water, fruit juice, tea and black coffee (without milk) is allowed.Solid food can be consumed 6 hours before surgery, and oral diet should be resumed as soon as possible after surgery. Changes in diet, nutritional status, and physical activity are closely related to the incidence of colorectal cancer. Therefore, we believe that the intestine may be very sensitive to different fasting times during the perioperative period. Prolonging the fasting time may improve the prognosis by improving postoperative insulin resistance, reducing inflammation and protecting anti-tumor immune function in patients with colorectal cancer.Prolonged fasting time seems to be contrary to the results of some studies, and whether it is applicable to patients with tumor surgery is unclear. Therefore, there is an urgent need to conduct large-scale, prospective, randomized controlled clinical studies to clarify the most suitable perioperative fasting strategy (including composition, interval, and amount) for cancer patients, which can not only reduce surgical stress and speed up postoperative rehabilitation,reduce postoperative metastasis and recurrence and improve mid- and long-term prognosis.