Gefitinib in Combination With Anlotinib or Placebo in Previously Untreated EGFR-mutant NSCLC
Gefitinib is currently the standard-of-care for patients with activating-EGFR mutant advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, \~30-40% patients are still nonresponsive, and experience significantly varying duration of response and survival rate. Anlotinib is an efficient multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that effectively block the migration and proliferation of endothelial cells and reduce tumor microvascular density by targeting VEGFRs, FGFRs, PDGFRs. It has been proved to be safe and effective in advanced lung cancer after second-line standard chemotherapy failure, which can significantly extend the survival of patients and approves as a third-line treatment for advanced NSCLC. Here, we prepared to evaluate whether the combination of gefitinb and anlotinib can preferably improved survival of untreated NSCLC with EGFR activating mutation.
Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell
DRUG: Gefitinib|DRUG: Anlotinib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Placebo
Progress-free survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 (v1.1), Approximately 2 Years
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Approximately 5 Years|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (Partial Response [PR] Plus Complete Response [CR]), as Assessed Using RECIST v.1.1, PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels (as applicable to non-target lesions)., Approximately 2 Years|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit, as Assessed According to RECIST v1.1, Clinical benefit was defined as objective response (PR+CR), or no disease progression lasting for more than or equal to (\>/=) 24 weeks since randomization. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels (as applicable to non-target lesions). Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. For non-target lesions, disease progression was defined as unequivocal progression of existing lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression., Approximately 2 Years|Duration of Objective Response, as Assessed by Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, Duration of objective response: the time from the first tumor assessment that supported the participant's objective response (CR or PR, whichever was first recorded) to first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels (as applicable to non-target lesions). PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Disease progression: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. For non-target lesions, disease progression was defined as unequivocal progression of existing lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression., Approximately 2 Years
Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 consists of 30 questions that comprise aspects of participant's functioning assessment (physical, emotional, role, cognitive, and social); symptom scales (fatigue; nausea, vomiting, and pain; the global health/quality of life \[QoL\]); and single items (dyspnoea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhoea, and financial difficulties), within a recall period of "the past week." Most questions used a 4-point scale (1=Not at all to 4=Very much; two questions used a 7-point scale (1=Very poor to 7=Excellent). Scores were averaged and transformed to a 0-100 scale; a higher score for Global Qol/functional scales=better level of functioning; a higher score for symptom scale=greater degree of symptoms., Approximately 2 Years
Gefitinib is currently the standard-of-care for patients with activating-EGFR mutant advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, \~30-40% patients are still nonresponsive, and experience significantly varying duration of response and survival rate. Anlotinib is an efficient multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that effectively block the migration and proliferation of endothelial cells and reduce tumor microvascular density by targeting VEGFRs, FGFRs, PDGFRs. It has been proved to be safe and effective in advanced lung cancer after second-line standard chemotherapy failure, which can significantly extend the survival of patients and approves as a third-line treatment for advanced NSCLC. Here, we prepared to evaluate whether the combination of gefitinb and anlotinib can preferably improved survival of untreated NSCLC with EGFR activating mutation.