Comparison of Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation With Bone Marrow Transplantation for the Treatment of Serious Hematological Malignancies
This study will compare the outcomes of study participants who have had peripheral blood stem cell transplantation or with those who have had bone marrow transplantation from an unrelated donor for the treatment of serious hematological malignancies.
Blood Stem Cell Transplant
PROCEDURE: Blood stem cell versus bone marrow transplant
Two-year survival, The primary objective is to compare two-year survival probabilities between patients in the two study arms using an intent-to-treat analysis, 2 years
Two-year survival, Transplanted patients randomized to the two study arms will be compared for the following endpoints: survival, incidences of neutrophil and platelet engraftment, graft failure, acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), chronic GVHD, time off all immunosuppressive therapy, relapse, infections, adverse events, immune reconstitution, and quality of life. Donors in each arm of the study will be compared for time to return to baseline toxicity score, CBC and WBC differential values after donation and quality of life., 2 Years|Neutrophil Engraftment > 500/mcl, 2 Years|Primary graft failure, 2 years|Platelet engraftment > 20,000 and 50,000/mcl transfusion independent, 2 years|Acute GVHD of grades II-IV and III-IV, 2 Years
This study is a randomized, open-label, multicenter, prospective, comparative trial of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilized peripheral blood stem cells verses marrow from unrelated donors for transplantation in patients with hematologic malignancies. The study will be comparing two-year survival probabilities between process has many steps after a matched donor is found. The donor also needs to give permission to join this study. Participants will be randomized to either peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) or bone marrow. The kind of transplant the participant receives is random. Neither the participant nor the doctor may choose the type of transplant.

Participants will receive vaccinations for diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis B and pneumococcus. Blood samples will be drawn as part of a participant's normal care. Blood samples will also be collected to see if infection fighting cells are working. These samples will be collected at 12 weeks, one year and then yearly until three years post transplant. Information will be collected from the participant's medical history. Participants will also have phone interviews conducted and questions will be asked about their physical and emotional health. Participants taking part in this study may be followed for up to 5 years.