GOT Applied As Neoadjuvant Regimen for Patients of Resectable ICC with High-risk Factors of Recurrence
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) arises from the epithelial cells of bile ducts and occurs proximal to the segmental biliary ducts. ICC is highly aggressive, long-term survival only can be achieved in patients with R0 surgical resection. Large diameter of tumor, multiple tumors, preoperative carbohydrate antigen(CA)19-9 elevated, tumors invaded adjacent blood vessels and preoperative radiology hints suspected regional lymph node metastasis were considered as high-risk factors of recurrence in the previous study. Chemotherapy can trigger antigen release and induces strong anti-tumor effects of T cells due to cytotoxic cell death. Immune checkpoint inhibitors can relieve tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment. Hence, we aim to investigate objective response rate and R0 resection rate and survival rate of patients with high-risk factors of recurrence who receives Tislelizumab combined with GEMOX regimen(GOT) as a neoadjuvant therapy.
Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Tislelizumab combined with GEMOX (GOT) regimen
Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of patients who achieved complete response (CR) and partial response(PR) after GOT regimen neoadjuvant treatment according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1., Up to 6 cycle treatment (each cycle is 21 days), an average of 18 weeks.|R0 resection rate, The proportion of patients who achieved pathological negative surgical margin after GOT regimen neoadjuvant treatment., Up to pathological report come out, an average of 20 weeks.
Disease control rate (DCR), The proportion of patients who achieved complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD) after GOT regimen neoadjuvant treatment according to RECIST v1.1., Up to 6 cycle treatment (each cycle is 21 days), an average of 18 weeks.|Recurrence free survival, The time between the date of patients underwent radical resection and the date of radiographic recurrence as defined by RECIST1.1., From date when patients are received radical resection until the date of first documented recurrence radiologically, assessed at least 12 months.|Overall survival, The time between the date of patients underwent radical resection and death from any cause., From date when patients are received radical resection until the date of death from any cause, assessed at least 12 months.
Time to response (TTR), The time between the date of patients received first treatment and the date of first documented complete or partial response., From date of received first treatment to first achieved complete or partial response, up to 18 weeks.|Time to operation (TTO), The time between the date of patients received first treatment and the date of patients received operation., From date of received first treatment to date of surgery, an average of 20 weeks.
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) arises from the epithelial cells of bile ducts and occurs proximal to the segmental biliary ducts. ICC is highly aggressive, long-term survival only can be achieved in patients with R0 surgical resection. Large diameter of tumor, multiple tumors, preoperative carbohydrate antigen(CA)19-9 elevated, tumors invaded adjacent blood vessels and preoperative radiology hints suspected regional lymph node metastasis were considered as high-risk factors of recurrence in the previous study. Chemotherapy can trigger antigen release and induces strong anti-tumor effects of T cells due to cytotoxic cell death. Immune checkpoint inhibitors can relieve tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment. Hence, we aim to investigate objective response rate and R0 resection rate and survival rate of patients with high-risk factors of recurrence who receives Tislelizumab combined with GEMOX regimen(GOT) as a neoadjuvant therapy.