The Use of "Smart" Body-Weight Scales for Weight and Nutritional Monitoring in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer Undergoing Radiation Therapy
This clinical trial studies the use of "smart" body-weight scales to monitor weight and nutrition among patients with head and neck cancer undergoing radiation therapy. Malnutrition affects 30-50% of patients diagnosed with head and neck cancer, and approximately 30% of patients have malnutrition prior to diagnosis. "Smart" body weight scales can possibly make self-weighing easier, faster, and more accurate through weight recordings through mobile applications available for "smart" scales. This has the potential to maximize nutritional guidance through quick weight updates, possibly delaying or removing the use of patient enteral feeding (tube feeding). By avoiding or minimizing the use of enteral feeding during radiation therapy, the risk of long-term tube dependence and swallowing ability complications may be reduced.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Malignant Head and Neck Neoplasm
OTHER: Medical Device Qardio® smart scale Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Adherence to treatment, Will include continuous variables (number of times participant stepped on the scale). Standard statistical methods will be utilized to analyze cohort data, while also accounting for missing unused, or spurious data., Up to 8 weeks
MD Anderson Symptom Inventory for Head and Neck Cancer (MDASI-HN) questionnaire scores, The MDASI-HN has 13 core symptoms that is scored, at their worst over the last 24 hours, on a 0-10 numeric rating scale. A "0" means that a symptom is not present and a "10" is "as bad as you can imagine." Standard statistical methods will be utilized to analyze cohort data, while also accounting for missing unused, or spurious data., Baseline up to 3 months post-radiation therapy|Overall pain scores, Pain scores will be on a numeric rating scale, with lower numbers indicating lower pain values. Standard statistical methods will be utilized to analyze cohort data, while also accounting for missing unused, or spurious data., Up to 3 months post-radiation therapy|Weight loss percentage, Standard statistical methods will be utilized to analyze cohort data, while also accounting for missing unused, or spurious data., Up to 3 months post-radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the feasibility of "smart" body scales in patients undergoing radiation therapy for head and neck cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. MD Anderson Symptom Inventory for Head and Neck Cancer (MDASI-HN) questionnaire, overall pain scores, and weight loss percentage.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients weigh themselves daily using the "Smart" scale over 5-8 weeks during standard radiation therapy.

COHORT II: Patients do not weigh themselves using the "Smart" scale during standard radiation therapy.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up within 2 weeks and 3 months post-radiation therapy.