Assessment of Novel MRI Quantification Free Breathing Technique in Evaluation of Liver Lesions
The primary objective of this study is to develop and validate simultaneous free-breathing 4D fat and water quantification and quantitative dynamic contrast enhanced perfusion in the liver. Secondary aims include developing and validating free breathing quantification of relaxation parameters T1 and T2, and developing and validating a minimal breath-hold (\< 8 s) high quality diffusion exam using highly accelerated steady state diffusion imaging sequences. Investigators aim to scan 100 subjects receiving liver biopsies as a part of their standard care and another 70 subjects with known benign lesions. The study is greater than minimal risk.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: liver biopsy|DEVICE: free-breathing MRI
Arterial Fraction, Dynamic Contrast Enhanced MRI data were used to calculate three quantitative perfusion properties using a dual input, single tissue compartment model of gadolinium based contrast agents in the liver in HCC, metastatic, and benign lesions.

One of these quantitative perfusion properties is Mean Arterial fraction, which is the proportion of blood flow derived from hepatic artery., 1 day, At time of Research MRI|Distribution Volume (DV), Dynamic Contrast Enhanced MRI data were used to calculate three quantitative perfusion properties using a dual input, single tissue compartment model of gadolinium based contrast agents in the liver in HCC, metastatic, and benign lesions.

One of these quantitative perfusion properties is DV. DV corresponds to the volume of extracellular, extravascular space in a tissue which is a measure of the tissue cellularity, 1 day, At time of Research MRI|Mean Transit Time (MTT), Dynamic Contrast Enhanced MRI data were used to calculate three quantitative perfusion properties using a dual input, single tissue compartment model of gadolinium based contrast agents in the liver in HCC, metastatic, and benign lesions.

One of these quantitative perfusion properties is MTT. MTT corresponds to the average time, in seconds, that red blood cells spend within a determinate volume of capillary circulation, 1 day, At time of Research MRI
Free Breathing Quantification of Relaxation Parameters, Quantified and validated relaxation parameters when creating T1 (spin-lattice) and T2 (spin-spin) weighted images, Up to 1 year|Minimal Breathhold Time, The minimum time (in seconds) a patient must hold their breath to produce quality liver images during an MRI. Developing and validating a minimal breath-hold (\< 8 s) high quality diffusion exam using highly accelerated steady state diffusion imaging sequences., 1 year
The investigators hypothesize that a quantitative and near free-breathing MRI approach with Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients will lead to improved tissue characterization, resulting in fewer ambiguous readings and thus fewer biopsies. As each component of the proposed methodology has been experimentally validated in the investigators preliminary work, the next appropriate step would be to evaluate the clinical feasibility of the exam. The investigators goal is to test the ability of quantitative MRI techniques to provide high quality images of the liver and to differentiate liver lesions from one another in a time frame shorter than a current clinical exam.