Neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI Versus Immediate Surgery for Stage II and III Colon Cancers
BACKGROUND:

In patients with high risk stage II and stage III colon cancer (CC), curative surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX or CAPOX regimens has become a standard treatment. However, 20 to 30 % of these patients will develop distant metastasis, which ultimately result in death. Perioperative chemotherapy is a promising strategy with potential benefits that could be more effective at eradicating micrometastases. Moreover, shrinking tumor before surgery not only facilitate removal of all the tumor by the surgeon but also reduce tumor cell spreading during the procedure. With recent advances in radiology, preoperative computed tomography allows a good prediction of tumor stage (wall penetration and nodal involvement) prior to surgery. The investigators conducted the present randomized study to explore whether perioperative chemotherapy with FOLFOXIRI regimen compared with postoperative chemotherapy could improve disease-free survival in patients with radiologically staged, High-risk, but resectable Stage II or III colon cancer.

OBJECTIVE:

The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of perioperative chemotherapy with FOLFOXIRI regimen compared to postoperative chemotherapy in patients with High-risk Resectable Stage II and III colon cancer. Secondary objectives are efficacy in terms of R0 resection rate, overall survival (OS), relapse-free survival (RFS), down-staging of primary tumors, and tolerability of perioperative therapy and postoperative complications.
Colon Cancer Stage II|Colon Cancer Stage III
DRUG: neoadjuvant chemotherapyI|PROCEDURE: Colectomy|DRUG: adjuvant chemotherapy
Disease-free survival, Defined as the time from randomization to relapse or death, whichever occurred first, 2 years
Overall survival, Defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, 5 years|Down-staging of primary tumors, Down-staging of the resected tumour as measured by histopathological tumour diameter and stage according to the TNM staging system of AJCC (7th version), 1 year|Chemotherapy toxicity, The grade of toxicity will be assessed using the NCI common toxicity criteria, version 4.0, through chemotherapy administration, up to 6 months|R0 resection rate, Quality of resection specimen, after surgery completed, up to 1 month|Surgical morbidity, Complication after surgery, 30 days post surgery|CT staging, the accuracy of CT staging, from randomization to surgery completed, up to 6 months|CT assessment of response to neoadjuvant treatment, CT evaluation of the thickness of tumor walls or tumor diameter or tumor length. Efficacy evaluation will be assessed using the RECIST criteria, version 1.1., up to 6 months
This trial is a a two-arm, multicenter, open labelled, prospective, randomized phase III studies. Eligible patients with High-risk Resectable Stage II and III (T4 or T3 with extramural depth≧5 mm) colon cancer patients will be randomly assigned, in a 2:1 ratio, to receive either perioperative or postoperative chemotherapy.