Maintenance Treatment With Liposomal Doxorubicin (Caelyx) in Metastatic Breast Cancer Patients
This is a randomized, prospective and multicenter phase IV clinical trial, which has been designed as a phase III study. One hundred fifty-four women (77 per treatment arm) will be recruited in the study.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin
Time to progression (TTP), Tumor assessments will be performed until disease progression in order to evaluate the TTP. TTP is defined as the time from the date of the first dose to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease. For patients not known to have objectively-determined progressive disease, TTP will be censored at the date of the last objective progression-free assessment. For patients who receive subsequent systemic anticancer therapy (after discontinuation from the study treatment) prior to objective disease progression, TTP will be censored at the date of last objective progression-free assessment prior to the initiation of postdiscontinuation systemic anticancer therapy., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
The main variable is time to disease progression. All patients must be treated with first line of induction chemotherapy, consisting of doxorubicin 75 mg/m2, day 1 every 3 weeks, and docetaxel, 100 mg/m2, day 1 every 3 weeks. Both drugs must be administered sequentially. Patients previously treated with anthracyclines must receive 2 courses of doxorubicin and 4 courses of docetaxel. Otherwise, patients will receive 3 courses of doxorubicin followed by 3 courses of docetaxel.

Patients with complete response, partial response or stable disease are eligible for 2001-01 study.

The investigators assume that maintenance treatment with Caelyx will increase mean time to progression from 10, 46 months (observation) to 17, 43 months. Expected difference in mean time to progression is 6, 97 months (Hazard ratio = 0.6). With an alpha error of 0.01 (unilateral) and power of 80%, 77 patients per arm are needed, 154 patients in total.