EFFECT of KINESIO TAPING and LASER THERAPY in PATIENT with LYMPHEDEMA on GIRTH MEASUREMENT
find out the difference in the effect of kinesio taping and low level laser therapy on 66 patients with post mastectomy lymphedema as regards the following outcomes:

1.girth measurement between the upper limbs 2.) SPADI 3) hand grip strength 4)the quality of life by cancer specific questionnaire.
Lymphedema|Breast Cancer Stage II
DEVICE: Low Level Laser Therapy|OTHER: kinesio taping
girth measurment, Measurement of arm circumference is the most commonly used technique for identifying lymphedema and is reliable for both surgical and nonsurgical upper limbs It is measured using a tape with the patient in prone lying position, with elbows straight and arms relaxed at the sides. It was measured starting with 3 cm on the ulnar styloid process and proceeding with 45 cm proximal, and additionally at the metacarpal bones and mid-hand. The tape measure was put around the limb to prevent it from slacking and to ensure that there was no space in the tissue. The total circumference of the sound limb was ascertained similarly. The difference between the 2 measurements was identified using "circumference difference.", 4 weeks|handgrip strength, evaluated using a dynamometer ,The grip strength was measured with the patient in a standing position with adducted shoulder, elbow flexed at 90°, and forearm in mid position. The patient was instructed to do 3 trials with 15 seconds rest in between each, and the highest reading was reported, 4 weeks
shoulder pain and disability index, was used to assess shoulder pain and disability. It incorporates 13 items assessing 2 domains: 5 items assess pain and 8 items evaluate disability., 4 weeks|quality of life questionnaire, was assessed by cancer-specific questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). It is composed of 30 questions, including functional scores (physical, social, emotional, and cognitive aspects). The functional scores ranged between 0 and 100, and higher scores indicated better condition. This questionnaire also included symptoms score (pain, dyspnea, fatigue, insomnia, nausea, loss of appetite, and financial problems). The symptom scores ranged from 100 to 0, and lower scores indicated better condition, 4 weeks
60 females with BCRL will be recruited in this study for 4 weeks , their age ranged from 400 to 55 years old with stege 1,2 lymphedema and randomly divided into 3 equal groups: 2) study group (A) include 20 females with unilateral BCRL will receive kinesio taping plus manual lymphatic drainage , exercise and advices 3) study group (B) include 20 females with unilateral BCRL will receive low level laser therapy plus manual lymphatic drainage , exercise and advices 4) study group (C) include 20 females with unilateral BCRL will receive kinesio taping plus low level laser therapy and manual lymphatic drainage , exercise and advices regards the following outcomes:

1.girth measurement between the upper limbs 2.) SPADI 3) hand grip strength 4)the quality of life by cancer specific questionnaire.