Neoadjuvant Dupilumab and Cemiplimab in Patients With Early-stage Resectable NSCLC
This is a phase 1/2 study of combined treatment with dupilumab (anti-IL-4Ra) and cemiplimab (anti-PD-1) in patients with early-stage, resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The study will include participants with a confirmed diagnosis of NSCLC who are deemed to be surgical candidates, or patients who have a smoking history and radiographic findings highly suggestive if a diagnosis of NSCLC who are scheduled to undergo diagnostic biopsy. On Day 1, participants will receive neoadjuvant therapy consisting of 600 mg of dupilumab (2 SC injections of 300 mg) and 350 mg of IV cemiplimab. Participants will undergo standard of care surgery, which will be scheduled within 7 days of Day 15. Participants will be followed up 30 days following administration of dupilumab and cemiplimab for adverse event (AE) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) monitoring. Participants will be offered adjuvant therapy as per standard of care, outside the context of this clinical treatment, and undergo subsequent standard of care monitoring for recurrence. The study team will monitor the status of the participant through chart review, or by telephone should the patient not continue to follow with a physician at Mount Sinai, for up to 5 years.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Dupilumab|BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab
Frequency of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Safety of treatment, defined as the frequency of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), from start of treatment up to 30 days post the administration of dupilumab., up to 30 days post-treatment|Percentage of dose limiting toxicities (DLT), Safety of treatment, defined as the percentage of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), from start of treatment up to 30 days post the administration of dupilumab., up to 30 days post-treatment|Major pathological response (MPR), Major pathological response (MPR), defined as the percentage of 90 percent or greater tumor necrosis at time of resection, as defined by expert thoracic pathologists., Day of surgery, scheduled within 7 days of Day 15
Number of days leading to surgery, Time to surgery defined as the time from the initial dose of dupilumab to the time of surgery, measured in days, From the time of the initial dose of dupilumab to the time of surgery, average of 21 days|Frequency of adverse events as measured in NCI CTCAE v5.0, Feasibility of treatment, defined as the frequency of treatment-related delay of curative-intent surgery, due to treatment-related Adverse Events (AEs), greater than 8 weeks following the administration of dupilumab, up to 30 days post treatment|Event-Free Survival (EFS), Defined as the time from initial treatment of dupilumab and cemiplimab to progression of disease, recurrence of tumor following surgery, or death from any cause regardless of etiology, 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Time, in days, between treatment initiation and when the patient dies from any cause regardless of etiology, 5 years
This is a phase 1/2 study of combined treatment with dupilumab (anti-IL-4Ra) and cemiplimab (anti-PD-1) in patients with early-stage, resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The study will include participants with a confirmed diagnosis of NSCLC who are deemed to be surgical candidates, or patients who have a smoking history and radiographic findings highly suggestive if a diagnosis of NSCLC who are scheduled to undergo diagnostic biopsy. On Day 1, participants will receive neoadjuvant therapy consisting of 600 mg of dupilumab (2 SC injections of 300 mg) and 350 mg of IV cemiplimab. Participants will undergo standard of care surgery, which will be scheduled within 7 days of Day 15. Participants will be followed up 30 days following administration of dupilumab and cemiplimab for adverse event (AE) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) monitoring. Participants will be offered adjuvant therapy as per standard of care, outside the context of this clinical treatment, and undergo subsequent standard of care monitoring for recurrence. The study team will monitor the status of the participant through chart review, or by telephone should the patient not continue to follow with a physician at Mount Sinai, for up to 5 years.