ACY-1215 + Nab-paclitaxel in Metastatic Breast Cancer
This is a non-randomized phase 1 trial designed to determine the MTD and evaluate the safety and tolerability of ACY-1215 with nab-paclitaxel. Based on the activity profile of ACY-1215 in breast cancer, corresponding biomarker availability with the HDAC6 MR score, and its potential synergy with taxanes, these data support the rationale for testing the ability of ACY-1215 to improve the response rate for patients with metastatic breast cancer in combination with standard taxane chemotherapy.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: ACY-1215|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ACY-1215 (Ricolinostat), The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) combination is defined as the dose combination associated with a target probability of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of 0.25. A dose-limiting toxicity is defined as the MTD with DLTs defined as any grade 3 non-hematologic toxicities despite maximal supportive care or any grade 4 hematologic toxicity. The MTD will be estimated using the time to event continual reassessment method (TITE-CRM). The TITE-CRM will use an empirical dose-toxicity model, with a sample size of 24. The dose-toxicity model is calibrated such that the method will eventually select a dose that yields between 17% and 33% DLT, which will be the recommended phase II dose (RP2D)., 28 days
Number of adverse events related to ACY-1215 (Ricolinostat), All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their first treatment with the study drug. Toxicities will be graded based upon CTCAE v4.0.2., up to 14 days following the last administration of study treatment
Breast cancer is the most common female cancer and the second most common cause of death in women. Women with hormone receptor-negative tumors that are associated with symptomatic visceral metastases, or hormone receptor-positive tumors that are refractory to endocrine therapy require cytotoxic chemotherapy for disease control. The standard of care for patients with metastatic breast cancer includes single agent taxane-based chemotherapy. Combination chemotherapy generally provides higher rates of objective response and longer time to progression, compared to single-agent chemotherapy. However, it is associated with increased toxicity and is of little survival benefit. There remains an unmet need for combination regimens incorporating new, effective and oftentimes less toxic targeted agents together with standard chemotherapy.