DC Migration Study to Evaluate TReg Depletion In GBM Patients With and Without Varlilumab
Patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma will be consented following tumor resection then undergo leukapheresis for harvest of peripheral blood leukocytes for generation of dendritic cells. Subjects will then receive standard of care (planned 6 weeks) radiation therapy (RT) and concurrent temozolomide (TMZ) at a standard targeted dose of 75 mg/m2/day.

The study cycle of TMZ comprises a targeted dose of 150-200mg/m2/day for 5 days every 4 (+2) weeks for up to 12 cycles (patients with unmethylated MGMT gene promoter will receive only cycle 1). All patients will receive up to a total of 10 DC vaccines called pp65 CMV dendritic cells (DC). Dendritic Cell (DC) vaccines #1-3 will be given every two weeks, thus delaying the initiation of TMZ cycle 2 for patients receiving TMZ. All remaining TMZ/vaccine cycles will be 4 (+2) weeks in length.

After the first 3 DC vaccines given during Cycle 1 of TMZ, the remaining DC vaccine injections are given on Day 21 (+/- 2 days) of each TMZ cycle. Subjects with unmethylated MGMT will only receive one cycle of adjuvant TMZ; however, their vaccine schedule will follow the same 4 (+ 2) week TMZ cycle schedule.

Following RT, patients will be randomized into 1 of 3 groups. Groups 1 and 2 will be blinded. The groups differ in the type of pre-conditioning received prior to DC vaccine #4; additionally, Group 3 will be receiving infusions of varlilumab 7 days prior to and with vaccine #1 and 7 days prior to vaccine #3+. The pre-conditioning for each group is as follows: Group 1: Unpulsed DC pre-conditioning prior to DC vaccine #4; Group 2: Tetanus-diphtheria (Td) pre-conditioning prior to DC vaccine #4; Group 3: Td pre-conditioning prior to DC vaccine #4 and varlilumab infusion at 7 days prior to each DC vaccine (except DC vaccine #2) with Td pre-conditioning prior to vaccine #4.
Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Human CMV pp65-LAMP mRNA-pulsed autologous DCs|DRUG: Temozolomide|BIOLOGICAL: Varlilumab|BIOLOGICAL: Td|BIOLOGICAL: Unpulsed DCs
Median Overall Survival (OS) of Subjects Receiving Td pre-conditioning, OS is defined as the time in months between randomization and death, or last follow-up if alive (Groups 1 and 2). Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate median OS, 5 years|Safety of administering Varlilumab to GBM patients receiving temozolomide and dendritic cell vaccines ± Td pre-conditioning as measured by the percentage of patients with unacceptable toxicity regardless of attribution, Percentage of patients with unacceptable toxicity (all Groups), 5 years|Median percent change between baseline, assessed on day 14, and nadir levels of Treg before the time that the second cycle of adjuvant TMZ would be administered. Treg determined by flow cytometry (CD3+ CD4+ CD25+ Foxp3+)., Change between baseline and nadir before the 2nd cycle of TMZ (Combined Groups 1 and 2, Group 3), 50 days
Median Overall Survival (OS) of Subjects Receiving DC vaccines, varlilumab, and Td pre-conditioning, OS is defined as the time in months between randomization and death, or last follow-up if alive (Group 3). Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate median OS, 5 years|Median Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time between randomization and initial failure (disease progression or death) (all Groups). If the patient remains alive without disease progression, PFS will be censored at the time of last follow-up. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate median PFS, 5 years|Median Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 3 (CCL3) Levels in Serum at 24, 48, and 72 hours after Pre-conditioning, CCL3 levels in serum 24, 48, and 72 hours after pre-conditioning by multiplex. The median CCL3 level will be presented, 2 days
Human cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common endemic β-Herpesvirus, and over half of adults have been infected with CMV. CMV does not usually cause significant clinical disease but can cause health problems for people with weakened immune systems. Expression of proteins unique to human CMV has been reported within a large proportion of malignant gliomas (MGs), including detection of the human CMV immunodominant protein pp65-LAMP (pp65-lysosomal-associated membrane protein). Human CMV antigens were not detected in surrounding normal brain samples. The presence of highly-immunogenic human CMV antigens within MGs affords a unique opportunity to target these tumors immunologically.

Dendritic cells (DCs) are antigen-presenting cells in the immune system. DCs are activated then migrate to the lymph nodes to interact with T cells and B cells, which initiates the adaptive immune response. This study generates autologous DCs from peripheral blood leukocytes obtained from the subject during leukapheresis. RNA transfection is the method used in this study for loading antigens onto DCs. DCs are pulsed with human CMV pp65-LAMP mRNA.

Tetanus-diphtheria (Td) toxoid is used for active immunization in children and adults against infection with the bacteria Clostridium tetani and Corynebacterium diphtheria. It is thought that Td toxoid induces an inflammatory milieu within the intradermal vaccine site, thereby promoting the migration of injected tumor-specific DCs. Additionally, in the context of vaccinating the host with tumor-derived peptides, conditioning the vaccine site with Td toxoid has demonstrated enhanced immunogenicity with these peptides. Previous trials have suggested that giving the Td prior to immunotherapy may help improve the effectiveness of the DC vaccine by activating the immune response. This study will further examine whether Td helps activate the immune response by comparing subjects who receive Td pre-conditioning to subjects who receive autologous unpulsed DCs as pre-conditioning.

Varlilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody (mAb) that targets CD27, a critical molecule in the activation pathway of lymphocytes. Varlilumab is an agonist anti-CD27 mAb that has been shown to activate human T cells in the context of T cell receptor stimulation. In pre-clinical models, varlilumab has been shown to mediate anti-tumor effects and may be particularly effective in combination with other immunotherapies. Anti-CD27 mAb has emerged as a novel costimulatory immune modulator that depletes TRegs without impairing activated effector T cells to improve antitumor immunity. We hypothesize that TReg inhibition through Varlilumab may increase polyfunctional immune responses to CMV.