Prostate Cancer in Firemen: Early Diagnosis Because of Increased Diagnostic Pressure?
Firefighters, police, military personnel and pilots are all shown to have a higher incidence of prostate cancer than the general population. A possible explanation for this is that these four groups of employees need regular mandatory health-checkups. If these checkups increase the chances of having a PSA or DRE performed one could expect the workers in question to have a higher probability than the general population of being diagnosed with prostate cancer. If this is the case the four groups should have cancers that are lower grade and have better survival. The investigators wish to examine this by comparing the four groups with a control group made up of all other workers with regards to prognostic factors at the time of diagnosis and survival rates. This will be done by extracting data from the Cancer Registry of Norway, coupled with employment data from Statistics Norway. This study is also a part of a project on cancer in firefighters. If the prostate cancers in firefighters differ significantly from the other three specified groups, this could point to an exposure specific for firefighters, e.g. fire smoke, as an etiologic factor.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: None, observational study
Cause-specific mortality rate for prostate cancer, From January 1st 1960 until December 31st 2018
TNM staging, January 1st 1960 until December 31st 2018|Gleason score, Score based on microscopic appearance of prostate cancer tissue. Sum of two scores, each ranging from 1-5 (only whole numbers), meaning the final score ranges from 2-10. A higher score is associated with a more aggressive/less differentiated tumor. It is normal to group scores 2-6 together in \>7. It is also normal to differentiate between 7 (4+3) (worse), and 7 (3+4) (better)., January 1st 1960 until December 31st 2018|PSA at time of diagnosis, January 1st 1960 until December 31st 2018|Functional status at time of diagnosis (WHO classification), January 1st 1960 until December 31st 2018
Firefighters, police, military personnel and pilots are all shown to have a higher incidence of prostate cancer than the general population. A possible explanation for this is that these four groups of employees need regular mandatory health-checkups. If these checkups increase the chances of having a PSA or DRE performed one could expect the workers in question to have a higher probability than the general population of being diagnosed with prostate cancer. If this is the case the four groups should have cancers that are lower grade and have better survival. The investigators wish to examine this by comparing the four groups with a control group made up of all other workers with regards to prognostic factors at the time of diagnosis and survival rates. This will be done by extracting data from the Cancer Registry of Norway, coupled with employment data from Statistics Norway. This study is also a part of a project on cancer in firefighters. If the prostate cancers in firefighters differ significantly from the other three specified groups, this could point to an exposure specific for firefighters, e.g. fire smoke, as an etiologic factor.