Comparative Study on Two Post-operative Adjuvant Chemotherapy Regimens for Treating Triple-negative Breast Cancer
Recent clinical studies showed that triple-negative breast cancer patients (ER-/PR-/HER2-) may benefit more from Capecitabine chemotherapy. However, the optimum post-operative adjuvant Capecitabine chemotherapy regimen has not been determined for Chinese population with triple-negative breast cancer. Thus it's necessary to conduct a multi-center Phase III clinical trial to verify efficacy and safety of Capecitabine in the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer. In this study, a prospective, randomized, open, multi-center Phase III clinical study was conducted to compare efficacy and safety of sequential Docetaxel followed by Fluorouracil/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (FEC) and sequential Docetaxel and Capecitabine followed by Capecitabine/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (XEC) as post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer in Chinese population.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: 5-Fu/epirubicin/CTX following Docetaxel|DRUG: Docetaxel/capecitabine followed by XEC
5-year disease free survival, Including local relapse, distant metastasis, contralateral breast cancer, second primary cancer or death from any cause, 5 year after the completion of chemotherapy
Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety, Safety will be evaluated based on adverse events observed and the number of participants with adverse events. Blood biological tests shall also be conducted for further examination., Within 5 years after the completion of chemotherapy|FACT-B scale scores as a Measure of living quality, FACT-B scale scores of participants would be assessed to reflect their living quality., Baseline, Week 0|5-year relapse free survival, distant disease free survival and overall survival as measures of efficacy, Disease relapse shall be considered as the endpoint of relapse free survival and the period between surgery and disease relapse shall be recorded as a measure of efficacy.

Also disease distant metastasis shall be considered as the endpoint of distant disease free survival and the period between surgery and Disease distant metastasis shall be recorded as a measure of efficacy., Within 5 years after the completion of chemotherapy|FACT-B scale scores as a Measure of living quality, FACT-B scale scores of participants would be assessed to reflect their living quality., Week 9|FACT-B scale scores as a Measure of living quality, FACT-B scale scores of participants would be assessed to reflect their living quality., Week 18
Post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy has been shown to improve overall survival, delay local relapse and reduce distant metastasis by multiple large-scale prospective clinical trial. In registry clinical trial for Capecitabine conducted by O Shaughnessy, it revealed that a combined chemotherapy of Capecitabine and Docetaxel achieved better outcomes compared with Docetaxel alone. And the significant effect of Capecitabine was also evidenced by CHAT trial in which Trastuzumab/Docetaxel/Capecitabine regimen was proved to perform greater than Trastuzumab/Docetaxel regimen. In addition to better outcomes, Capecitabine also showed good tolerance and safety profile. In 2009, Finnish Breast Cancer Group published their study results from FinXX clinical trial on Lancet Oncology, and in this trial, they compared the efficacy between sequential Docetaxel (3 cycles) followed by 3 cycles of Fluorouracil/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (FEC) and sequential Docetaxel and Capecitabine (3 cycles) followed by 3 cycles of Capecitabine/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (XEC) in lymph positive or high-risk lymph negative early-stage breast cancer patients. And their results showed a better outcome in TX-XEC regimen. 5-year follow-up analysis of this trial revealed that combined Capecitabine regimen can bring more significant clinical benefits to triple-negative breast cancer patients. Another clinical trial NO1062 released their preliminary results on comparison of AC-T and AC-XT regimens and it showed that combined Capecitabine regimen can significantly improve overall survival and this effect is more obvious in triple--negative breast cancer patients.

Based on the results of FinXX and NO1062, it's of great value to optimize combined Capecitabine regimen and clarify involved questions, such as whether the efficacy of Capecitabine is related to its treatment course or not, whether Capecitabine should be combined into current standardized chemotherapy or a sequential therapy. Also, there are still no clear conclusions on the best post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy for triple--negative breast cancer patients. Especially in Chinese population, the efficacy and safety of Capecitabine in adjuvant chemotherapy has not been well established. So it's necessary to explore reasonable dosage, safety profile and efficacy of combined Capecitabine therapy. Based on this purpose, this study is hoped to compare efficacy and safety of sequential Docetaxel followed by Fluorouracil/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (FEC) and sequential Docetaxel and Capecitabine followed by Capecitabine/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (XEC) as post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer in Chinese population.