A Study of Melphalan Flufenamide (Melflufen) Plus Dexamethasone in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This study will evaluate melflufen in combination with dexamethasone in adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma in whose disease is refractory to pomalidomide and/or an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody. All patients in the study will be treated with melflufen on Day 1 and dexamethasone on Days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each 28-day cycle.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Melphalan flufenamide (Melflufen)|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The overall response rate (ORR) will be estimated as the percentage of patients who achieve sCR, CR, VGPR, or PR as their best response as assessed by the investigator. Response assessed by IMWG (International myeloma working group) criteria sCR-stringent complete response: CR plus Normal FLC (free light chain) ratio and absence of clonal cells in BM CR-complete response: Negative immunofixation in serum/urine; Disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas; \<5% plasma cells in BM; If only FLC disease, normal FLC ratio (0.26-1.65) VGPR-very good partial response: Serum/urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein \<100 mg/24 h; If only FLC disease, \>90% decrease in the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels PR-partial response: 50% reduction of serum M-protein and soft tissue plasmacytomas, ≥90% reduction in urinary M-protein or to \<200 mg/24 h; other special cases if M-protein unmeasurable, Patients were followed until documented progression, unacceptable toxicity, patient/physician decision to withdraw or date of death, whichever came first. Longest time to response in study recorded as 15.3 months. Longest time on treatment 35 months.
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from start of treatment to either progression or death, whichever comes first as assessed by the investigator using IMWG criteria. Progression of disease is defined by an increase of 25% from the lowest response for either of Serum M-component (absolute increase of ≥ 0.5 g/dL) or Urine M-component (absolute increase of ≥200 mg/ 24h); In patients without measurable M-protein a 25% increase in the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC (free light chain) levels (absolute increase must be \>10 mg/dL); If unmeasurable FLC levels, a 25% increase in bone marrow plasma cell percentage (absolute percentage must be \>10%); New bone or soft tissue plasmacytomas or definite increase in existing ones; Development of hypercalcemia (corrected serum calcium \>11.5 mg/dL) that can be attributed solely to the plasma cell proliferative disorder, Patients were followed until documented progression, unacceptable toxicity, patient/physician decision to withdraw or date of death, whichever came first. Longest follow-up time for PFS recorded as 37.2 months at study end.|Duration of Response, Time from first response to progression based on investigator assessment. See definitions of response and progression in ORR and PFS outcomes., From date of response until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first. Longest time of response recorded as 36.2 months at study end.|Overall Survival, Time from start of treatment to death, From date of first dose of study medication until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months after study drug discontinuation.|Functional Status and Well-being: EORTC QLQ-C30, Change from baseline in Patient Reported Outcome questionnaire EORTC QLQ-C30. The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes 30 items resulting in 5 functional scales, 1 Global Health Status scale, 3 symptom scales, and 6 single items. The recall period is 1 week (the past week). The scales are transformed to a 0 (worst) to 100 (best) scale. The QLQ-C30 summary score is calculated as the mean of the combined 13 QLQ-C30 scale and item scores (excluding global QoL and financial impact), with a higher score indicating a better HRQoL. If at least 50% of the items from the scale had been answered, the missing items were assumed to have values equal to the average of those items which were present for that respondent., To be assessed prior to dosing at Cycle 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and End of Treatment. 23 patients were ongoing for QoL assessments at data cutoff. QoL was added in Protocol Amendment 4 beginning in Oct. 2018.|Functional Status and Well-being: EQ-5D-3L, Change from baseline in Patient Reported Outcome questionnaire EQ-5D-3L. The EQ-5D-3L questionnaire converts 5 dimensions: Mobility, Self-Care, Usual Activities, Pain/Discomfort, and Anxiety/Depression of patient-reported, current-day health status into a "health utility" score. For the EQ-5D-3L questionnaire, each dimension is scored on an ordinal scale with 3 available levels of response and scores ranging from 1 to 3, "no problems," "some problems," and "extreme problems," respectively. The EQ VAS scores rates "health today" with anchors ranging from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state). No imputation of missing items or composite scores were done. The scores for the 5 dimensions are used to compute a single utility score ranging from zero (0.0) to 1 (1.0) representing the general health status of the individual., To be assessed prior to dosing at Cycle 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and End of Treatment. 23 patients were ongoing for QoL assessments at data cutoff. QoL was added in Protocol Amendment 4 beginning in Oct. 2018.|Clinical Benefit Rate, The clinical benefit rate (CBR) will be estimated as the percentage of patients who achieve sCR, CR, VGPR, PR, or MR as their best response as assessed by the investigator. See Primary Outcome (ORR) for definitions of response categories., Patients were followed until documented progression, unacceptable toxicity, patient/physician decision to withdraw or date of death, whichever came first. Longest time on study treatment recorded as 35.0 months at study end.|Time to Response, Duration from start of treatment to the first occurrence of a confirmed response of PR or better as assessed by the investigator. See definitions of response in Primary Outcome (ORR)., From start of treatment to first confirmed response. Longest time to response in study recorded as 15.3 months.|Time to Progression, Duration from start of treatment to first evidence of disease progression as assessed by the investigator. See definitions of response and progression in ORR and PFS outcomes., From start of treatment to first evidence of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first. Longest time to progression recorded was 37.2 months at study end.
Melphalan flufenamide (melflufen) is a peptide-drug conjugate that rapidly delivers an alkylating payload into tumor cells. Peptidases are expressed in several cancers, including solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. Melphalan flufenamide is rapidly taken up by myeloma cells due to its high lipophilicity. Once inside the myeloma cell, the activity of melphalan flufenamide is determined by its immediate cleavage by peptidases into hydrophilic alkylator payloads that are entrapped. Melphalan flufenamide is 50-fold more potent than melphalan in myeloma cells in vitro due to increased intracellular alkylator concentration. It rapidly induces irreversible DNA damage leading to apoptosis of myeloma cells. Melphalan flufenamide displays cytotoxic activity against myeloma cell lines resistant to other treatments, including alkylators, in vitro. Melphalan flufenamide also has demonstrated inhibition of angiogenesis and DNA damage with a lack of functional DNA repair in preclinical studies.