Pemetrexed and Avelumab in Treating Patients With MTAP-Deficient Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pemetrexed and avelumab work in treating patients with MTAP-deficient urothelial cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Pemetrexed may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as avelumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving pemetrexed and avelumab may work better in treating patients with MTAP-deficient urothelial cancer.
Infiltrating Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma Sarcomatoid Variant|Infiltrating Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma With Glandular Differentiation|Infiltrating Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma With Squamous Differentiation|Infiltrating Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma, Micropapillary Variant|Infiltrating Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma, Plasmacytoid Variant|Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma|MTAP Negative
DRUG: Avelumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Overall response rate, Will be defined as the number of subjects with a best response of complete response or partial response at any protocol evaluation by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 criteria divided by the total numbers of subjects receiving their first dose of trial therapy., Up to 2 years
Progression free survival, Will be presented using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Time from the trial entry to the first documented tumor progression as determined by the investigator using the RECIST v1.1 criteria or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Time from treatment start date until death from any cause (event) or last contact date for patients last known to be alive (censor), assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate (RR) in patients with (methylthioadenosine phosphorylase) MTAP-deficient metastatic urothelial cancer treated sequentially with pemetrexed and avelumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with MTAP-deficient metastatic urothelial cancer treated sequentially with pemetrexed and avelumab.

II. To explore the effect of pemetrexed +/- avelumab on the immune system and tumor microenvironment including peripheral T-cells, tumor-infiltrating T-cells, macrophages, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pemetrexed intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on day 1. Starting cycle 2, patients also receive avelumab IV over 60 minutes. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 120 days, and then every 3 months for 2 years.