Comparing Cytarabine + Daunorubicin Therapy Versus Cytarabine + Daunorubicin + Venetoclax Versus Venetoclax + Azacitidine in Younger Patients With Intermediate Risk AML (A MyeloMATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II MyeloMATCH treatment trial compares cytarabine with daunorubicin versus cytarabine with daunorubicin and venetoclax versus venetoclax with azacitidine for the treatment of younger patients with intermediate risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Cytarabine is a drug that inhibits some of the enzymes needed for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) replication and repair and can slow or stop the growth of cancer cells. Daunorubicin is a drug that blocks a certain enzyme needed for cell division and DNA repair, and it may kill cancer cells. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Azacitidine is a drug that interacts with DNA to activate tumor-suppressing genes, resulting in an anti-tumor effect. Adding venetoclax to cytarabine and daunorubicin, and adding venetoclax to azacitidine, may work better than the usual treatment of cytarabine with daunorubicin alone. To decide if they are better, the study doctors are looking to see if venetoclax increases the rate of elimination of AML in participants by 20% or more compared to the usual approach.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Venetoclax
Measurable residual disease (MRD) undetectable complete remission (CR), Will assess after one induction cycle with or without the addition of venetoclax or two cycles of venetoclax and azacitidine. MRD by flow cytometry will be considered undetectable if ≤ 10\^-3. The MRD negative CR will be assessed using European LeukemiaNet (ELN) 2017 criteria \[Döhner 2017\]. The analysis population for the primary outcome will be all randomized patients with the intent to treat (ITT) population. The MRD undetectable CR rate will be the number of patients with MRD undetectable CR divided by the total number of patients. The differences of MRD undetectable CR rates between the experimental groups and the control group will be estimated and the corresponding one-sided 80% confidence limit will be calculated using Normal distribution approximation. MRD non-evaluable patients will be considered as MRD positive., Up to 2 cycles (56 days)
Frequency and severity of toxicities with each of the regimens, All patients who have received at least one dose of study treatment will be included in the safety analysis. Adverse events will be graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The incidence of adverse events will be summarized by type severity and relationship to the study drugs. A Fisher's exact test will be used to compare toxicities between the two arms, if needed., Up to 10 years|Complete remission (CR) rates, Will be assessed per 2017 ELN guidelines and will be tabulated. Exact 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 2 cycles (56 days)|Complete remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi), Will be assessed with and without MRD. Will be assessed per 2017 ELN guidelines and will be tabulated. Exact 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 2 cycles (56 days)|Event-free survival (EFS), Patients not known to have any of these events are censored on the date of last contact. Will be described by the Kaplan-Meier estimate, and log-rank tests will be used to test the difference between each experimental arms to the control arms., From the date of randomization to the first: date of primary refractory disease; date of progressive disease; date off protocol therapy without CR or CRi; date of relapse from CR or CRi, or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Relapse-free survival (RFS), Will be calculated for participants who have achieved a CR or CRi. For patients who have not relapsed or died, will be censored on the date of the last disease assessment. Will be described by the Kaplan-Meier estimate, and log-rank tests will be used to test the difference between each experimental arms to the control arms., From the time of CR or CRi, until the relapse from CR or CRi, or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Overall survival (OS), For patients who did not die, overall survival time will be censored at the time of last known alive (LKA) date. Will be described by the Kaplan-Meier estimate, and log-rank tests will be used to test the difference between each experimental arms to the control arms., From randomization to the time of death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Responses to therapy received relative to genomic findings, Will evaluate to gain insights toward more precise patient selection for optimal outcomes., Up to 10 years
Comparative analysis by molecular characteristics, Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the rates of undetectable measurable residual disease (MRD) in patients who achieve a complete remission (CR) after induction therapy with 7 +3 (cytarabine + daunorubicin hydrochloride \[daunorubicin\]) versus (vs.) azacitidine + venetoclax vs. 7+3 + venetoclax.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities with each of the regimens.

II. To estimate complete remission (CR) rates (with and without MRD), complete remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi) (with and without MRD) rates, event-free survival (EFS), relapse-free survival (RFS), and overall survival (OS) with each of the regimens.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate response to therapy received according to genomic findings. II. To evaluate MRD kinetics by following patients with detectable MRD through Tier 2 and beyond.

III. To evaluate longer term outcomes by treatment arm, genomics, MRD outcome, and other features as patients receive additional myeloMATCH therapies to generate testable hypotheses for more precise patient selection for these therapies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive daunorubicin intravenously (IV) on days 2-4, cytarabine IV continuously on days 2-8, and venetoclax orally (PO) once per day (QD) on days 1-11. Cycle is 28 days and treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Based on a bone marrow aspiration assessment, patients may receive reinduction consisting of daunorubicin IV on days 2-3, cytarabine IV continuously on days 2-6, and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-8. Cycle is 28 days and treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and collection of blood samples on study and as clinically indicated.

ARM II: Patients receive azacitidine IV or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7 or days 1-5 and 8-9 and venetoclax PO on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for a total of 2 cycles, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and collection of blood samples on study and as clinically indicated.

ARM III: Patients receive daunorubicin IV on days 1-3 and cytarabine IV, continuously, on days 1-7. Cycle is 28 days and treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Based on a bone marrow aspiration assessment, patients may receive reinduction consisting of cytarabine IV, continuously, on days 1-5 and daunorubicin IV on days 1-2. Cycle is 28 days and treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and collection of blood samples on study and as clinically indicated.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks, every 3 months for 1 year every 6 months for the second year and yearly thereafter.