Effectiveness and Safety of the Colonoscopy Assisted by Endocuff vs. Standard in the Colorectal Cancer Screening
The hypothesis of the present study is to demonstrate that ENDOCUFF VISION® increases the detection rate of adenomas thanks to the improved visibility produced by the retraction of the folds and stabilizing the colonoscope. Likewise, the impact of the use of ENDOCUFF VISION® on the average number of adenomas detected per patient (MAPP) as well as serrated adenomas (MASPP), the total time of the endoscopic procedure, cecal intubation and the safety of its use will be estimated.
Cancer Colorectal
DEVICE: Colonoscopy procedure with endocuff
polyps detection rate per patient, Rate of polyps detected, immediately after the procedure|adenoma detection rate per patient, Rate of Adenoma detected, immediately after the procedure
differences in the mean of adenomas detected by patient, Assess whether there are differences in the mean of adenomas detected by patient comparing Endocuff Colonoscopy and Standard Colonoscopy., immediately after the procedure|Serrated adenoma rate detected by patient, Rate of serrated adenomas, immediately after the procedure|Cancer lesion detection rate comparing Endocuff Colonoscopy and Standard Colonoscopy., Rate of lessions, immediately after the procedure|Cecal intubation rate and time to reach the cecum, Time in minutes of the intubation, immediately after the procedure|Total time of the procedure, Total time of the procedure, from the insertion of the colonoscope to its extraction comparing Endocuff Colonoscopy and Standard Colonoscopy., immediately after the procedure|Colonoscope withdrawal time from cecum, Colonoscope withdrawal time from cecum in patients in whom no polyps were detected, immediately after the procedure|Demonstrate the non-inferiority of patient experience when comparing Endocuff Colonoscopy and Standard Colonoscopy, Number of Participants With Procedure-Related Adverse Events Intra and post-procedure (evaluated with CTC AE v4) comparing Endocuff Colonoscopy and Standard Colonoscopy. This will be calculated as a Rate of Intra and post-procedure complications., through study completion, an average of 3 months
The main objective of the colorectal cancer screening program (CRC) is the detection of the greatest number of precursor lesions of neoplasms as well as cancerous lesions established in the general population with an intermediate risk of presenting CRC. Within this program, colonoscopy is considered the diagnostic technique of choice due to its cost-effectiveness balance. However, it remains a technique that is not entirely perfect since the omission of injuries during the procedure constitutes the main reason for the appearance of interval cancers, with a clear correlation between the rate of detection of adenomas and their appearance.

The vast majority of CRC arise from precancerous polyps, of which there are two main types: conventional adenomas and serrated polyps. Conventional adenomas are the most frequent polyps being responsible for the majority of CRC through the adenoma-carcinoma sequence. It should be taken into account that about 15-30% of sporadic CRC develops from serrated polyps through the serrated pathway of carcinogenesis, which is different from the traditional adenoma-carcinoma sequence. Endoscopic detection of serrated polyps is difficult due to their indistinguishable edges and flat or sessile morphology. In addition, they tend to be located in the right colon, a place that can be more difficult to reach in colonoscopy and examine completely.

Therefore, the ultimate goal of CRC screening colonoscopy is to reduce the appearance of CRC, trying to maximize the detection of polyps and therefore the detection rate of adenomas. For this there are several technical factors of colonoscopy, preparation, imaging and external devices that try to achieve an increase in the rate of detection of adenomas.

ENDOCUFF VISION® (Norgine Pharmaceuticals Ltd) is a medical device that is fixed at the distal end of the endoscope, improving its insertion in the intestine thanks to the action it exerts by flattening the folds and stabilizing the device. Its use is related to greater accuracy in the detection of adenomas, since it increases the visibility of the mucosa and thus decreases the number of polyps that may go unnoticed, increasing the detection rate of adenomas between 10 and 16 percentage points, according with published literature .

Thus, the hypothesis of the present study is to demonstrate that ENDOCUFF VISION® increases the detection rate of adenomas thanks to the improved visibility produced by the retraction of the folds and stabilizing the colonoscope. Likewise, the impact of the use of ENDOCUFF VISION® on the average number of adenomas detected per patient (MAPP) as well as serrated adenomas (MASPP), the total time of the endoscopic procedure, cecal intubation and the safety of its use will be estimated.