Lapatinib Combined With Paclitaxel For Patients With First-Line ErbB2-Amplified Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study investigates the safety and efficacy of oral lapatinib in combination with an approved medication, paclitaxel, for patients with ErbB2 metastatic breast cancer.
Neoplasms, Breast
DRUG: Lapatinib oral tablets|DRUG: Paclitaxel infusion
Number of Participants With a Best Overall Response (OR) of Confirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), as Assessed by the Independent Review Committee (IRC), OR is defined as the number of participants achieving either a CR or PR, per Response Evaulation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). The best OR is defined as the best response recorded from the start of treatment until progressive disease (PD)/recurrence. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions (TLs) and non-TLs. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL(s), as assessed by the IRC. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. Responses were confirmed at subsequent assessments made \>=28 days after the original response. Participants with an unknown or missing response are treated as non-responders., From the first dose of study medication to the first documented evidence of a confirmed CR or PR (up to Week 86)
Number of Participants With a Best Overall Response (OR) of Confirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), as Assessed by the Investigator, OR is defined as the number of participants achieving either a CR or PR, per RECIST. The best OR is defined as the best response recorded from the start of treatment until progressive disease (PD)/recurrence. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions (TLs) and non-TLs. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL(s), as assessed by the Investigator. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. Responses were confirmed at subsequent assessments made \>=28 days after the original response. Participants with an unknown or missing response are treated as non-responders., From the first dose of study medication to the first documented evidence of a confirmed CR or PR (up to Week 86)|Duration of Response (DoR), as Assessed by the IRC, DoR is defined for the subset of participants who had a confirmed CR (disappearance of all TLs and non-TLs) or PR (\>=30% decrease in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL\[s\]) as the time from the first documented evidence of a CR or PR until the first documentation of radiological PD or death due to breast cancer, if sooner. PD is defined as a \>=20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. For participants who did not progress or die, DoR was censored on the date of the last radiological scan. If a participant had only a Baseline visit or did not have a date of a radiological scan that was later than the date of initiation of anti-cancer therapy, DoR was censored at the start date of treatment., From the first documented evidence of a PR or CR until the earlier of the date of disease progression or the date of death due to breast cancer (up to Week 86)|Duration of Response (DoR), as Assessed by the Investigator, DoR is defined for the subset of participants who had a confirmed CR (disappearance of all TLs and non-TLs) or PR (\>=30% decrease in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL\[s\]) as the time from the first documented evidence of a CR or PR until the first documentation of radiological PD or death due to breast cancer, if sooner. PD is defined as a \>=20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. For participants who did not progress or die, DoR was censored on the date of the last radiological scan. If a participant had only a Baseline visit or did not have a date of a radiological scan that was later than the date of initiation of anti-cancer therapy, DoR was censored at the start date of treatment., From the first documented evidence of a PR or CR until the earlier of the date of disease progression or the date of death due to breast cancer (up to Week 86)|Time to Response, as Assessed by the IRC, Time to response is defined as the time from randomization until the first documented evidence of a PR or CR (whichever status is recorded first). Analysis was based on responses confirmed at a repeat assessment made at least 4 weeks after the initial response, with the time to response taken as the first time the response was observed, not the confirmation assessment. Participants who withdraw with no tumor response were censored at the date of withdrawal from the study. CR is defined as the disappearance of all TLs and non-TLs. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL(s). PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs., From randomization until the first documented evidence of a PR or CR (up to Week 86)|Time to Response, as Assessed by the Investigator, Time to response is defined as the time from randomization until the first documented evidence of a PR or CR (whichever status is recorded first). Analysis was based on responses confirmed at a repeat assessment made at least 4 weeks after the initial response, with the time to response taken as the first time the response was observed, not the confirmation assessment. Participants who withdraw with no tumor response were censored at the date of withdrawal from the study. CR is defined as the disappearance of all TLs and non-TLs. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL(s). PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs., From randomization until the first documented evidence of a PR or CR (up to Week 86)|Time to Progression, as Assessed by the IRC and the Investigator, Time to progression is defined as the interval between the start date of treatment and the date of radiological disease progression or death due to breast cancer, whichever occurs first. Participents who did not progress or die were censored on the date of their last radiological assessment preceding the start of any additional anti-cancer therapy. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. Responses were confirmed at a subsequent assessment made no less than 28 days after the original response., From the start date of treatment until the date of radiological disease progression or the date of death due to breast cancer (up to Week 86)|Progression-free Survival, as Assessed by the IRC and the Investigator, Progression-free survival is defined as the interval between the start date of treatment and the date of radiological disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Participants who did not progress in their disease were censored on the date of their last radiological assessment preceding the start of any additional anti-cancer therapy. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. Responses were confirmed at a subsequent assessment made no less than 28 days after the original response., From the start date of treatment until the date of radiological disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first (up to Week 86)|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the interval between the date of treatment start and the date of death due to any cause. For participants who did not die, follow-up was censored as the date of last contact. For participants who did not die, follow-up was censored at the date of last contact., From the date of the first dose until the date of death due to any cause (up to Week 86)|Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event (AE) or Serious Adverse Event (SAE), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect. Medical or scientific judgment was exercised in deciding whether reporting was appropriate in other situations., From the start of study medication until 28 days after the last dose (up to Study Week 381)
This study investigates the safety and efficacy of oral lapatinib in combination with an approved medication, paclitaxel, for patients with ErbB2 metastatic breast cancer.