A Study to Evaluate Sacituzumab Tirumotecan (MK-2870) in Advanced/Metastatic Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma (MK-2870-015)
This study will compare how safe and effective sacituzumab tirumotecan is versus the treatment of physician's choice (TPC) in participants with advanced/metastatic gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. The primary hypothesis of this study is sacituzumab tirumotecan is superior to TPC with respect to Overall Survival (OS).
Gastroesophageal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab tirumotecan|DRUG: Trifluridine-Tipiracil|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Rescue medication|DRUG: Supportive care measures
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to ~ 31 months
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first as assessed by Response Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR) will be presented., Up to ~ 25 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experience CR or PR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to ~ 25 months|Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until PD or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. DOR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to ~ 48 months|Number of Participants Who Experience an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention., Up to ~ 48 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Intervention Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention., Up to ~ 48 months
This study will compare how safe and effective sacituzumab tirumotecan is versus the treatment of physician's choice (TPC) in participants with advanced/metastatic gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. The primary hypothesis of this study is sacituzumab tirumotecan is superior to TPC with respect to Overall Survival (OS).