Observation of the Effect of Chemotherapy Combined With Tyrosinase Inhibitor on the Reactivation of CMV and EBV in Patients With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
Philadelphia-chromosome-positive or partial ph-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) preferred chemotherapy combined with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIS) therapy. Recently we found that there were cytomegalovirus reactivation and even cytomegalovirus infection in three ALL patients treated with chemotherapy combined with TKIs. However, the cytomegalovirus risk after dasatinib use in patients with philadelphia-chromosome-positive ALL is still unknown. It is reported that dasatinib can be observed in the treatment of philadelphia-chromosome-positive leukemia patients with significant increase in large granular lymphocytes, the cytomegalovirus is often positive, and this part of the patient's prognosis is relatively good. Dasatinib can inhibit SRC and TEC kinase, and induce immune function inhibition,and in vitro experiments have confirmed that it inhibits the immune function of T cells and NK cells. In this study, we examined the potential association between cytomegalovirus AND EBV reactivation the treatment of chemotherapy combined with TKIs, and the numbers of large granular cells and NK cell activity.
Leukemia, Lymphoblastic, Acute
DRUG: TKIs
CMV and EBV reactivation rate, Evaluation of CMV and EBV reactivation after chemotherapy combined with TKIs therapy in ALL patients, 2 years
The number of large granulosa cells and T、B、NK cell activity, Evaluation of the relationship between the number of large granulosa cells and T、B、NK cell activity in patients with CMV positive after TKIs therapy, 2 years
Philadelphia-chromosome-positive or partial ph-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) preferred chemotherapy combined with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIS) therapy. Recently we found that there were cytomegalovirus reactivation and even cytomegalovirus infection in three ALL patients treated with chemotherapy combined with TKIs. However, the cytomegalovirus risk after dasatinib use in patients with philadelphia-chromosome-positive ALL is still unknown. It is reported that dasatinib can be observed in the treatment of philadelphia-chromosome-positive leukemia patients with significant increase in large granular lymphocytes, the cytomegalovirus is often positive, and this part of the patient's prognosis is relatively good. Dasatinib can inhibit SRC and TEC kinase, and induce immune function inhibition,and in vitro experiments have confirmed that it inhibits the immune function of T cells and NK cells. In this study, we examined the potential association between cytomegalovirus AND EBV reactivation the treatment of chemotherapy combined with TKIs, and the numbers of large granular cells and NK cell activity.