Standard Maintenance POMP/D Plus Ixazomib Maintenance Therapy in Adult Patients With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Lymphoblastic Lymphoma or Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia in Complete Remission (CR)
In this phase I study, escalating doses of IXAZOMIB will be combined with the POMP/D regimen.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Complete Remission|Lymphoblastic Lymphoma in Complete Remission|Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia in Complete Remission
DRUG: Ixazomib
Maximum tolerated dose of ixazomib with POMP/D maintenance, The patient cohort enrolled at each dose level will be monitored for dose-limiting toxicity for eight weeks prior to enrolling the next cohort of patients at a new dose level. Subsequent patient cohorts will be enrolled at doses according to the CRM design. A maximum sample size of 12 patients will be enrolled over four potential doses to determine the maximum tolerated dose of ixazomib with POMP/D maintenance. Adverse events will be summarized with descriptive statistics at each dose level of ixazomib., Eight (8) weeks
Progression-free survival of patients treated with oral Ixazomib and standard maintenance regimen., Progression-free survival will be measured from the time of diagnosis to disease relapse., Three (3) years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE

The primary objective is to determine the maximum-tolerated dose of IXAZOMIB (MLN9708) (maximum of 4 mg, which is the recommended phase II dose for IXAZOMIB (MLN9708) in combination with standard maintenance therapy with POMP/D (methotrexate, 6- mercaptopurine, vincristine, prednisone/dexamethasone) and to assess the tolerability of POMP/D and IXAZOMIB (MLN9708) maintenance in adult patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL) or mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) in complete remission (CR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE

To determine the three-year progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with oral IXAZOMIB (MLN9708) and standard maintenance regimen. Progression-free survival will be measured from the start of induction to disease relapse.

STUDY DESIGN

The maximum-tolerated dose of single agent IXAZOMIB was 1.76 to 2.0mg/m2 when given on a twice a week schedule1 and \> 2.34 mg/m2 to 2.97 mg/m2 on a weekly schedule in previous studies.

Three patients will be treated per dose level unless dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is observed. The starting dose of IXAZOMIB will be 3 mg orally on days 1, 8 and 15. If no DLT is seen in the first three patients, the dose will be increased to 4 mg on days 1, 8 and 15 in a classic 3 +3 phase I design. We will not attempt to increase the dose beyond 4 mg orally which, if achieved with acceptable toxicity, would be accepted as the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). Zero of three DLTs would allow escalation to the next dose level. One of three DLTs will require expanding to six patients; one of six DLTs will allow escalation again. Two DLTs will require dose de-escalation. The maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) will be the highest dose administered at which no more than one DLT was observed.