MRI Radiomics Combined With Pathomics on the Prediction of Molecular Classification and Prognosis of Endometrial Cancer
Molecular typing provides accurate information for the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis prediction of endometrial cancer, which has important clinical significance. However, due to its high cost and complicated process, it is difficult to be widely used in clinical practice. Based on the artificial intelligence method, this study fused the characteristics of MRI radiomics and pathomics, combined with the clinical pathological information, built a model to predict the molecular typing and prognosis, analyzed the biological characteristics of endometrial cancer from the multi-scale level, guided the personalized and precise diagnosis and treatment, in order to improve the prognosis of patients.
Endometrial Neoplasms
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: next generation sequencing AND Immunohistochemical examination
Application of magnetic resonance imaging radiomics and pathomics to construct a model for predicting the molecular classification and prognosis of endometrial cancer, The imaging and pathological features of endometrial cancer patients were extracted by artificial intelligence method. Combined with clinicopathological risk factors and survival time, an imaging nomogram was constructed by lasso regression method to predict the molecular classification and prognosis of endometrial cancer. ROC curve was used to evaluate the test efficiency of the model., 2026-12-21
Application of magnetic resonance imaging radiomics to construct a model for predicting the molecular classification and prognosis of endometrial cancer, The imaging features of endometrial cancer patients were extracted by artificial intelligence method. Combined with clinicopathological risk factors and survival time, an imaging nomogram was constructed by lasso regression method to predict the molecular classification and prognosis of endometrial cancer. ROC curve was used to evaluate the test efficiency of the model., 2026-12-21
Application of pathomics to construct a model for predicting the molecular classification and prognosis of endometrial cancer, The pathomics features of endometrial cancer patients were extracted by artificial intelligence method. Combined with clinicopathological risk factors and survival time, an imaging nomogram was constructed by lasso regression method to predict the molecular classification and prognosis of endometrial cancer. ROC curve was used to evaluate the test efficiency of the model., 2026-12-21
In this project, 150 cases of endometrial cancer were retrospectively collected, and 200 cases of endometrial cancer will be prospectively collected. All patients were pathologically confirmed and underwent Promise molecular typing. Before treatment, all patients completed abdominal MRI. Based on artificial intelligence technology, image features were extracted from magnetic resonance imaging, pathological features were extracted from pathological data, and clinical pathological data were collected at the same time. The treatment effect, recurrence and metastasis of patients were followed up, and the five-year survival rate and five-year progression free survival rate were calculated. It is proposed to focus on the following research:

1. Construction of molecular typing and prognosis prediction model of endometrial cancer based on magnetic resonance imaging Radiomics
2. Construction of molecular typing and prognosis prediction model of endometrial cancer based on pathomics.
3. Construction of a prediction model for molecular typing of endometrial cancer by integrating pathomics and radiomics.