Biomarkers and Functional Imaging in Predicting Response of Esophageal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether combination of molecular and biomarkers with functional imaging can predict pathologic response and clinical outcomes in squamous esophageal cancer patients who undergo trimodality therapy which includes neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and surgery
Esophageal Cancer
OTHER: Biomarkers Testing|OTHER: Functional Imaging analysis
Pathologic Response, Mandard tumor regression grade (TRG) was used for pathology analysis. Primary tumor and positive lymph node regression were classified into five histologic tumor regression grades. Grade 1 (complete regression) showed absence of histologically identifiable residual cancer and fibrosis extending through the different layers of the esophageal wall, with or without granuloma. Grade 2 was characterized by the presence of rare residual cancer cells scattered through the fibrosis. Grade 3 involved an increase in the number of residual cancer cells, but fibrosis still predominated. Grade 4 showed residual cancer outgrowing fibrosis. Grade 5 was characterized by the absence of regressive changes., Approximately 12 months
Overall Survival, Approximately 4 years
The recommended care for the management of locally advanced esophageal cancers is neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) followed by esophagectomy based on the NCCN guideline. The rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) after nCRT was around 25-30%, reflecting potential cure of unresectable esophageal cancer receiving CRT. Since esophagectomy might have substantial morbidity and mortality rate, establishing the model for predicting nCRT response and survival will guide neoadjuvant treatment decisions and personalized treatment. Thus surgery might be spared in some patients with complete responses after nCRT, and surgery could be selectively reserved for those with only partial or no response to CRT. However, reported models yield unsatisfactory results due to small sample size and low accuracy, and most cases were adenocarcinoma and few models were used to predict survival. This study will prospectively collect the tissue and blood samples of locally advanced esophageal cancer patients, detect CRT resistance biomarkers, assess the SUV value and texture parameters of 18F-FDG PET-CT as well as ADC values DWI-MRI. The investigators will use advanced statistical tools to establish the model and further validate the model in another group of patients.The investigators will also establish a model for survival prediction. This model might possibly guide the personalized treatment for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients in China.