Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia Who Have Received Chemotherapy
RATIONALE: Imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well imatinib mesylate works in treating patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia who have received chemotherapy.
Leukemia
DRUG: imatinib mesylate|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|GENETIC: mutation analysis|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction|OTHER: flow cytometry|PROCEDURE: biopsy
Median Progression-free Survival (PFS) for Patients Less Than 60 Years of Age, PFS measured from the date of Complete Response (CR) to the date of relapse or death. Progression defined as any of the following event: progression to accelerated phase or blast crisis, death, loss of CHR or MCyR, or in patients not achieving a CHR an increasing WBC despite appropriate therapeutic management

This outcome will be reported as median progression-free survival in months for participants less than 60 years of age., up to 5 years from the End of Treatment|Progression-free Survival for Patients 60 Years of Age and Older, Progression free survival will be measured from the date of Complete Response (CR) to the date of relapse or death., up to 5 years from the End of Treatment|Percent of Participants Less Than 60 Years of Age With PFS at 8 and 13 Months Post-treatment, Percent of participants less than 60 years of age with PFS at 8 and 13 months post-treatment, at 8 and 13 months after treatment.|Percent of Participants 60 Years of Age or Older With PFS at 8 and 13 Months Post-treatment, Percent of participants 60 years of age or older with PFS at 8 and 13 months post-treatment, at 8 and 13 months after treatment.
Toxicity as Measured by NCI CTC v. 3.0, Number of patients (%) experiencing an adverse event

See adverse events section for details, 13 months from start of treatment
Correlation of C-kit Expression With Multidrug Resistance Gene Expression (MDR1, MRP1, LRP, and BCRP) and AF1q Expression, 24 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine whether adding imatinib mesylate as maintenance therapy improves progression-free survival in patients with c-kit positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) compared with historical controls.

Secondary

* To assess the feasibility of administering imatinib mesylate as maintenance therapy after the completion of induction and consolidation therapy in these patients.
* To evaluate potential mechanisms of relapse/resistance in c-kit positive AML by examining multidrug resistance gene expression and AF1q gene expression and to determine whether these levels correlate with c-kit expression.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate once daily for up to 12 months.

Bone marrow and peripheral blood are collected at baseline. Laboratory endpoints are evaluated by flow cytometry; mutation and gene analysis by PCR.