Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Trastuzumab Followed By an Autologous Stem Cell Transplant and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. An autologous stem cell transplant may be able to replace blood-forming cells that were destroyed by chemotherapy. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving combination chemotherapy with or without trastuzumab followed by an autologous stem cell transplant and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy with or without trastuzumab followed by an autologous stem cell transplant and radiation therapy works in treating patients with stage III or stage IV breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: thiotepa|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy|PROCEDURE: autologous-autologous tandem hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|PROCEDURE: bone marrow ablation with stem cell support|RADIATION: radiation therapy
5-Year Relapse-free Survival Rate, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Relapse defined as appearance of any new lesions during or after protocol treatment. Whenever possible, relapses should be documented histologically., From time of initial PBPC rescue until death or disease recurrence (disease progression for patients with stage IV disease), whichever came first, up to 5 years post treatment|5-Year Overall Survival Rate, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Patients who were still alive were censored at the date of last follow-up, From time of initial PBPC rescue until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years post treatment.
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the feasibility of tandem high-dose chemotherapy comprising melphalan, carboplatin, thiotepa, and cyclophosphamide with or without trastuzumab (Herceptin®) followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and helical tomotherapy or loco-regional radiotherapy in patients with high-risk stage IIIB, IIIC, or IV breast cancer.
* Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo stem cell collection.

* Course 1: Patients receive high-dose melphalan IV with or without trastuzumab (Herceptin®). One day later, patients undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation. No more than 7 weeks later, patients proceed to course 2.
* Course 2: Patients receive high-dose carboplatin, thiotepa, and cyclophosphamide IV continuously over 4 days followed by autologous PBSC transplantation.

After recover from high-dose chemotherapy and autologous PBSC transplantation, patients with stage IIIB or IIIC disease undergo radiotherapy to the chest wall and lymph nodes. Patients with stage IV disease undergo radiotherapy using helical tomotherapy or standard radiotherapy to oligometastatic sites.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study.