A Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Trastuzumab in Combination With Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin as First-line Chemotherapy for Inoperable, Locally Advanced or Recurrent and/or Metastatic Gastric Cancer
Although the overall incidence of gastric cancer has steadily declined in many Western countries during the last few decades, it is still one of the most common tumors in China. It is now well recognised that combination chemotherapy regimens improve patient outcomes, but there is no accepted global standard regimen for advanced gastric cancer.

The ToGA study was the first randomized, prospective, multicenter, phase III trial to show the efficacy and safety of Trastuzumab in HER2- positive GC. Trastuzumab reduced the risk of death by 26% (HR 0.74; 95% CI 0∙60, 0∙91; p=0∙0046) when combined with a reference chemotherapy (Capecitabine plus Cisplatin) and prolonged the median survival by nearly 3 months (from 11.1 to 13.8 months) in patients with HER2-positive(FISH+ or IHC3+) advanced GC.

Oxaliplatin has been shown to be as effective as cisplatin, and exhibits a favorable toxicity profile with a substantially lower rate of nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, and myelosuppression.

In the current study, the efficacy and safety of Trastuzumab in combination with Oxaliplatin/capecitabine chemotherapy will be evaluated in Chinese patients with HER2 positive advanced or recurrent gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab+Capecitabine+Oxaliplatin
Objective response rate, CT/MRI will be performed every 2 cycles of treatment for efficacy evaluation, 6 -8 weeks
progression free survival, the follow-up visit of PFS will be performed every 6 weeks, 1 year|overall survival of participants, OS means that from the first dose of treatment drug to death or lost, the follow-up visit will be performed every 3 months till death or lost, 2 years|adverse events, participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 3 weeks, during the treatment in the hosptital,an expected average of 3 weeks
Trastuzumab will be administered at a loading dose of 8 mg/kg (on day 1) followed by 6mg/kg i.v. infusion every 3 weeks.

Trastuzumab is to be continued until disease progression or intolerable toxicity.

Capecitabine (Xeloda) 2000mg/m2d, d1-14; q3w, until disease progression or intolerable toxicity.

Oxaliplatin 130mg/m2 d1; q3w, 6 cycles