Biological Image Guided Antalgic Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy of Bone Metastases
In various common cancers, the skeleton is a preferred site of metastasis. These bone metastases are the most common cause of cancer-related pain, which significantly impair quality of life. It is postulated that the clinical target volume (CTV) of painful bone metastases consists of cancer cells and tumor-associated host cells: the tumor-host ecosystem. Advances in biological imaging (positron emitting tomography PET) might allow us to selectively identify the tumor-host ecosystem within the anatomical boundaries of a bone metastasis. These findings suggest the potential of intentionally non-homogenous dose escalation (dose painting by numbers) to improve pain control. The hypothesis is that fluorodeoxyglucose positron emitting tomography (FDG-PET) can detect the intra-bone metastasis regions confined with tumor-associated host-cell compartments responsible for metastasis-related pain. The primary objective is to improve pain control with biological image-guided stereotactic body radiotherapy compared to conventional radiotherapy.
Bone Metastases
RADIATION: Conventional Radiotherapy|RADIATION: Biological image-guided radiotherapy with conventional dose.|RADIATION: Biological image-guided SBRT with dose-escalation.
Level of pain response 1 month after radiotherapy, Pain is measured with the visual analogue scale. Response is scored in accordance to the guidelines of the international consensus on palliative radiotherapy., 1 month after radiotherapy
Quality of life 1 month after radiotherapy., Quality of life 1 month after radiotherapy measured with the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Bone Metastases Module (QLQ-BM22)., 1 Month after radiotherapy
In various common cancers, the skeleton is a preferred site of metastasis. These bone metastases are the most common cause of cancer-related pain, which significantly impair quality of life. It is postulated that the clinical target volume (CTV) of painful bone metastases consists of cancer cells and tumor-associated host cells: the tumor-host ecosystem. Advances in biological imaging (positron emitting tomography PET) might allow us to selectively identify the tumor-host ecosystem within the anatomical boundaries of a bone metastasis. These findings suggest the potential of intentionally non-homogenous dose escalation (dose painting by numbers) to improve pain control. The hypothesis is that fluorodeoxyglucose positron emitting tomography (FDG-PET) can detect the intra-bone metastasis regions confined with tumor-associated host-cell compartments responsible for metastasis-related pain. The primary objective is to improve pain control with biological image-guided stereotactic body radiotherapy compared to conventional radiotherapy.