2 Versus 6 Hour Oxaliplatin Infusions in Patients With Gastrointestinal Cancers
This phase II trial studies how well giving oxaliplatin over 6 hours works in treating nerve damage in patients with gastrointestinal cancers. Oxaliplatin can cause side effects such as nerve damage that may delay or reduce the dose of oxaliplatin. Giving oxaliplatin over a longer period of time (6 hours) may prevent or delay the development of nerve damage, which may keep patients on standard doses of chemotherapy longer, without having to delay treatment.
Malignant Digestive System Neoplasm
DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Effect of 2 versus 6-hour oxaliplatin infusion time on neuropathy as measured by patient reported outcome (PRO) scores on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN-20) scale, The EORTC-CIPN-20 sub-scales will be computed according to the standard scoring algorithm and then transformed to a 0 to 100 scale, where high scores mean less symptom burden. The primary outcome measure of difference in sensory scores of the two groups between baseline and the initiation of cycle 4 will be the driver of the analysis., Baseline up to 60 days (course 4)
Maximum concentrations achieved (Cmax), The study will focus on maximum concentrations achieved (Cmax) with each infusion time. Data will be analyzed using non-compartmental methods via Phoenix WinNonlin analytical software, version 8.0 or higher., At baseline and at 1, 2, 4, 6, 48, and 192 hours after initiation of oxaliplatin|Changes in tumor size, The study will assess changes in tumor size per standard of care assessments at screening and every 2 months., Up to 18 months after completion or discontinuation of chemotherapy|Duration of therapy, Duration of therapy will be recorded., Up to 18 months after completion or discontinuation of chemotherapy|Dose density, Dose density will be recorded., Up to 18 months after completion or discontinuation of chemotherapy|Frequency of dose holds or reductions, Frequency of dose holds or reductions will be recorded., Up to 18 months after completion or discontinuation of chemotherapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the effect of 2 versus 6-hour oxaliplatin infusion time on the difference in severity of sensory neuropathy as measured by patient reported outcome (PRO) scores on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN-20) scale at the initiation of cycle 4.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Pharmacokinetic parameters of maximum concentration (Cmax), area under the curve (AUC), time of maximum concentration (tmax), clearance, and half life (t1/2) of platinum ultra-filtrate.

II. CIPN-20 sensory score changes over the duration of therapy as measured by a cumulative area-under-the curve score.

III. Clinical outcomes including duration of therapy, oxaliplatin dose reductions, delays in therapy, and overall dose intensity and delivery of oxaliplatin.

IV. Relationship between oxaliplatin Cmax, patient-reported acute neurotoxicity, and chronic neurotoxicity by CIPN-20 scores.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

2-hour infusion group: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) and leucovorin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Patients also receive a lower dose of fluorouracil IV over 2-4 minutes followed by a higher dose IV continuous over 4-6 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

6-hour infusion group: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1. Patients also receive leucovorin and fluorouracil as in the 2-hour infusion group. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 18 months.