Paclitaxel and TAK-228 in Urothelial Carcinoma
Phase II Multicentre, single arm, open label study of Paclitaxel and TAK-228 in metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) and the impact of PI3K-mTOR pathway genomic alterations
Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Paclitaxel and TAK-228
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR), defined as the sum of the complete and partial responses (CR+PR), with the goal of increasing the rate from 10% to 26%. Response rates will be measured using RECIST 1.1 criteria, 34 months
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], To assess the safety and evaluate the tolerability of TAK-228 in combination with paclitaxel in patients with metastatic, previously treated transitional cell carcinoma., 34 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Time from the first day of therapy to the first evidence of progression as defined by RECIST, or death from any cause, whichever is first. Patients who die without a reported prior progression will be considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Patients alive and without disease progression will be censored at the time of the last objective tumor assessment. Patients who do not progress and are subsequently lost to follow-up will have their data censored at the day of their last objective tumor assessment., 34 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time from the first day of therapy to the date of death from any cause. If the patient is alive at the end of the follow-up period or is lost to follow-up, OS will be censored on the last date the patient is known to be alive., 34 months
Characterization of PI3K/ AKT/ mTOR pathway mutations, Patient tumors samples will be analyzed for genetic alterations within the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway to determine if alterations within this pathway correlate with response rate, in patients with UC, 34 months|Characterization of PI3K/ AKT/ mTOR pathway mutations, Patient tumors samples will be analyzed for genetic alterations within the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway to determine if alterations within this pathway correlate with PFS, in patients with UC, 34 months|Characterization of PI3K/ AKT/ mTOR pathway mutations, Patient tumors samples will be analyzed for genetic alterations within the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway to determine if alterations within this pathway correlate with OS, in patients with UC, 34 months|To discover biomarkers in the serum or plasma (pre and post treatment) of subjects that may predict response to therapy., Findings suggest S2481 phosphorylation could be a marker for activity of mTORC2. S2481 has the potential to be a prognostic, predictive, and pharmacodynamic marker:

• Characterize the phosphorylation of S2481 of mTOR in UC tumor tissue, 34 months|To discover biomarkers in the serum or plasma (pre and post treatment) of subjects that may predict response to therapy., Findings suggest S2481 phosphorylation could be a marker for activity of mTORC2. S2481 has the potential to be a prognostic, predictive, and pharmacodynamic marker:

Evaluate whether basal levels of mTOR S2481 phosphorylation correlate with prognosis and/or are predictive of clinical outcomes of the study patients treated with the combination, 34 months|To discover biomarkers in the serum or plasma (pre and post treatment) of subjects that may predict response to therapy., Findings suggest S2481 phosphorylation could be a marker for activity of mTORC2. S2481 has the potential to be a prognostic, predictive, and pharmacodynamic marker:

Assess for changes in tumoral phospho-S2481 after treatment in the biopsy subset of patients., 34 months
The PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway has been shown to be altered in a large percentage of metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) tumors. Within this pathway, the PI3 kinase alpha subunit (PIK3CA) is frequently mutated in muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) (15-20%) and PTEN is inactivated in another 30%.

Due to TAK-228's effects on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway in preclinical studies and the frequency of pathway alterations in UC tumors, TAK-228 is a rational therapy for bladder cancer.

This clinical investigation may also reveal how alterations in the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway correlate with treatment response. In preclinical bladder cell line models and xenografts done in our lab, synergistic effect has been seen with the combination with paclitaxel.

The primary end-point is objective response rate (ORR) with the goal of increasing the rate from 10% to 26%. Response rates will be measured using RECIST 1.1 criteria. PFS and OS will be measured from the start date of treatment with TAK-228 and paclitaxel. Grade 3, 4 or serious adverse events will be collected and compared to the catalogued events in the phase II trial in breast cancer (NCT01351350). Patient tumors will be analyzed for genetic alterations within the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway to determine if alterations within this pathway correlate with response rate, PFS, or OS.