Ph. 2 Sorafenib + Protracted Temozolomide in Recurrent GBM
PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:

Primary Objective To evaluate the activity of Sorafenib plus protracted, daily temozolomide in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) as measured by 6-month PFS.

Secondary Objectives To evaluate the safety and toxicity of combination therapy using Sorafenib plus temozolomide; To determine the pharmacokinetics of Sorafenib when combined with temozolomide in patients on and not on concurrent EIAC medications.
Recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: Sorafenib and Temozolomide
6 Month Progression Free Survival (PFS), Percentage of participants surviving six months from the start of study treatment without progression of disease. PFS was defined as the time from the date of study treatment initiation to the date of the first documented progression according to the Macdonald criteria, or to death due to any cause., 6 months
Safety and Toxicity of Combination, Number of participants experiencing a toxicity of at least grade 3 that was deemed possibly, probably, or definitely related to the treatment., 16 months|Pharmacokinetics: C-max, Blood sampling for sorafenib pharmacokinetics was performed on days 1 and 28 of cycle 1 and was obtained before and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 h after the morning dose. C-max refers to maximum plasma concentration. The pharmacokinetics of those patients taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (EIAED) and those who were not were analyzed separately., 13 months|Pharmacokinetics: T-max, Blood sampling for sorafenib pharmacokinetics was performed on days 1 and 28 of cycle 1 and was obtained before and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 h after the morning dose. T-max refers to time to maximum concentration. The pharmacokinetics of those patients taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (EIAED) and those who were not were analyzed separately., 13 months|Pharmacokinetics: AUC-24, Blood sampling for sorafenib pharmacokinetics was performed on days 1 and 28 of cycle 1 and was obtained before and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 h after the morning dose. AUC-24 refers to area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 hours. The pharmacokinetics of those patients taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (EIAEDs) and those who were not were analyzed separately., 13 months
STUDY ACTIVITIES AND POPULATION GROUP:

This is an open-label, non-randomized, single center phase 2 trial. A treatment cycle will consist of 4 weeks of therapy.

Sorafenib will be administered at a set dose of 400 mg (2 x 200 mg tablets) twice daily, without food (at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating). Temozolomide will be administered at a set dose of 50 mg/m2 once daily without food (at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating).

Thirty-two (32) patients will be enrolled in this single-stage study.

DATA ANALYSIS AND RISK/SAFETY ISSUES:

After 16 patients with recurrent GBM are treated, an interim analysis will be conducted. If 6 or more patients have experienced unacceptable toxicity, accrual of patients in this patient group will be terminated. Otherwise, patient accrual will continue. If 9 or more of the total 32 patients experience unacceptable toxicity, the treatment regimen will be considered to have an unacceptable toxicity profile. The type I and II error rates associated with this testing are 0.053 and 0.053, respectively.