ZEN003694 Combined With Niraparib in Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Solid Tumors
This Phase I, open label, dose determining study of oral niraparib in combination with ZEN003694 given daily in 28-day cycles will enroll patients with metastatic or recurrent solid cancer. Dose escalation will follow the mTPI-2/Keyboard design. Eligible patients will receive therapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities are experienced.
Ovarian Cancer|Recurrent Solid Tumors
DRUG: ZEN003694|DRUG: Niraparib
Treatment-related Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE), Frequency and severity of adverse events (AE) per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE), version 5.0. The maximum grade for each toxicity type will be recorded for each patient., Up to 36 months (study population)|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) / Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), Frequency of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) (AEs leading to discontinuation of treatment).

The mTPI-2/Keyboard design is a Bayesian interval dose determining design. The target toxicity rate for the MTD for this combination therapy is defined at 0.30 with an acceptable toxicity probability interval (0.25, 0.35). The MTD is selected based on the dose estimate closest to the target toxicity rate, and the recommend phase II dose will be determined based on the MTD and all available safety and PK data., Up to 12 months (study population)
Pharmacokinetics (PK), Maximum observed concentration (Cmax) in blood taken from patients treated with ZEN003694 combined with niraparib., Up to 30 days|Pharmacodynamics (PD), Area under the serum concentration-time curve (AUC) in blood taken from patients treated with ZEN003694 combined with niraparib., Up to 30 days|Objective response rate (ORR) by RECIST 1.1, Proportion of participants achieving a best response of CR or PR per RECIST v1.1, at each dose level. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 6 years (study population)|Duration of Response, Time from start of treatment to disease progression or death in patients who achieve Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (whichever is recorded first) per RECIST v1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 6 years (study population)|Progression-free survival (PFS), Median number of months from start of treatment to the date of disease progression or death from any cause. Per RECISIT v1.1: Progressive Disease (PD):≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 6 years (study population)|Overall survival (OS), Median length of time from start of treatment that patients remain alive., Up to 6 years (study population)
PARPis impair the repair of single strand DNA breaks leading to double strand DNA breaks especially in patients with defects in the HR pathway. PARP is have been extensively studied in ovarian cancer and are approved for patients with germline or somatic BRCA mutant ovarian cancer after 2-3 lines of chemotherapy. PARPis have been also approved as maintenance therapy in first line and recurrent ovarian cancer after partial or complete response to platinum-based therapy. PARPis have prominent activity in BRCA mutated cancer with lower activity in the BRCA wild type HRD negative ovarian cancer. Approximately 18-24% of ovarian cancer harbor somatic or germline BRCA mutation and 50% harbor alteration in the homologous recombination (HR) pathway.

Further, PARPi therapy is frequently associated with PARPi resistance. Therefore, there is a need to reverse PARPi resistance and enhance response to PARPi in PARPi resistant ovarian cancer. Recently, significant pre-clinical evidence has shown that BETi's synergize with PARPi's through downregulation of the transcription of several HR genes. It is hypothesized that BETi may suppress HR and enhance non-homologous end joining thereby sensitizing HR-proficient cancer cells to PARP inhibition, and also BETi has been described to reverse PARPi resistance. To test this hypothesis, this Phase I trial will test the combination of niraparib and ZEN003694 in recurrent or metastatic solid cancers.