The Effect of Post-operative Exercise in Gastric Cancer Patients: A Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) Study
Medical advancements are enhancing the survival rates of individuals with gastric cancer. The growing population of gastric cancer survivors underscores the importance of managing treatment-related after-effects and side effects. Diminished physical function in cancer patients, particularly following gastric cancer surgery, is linked to increased mortality. The substantial decline in physical activity post-surgery contributes to a notable reduction in cardiorespiratory fitness and lower extremity muscle strength. Early postoperative exercise has demonstrated positive outcomes in colorectal cancer patients, facilitating early hospital discharge and supporting long-term recovery. However, there is a paucity of research on the efficacy of early postoperative exercise in the context of gastric cancer. Therefore, this study aims to evaluate the impact of early postoperative exercise on physical function following gastric cancer surgery.
Gastric Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: exercise
Shorts Physical Performance Battery(SPPB), SPPB is an objective measurement instrument of balance, lower extremity strength, and functional capacity. instrument of balance, lower extremity strength, and functional capacity. The test includes three different domains (walking, sit-to-stand and balance) to assess functional mobility., "1 day before surgery", "POD3", "POD 1month"
Medical advancements are enhancing the survival rates of individuals with gastric cancer. The growing population of gastric cancer survivors underscores the importance of managing treatment-related after-effects and side effects. Diminished physical function in cancer patients, particularly following gastric cancer surgery, is linked to increased mortality. The substantial decline in physical activity post-surgery contributes to a notable reduction in cardiorespiratory fitness and lower extremity muscle strength. Early postoperative exercise has demonstrated positive outcomes in colorectal cancer patients, facilitating early hospital discharge and supporting long-term recovery. However, there is a paucity of research on the efficacy of early postoperative exercise in the context of gastric cancer. Therefore, this study aims to evaluate the impact of early postoperative exercise on physical function following gastric cancer surgery.