Brigatinib in ALK-positive NSCLC Identified Via Blood-based Assays
This is single-arm, open-label study design. Patients will receive brigatinib until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, of death.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Brigatinib
Objective response rate, Objective response rate, From Cycle1 Day 1 until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months. Tumor assessment will be performed at the end of cycle 2(every 2 cycles, each cycle is 28 days).
Based on the clinical efficacy of ALK inhibitors in ALK+NSCLC, NCCN guidelines recommend ALK molecular testing of lung cancer patients, to select patients for ALK-targeted therapy. However, molecular testing via tissue biopsy cannot always be performed on NSCLC patients, potentially limiting access of effective treatment to the subset of patients who are able to undergo current testing procedures that utilize tissue biopsies. Obtaining an adequate tissue biopsy specimen for NSCLC presents a number of challenges. In particular, the method for diagnosis of lung cancer depends on the location, size, and type of suspected lung cancer, and the presence or absence of metastases. Common procedures for centrally located tumors include bronchoscopy and sputum cytology, which frequently yield insufficient tumor tissue for comprehensive mutation testing. In addition, 75% of patients are diagnosed with late-stage disease and often present with multiple comorbidities. Biopsies in these patients can lead to complications such as pneumothorax, hemoptysis, other bleeding complications, and cardiopulmonary decompensation. As a result of these factors, a physician treating a patient who presents with a significant burden of disease as well as significant comorbidities may rightly consider whether it is in the best interest of the patient to undergo a risky and potentially unsuccessful procedure. Thus, there exists a major unmet clinical need for testing procedures that do not require tumor tissue. The purpose of this phase II study is to assess the efficacy of brigatinib in patients with advanced NSCLC harboring ALK rearrangement that are selected using predictive biomarkers identified via blood-based assays.