Neo-adjuvant Therapy With Anastrozole Plus Pazopanib in Stage II and III ER+ Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well giving pazopanib hydrochloride and anastrozole before surgery works in treating patients with stage II-III estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. Pazopanib hydrochloride and anastrozole may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving pazopanib hydrochloride and anastrozole together before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal cells that have to be removed
Estrogen Receptor-positive Breast Cancer|Human Epidermal Growth Factor 2 Negative Carcinoma of Breast|Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer
DRUG: anastrozole|DRUG: pazopanib hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Rate of pCR at Primary Site (T0) and Nodal Sites (T0N0), Defined as no evidence of microscopic invasive tumor present. Determined by pathology. Estimated with an exact 95% confidence interval., Six months from the initiation of neoadjuvant therapy
Proportion of Patients Achieving Sustained Decrease in Ki-67, 12 weeks from the initiation of neoadjuvant therapy|Proportion of Patients Achieving Down-staging to a Pathologic Stage 0 or 1, Six months from the initiation of neoadjuvant therapy
OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate at surgery.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate alternative measurements of anti-tumor activity: proportion of patients achieving sustained decrease in antigen KI-67 (ki-67) at 12 weeks of therapy with anastrozole plus pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride); proportion of patients achieving down-staging to a pathologic stage 0 or 1 at surgery.

II. To assess qualitative and quantitative toxicity of this combination, with special emphasis on the frequency of events grade 3 or greater, or the occurrence of unexpected toxicities.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride\* orally (PO) once daily (QD) and anastrozole PO QD for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo definitive surgery.

NOTE: \*Pazopanib hydrochloride is stopped 7-14 days before surgery.