Pegfilgrastim vs. Filgrastim - Comparison of Mobilized Blood Stem Cells in Patients With Non Hodgkin-lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to compare the ability of pegfilgrastim vs. filgrastim to mobilize peripheral blood stem cells in patients with Non Hodgkin-lymphoma in an intraindividual study
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: pegfilgrastim
Hematopoietic recovery after autologous stem cell transplantation, Two cycles of conventional chemotherapy are given. Starting one day after the first cycle, filgrastim (5ug/kg bodyweight daily subcutaneously) is routinely administered to support neutrophil recovery. One day after the second cycle, a single dose of pegfilgrastim (6mg) is given to support neutrophil recovery and stem cell collection. Hematopoietic recovery (blood count) is monitored daily after high-dose therapy and autologous stem cell transplantation. Follow up assessments are performed 3-monthly for late graft failure, 1-3 weeks after transplantation, follow up every 3 months (up to 2 years)
Intraindividual comparison of quantity/quality of circulating stem cells, Circulating stem cells are enumerated by flow cytometry and colony assays during filgrastim (intraindividual control) and pegfilgrastim-supported recovery from chemotherapy., before and during 3 weeks after conventional chemotherapy
Patients with Non Hodgkin-lymphoma undergoing stem cell mobilization for planned high-dose therapy will be treated with two cycles of chemotherapy (etoposide, ifosfamide, cisplatin, epirubicin), either followed by daily administration of filgrastim (first cycle) or pegfilgrastim (once after the second cycle). The number of circulating cluster of differentiation 34+ cells, colony-forming units and primitive progenitors will be analyzed at corresponding time points. Peripheral blood stem cells will be collected after the second cycle of chemotherapy by leukapheresis. After the second cycle, high-dose therapy with peripheral blood stem cell support will be administered (the protocol will be chosen according to the diagnosis, including total body irradiation-containing regimens).