Changes in Brain Structure Related to Systemic Chemotherapy Treatment: A Prospective Study in Individuals Diagnosed With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Utilizing High-resolution Structural Magnetic Resonance Imaging
The purpose of this study is to learn about the effects of cancer treatment on the brain. Some cancer patients report changes in their memory or thinking after treatment. These changes could be a result of changes in brain structure, such as a change in size or thickness of different parts of the brain. The investigators will look to see if these changes in brain structure happen through the results of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The investigators will do this by looking at the brain structure of lung cancer patients who have surgery and chemotherapy versus those who have surgery only.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: MRI Screening Form, MRI, Demographic / Medical Data form|OTHER: MRI Screening Form, MRI. Demographic / Medical Data
longitudinal structural changes in the brain, Using MRI in patients diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer in either the induction chemotherapy exposed or surgery-only group in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex or bilateral hippocampus, 1 month following completion of a 6 month course of induction chemotherapy or 7 months following surgery
longitudinal structural changes in the brain, Using MRI in patients diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer in the induction chemotherapy exposed group in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex or bilateral hippocampus., 1 month following completion of a 6 month course of induction chemotherapy
The purpose of this study is to learn about the effects of cancer treatment on the brain. Some cancer patients report changes in their memory or thinking after treatment. These changes could be a result of changes in brain structure, such as a change in size or thickness of different parts of the brain. The investigators will look to see if these changes in brain structure happen through the results of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The investigators will do this by looking at the brain structure of lung cancer patients who have surgery and chemotherapy versus those who have surgery only.