Robotic Versus Laparoscopic Surgery for Middle and Low Rectal Cancer: a Target Trial Emulation
This study aims to compare the effectiveness of robotic surgery versus laparoscopic surgery in treating low rectal cancer. While robotic surgery has gained popularity, there is limited long-term evidence regarding its outcomes. By using real-world data from a specialized multicenter colorectal cancer database in Shanghai, China, this retrospective cohort study will emulate the target trial to evaluate whether robotic surgery offers advantages over laparoscopic surgery. Key factors such as disease-free survival, locoregional recurrence, circumferential margin positivity, and postoperative complications will be examined. The goal is to provide stronger, evidence-based support for the clinical use of robotic surgery in treating low rectal cancer.
Rectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Robotic surgery|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic surgery
3-year postoperative disease-free survival rate, Disease-free survival event is defined as any death or locoregional recurrence or distant metastases., From surgery to three years postoperatively
Circumferential resection margin positivity rate, Circumferential resection margin positivity is defined as 1 mm or less from the tumor., 14 days during postoperative pathological examination|30-day postoperative complication rate (Clavien-Dindo grade 2 or higher grade), 30-day postoperative complication rate is defined according to the Clavien-Dindo grade system. Only complications in grade 2 or higher grade will be calculated., From surgery to 30 days postoperatively|rate of abdominoperineal resection, percentage of patients received abdominoperineal resection, 30 days after surgery|3-year postoperative locoregional recurrence rate, Locoregional recurrence is defined as any cancer recurrence in the pelvic or perineal area., From surgery to three years postoperatively
This study aims to compare the effectiveness of robotic surgery versus laparoscopic surgery in treating low rectal cancer. While robotic surgery has gained popularity, there is limited long-term evidence regarding its outcomes. By using real-world data from a specialized multicenter colorectal cancer database in Shanghai, China, this retrospective cohort study will emulate the target trial to evaluate whether robotic surgery offers advantages over laparoscopic surgery. Key factors such as disease-free survival, locoregional recurrence, circumferential margin positivity, and postoperative complications will be examined. The goal is to provide stronger, evidence-based support for the clinical use of robotic surgery in treating low rectal cancer.