Neoadjuvant Anti-PD-1 Immunotherapy With Chemotherapy in Resectable Locally Advanced Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to investigate the survival benefit of neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 immunotherapy plus TP chemotherapy compared with TP chemotherapy or up-front surgery in resectable locally advanced oral squamous cell carcinoma.
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Camrelizumab plus TP|DRUG: TP
Event-free Survival (EFS) Rate on Each Treatment Arm., EFS is the time from the date of randomization to the date of first record of disease progression as defined by RECIST 1.1., 24 months.
Overall Survival (OS) on Each Treatment Arm., OS is the time from randomization to death due to any cause., 24 months.|Radiographic Response., Clinical response of tumors and lymph nodes to neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade alone or neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade plus TPF induction chemotherapy, as evaluated by radiographic examinations and defined by RECIST 1.1.

Clinical response of tumors and lymph nodes to neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade alone or neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade plus TPF induction chemotherapy, as evaluated by radiographic examinations and defined by RECIST 1.1., 8 weeks.|Pathologic Response., Pathologic response of resected tumors and lymph nodes to neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade alone or neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade plus TPF induction chemotherapy. Pathologic response is defined as sum of pathologic complete response and major pathologic response. Pathologic complete response is defined as the absence of viable residual tumor in resected specimen. The rate of major pathologic response, defined as \<10% residual viable tumor cells in the resected specimen., 8 weeks.|Adverse Events (AEs)., Number of participants experiencing any sign, symptom, disease, or worsening of preexisting conditions temporally associated with the experimental interventions or irrespective of the experimental interventions., 24 months.
Changes in the Level of Circualting Exosomal PD-L1., The level of circulating exosomal PD-L1 at serial time points pre- and on-treatment, as detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)., 24 months.
On the basis of preliminary study, this study is to further verify the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 immunotherapy plus chemotherapy. The further purpose of this study is to investigate the survival benefit of neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 immunotherapy plus TP chemotherapy compared with TP chemotherapy or up-front surgery in resectable locally advanced oral squamous cell carcinoma. And on this basis, the investigators will explore the changes of the profiles and functions of immune cells within tumors, lymph nodes and peripheral blood after the experimental interventions, as well as their correlation with the patients' response and prognosis.