The Prevalence of Oral HPV Infection and Oral Lesions in People Living With HIV
The study will evaluate 300 people living with HIV that attend the Vivent Clinic for HIV care. We will characterize our population and include age, race/ethnicity, sex at birth, tobacco use, alcohol use, other comorbidities, HPV vaccination status, other HPV disease, and lab values such as CD4 count and HIV viral load. We will compare results between participants who are HPV positive and negative. We will also evaluate the relationship between HPV oral infections and lesions and the variables above to better understand possible predictors of HPV infections and lesions.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus|Human Papilloma Virus
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Oral HPV Sample
HPV Prevalence in people living with HIV, To evaluate the prevalence of positive oral HPV in a population of PLWH and to compare prevalence rate with the historically documented prevalence rates in the general population, single visit study for participants and will collect 300 oral samples at the visit and will analyze samples and statistics after completion of enrolling 300 participants in approximately 18 months from the start study
Demographics of other factors to oral HPV, To evaluate the correlation of HIV disease factors and demographics in study participatants including CD4 nadir, recent CD4, recent viral load, sexual activity, HPV vaccination status , age, sex, and race compared to participants with samples that are positive for oral HPV, This is a single visit study for participants and will collect 300 oral samples at the visit and will analyze samples and will compare participant demographics with HIV disease state in approximately 18 months from the start study|Correlation of other factors to oral HPV, To evaluate the correlation of factors including CD4 nadir, recent CD4, recent viral load, sexual activity, HPV vaccination status, age, sex, and race with the prevalence of oral HPV, This is a single visit study for participants analyze samples and participant demographic in approximately 18 months from the start study|Oral lesion prevalence with HPV positive samples, To evaluate the prevalence of oral lesions in patients who test positive for oral HPV through screening, This is a single visit study for participants and will analyze samples and participant demographics with any oral lesions in approximately 18 months from the start study
Vivent Health is a non-profit medical home model dedicated to the primary care of People Living with HIV (PLWH) and also provides pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), Hepatitis C, and sexually transmitted infection (STI) treatment. The organization has clinics in Wisconsin (multiple cities), Denver, St. Louis, Austin and Kansas City. All insurances except Kaiser are honored and non-insured people are able to be seen. The Denver medical clinic is a designated medical home that provides adult primary medical and specialty care to approximately 1000 + PLWH. In additional to medical care, this clinic has an onsite pharmacy, case management, HIV and Hepatitis C prevention department, syringe access program, legal department, housing specialists, food bank, a mental health program and dental services. Vivent Health in Denver cares for a diverse population with approximately 11% African-American, 13% Latino, and a recently increasing percentage of women around 13%. This clinic has a strong Electronic Health Record System (EHR- Epic) which provides ample opportunity to recruit a robust study population to investigate the following co-morbidities which might increase the risk of oral HPV infection and related lesions. Given the lack of recommended routine screening for oral HPV in the absence of established masses or lesions, there is a wealth of opportunities to investigate risk factors associated with the presence and prevalence of oral HPV which, in turn, can potentially be used to inform screening and treatment protocols. This proposal is designed to evaluate the prevalence of oral HPV infections and associated oral lesions and associated demographics in HIV treatment clinic.