Methylnaltrexone for Opioid-induced Constipation in Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of methylnaltrexone in relieving opioid-induced constipation in cancer patients at various stages of disease.
Neoplasms|Constipation|Opioid-Related Disorders
DRUG: Methylnaltrexone bromide
Rescue-free Laxation After Administration of Subcutaneous Methylnaltrexone, 4 hours after the dose of subcutaneous methylnaltrexone
Laxation After Administration of Subcutaneous Methylnaltrexone, 24 and 48 hours after the dose of subcutaneous methylnaltrexone|Time to Laxation After Administration of Subcutaneous Methylnaltrexone, 48 hours after the dose of subcutaneous methylnaltrexone|Overall Pain Scores (0-10; 0=no Pain, 10=Worst Pain) After Administration of Subcutaneous Methylnaltrexone, 48 hours after the dose of subcutaneous methylnaltrexone|Symptoms of Opioid Withdrawal (Modified Himmelsbach Withdrawal Scales (Ranging 7-28 in Total; 1=None - 4=Severe for 7 Items)) After Administration of Subcutaneous Methylnaltrexone, 48 hours after the dose of subcutaneous methylnaltrexone|Bowel Movement Assessment (Frequency, Consistency and Difficulty) After Administration of Subcutaneous Methylnaltrexone, 48 hours after the dose of subcutaneous methylnaltrexone|Constipation Assessment (Severity and Distress) After Administration of Subcutaneous Methylnaltrexone, 48 hours after the dose of subcutaneous methylnaltrexone|Patient Satisfaction With the Study Medication After Administration of Subcutaneous Methylnaltrexone, 48 hours after the dose of subcutaneous methylnaltrexone
Pain is one of the most common and important symptoms of cancer, often requiring opioid analgesics for control. However constipation is one of the most frequent and debilitating side effects of opioids, occurring in 40%-70% of patients being treated for chronic pain. Although laxatives are commonly used to manage opioid-induced constipation, these agents are not always effective or satisfactory. Methylnaltrexone bromide is a peripherally acting antagonist of the mu-opioid receptor. As a quaternary amine, the ability of methylnaltrexone to cross the blood-brain barrier is limited. This allows methylnaltrexone to function as a peripherally-acting antagonist in the gastrointestinal tract without impacting opioid-mediated analgesic effects in the central nervous system. The efficacy and safety of methylnaltrexone in treating opioid-induced constipation in patients with advanced disease receiving palliative care has been demonstrated. However the efficacy of this agent has not been evaluated in more active patients who are earlier in their disease course. The present study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of methylnaltrexone for the relief of severe opioid-induced constipation in this population and will attempt to identify factors predictive of methylnaltrexone response.