Lenalidomide, Thalidomide and Dexamethasone in Treating Participants With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose and side effects of lenalidomide and thalidomide, and how well they work with dexamethasone in treating participants with multiple myeloma that has come back or does not respond to treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, thalidomide and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Thalidomide
Number of Participants With Dose Limitations Toxicities of the Combination of Lenalidomide and Thalidomide and Dexamethasone (LTD) in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma (RRMM), To determine the dose limitations toxicities of the combination of lenalidomide and thalidomide and dexamethasone (LTD) in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM)., After one 28-day cycle|Complete Response(CR) and Very Good Partial Response(VGPR), To determine the best overall response (CR+VGPR+PR) of the lenalidomide, thalidomide, dexamethasone combination based on IMWG criteria at nadir., Evaluated each 28-day cycle and nadir of criteria is considered best overall response (median time to best response for this study was 2 cycles (range for best overall response was 1-21 cycles).
Time to Progression, Time to Progression was estimated using Kaplan Meier analysis., Up to 9 years|Progression Free Survival, Estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups was made using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazard regression will be employed for multivariate analysis on time-to-event outcomes., Up to 9 years|Time to Best Response, Estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups was made using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazard regression will be employed for multivariate analysis on time-to-event outcomes., Up to 9 years|Incidence of Adverse Events, Linear regression was utilized to assess the effect of patient prognostic factors on the toxicity rate., Up to 9 years|Time to Next Therapy, Estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 4.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of lenalidomide and thalidomide and dexamethasone (LTD) in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). (Phase 1) II. To determine the overall (complete remission \[CR)\]+ very good partial response \[VGPR\]+ partial response \[PR)\] response rate of the combination after 4 cycles of therapy. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR). (Phase 1) II. To determine the time to progression (TTP). (Phase 1) III. To determine the progression free survival (PFS). (Phase 1) IV. To determine the time to best response. (Phase 1) V. To determine the CR, VGPR. (Phase 2) VI. To determine the time to progression (TTP). (Phase 2) VII. To determine the progression free survival (PFS). (Phase 2) VIII. To determine the time to best response. (Phase 2) IX. To assess the safety of the combination of LTD in patients with RRMM. (Phase 2) X. Time to next therapy. (Phase 2) XI. Symptom measurement - multiple-symptom assessment tool. (Phase 2)

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide and thalidomide.

Participants receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21 and thalidomide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Participants also receive dexamethasone PO QD on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20 of courses 1-2, and days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of subsequent courses. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Participants who have stable or responding disease to treatment receive lenalidomide PO on days 1-21 and thalidomide PO QD on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants may receive dexamethasone at the discretion of the investigator.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.