An Investigational Drug, PF-02341066 Is Being Studied Versus Standard Of Care In Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With A Specific Gene Profile Involving The Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) Gene
This is a Phase 3 trial comparing the safety and anti-tumor activity of PF-02341066 versus pemetrexed or docetaxel in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with specific gene profile involving the ALK gene after failure of one previous chemotherapy regimen that included one platinum drug.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: PF-02341066|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Docetaxel
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS: Time in months from randomization to first documentation of objective disease progression as determined by independent radiology review or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PFS was calculated as (first event date minus the date of randomization plus 1) divided by 30.4. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), as at least a 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Randomization until progressive disease (PD) or initiation of antitumor therapy in the absence of PD or death, assessed every 6 weeks (up to 112 weeks)
Overall Survival (OS), OS: Time in months from randomization to date of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (the death date minus the date of randomization plus 1) divided by 30.4., Randomization until death (up to 4.5 years)|Overall Survival Probability at Months 6 and 12, Overall survival probability at Month 6 and 12 was defined as the probability of survival at 6 and 12 months respectively, after the randomization of study treatment. The survival probability was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Month 6, 12|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR), Percentage of participants with objective response based on assessment of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST v1.1. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level, all lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 millimeter \[mm\] short axis). PR: at least 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits. Objective response is based on independent radiology review., Randomization until PD or initiation of antitumor therapy in the absence of PD or death, assessed every 6 weeks (up to 112 weeks)|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control at Week 6, Disease control: participants with CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) according to RECIST v1.1. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level, all lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR: at least 30 % decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD: at least a 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions. Disease control is based on independent radiology review., Week 6|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control at Week 12, Disease control: participants with CR, PR, or SD according to RECIST v1.1. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level, all lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR: at least 30 % decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD: at least a 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Week 12|Duration of Response (DR), Time in weeks from the first documentation of objective tumor response to objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. Duration of tumor response was calculated as (the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause minus the date of the first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed plus 1) divided by 7.02. DR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with a confirmed objective tumor response., Randomization until PD or initiation of antitumor therapy in the absence of PD or death, assessed every 6 weeks (up to 112 weeks)|Time to Tumor Response (TTR), Time from date of randomization to first documentation of objective tumor response. TTR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with objective tumor response. Objective tumor response was defined as CR or PR according to RECIST v1.1. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level, all lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). PR: at least 30 % decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits., Randomization until PD or initiation of antitumor therapy in the absence of PD or death, assessed every 6 weeks (up to 112 weeks)|Plasma Concentration of Crizotinib, Only participants receiving crizotinib were to be analyzed for this outcome measure as per planned analysis., Pre-dose on Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 15, and Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 5|Number of Participants With Categorical Maximum QTcF for Crizotinib, QT interval corrected using Fridericia's formula (QTcF): QT interval (time corresponding to the beginning of depolarization to re-polarization of the ventricles) divided by cube root of RR interval. Maximum QTcF was categorized as less than (\<) 450 milliseconds (msec), 450 msec to \<480 msec, 480 msec to \<500 msec, and more than or equal to (\>=) 500 msec. A participant is reported only once under the maximum QTcF interval observed at any of the time-points. Only participants receiving crizotinib were to be analyzed for this outcome measure as per planned analysis., Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2 to 6 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2|Plasma Concentration of Soluble c-Met Ectodomain and Hepatocyte Growth Factor Scatter Proteins, Descriptive statistics (absolute value and change from baseline as measured by ratio to baseline) for each best overall response category (CR, PR, SD, PD or combined) have been used to summarize the data from optional soluble c-Met ectodomain assays for crizotinib treated patients., Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2 to 6 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2, end of treatment (up to 112 weeks)|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in Participant Reported Pain, Dyspnea, and Cough, TTD in pain (pain in chest from European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Supplement Module for Lung Cancer \[EORTC QLQ-LC13\]), dyspnea (from EORTC QLQ-LC13), or cough (from EORTC QLQ-LC13) symptoms was defined as the time from randomization to the earliest time the participant's score showed a 10 point or higher increase from baseline in any of the three symptoms from the instrument. The transformed score of pain, dyspnea, and cough symptom scales of EORTC QLQ-LC13 range from 0 to 100, greater scores = higher symptom severity., Baseline up to end of treatment (up to 112 weeks)|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), EORTC QLQ-C30: included global health status/quality of life (QoL), functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4- point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for Global Qol/functional scales=better level of QoL/functioning or higher score for symptom scale=greater degree of symptoms., Baseline, Day (D) 1 of each cycle (C) until disease progression, end of treatment (EOT, up to 112 weeks)|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Supplement Module for Lung Cancer (EORTC QLQ-LC13), QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, chest pain, arm pain, other pain, and medicine for pain). Recall period: past week; response range: 1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'. Scores averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale; higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms., Baseline, Day 1 of each cycle until disease progression, end of treatment (up to 112 weeks)|European Quality of Life - 5 Dimensional (EQ-5D) Visual Analog Scale (VAS), EQ-5D: participant rated questionnaire to assess health-related quality of life in terms of a single index value. The VAS component rates current health state on a scale from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state); higher scores indicate a better health state., Baseline, Day 1 of each cycle until disease progression, end of treatment (up to 112 weeks)
This is a Phase 3 trial comparing the safety and anti-tumor activity of PF-02341066 versus pemetrexed or docetaxel in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with specific gene profile involving the ALK gene after failure of one previous chemotherapy regimen that included one platinum drug.