Fecal DNA Methylation Test for Colorectal Cancer Screening
This is an observational, prospective study using fecal DNA methylation test to define the risk of suffering from advanced adenoma or colorectal cancer (CRC) compared to colonoscopy and fecal immunochemical test (FIT).

This study recruits at least 80 participants, including 40 people of healthy controls, 20 people with adenoma, and 20 people with CRC, which were confirmed by colonoscopy. All fecal specimens from participants will be examined by FIT and multi-methylated target gene detection through real-time quantitative methylation-specific PCR (qMSP).

The objective of this study is to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of multi-methylated target PCR compared with the FIT and confirm the examination results through colonoscopy.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Adenoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Stool DNA methylation detection
Sensitivity and specificity of methylation biomarker and FIT for adenoma and colorectal cancer screening, In this study, we estimate the sensitivity and specificity of methylation biomarker isolated from participant's stool DNA and perform FIT simultaneously.

The Ct values of candidate genes and GAPDH (reference gene) are determined by real-time PCR. The delta Ct values are calculated by Ct value of candidate gene - Ct value of GAPDH. Furthermore, the cut-off value of each candidate gene was determined based on the Receiver Operating Characteristic curve.

If the value of Fecal immunochemical test is more than 100 ng Hb/ml, the stool is considered as positive with fecal occult blood., 6 months
The incidence rate and the mortality rate of colorectal cancer (CRC) have been steadily increasing worldwide. Early detection of CRC can provide great opportunities to help patients, increasing their 5-year survival rate. Colonoscopy has been considered as the golden standard of CRC screening method, but the invasive procedures cannot be widely adapted by recipients.

Nowadays, the most common CRC screening method is fecal immunochemical test (FIT) which is a cost-effective and non-invasive approach. The sensitivity of FIT for CRC detection is about 80%, but only 20% for adenoma.

The methylation level of candidate genes are determined by qMSP to estimate the risk of colorectal cancer. This study implements fecal DNA methylation test and fecal immunochemical test simultaneously to evaluate whether the fecal DNA methylation test can improve the detection rate of adenoma and CRC.