Cannabis for Palliative Care in Cancer
Many cancer patients suffer from pain, sleep, and mood problems and are using cannabis to relieve these symptoms. Cannabis may provide such relief but may also produce negative side effects including cognitive impairment, an especially problematic issue for cancer patients, indicating more research on cannabis use in the cancer context is required. In this endeavor, the present study seeks to compare the use of hemp-derived CBD (Cannabidiol) with and without THC (Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol) versus placebo on measures of sleep, pain, mood, subjective and objective cognitive functioning, and quality of life within 185 cancer patients.
Sleep|Anxiety|Depression|Pain
DRUG: fsCBD Cannabidiol|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: bsCBD Cannabidiol
Pain Interference, PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Pain Interference. Total scores are between 8 and 40, with higher scores meaning more pain interference., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Pain Intensity, PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Pain Intensity (7-day). Scores are between 0-10, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst imaginable pain., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Pain Inventory, Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) survey. Measures pain levels, pain interference, and relief from medication, and includes diagrams for labeling pain. For pain levels, various questions ask participants to rate pain on a scale of 0-10, 0 being no pain and 10 being pain as bad as you can imagine. For questions about pain interference, each question is on a scale of 0-10, where 0 does not interfere and 10 completely interferes. BPI is scored as an average of each subsection, where a higher average suggests greater severity of pain/more interference., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Sleep Disturbance, PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Sleep Disturbance 4a. Scores are separated between the first question (sleep quality) and the remaining 7 questions. For the first question, scores are between 1 and 5, with 1 being very poor sleep quality and 5 being very good sleep quality. The remaining 7 questions are scored individually on a scale of 1--5; for some questions, higher scores mean less disturbance, and for others, a higher score means more disturbance., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Sleep-Related Impairment, PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Sleep-Related Impairment 4a. Scores are between 4 and 20, with higher scores indicating more sleep-related impairment, Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Depression/Anxiety, Depression Anxiety Stress Scale - 21 Item (DASS-21). Scores are between 0 and 63, with higher scores indicating more negative emotional states., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Fatigue, PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Fatigue 4a. Scores range from 4-20, with higher scores indicating more fatigue., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Health Related Quality of Life, Health Related Quality of Life Short Form 12 (SF-12). Scores range from 0-100 with higher scores indicating better health., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|FACT-Cog Cognitive Function, Functional Assessment of Cognitive Function - Cognitive (FACT-Cog). Scores are transformed such that scores range from 0-132 and higher scores indicate a better quality of life/cognitive function., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Stroop Task Test of Cognitive Function, Stroop Task, Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|DSST Test of Cognitive Function, Digit Symbol Substitution Task (DSST), Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Conners Test of Cognitive Function, Conners Continuous Performance Test - Version 3 (CPT-3), Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Plasma Cannabinoids, Plasma cannabinoid levels in participants will be measured from biological samples., Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|PROMIS Pain Intensity (Right Now), PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Pain Intensity (Right Now). Scores are between 0-10, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst imaginable pain., 4 weeks|Drug Effects, Drug Effects Questionnaire (DEQ). Six questions about drug effects with possible answers of "not at all", "somewhat", and "extremely", where higher scores indicate higher drug effects., 4 weeks|ARCI-Marijuana Scale, Addiction Research Center Inventory - Marijuana Scale (ARCI-M). 12 True or false questions where more "true" answers indicate higher drug effects., 4 weeks|Drug Effects - Mood, Profile of Mood States (POMS). Scores are between 28-140, with higher scores indicating higher drug effects., 4 weeks|Drug Effects - Blood Cannabinoids, Acute plasma cannabinoid levels in participants will be measured from blood samples pre-drug administration, on-hour post drug administration, and 2-hours post drug administration at week 4 appointment., 4 weeks
Polypharmacy for Pain, Use of pain medications, Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Polypharmacy for Psychiatric Rx, Use of psychiatric medications, Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks|Polypharmacy for Sleep, Use of sleep medications, Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks
Cancer Treatment Type, Type of treatment participant is using for cancer, including specific type of immunotherapy, if relevant and known, Baseline|Cancer Disease Progression, Assess cancer disease progression and report as outcome, Baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks
Many cancer patients suffer from pain, sleep, and mood problems and are using cannabis to relieve these symptoms. Cannabis may provide such relief but may also produce negative side effects including cognitive impairment, an especially problematic issue for cancer patients, indicating more research on cannabis use in the cancer context is required. In this endeavor, the present study seeks to compare the use of hemp-derived CBD (Cannabidiol) with and without THC (Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol) versus placebo on measures of sleep, pain, mood, subjective and objective cognitive functioning, and quality of life within 185 cancer patients.