Ensartinib in Combination With Bevacizumab in ALK-positive NSCLC Patients With TP53 Mutation
This is a prospective, single-arm, multicenter, phase II study to investigate the efficacy and safety of Ensartinib plus Bevacizumab in metastatic anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-rearranged Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with TP53 mutation.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Ensartinib|DRUG: Bevacizumab
12-month Progression-free Survival (PFS) rate, Progression-free survival (PFS) using Investigator assessment as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from beginning of study treatment until the date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression), regardless of whether the patient withdraws from randomized therapy or receives another anti-cancer therapy prior to progression. Patients who have not progressed or died at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of the latest date of assessment from their last evaluable Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) assessment., The primary analysis of 12-month PFS rate based on investigator assessment will occur when PFS maturity is observed at approximately 12 months after the first patient begin study treatment
PFS, PFS using Investigator assessment as defined by RECIST 1.1. PFS is defined as the time from beginning of study treatment until the date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression), regardless of whether the patient withdraws from randomized therapy or receives another anti-cancer therapy prior to progression. Patients who have not progressed or died at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of the latest date of assessment from their last evaluable RECIST assessment., Through study completion, an average of 18 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who attained Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR). As per RECIST v1.1, CR: Disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm, PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., 8 weeks|Duration of Response (DoR), DOR was defined as the time from when response (CR or PR) was first documented to first documented disease progression or death, 12 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the proportion of CR+PR+SD subjects to total subjects, through study completion, an average of 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., Through study completion, an average of 18 months|Disease-related symptom improvement, To measure disease-related symptoms we will apply the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS). The LCSS is designed as a disease-specific measure of quality of life particularly for use in clinical trials. It evaluates six major symptoms associated with lung malignancies and their effect on overall symptomatic distress, functional activities, and global quality of life. The scale consists of two segments, one completed by the patient (9 items) and one completed by the health care professional (6 items). Scoring is assigned as follows: The patient scale consists of 9 visual analogue scales (100 mm horizontal line). Patient puts a mark on line to indicate intensity of response to the items in question (0 = lowest rating). The observer scale consists of a 5-point categorical scale (100=none; 75=mild; 50=moderate; 25=marked; 0=severe). The score is equal to the length of line marked by patient. An average of the aggregate score of all 9 items is the total score (0-100, 0= least symptom burden)., 12 weeks since treatment start
Patients with advanced or metastatic NSCLC with ALK positive and TP53 mutation were clinically confirmed. Medical history collection, physical examination, laboratory examination, concomitant diseases and medication records were taken according to the patient's diagnosis and treatment. Laboratory examination included but not limited to blood routine and blood biochemical examination. To determine whether patients were suitable for treatment with Ensartinib combined with Bevacizumab according to the entry and exclusion criteria. For patients who met the prescription, blood samples were collected within 1 week before medication. Imaging examination was performed every 6 weeks (±7 days) in the first 2 years and every 12 weeks (±7 days) in the second 2 years. Examination items included chest CT, head MRI; See if additional tests (e.g., bone scan, total abdominal augmentation) are needed based on the actual clinical situation. When the disease progresses, blood samples should be collected within 4 weeks after the disease progression, and if possible, tumor tissues of the progressive lesions after the disease progression should be collected. Patients can choose to continue to use the regimen recommended by the doctor if the doctor considers that the use of Ensartinib therapy or combination therapy may still bring benefit to the patient. The follow-up treatment plan, the best efficacy evaluation, and the duration of treatment were recorded. When the end point of follow-up was reached, that is, the patient died or was lost to follow-up, the date of death or loss and the main causes should be tracked and recorded in detail.