Pre-operative Atezolizumab in Patients With Resectable, Human Papillomavirus Related Oropharyngeal Carcinoma
This phase II trial tests how well atezolizumab works in treating patients with human papillomavirus (HPV) related oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma that is able to be removed with surgery (resectable). Immunotherapy with atezolizumab, may include changes in the body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Oropharynx Cancer, Stage I
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Transoral Surgery with cervical lymphadenctomy (neck dissection)|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, From the first dose of study drug to 30 days after the last dose of the study drug|Pathologic response, Defined as human papillomavirus (HPV) circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) level by interval change in pre- versus post-treatment HPV ctDNA level., After cycle 2 (each cycle is 21 days) and prior to surgery (for ctDNA changes) and on final pathologic analysis 14 days after surgery|Event-free survival (EFS), Defined as the time from the first administration of 2 doses of single agent atezolizumab to the date of recurrence or death due to any cause, and patients who did not experience recurrence or death will be censored at the last evaluable disease assessment. The EFS distribution will be estimated by constructing a Kaplan-Meier curve with estimation of 2-year EFS rate and 95% CI., From the first administration of atezolizumab to date of recurrence, death or up to 2 years
Association of biomarkers with pathological response status, Tested by two-sample t-test with p-value being adjusted for multiple testing using Tukey's method. The longitudinal change pattern (e.g., increase or decrease) of a biomarker over the course of treatment will be captured and described graphically. Both change pattern and baseline values of a biomarker will be used to associate with EFS using Cox proportional hazard model to see whether it can be predictive or prognostic. The predictive performance will be summarized as Uno's C-index and 95% CI for discrimination. Multivariable model in logistic regression or Cox regression will be further considered to control possible confounding effects in the correlation due to the nature of observational trial and correlative design., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety tolerability of 2 doses of single agent atezolizumab in HPV-driven oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC).

II. To determine the pathologic response to 2 doses of single agent atezolizumab in HPV-driven OPSCC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the event free survival at 2 years after treated with this approach followed by pathologic directed adjuvant therapy.

EXPLORATORY EFFICACY OBJECTIVES:

I. The exploratory efficacy objective for this study is to evaluate the efficacy of atezolizumab compared with control (previously studied and published in Nature) on the basis of the following endpoints:

Ia. Determine a biomarker profile of responders versus non-responders to atezolizumab by examining the following biomarkers in the tissue and blood.

Ib. Confirm that PD-1 blockade with atezolizumab will result in an effective proliferation and differentiation PD1+, TCF1+ stem like tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the tumor microenvironment (TME) of patients in HPV-driven OPSCC (correlate these findings with pathologic response).

Ic. Study the temporal differentiation and migration of effector-like cells and their correlation with evidence of pathologic response and tumor immune infiltration.

Id. Correlate these findings with evidence of response using circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) in the peripheral blood.

Ie. Examine the B-cell antigen specific cell (ASC) infiltration and characteristics in the TME of patients and correlate these findings with clinical and pathologic responses.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) while on study. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study. Patients may undergo tumor biopsy while on study.