Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy and Virtual Reality Relaxation Programs for Pain Management in Patients With Cancer
This study attempts to measure pain severity, location of pain, and feasibility in patients with cancer using functional near-infrared spectroscopy and virtual reality relaxation programs. Functional near-infrared spectroscopy and virtual reality relaxation programs may help relieve pain in patients with cancer who are receiving treatment.
Breast Carcinoma|Kidney Carcinoma|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Malignant Thoracic Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Virtual Technology Intervention
Gain knowledge of Brain activity during pain, Computational neuroscience algorithms and graph theories will be used to extract informative patterns of brain activity and diagnose the stimulated brain areas associated with pain and pain severity as well as any relationships between pain severity, functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) measures, and visual perception., Up to 4 years
Determine if utilizing virtual reality technologies significantly alleviate pain through distraction, By utilizing virtual reality relaxation program we will analyze brain activity to find out how this distraction is controlled by the brain., Up to 4 years|Reason for pain alleviation caused by virtual reality techniques, Measured by fNIRS and quantified by signal processing and network neuroscience algorithms, to find out the reason for pain alleviation caused by virtual reality techniques. We will also investigate if cognitive distraction can be the main reason., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Develop an algorithm for objective evaluation of pain severity and distinguish the location of pain without needing patient cooperation.

II. Find the relationship between fNIRS (functional near-infrared spectroscopy) features and severity of pain as well as the relationship (if any) between perceived pain severity and visual perception.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Investigate the effect (and the reasoning of the effect) of alleviating severity of perceived pain utilizing virtual reality techniques.

II. Monitor changes of brain activity to find out the reason for pain alleviation caused by virtual reality techniques and/or cognitive distraction.

OUTLINE: Healthy participants are assigned to group A. Cancer patients are randomized to group B or group C.

GROUP A: Participants undergo fNIRS for over 15 minutes.

GROUP B: Patients undergo fNIRS for over 15 minutes followed by a relaxation period using virtual reality (VR) for over 15 minutes.

GROUP C: Patients undergo fNIRS for over 15 minutes.

GROUP D: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arm:

ARM I - Patients undergo fNIRS for over 15 minutes followed by a relaxation period using VR for over 15 minutes.

ARM II: Patients undergo fNIRS for over 15 minutes