Hyperpolarized Imaging in Diagnosing Participants With Glioma
This pilot trial studies the side effects of hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in diagnosing participants with glioma. Diagnostic procedures, such as hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate MRI, may help find and diagnose glioma.
Glioma
RADIATION: Hyperpolarized Carbon C 13 Pyruvate|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Chemotherapy
Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be monitored from just before investigational medicinal product (IMP) administration until the end of study participation. Vital signs (blood pressure and heart rate only) will be recorded at baseline and 30 minutes post injection. For blood pressures and heart rate recorded after IMP administration, the following safety endpoints will be summarized for each part of the study: (1) The occurrence of changes from baseline, at each post-administration time point, greater than a pre-specified magnitude (20 mm Hg for systolic blood pressure, 10 mm Hg for diastolic blood pressure, 10 beats per minute for heart rate). (2) The occurrence of post-administration values outside the normal limits. Toxicities will be graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology (Toxicity) Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 24 months|Peak lactate/pyruvate ratio in brain tissue, The lactate/pyruvate ratio and/or glutamate/pyruvate will be compared in tumor versus normal appearing brain tissue. Comparisons will be made using a Wilcoxon signed rank test., Up to 24 months|Peak lactate/pyruvate ratio in (13C) pyruvate scan, The lactate/pyruvate ratio and/or glutamate/pyruvate from baseline will be compared to the ratio on the post-radiation therapy (RT) repeat scan. Comparisons will be made using a Wilcoxon signed rank test., Up to 4 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and feasibility of hyperpolarized 13C MR metabolic imaging as a new and unique tool for evaluating tumor burden and detecting early response to therapy in participants with glioma.

II. To define the most appropriate imaging parameters for obtaining hyperpolarized 13C data from the brain, one hundred participants with evidence of residual disease from a prior MRI examination will have hyperpolarized metabolic imaging after receiving one or two injections of hyperpolarized 13 C pyruvate. For participants who are willing to receive two injections, the 2nd injection will be used to assess reproducibility, evaluate the performance of new acquisition methods, or compare metabolism between \[1-13C\]pyruvate and \[213C\]pyruvate.

III. To establish the time course of changes in hyperpolarized pyruvate and lactate peaks on a voxel by voxel basis from the dynamic hyperpolarized data after the injection(s) of hyperpolarized 13C pyruvate. Twenty participants will be studied before and after treatment with treatment in order to determine the time course of delivery of 13C pyruvate and the location of maximum pyruvate and lactate or glutamate signals in normal brain and in the region of T2 hyperintensity (T2L).

IV. To evaluate if participants who receive treatment with standard radiation and temozolomide exhibit a reduction in hyperpolarized 13C lactate/pyruvate or 13C glutamate/pyruvate at post-radiation follow-up compared to their baseline scan. A second group of twenty participants will be studied at the time determined from the prior group to provide the maximum contrast between lactate/pyruvate or glutamate/pyruvate in the lesion versus normal brain.

OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Participants receive one or two hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate injections intravenously (IV) and undergo MRI.

COHORT II: Participants receive hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate IV and undergo MRI before treatment and 4 weeks after completion of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed for up to 24 months.