MaxAn Post Market Surveillance Validation
This study is being performed to document the outcomes of subjects using our MaxAn Anterior Cervical Plate and assess them for Adjacent level Disease. All subjects will be followed for 2 years.
DDD|Deformity|Tumor|Fracture
Number of Participants With Differing Severity of Adjacent Level Ossification, Qualitatively assessed by an independent Radiologist using lateral radiographs Grade 0 - None Grade 1 - Mild (if the ossification extended across \<50% of the disc space) Grade 2 - Moderate (if the ossification extended across ≥ 50% of the disc space) Grade 3 - Severe (if there is complete bridging of the adjacent disc space), 24 Months
Change in Neck Disability Index (NDI), The Neck Disability Index (NDI) is a patient-completed, condition-specific functional status questionnaire with 10 items including pain, personal care, lifting, reading, headaches, concentration, work, driving, sleeping and recreation. Each section is scored on a 0 to 5 rating scale, in which zero means 'No pain' and 5 means 'Worst imaginable pain', with the points summed to a total score. The test can be interpretated as a raw score, with a minimum score of 0 and a maximum score of 50. A higher score indicates more patient-rated disability. To use the NDI for patient decisions, a clinically important change was calculated as 5 points., 24 Months
The purpose of this Post Market Surveillance Validation is to document the performance and clinical outcomes of the MaxAn® Anterior Cervical Plate System. Dr. Park, et.al conducted a retrospective review and found a positive association between adjacent-level ossification following anterior cervical plate procedures and the plate-to-disc distance. 1 They concluded that when the anterior cervical plates were placed at least 5mm away from the adjacent disc spaces, there was a decrease in the likelihood of moderate-to-severe adjacent-level ossification. The design of the MaxAn Anterior Cervical Plate and accompanying technique allows this type of plate placement; therefore we will be looking at the radiographic outcomes of these subjects and comparing them to the retrospective chart review conducted by Dr. Park using the MaxAn Technique allows you to achieve plate placement of 5mm from the supraadjacent level which will help minimize the risk of adjacent level ossification.