Integrative "Omics" Approaches for Leukemia Target Identification and Matched Therapeutic Intervention
The goal of this clinical trial is to use multiple "omics" sciences to more thoroughly investigate Acute Recurrent/Refractory Leukemias (LA R/R) after conventional therapy in order to identify new targets and/or therapeutic approaches, in patients with a diagnosis of Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia/ Lymphoblastic Lymphoma B(ALL-B), Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia/Lymphoblastic Lymphoma T (ALL-T), Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia/II as defined by WHO( World Health Organization) 2016, relapsed or refractory after at least one line of therapy. The main question that the trial aims to answer is: "Can molecules with known biological activity be active and represent possible new therapeutic strategies in relapsed/refractory Acute Leukemias on the basis of response profiles identified through the integration of next-generation chemogenomic and functional analyses? " It is expected that a minimum of 100 patients, male and female, aged 18 years and older, will be included. To participate in the study, the patient must consent to the performance on biological specimen (peripheral blood and bone marrow) of genetic/molecular and/or "omics" investigations performed with modern sequencing techniques, such as Next Generation Sequencing, Single Cell RNA Seq (scRNAseq), RT-qPCR(Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction). These investigations will aim to improve the understanding of the genetic and molecular alterations of her disease. In addition, your cells will be used in the laboratory to perform in vitro sensitivity studies (drug response profiling - DRP) that aim to simultaneously test a set of hundreds of drugs to assess sensitivity or resistance profiles of your disease cells with the aim of identifying specific new therapies that target specific cellular mechanisms. In addition, part of the biological sample will be used for investigations of the bone marrow microenvironment and the "secretome", i.e., cell signaling molecules and methods. In order to accomplish this study, samples from peripheral or bone marrow blood taken during routine investigations performed during follow-up and re-evaluation visits for the patient's disease as per normal clinical practice will be used. Among the investigations that will be performed on the blood sample will be the genetic/molecular and/or omics and preclinical investigations described above.
Myeloid Leukemia, Acute|Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic
BIOLOGICAL: Functional tests|GENETIC: Next Generation Sequencing analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Microvesicles analysis
Frequencies of alternative therapies identified for AL patients, Number of patients treated with alternative therapies, 12 months
Functional and chemogenomic profiling, Dose-response curves for each drug tested, genetic profile for NGS analyses, description of vesicles contents, 24 months
The goal of this clinical trial is to use multiple "omics" sciences to more thoroughly investigate Acute Recurrent/Refractory Leukemias (LA R/R) after conventional therapy in order to identify new targets and/or therapeutic approaches, in patients with a diagnosis of Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia/ Lymphoblastic Lymphoma B(ALL-B), Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia/Lymphoblastic Lymphoma T (ALL-T), Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia/II as defined by WHO( World Health Organization) 2016, relapsed or refractory after at least one line of therapy. The main question that the trial aims to answer is: "Can molecules with known biological activity be active and represent possible new therapeutic strategies in relapsed/refractory Acute Leukemias on the basis of response profiles identified through the integration of next-generation chemogenomic and functional analyses? " It is expected that a minimum of 100 patients, male and female, aged 18 years and older, will be included. To participate in the study, the patient must consent to the performance on biological specimen (peripheral blood and bone marrow) of genetic/molecular and/or "omics" investigations performed with modern sequencing techniques, such as Next Generation Sequencing, Single Cell RNA Seq (scRNAseq), RT-qPCR(Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction). These investigations will aim to improve the understanding of the genetic and molecular alterations of her disease. In addition, your cells will be used in the laboratory to perform in vitro sensitivity studies (drug response profiling - DRP) that aim to simultaneously test a set of hundreds of drugs to assess sensitivity or resistance profiles of your disease cells with the aim of identifying specific new therapies that target specific cellular mechanisms. In addition, part of the biological sample will be used for investigations of the bone marrow microenvironment and the "secretome", i.e., cell signaling molecules and methods. In order to accomplish this study, samples from peripheral or bone marrow blood taken during routine investigations performed during follow-up and re-evaluation visits for the patient's disease as per normal clinical practice will be used. Among the investigations that will be performed on the blood sample will be the genetic/molecular and/or omics and preclinical investigations described above.