Castration Compared to Castration Plus Metformin as First Line Treatment for Patients With Advanced Prostate Cancer
Prostate cancer is the most common non-cutaneous cancer in men. Patients with recurrent or metastatic prostate cancer are treated with androgen-deprivation therapy, often termed castration therapy. While the short and medium term benefits of castration are clear in relation to therapeutic efficacy in patients with prostate cancer, it is now appreciated that the resulting hypogonadism associated with castration is responsible for adverse consequences or metabolic syndrome that include increase in body mass index (BMI) and fat mass, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia, reduced lean body mass (LBM) and muscle strength, osteoporosis, sexual dysfunction, poor quality of life and higher cardiovascular mortality. Lower testosterone levels in men independently predict the development of metabolic syndrome. Low testosterone levels in men are associated with insulin resistance and diabetes. Metformin is commonly prescribed for the treatment of type II diabetes because it lowers both glucose and insulin levels. Studies show preliminary evidence that metformin might have both antineoplastic and chemopreventative activity. Castration therapy decreases insulin sensitivity, adversely alters lipid profiles and results in weight gain, and it may be associated with a greater incidence of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Little is known about the optimal strategy to mitigate the adverse metabolic effects of castration in men with prostate cancer. The rationale for using metformin in castrated men with advanced prostate cancer stems from the observation that castration therapy is associated with the metabolic syndrome, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. Furthermore, reports that hyperinsulinemia stimulates insulin receptor expression on prostate cancer leading to tumor growth and development of castrate resistant prostate cancer suggest metformin through its activation of the AMPK-LKBI pathway reduces liver gluconeogenesis secondarily decreasing insulin levels may circumvent tumor growth and resistance to castration therapy. More importantly, evidence that metformin inhibits the mTOR pathway implicates an added therapeutic benefit as an anti-cancer agent.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Metformin
Metabolic Syndrome, Compare both cohorts of castrated men (metformin vs. placebo) with regard to metabolic consequences of castration therapy:change in weight., Change from 0 weeks to 28 weeks|Metabolic Syndrome Waist Circumference, Compare both cohorts of castrated men (metformin vs. placebo) with regard to metabolic consequences of castration therapy:change in waist circumference., Change from 12 to 28 weeks
PSA Response, Complete Response for PSA measure was defined as a PSA less than or equal to 4 ng/ml or undetectable value at 7 months., 28 weeks|Treatment Failure, Progression time from randomization to the earliest disease progression defined as an increase of 20% or more as per RECIST criteria. Patients will not be removed from protocol treatment for PSA progression alone in the first 12 weeks on this study. Further rise in PSA even in the absence of deterioration of pre-existing lesions will constitute treatment failure. Adverse event leading to withdrawal related to metformin or placebo or castration treatment. Death from any cause. Patients unwillingness to continue. Patient's non-compliance with taking the study intervention - 50% or higher., 1 year|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The safety and tolerability of metformin with castration therapy as compared to castration therapy alone as measured by the number of subjects experiencing adverse events using CTCAE (common terminology criteria for adverse events) version 4 criteria. Grades are assigned to each adverse event where:

Grade 1 is mild symptoms Grade 2 is moderate symptoms Grade 3 is severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening symptoms Grade 4 is life-threatening consequences, where urgent intervention is indicated Grade 5 is death related to the adverse event, 1 year
Prostate cancer is the most common non-cutaneous cancer in men. Patients with recurrent or metastatic prostate cancer are treated with androgen-deprivation therapy, often termed castration therapy. While the short and medium term benefits of castration are clear in relation to therapeutic efficacy in patients with prostate cancer, it is now appreciated that the resulting hypogonadism associated with castration is responsible for adverse consequences or metabolic syndrome that include increase in body mass index (BMI) and fat mass, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia, reduced lean body mass (LBM) and muscle strength, osteoporosis, sexual dysfunction, poor quality of life and higher cardiovascular mortality. Lower testosterone levels in men independently predict the development of metabolic syndrome. Low testosterone levels in men are associated with insulin resistance and diabetes. Metformin is commonly prescribed for the treatment of type II diabetes because it lowers both glucose and insulin levels. Studies show preliminary evidence that metformin might have both antineoplastic and chemopreventative activity. Castration therapy decreases insulin sensitivity, adversely alters lipid profiles and results in weight gain, and it may be associated with a greater incidence of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Little is known about the optimal strategy to mitigate the adverse metabolic effects of castration in men with prostate cancer. The rationale for using metformin in castrated men with advanced prostate cancer stems from the observation that castration therapy is associated with the metabolic syndrome, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. Furthermore, reports that hyperinsulinemia stimulates insulin receptor expression on prostate cancer leading to tumor growth and development of castrate resistant prostate cancer suggest metformin through its activation of the AMPK-LKBI pathway reduces liver gluconeogenesis secondarily decreasing insulin levels may circumvent tumor growth and resistance to castration therapy. More importantly, evidence that metformin inhibits the mTOR pathway implicates an added therapeutic benefit as an anti-cancer agent.