Induced-T Cell Like NK Cells for B Cell Malignancies
Relapsed and refractory B cell malignancies show unfavorable prognosis, especially for adult patients. Now, there is no standard management for these patients. Induced-T cell-like NK cells with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-ITNK cells) is a promising treatment option for treating B cell derived malignancy. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CAR-ITNK cells infusions in patients with relapsed and refractory B cell malignancies.
B Cell Leukemia|B Cell Lymphoma|B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B-cell Lymphoma Recurrent|B-cell Lymphoma Refractory
BIOLOGICAL: CAR-ITNK cells
Adverse Events, 12 months
ORR, Overall Response Rate includes Complete Remission (CR) and Complete Remission with Incomplete Blood Count Recovery (CRi), as determined by assessments of peripheral blood, bone marrow, CNS symptoms, physical exam (PE) and CSF. The primary endpoint will be based on the IRC assessment. The local investigator's assessed results will be used for sensitivity analysis., 3 months|ORR, Overall Response Rate includes Complete Remission (CR) and Complete Remission with Incomplete Blood Count Recovery (CRi), as determined by assessments of peripheral blood, bone marrow, CNS symptoms, physical exam (PE) and CSF. The primary endpoint will be based on the IRC assessment. The local investigator's assessed results will be used for sensitivity analysis., 6 months|ORR, Overall Response Rate includes Complete Remission (CR) and Complete Remission with Incomplete Blood Count Recovery (CRi), as determined by assessments of peripheral blood, bone marrow, CNS symptoms, physical exam (PE) and CSF. The primary endpoint will be based on the IRC assessment. The local investigator's assessed results will be used for sensitivity analysis., 12 months|OS, overall survival, 1 year|DFS, disease-free survival, 1 year
Relapsed and refractory B cell malignancies show unfavorable prognosis, especially for adult patients. Now, there is no standard management for these patients. Induced-T cell-like NK cells with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-ITNK cells) is a promising treatment option for treating B cell derived malignancy. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CAR-ITNK cells infusions in patients with relapsed and refractory B cell malignancies.