Study of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T Cells in Relapsed and Refractory CD19+ Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This is a non-randomized, single arm, open-label, single institution, phase I study to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells in patients ≥ 18 years of age with relapsed or refractory CD19+ Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphomas Non-Hodgkin's B-Cell
BIOLOGICAL: ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Estimate the maximum tolerated dose of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells in patients with a relapsed and/or refractory CD19+ Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, 24 months|Toxicity profile of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T-cell treatment, The frequency of occurrence and severity of treatment-related adverse events, including adverse events of special interest (AESI) will be reported. AESI include: CRS (severity grade 1-5), Tumor Lysis Syndrome, Neutropenic Fever, Cytopenia lasting \>28 days, neurotoxicity (severity grade 1-5), hypogammaglobulinemia and reductions in cardiac function., 24 months
Overall response rate (ORR), Evaluate the efficacy of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cell therapy, defined as overall response rate (ORR), including CR or PR, of patients with relapsed/refractory CD19+ Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who receive human ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cell therapy. Evaluation, staging and response assessment will be carried out using the Lugano classification, 24 months|Overall response rate (ORR) in histologic subtypes of CD19+ Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Evaluate the efficacy of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells in histologic subtypes of CD19+ Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma., 24 months|Duration of overall response (DOR), Evaluate duration of overall response (DOR), 24 months|Progression free survival (PFS), Evaluate progression free survival (PFS), 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Evaluate overall survival (OS), 24 months
The trial will follow a traditional dose-escalation model to establish the MTD and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of infused ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells following lympho-depleting chemotherapy. Two sequential cohorts of patients will be recruited to fulfill this study, those in the dose escalation cohort (for determination of MTD and RP2D) and those in the expansion cohort (treated on the RP2D). The study will have concurrent phases of screening, pre-treatment, treatment, primary follow-up, safety, and survival follow-up. The total duration of the study involvement for the patient is 15 years. Efficacy will be assessed until progression and safety will be assessed throughout the full duration of the study. Twelve to 24 patients will be treated to determine the MTD. Following determination of the MTD, an expansion cohort consisting of 6 patients per disease subtype (n= 30) will be recruited.