Virtual Reality Videos in Improving Bowel Preparation Quality of Colonoscopy
Colonoscopy is the most important method to screen for colorectal cancer and precancerous lesions, whose efficacy is closely related with the quality of bowel preparation, requiring consuming purgatives and restricting the diet. Compliance to bowel preparation is highly dependent on patient education. In most cases, such education is offered only once at the time of colonoscopy scheduling by either oral or written instructions. However, about one in fourth patients still cannot achieve satisfactory bowel preparation quality. Various methods, including booklet, telephone or message reminders, smartphone applications, social media, online videos, have been used to aid patient education and prove effective. These methods can increase patient activation, which is an independent factor related to bowel preparation quality. Virtual reality(VR) videos are used in this study, giving patients direct impressions of colonoscopy. This study aims to explore whether VR videos can increase patient adherence and experience, as well as improve bowel preparation quality, compared with conventional patient education methods.
Patient Compliance|Colo-rectal Cancer
OTHER: virtual reality videos
Boston bowel preparation score, A 10-point scale assessing bowel preparation. A four-point scoring system applied to each of the three broad regions of the colon: the right colon (including the cecum and ascending colon), the transverse colon (including the hepatic and splenic flexures), and the left colon (including the descending colon, sigmoid colon, and rectum).

0 = Unprepared colon segment with mucosa not seen due to solid stool that cannot be cleared.

1. = Portion of mucosa of the colon segment seen, but other areas of the colon segment not well seen due to staining, residual stool and/or opaque liquid.
2. = Minor amount of residual staining, small fragments of stool and/or opaque liquid, but mucosa of colon segment seen well.
3. = Entire mucosa of colon segment seen well with no residual staining, small fragments of stool or opaque liquid. The wording of the scale was finalized after incorporating feedback from three colleagues experienced in colonoscopy., During colonoscopy
polyp detection rate (PDR), Proportion of patients found to have polyp, may be a quality indictor of colonoscopy, During colonoscopy|adenoma detection rate (ADR), Proportion of patients found to have adenoma, may be a quality indictor of colonoscopy, During colonoscopy|cecal intubation rate, Proportion of passage of the colonoscope tip to a point proximal to the ileocecal valve, may be a quality indictor of colonoscopy, During colonoscopy
Colonoscopy is the most important method to screen for colorectal cancer and precancerous lesions, whose efficacy is closely related with the quality of bowel preparation, requiring consuming purgatives and restricting the diet. Compliance to bowel preparation is highly dependent on patient education. In most cases, such education is offered only once at the time of colonoscopy scheduling by either oral or written instructions. However, about one in fourth patients still cannot achieve satisfactory bowel preparation quality. Various methods, including booklet, telephone or message reminders, smartphone applications, social media, online videos, have been used to aid patient education and prove effective. These methods can increase patient activation, which is an independent factor related to bowel preparation quality. Virtual reality(VR) videos are used in this study, giving patients direct impressions of colonoscopy. This study aims to explore whether VR videos can increase patient adherence and experience, as well as improve bowel preparation quality, compared with conventional patient education methods.