Bortezomib and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving bortezomib together with carboplatin works in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bortezomib together with carboplatin may kill more tumor cells.
Acinar Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Duct Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: carboplatin|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Overall Survival Rate at 6 Months, Overall survival (OS) at 6 months with the combination of bortezomib and carboplatin in participants who previously received 1 prior regimen for metastatic pancreatic cancer from date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months. Rate equals number of participants living at 6 months following treatment divided by the total number of participants., up to 6 months
Overall Response Rate, Overall Response Rate measured by number of patients per the total treatment population who partially or completely responded to treatment. Participants reevaluated for response every 6 weeks. In addition to a baseline scan, confirmatory scans at 4 weeks following initial documentation of objective response., from assignment of treatment until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 17 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall survival (OS) at 6 months with the combination of bortezomib and carboplatin in patients who previously received 1 prior regimen for metastatic pancreatic cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the objective tumor response rate, the duration of response, time to tumor progression, and overall survival.

II. To evaluate biological effects on peripheral blood mononuclear cells. III. To evaluate the safety profile of this combination. IV. To evaluate archival tissue for epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and E-cadherin and Zeb-1.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bortezomib intravenously (IV) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.