Bortezomib and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Young Patients With Relapsed Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia or Lymphoblastic Lymphoma
This pilot, phase II trial studies the side effects of giving bortezomib together with combination chemotherapy and to see how well it works in treating young patients with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia or lymphoblastic lymphoma. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bortezomib together with combination chemotherapy may kill more cancer cells.
B-cell Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B-cell Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|T-cell Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|T-cell Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: L-asparaginase|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: therapeutic hydrocortisone|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: pegaspargase|DRUG: methotrexate|DRUG: etoposide phosphate|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|DRUG: High Dose MTX
Second Complete Remission Rate at the End of Block 1 Reinduction Chemotherapy, The percentage of eligible and evaluable patients who have achieved complete response at the end Block 1 of re-induction therapy., The outcome is measured the end of Block 1 (Day 36 of Block 1) of re-induction therapy.|Event Free Survival, Percentage of patients who were event free at 4 months, 4 months after enrollment|Toxic Death Rate, The proportion of toxic death rate among all eligible patients., 4 months|Severe Adverse Events (SAE) Rate., The proportion of SAE rate among all eligible patients, 4 months
Rate of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) < 0.01% at End Block 1, Percentage of eligible and evaluable patients with MRD \< 0.01% among those who had successful MRD determination at the end of Block 1., End of Block 1 (Day 36 of Block 1) of re-induction therapy|Rate of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) < 0.01% at End Block 2, Percentage of eligible and evaluable patients with MRD \< 0.01% among those who had successful MRD determination at the end of Block 2., End of Block 2 (Day 36 of Block 2) of re-induction therapy|Rate of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) < 0.01% at End Block 3, Percentage of eligible and evaluable patients with MRD \< 0.01% among those who had successful MRD determination at the end of Block 3., End of Block 3 (Day 36 of Block 3) of re-induction therapy
NF-kB Activity, NF-kB activity will be measured as a continuous variable (ng NF-kB/ug protein). Differences in NF-kB activity between time points will be assessed using summary statistics such as mean, standard deviation, and range., Up to 5 years|Expression of Apoptotic and Cell Cycle Proteins Assessed by Using Gene and Tissue Microarrays and Immunoblots, Characterized using descriptive statistics. If differences are noted between pre- and post-treatment protein expression, pairwise comparisons will be made using paired t-test or an equivalent nonparametric test. The normality assumption will be assessed on the log-transformed data prior to paired t-test evaluation., Up to 5 years|Change in Stem Cell Percentage, Will use descriptive statistics to assess mean +/- standard deviation for stem cell percentage before and after bortezomib treatment. If there appears to be a difference in responders vs. non-responders, stem cell percentage differences between responders and non-responders will be compared using a paired t-test or equivalent nonparametric test., Baseline to post-treatment with bortezomib|Plasma Concentration-time Profiles, Will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and will be graphically displayed by age group and stratum. PK data will be analyzed using methods such as nonlinear mixed effects modeling to estimate bortezomib clearance and volume of distribution (and the associated 95% confidence intervals) in each age group (2-11 years and 12-16 years of age)., Up to day 8 of block 2|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Bortezomib in Patients Receiving Multi-agent Combination Therapy., This outcome measure cannot be reported due to the data used for analysis was not collected., Day 8 of blocks 1 and 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the toxicity, second complete response (CR2) rate at the end of Block 1 therapy, and 4-month event-free survival (EFS) for pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with bortezomib in combination with intensive re-induction chemotherapy.

II. To evaluate bortezomib pharmacokinetics (PK) in patients receiving the combination regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess minimal residual disease (MRD) in bone marrow following completion of each therapy block.

II. To assess the feasibility of measuring leukemia initiating cells (LIC) in patient samples before and after chemotherapy.

III. To discover biologic pathways associated with response and drug resistance using gene and protein expression profiles at baseline and following initial exposure to chemotherapy.

IV. To determine if bortezomib inhibits lymphoblast nuclear factor (NF)-kappa (k)-B activity in leukemia patients.

OUTLINE:

REINDUCTION BLOCK 1: Patients receive cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 1; vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1, 8, 15, and 22; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes on day 1; prednisone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28; bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11; and pegaspargase intramuscularly (IM) or IV over 1-2 hours on days 2, 8, 15, and 22. Patients with central nervous system (CNS)-negative disease (CNS1 or CNS2) also receive methotrexate IT on days 15 and 29; patients with CNS-positive disease (CNS3) receive triple intrathecal therapy (TIT) comprising methotrexate, hydrocortisone, and cytarabine IT on days 8, 15, 22, and 29. After completion of reinduction block 1, patients with ALL and M2 or M3 bone marrow proceed directly to reinduction block 2. Patients with ALL and M1 bone marrow or lymphoblastic lymphoma proceed to reinduction block 2 after blood counts recover. Patients with persistent cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) blasts after 6 doses of TIT or patients with progressive lymphoblastic lymphoma are removed from the study.

REINDUCTION BLOCK 2: Patients receive etoposide phosphate IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5; cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-5; bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, and 8; filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) or IV daily beginning on day 6 and continuing until blood counts recover\*; high-dose methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 22; and leucovorin calcium PO or IV every 6 hours on days 23 and 24. Patients with CNS-negative disease also receive methotrexate IT on days 1 and 22; patients with CNS-positive disease receive TIT on days 1 and 22. After completion of reinduction block 2, patients proceed to reinduction block 3 immediately or when blood counts recover. Patients with disease progression are removed from the study.

NOTE: \*Patients do not receive G-CSF on day 8.

REINDUCTION BLOCK 3: Patients receive cytarabine IV over 3 hours BID on days 1, 2, 8, and 9; L-asparaginase IM on days 2 and 9; and G-CSF SC or IV daily beginning on day 10 and continuing until blood counts recover.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years and then annually for 2 years.