RFA or Surgical Resection Combined With Neo-MASCT for Primary HCC: a Phase II Trial
RAMEC is a phase II, multi-center, randomized trial with a safety test. There will be a safety test to establish the safety and tolerability of Neo-MASCT treatment and assess the immune response to the treatment.The randomized trial will assess DFS and immune response.
Primary Liver Cancer|Radiofrequency Ablation|Immunotherapy|Hepatectomy
BIOLOGICAL: Neo-MASCT
Disease free survival, Defined in whole days as the time from randomisation until disease recurrence or death from any cause, whichever happens first. Patients who withdraw or who are lost to follow-up will be censored at the date last known to be alive and relapse free. Patients not having an event will be censored at the date last seen alive and relapse free., 2-year|Immune response rate, The demonstration of immune response is potentially related to prognosis and will be quantified in both groups because ablative therapy alone has been shown to induce anti-tumour immune responses., 2-year
Overall survival, Defined in whole days as the time from randomisation until death from any cause. Patients who withdraw or who are lost to follow-up will be censored at the date last known to be alive. Patients remaining alive throughout the duration of the study will have their survival time censored on the date last seen alive., 2-year|Recurrence rate, The rate of HCC recurrence in the total number of patients., 2-year|Safety events, Safety events will be measured in terms of the occurrence, severity, type and causality of Adverse Events (AEs) during the treatment period using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) (version 4)., 2-year
The safety test will recruit 10 patients. Following registration they will receive 3 cycles of Neo-MASCT treatment. Patients will be seen at week 1, week 2 and week 4 of every cycle.

Following the safety test, 98 patients will be randomized to the trial across 3 recruiting centers. All patients on the treatment arm will complete up to 18 cycles of Neo-MASCT treatment. Patients on the control arm will be actively monitored after randomization. Blood samples for immune response test will be taken at baseline, cycle 1day 1 and then 3 monthly on day 1 of the subsequent cycles. The planned treatment duration will be until relapse of disease, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent. The end of the trial will be 24 months after the recruitment of the last patient.