Electronic MonitorIng of Events for dIffuse Large b Cell LYmphoma
Diffuse large B cell lymphoma is the most common malignant lymphoid hemopathy. More than half of the patients will be cured with an RCHOP-type immunochemotherapy protocol (Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, Prednisone). Monitoring of adverse effects, risk of relapse and quality of life are essential in overall management. Patients are the best candidates to report them. Managing these events should improve quality of life and reduce costs. The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility of monitoring these events by a web application (Oncolaxy©) and to compare it with a control population in the context of a randomized pilot study including 80 patients per arm with diffuse large cell B lymphoma in first-line treatment with R-CHOP.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
DEVICE: ONCOLAXY Follow-up
Description of events, The events will be collected (CTCAE V5.0) per patient, 29 months|Delay of taking care of event, The period of management of event will be evaluated between the date of the event and the first action realize to manage this event (patient contact, consultation, hospitalization, prescription, etc.) incremented in the source file, 29 months|Description of emergency entry, The number of emergency visits (consultation or hospitalization in the suites) per arm, 29 months|Description of hospitalisations, The number and average length of stay of hospitalizations per patient and per arm, 29 months|Description of dose/intensity of RCHOP regimen, The dose of treatment received compared to the theoretical dose will assess the dose / intensity, 29 months|Description of treatment interruptions, The number of patients having had a treatment interruption will be recorded out of the total number of patients, 29 months|Description of the quality of life, Quality of life will be evaluated by the Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30 (QLQ-C30). QLQ-C30 is a generic questionnaire for cancer patients. Score will be calculated according to EORTC guidelines. The scores range from 0 to 100; a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms. QoL with QLQ-C30 will be evaluated before start of treatment, at the 3rd cycle, 6th and 8th cycles of treatment and then at 12 and 24 months. Score will be calculated according to EORTC guidelines, 29 months|Description of anxiety, Anxiety will be evaluated by the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory Form Y (STAI-Y scale). STAI-Y is a specific questionnaire for which reflects the current emotional state (STAI-form Y-A) which makes it possible to assess the nervousness and anxiety of the patient. The scores range from 20 to 80; Higher score is worse.

STAI-Y will be evaluated before start of treatment, at the 3rd cycle, 6th and 8th cycles of treatment and then at 12 and 24 months., 29 months|Description of patient's satisfaction with specific questionnaire dedicated to the use of the web-application, Patient satisfaction will be evaluated by a specific self-evaluation (specific questionnaire dedicated to the use of the web-application) at the end of treatment, 12th and 24th months follow-up visits. The scores range from 14 to 70; Higher score is better., 29 months|Overall survival, Overall survival will be calculated from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or the date last known to be alive if patient is censored, 29 months|Progression Free survival, Progression Free survival will be calculated from the date of randomization to the date of first progression of disease based on Investigator assessment per Lugano classification or the date of death or censored at the date of the last valid tumor assessment, 29 months|Event-free survival, Event-free survival will be defined as the time between the date of treatment initiation and the date of the first event (relapse, death, unplanned hospitalizations) demonstrated or the date of death if the patient died or the date of the last news if the patient is censored,, 29 months|Description of health care team satisfaction by a specific questionnaire dedicated to the use of the web-application, Health care team satisfaction will be evaluated by a specific questionnaire (specific questionnaire dedicated to the use of the web-application) at the 6th and 12th of use of application. The scores range from 8 to 33; Higher score is worse., 29 months|Description of face-to-face consultations, In the application arm the number of face-to-face consultations triggered by an alert, 29 months|Description of teleconsultations, In the application arm the number of teleconsultations triggered by an alert, 29 months|Description of drug prescriptions, In the application arm the number of drug prescription triggered by an alert, 29 months|Description of nursing prescription, In the application arm the number of nursing prescription triggered by an alert, 29 months
Diffuse large B cell lymphoma is the most common malignant lymphoid hemopathy. More than half of the patients will be cured with an RCHOP-type immunochemotherapy protocol (Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, Prednisone). Monitoring of adverse effects, risk of relapse and quality of life are essential in overall management. Patients are the best candidates to report them. Managing these events should improve quality of life and reduce costs. The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility of monitoring these events by a web application (Oncolaxy©) and to compare it with a control population in the context of a randomized pilot study including 80 patients per arm with diffuse large cell B lymphoma in first-line treatment with R-CHOP.