Study of Modified Docetaxel, Cisplatin, and Fluorouracil (mDCF) in Unresectable or Metastatic Gastric and Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
Chemotherapy given together is a standard way to treat your cancer. One standard treatment includes a combination of docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil. However, the original combination of these three drugs can cause many side effects. This study is being done to find out if these three drugs can be given at lower doses more often, with fewer side effects and still maintain the same benefit as the standard way of giving this three drug combination. If your tumor overexpresses a protein called Her2, you are also eligible to receive trastuzumab with chemotherapy. Trastuzumab is a medicine that has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of Her2 positive breast cancer. Trastuzumab is now also a standard treatment in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of Her2 positive stomach cancer. If your tumor is Her2 positive, you would receive the modified administration schedule of docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil with trastuzumab.
Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel, Leucovorin, Fluorouracil, Cisplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel, Cisplatin, Fluorouracil, Neulasta, or Neupogen|DRUG: Docetaxel, Leukvorin, Flurouracil, Cisplatin, Trastuzumab
6 Month Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions", or similar definition as accurate and appropriate, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months
Overall Survival, Overall survival measured in months, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 43 months
Chemotherapy given together is a standard way to treat your cancer. One standard treatment includes a combination of docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil. However, the original combination of these three drugs can cause many side effects. This study is being done to find out if these three drugs can be given at lower doses more often, with fewer side effects and still maintain the same benefit as the standard way of giving this three drug combination. If your tumor overexpresses a protein called Her2, you are also eligible to receive trastuzumab with chemotherapy. Trastuzumab is a medicine that has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of Her2 positive breast cancer. Trastuzumab is now also a standard treatment in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of Her2 positive stomach cancer. If your tumor is Her2 positive, you would receive the modified administration schedule of docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil with trastuzumab.