Breast Cancer Screening in Ghana
This study is designed to test the feasibility of two intervention on promoting early screening for breast cancer in rural Ghana. In one intervention, screening for breast cancer, diabetes and hypertension will be offered together. In another intervention, a series of sessions with men will be conducted with a goal to change gender attitudes and increase support to women. The investigators' long-term goal is to test these interventions in a large-scale randomized controlled trial. The specific aims of this feasibility study are to: 1) refine the study materials, including the curriculum for the sessions with men, by consulting with an expert advisory committee and a local committee, and 2) determine the feasibility of the two interventions in four clinic zones in Yilo-Krobo district in eastern Ghana (1 clinic in control, 1 clinic in the first intervention, and 2 in the second intervention). This trial registration is for the second specific aim.
Breast Cancer Female
OTHER: Bundling|OTHER: MEGH
Clinical breast exam (CBE) utilization at the local clinic, The outcome will be measured by asking participants, at endline, if they sought clinical breast exam at their local clinic during the 6-month study period. This information will be verified at the clinic level using Participation Cards, which will be provided to participants at the beginning of the 6-month period. Participants will be asked to bring the Card to the clinic when they come for screening., 6 months. Outcome is measured at endline survey at the end of the 6-month period.
This study is designed to test the feasibility of two intervention on promoting early screening for breast cancer in rural Ghana. In one intervention, screening for breast cancer, diabetes and hypertension will be offered together. In another intervention, a series of sessions with men will be conducted with a goal to change gender attitudes and increase support to women. The investigators' long-term goal is to test these interventions in a large-scale randomized controlled trial. The specific aims of this feasibility study are to: 1) refine the study materials, including the curriculum for the sessions with men, by consulting with an expert advisory committee and a local committee, and 2) determine the feasibility of the two interventions in four clinic zones in Yilo-Krobo district in eastern Ghana (1 clinic in control, 1 clinic in the first intervention, and 2 in the second intervention). This trial registration is for the second specific aim.