A Study of Melphalan Flufenamide (Melflufen)-Dex or Pomalidomide-dex for RRMM Patients Refractory to Lenalidomide
This was a randomized, controlled, open-label, Phase 3 multicenter study which enrolled patients with RRMM following 2-4 lines of prior therapy and who were refractory to lenalidomide in the last line of therapy as demonstrated by disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last dose of lenalidomide. Patients received either melflufen+dex or pomalidomide+dex.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Melflufen|DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival defined as the duration in months from randomization until first evidence of confirmed disease progression, as assessed by the Independent Review Committee (IRC) according to the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC). Disease progression was defined according to the IMWG-URC as progressive disease or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., From date of randomization until first evidence of confirmed disease progression or death due to any cause (whichever occurred first), up to the data cutoff date of 03 Feb 2021 (ie, assessed up to approximately 43 months).
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR defined as the proportion of patients for whom the best overall confirmed response is stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR), as assessed by IRC., From randomization until best response achieved before confirmed disease progression or death due to any cause, up to data cutoff of 03 Feb 2021 (ie, assessed up to approx. 43 months). Median time to best response: Arm A=2.1 months and Arm B=2.0 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR defined as the duration in months from first documentation of a confirmed response to first evidence of confirmed disease progression or death due to any cause., From first documentation of a confirmed response to first evidence of confirmed disease progression or death due to any cause, up to the data cutoff date of 03 Feb 2021 (ie, assessed up to approximately 43 months).|Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time in months from randomization to date of death due to any cause. Patients who were still alive at end of study, or lost to follow up, were censored at the last day the patient was known to be alive., From date of randomization until up to 24 months following confirmed disease progression or initiation of subsequent therapy, up to the data cutoff date of 03 Feb 2023 (ie, assessed up to approximately 67 months).|Safety and Tolerability: Number of Patients With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Including Clinical Laboratory and Vital Signs Abnormalities, as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Number of patients with TEAEs, including clinical laboratory and vital signs abnormalities, as assessed by CTCAE v4.0 are presented. No formal statistical analysis was performed for safety endpoints., From start of dosing until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment, up to the data cutoff date of 03 Feb 2023 (ie, assessed up to approximately 67 months). Median duration of study treatment was 25.2 and 22.1 weeks for Arm A and B, respectively.
This was a randomized, controlled, open-label, Phase 3 multicenter study which enrolled patients with RRMM following 2-4 lines of prior therapy and who were refractory to lenalidomide in the last line of therapy as demonstrated by disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last dose of lenalidomide.

Patients were randomized to either one of two arms:

Arm A: Melphalan flufenamide (Melflufen) 40 mg on Day 1 and dexamethasone 40 mg on Days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each 28-day cycle.

Arm B: Pomalidomide 4 mg daily on Days 1 to 21 and dexamethasone 40 mg on Days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each 28-day cycle.

Patients ≥ 75 years of age received a reduced dose of dexamethasone of 20 mg on Days 1, 8, 15 and 22 for both Arm A and Arm B.

Patients were to receive treatment until such time as there was documented disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or the patient/treating physician determined it was not in the patient's best interest to continue.

Dose modifications and delays in therapy may have been implemented based on patient tolerability as detailed in the protocol. In the event of a cycle delay, unrelated to dexamethasone toxicity, it was recommended to continue dexamethasone weekly.