Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Bicalutamide in Combination with Sunitinib in Patients with TKIs-resistant RCC
This is a Phase I/II open-label, efficacy and safety study of bicalutamide in combination with sunitinib in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who have been treated with a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (RTKI) and experienced disease progression.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Bicalutamide in combination with Sunitinib
To assess safety and tolerability of bicalutamide in combination with sunitinib in patients with RTKIs-resistant renal cell carcinoma., Investigators will report the number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., 3 years|To assess efficacy of bicalutamide in combination with sunitinib in patients with RTKIs-resistant renal cell carcinoma., Investigators will also report the number of patients who achieve either partial or complete response by RECIST criteria on tumor imaging., 3 years
To characterize androgen receptor (AR) expression in tumor samples immunohistochemistry (IHC), The outcome measure is IHC score (scale goes from 0-3, 0 being better outcome and 3 being the worst outcome) (0): negative staining

1. : weak staining
2. : moderate staining
3. : strong staining, 3 years|To characterize expression of AR-related micro-RNA (miR) in tumor and/or blood by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Outcome measure: ratio of miR expression with respect to the gene of reference, 3 years|To characterize Kallikrein-2 (KLK2) expression in blood by ELISA, ELISA test calculates the concentration of protein as ng per ml of serum/blood., 3 years|To characterize KLK2 expression in tumor samples immunohistochemistry (IHC), The outcome measure is IHC score (scale goes from 0-3, 0 being better outcome and 3 being the worst outcome) (0): negative staining

1. : weak staining
2. : moderate staining
3. : strong staining, 3 years
This is a Phase I/II open-label, efficacy and safety study of bicalutamide in combination with sunitinib in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who have been treated with a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (RTKI) and experienced disease progression. After entering the study, patients will have sunitinib dosed at the 2 weeks ON and one week OFF scheduled. Dose and schedule modification of sunitinib will be allowed at the discretion of the treating physician. Bicalutamide will be administrated orally at 50 mg daily. This clinical study will utilize the Simon's optimal two stage design. Investigators will enroll 9 patients in the first stage. If no response is seen, then the trial is terminated for futility. Otherwise, accrual continues to a total of 16 patients. If at most 2 patients respond among the 16 patients, this therapy would warrant further investigation.