Abbreviated MRI Using Gadoxetic Acid Versus CT for Surveillance of Recurrent HCC After Curative Treatment
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) often has a poor prognosis after curative treatment due to frequent recurrence. Post-surgery, 60-70% of HCC patients experience recurrence, rising to 80% after ablation therapy. This is partly because underlying cirrhosis or chronic liver disease remains, increasing the risk of secondary HCC. The risk of recurrence varies over time, with a high risk in the first two years due to micro-metastasis. Later recurrences are usually new primary cancers (de novo HCC). Therefore, regular imaging tests, such as computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) every three months in the first two years, are necessary for early detection, but guidelines for post-two-year screenings are unclear.

Currently, for patients recurrence-free for two years, contrast-enhanced liver CT or MRI is performed every 3-6 months as a secondary screening test. However, repeated use of CT raises concerns about radiation exposure and iodine-based contrast agents can lead to side effects and kidney issues. MRI with hepatocyte-specific agents like gadoxetic acid (Primovist) is effective but costly and time-consuming, with potential side effects from repeated gadolinium exposure. Therefore, there is a need for a validated secondary screening method that is both effective and reduces patient risk.

Abbreviated contrast-enhanced MRI, using only essential sequences, has shown promise in retrospective studies for detecting HCC. However, these studies have limitations, such as potential bias and lack of data on repeated screenings. There is limited research on secondary screening post-curative treatment for HCC. This study aims to prospectively evaluate the use of abbreviated contrast-enhanced MRI with Primovist as a secondary screening method for detecting secondary HCC in patients who have been recurrence-free for more than two years.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: AMRI|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CT
Detection rate (DR) of patients with HCC, DR = True positive / True positive + False positive + True negative + False negative, 6 months after the completion of the 2 surveillance rounds|False referral rate (FRR) of patients with HCC, FRR = False positive / True positive + False positive + True negative + False negative, 6 months after the completion of the 2 surveillance rounds
DR of patients with early stage HCC, DR = True positive / True positive + False positive + True negative + False negative, 6 months after the completion of the 2 surveillance rounds|FRR of patients with early stage HCC, FRR = False positive / True positive + False positive + True negative + False negative, 6 months after the completion of the 2 surveillance rounds|DR of patients with very early stage HCC, DR = True positive / True positive + False positive + True negative + False negative, 6 months after the completion of the 2 surveillance rounds|FRR of patients with very early stage HCC, FRR = False positive / True positive + False positive + True negative + False negative, 6 months after the completion of the 2 surveillance rounds
A total of 455 subjects will be evaluated by two rounds of tests with both abbreviated MRI (AMRI) and dynamic CT to detect the occurrence of secondary HCC. These two imaging tests are planned to be performed twice, with a basic interval of 16 weeks between tests. However, considering the clinical practice of varying the imaging intervals based on the patient's risk level, the actual interval between tests can range from 4 to 8 months. If a suspicious lesion indicative of HCC is detected during the study, a recall examination using complete MRI will be performed within 3 months. If the recall examination does not confirm the diagnosis, a contrast-enhanced ultrasound or biopsy will be conducted. The diagnosis of HCC will be made based on international guidelines, with a histological confirmation or classification as Liver Imaging-Reporting and Data System (LI-RADS) category 5. After the completion of the two evaluation rounds, at least 6 months of clinical follow-up data will be collected to record the occurrence of interval cancer. If HCC is confirmed during the study, the participant will be excluded from further study participation, and the treatment will proceed according to current clinical processes. If no lesions are detected during the two surveillance rounds, follow-up for up to 6 months after the second test will be conducted according to current clinical processes. If HCC is diagnosed, which is the primary outcome of the study, the study will be considered complete, and this will not be treated as an adverse event of the study. If a patient chooses not to continue participating in the study during the repeated application of the protocol, the study for that patient will conclude, even if the two rounds of testing are not completed.