Radiation Therapy, Palbociclib, and Hormone Therapy in Treating Breast Cancer Patients With Bone Metastasis
This phase II trial studies how well radiation therapy given with standard care palbociclib and hormone therapy work in treating patients with breast cancer that has spread from one part of the body to the bone. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Palbociclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Antihormone therapy, such as fulvestrant, letrozole, anastrozole, exemestane, or tamoxifen, may lessen the amount of estrogen made by the body. Giving radiation therapy, palbociclib, and hormone therapy may work better in treating breast cancer patients with bone metastasis.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Estrogen Receptor Positive|HER2/Neu Negative|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone|Progesterone Receptor Positive|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Palbociclib|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Tamoxifen
Response Rate, Response rate will be estimated as the number of responders divided by the number of patients evaluated for response. Among patients who present with pain, responders will be considered those patients who have a 2 point decrease in the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), and among those who do not present with pain (radiotherapy due to risk of unstable fracture or cord compression), responders will be considered those without development of a pathologic fracture or neurologic compromise (cord compression) due to cancer on imaging., Up to 3 months post radiation
Response Rate Incorporating BPI and Analgesic Measures According to International Bone Consensus Guideline Criteria, Response rate will be estimated as the number of responders divided by the number of patients evaluated for response. Among patients who present with pain, responders will be considered those patients who fulfill the International Bone Consensus response criteria using the BPI item rating maximum pain over the last 3 days at the index site and analgesic usage for the treated site within the last 24 hours prior to assessment. Among patients who do not present with pain (radiotherapy due to risk of unstable fracture or cord compression), responders will be considered those without development of a new pathologic fracture or worsening neurologic compromise (cord compression) due to cancer on imaging., Up to 3 months post radiation|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Graded According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0, Adverse events, such as bone fracture following radiotherapy, any grade 3 toxicity (except neutropenia or leukopenia), grade 4 neutropenia, grade 4 leukopenia, grade 3 febrile neutropenia, or grade 3 brachial plexopathy or spinal cord injury, will be summarized descriptively., Up to 3 months post radiation|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 44 months post radiation|Overall Survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 44 months post radiation|Fatigue as Measured by The Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI), Fatigue will be assessed before and after radiotherapy. The Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI) is a comprehensive self-report instrument designed to measure fatigue. It consists of 20 items rated on a 7-point scale and covers dimensions such as General Fatigue, Physical Fatigue, Mental Fatigue, Reduced Motivation, and Reduced Activity. Each question is score on a 1 to 5 scale, with 1 being 'yes, that is true' and 5 being 'No, that is not true'. The minimum score is 20 and the maximum score is100. The higher the score indicates fatigue., Pre-radiation on day 1, Last Day of radiation (5-10 days), 1 month post radiation, and 3 months post radiation, change last day of radiation, change 1 month post radiation, change 3 months post radiation|Quality of Life as Measured by Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), Quality of life will be assessed before and after radiotherapy. The SF-36 measures eight scales: physical functioning (PF), role physical (RP), bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role emotional (RE), and mental health (MH) Each scale is the weighted sum of the questions in their section and are directly transformed into a 0-100 scale i.e., the minimum score is 0, maximum is 100 A higher score indicates less disability Total score on the SF-36 is the summation of all the eight scales, Pre-radiation on day 1, Last Day of radiation (5-10 days), 1 month post radiation, and 3 months post radiation, change last day of radiation, change 1 month post radiation, change 3 months post radiation|Quality of Life as Measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Metastases Module (EORTC QLQ-BM22), Quality of life will be assessed before and after radiotherapy.

EORTC QLQ-BM22 measures four multi-item scales: painful sites, functional interference, painful characteristics, and psychosocial aspects Each item is scaled from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much) and directly transformed into a 0-100 scale A higher score in symptom scales indicates greater distress. A higher score in functional scales indicates greater functional ability, Pre-radiation on day 1, Last Day of radiation (5-10 days), 1 month post radiation, and 3 months post radiation, change last day of radiation, change 1 month post radiation, change 3 months post radiation|Quality of Life as Measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 15 for Palliative Care (EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL), Quality of life will be assessed before and after radiotherapy. The EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL measures seven scales: physical functioning, global health status, emotional functioning, fatigue, nausea/vomiting, appetite loss, and constipation For questions 1-14, each item is scaled from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much) . For question 15 (global QoL), patients respond to a seven-point numerical scale from 1 (very poor overall) to 7 (excellent overall). The scale is scored from 0 to 100. A higher score in symptom scales indicates greater distress.

A higher score in functional scales indicates greater functional ability. A higher score in global health status indicates a high quality of life.

Each subscore is computed using the Addendum to the EORTC QLQ-C30 Scoring Manual: Scoring of the EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL., Pre-radiation on day 1, Last Day of radiation (5-10 days), 1 month post radiation, and 3 months post radiation, change last day of radiation, change 1 month post radiation, change 3 months post radiation|Depression as Measured by Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Depression will be assessed before and after radiotherapy. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) is a 14-item tool used to screen for anxiety and depression, which commonly coexist. The HADS produces a subscale for anxiety (HADS-A) and a separate subscale for depression (HADS-D). The respondent rates each item on a 4-point scale ranging from 0 (absence) to 3 (extreme presence). The total score is out of 42, (21 per subscale) and the range is 0-42. Scores are derived by summing responses for each of the two subscales or for the scale as a whole. Higher scores indicate greater levels of anxiety or depression. The total HADS score may be regarded as a global measure of psychological distress., Pre-radiation on day 1, Last Day of radiation (5-10 days), 1 month post radiation, and 3 months post radiation, change last day of radiation, change 1 month post radiation, change 3 months post radiation|Number of Participants With Adherence as Measured by Drug Diary, Adherence will be determined by number of days drug taken divided by number of days drug should have been taken over the time period of the study., Pre-radiation on day 1, Last Day of radiation (5-10 days), 1 month post radiation, and 3 months post radiation, change last day of radiation, change 1 month post radiation, change 3 months post radiation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the response rate three months post-conventionally fractionated radiotherapy, relative to baseline, for bone metastases in breast cancer patients receiving concurrent palbociclib and hormone therapy treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether conventionally fractionated radiotherapy in combination with palbociclib and hormone therapy in breast cancer patients with bone metastases adversely increases the frequency and severity of palbociclib toxicities including grade 3 neutropenia.

II. To determine whether radiotherapy in combination with palbociclib in breast cancer patients with bone metastases adversely increases the frequency and severity of radiotherapy toxicities including neurological and bone injury.

III. To assess fatigue, quality of life, and depression before and after radiotherapy for bone metastases in metastatic breast cancer patients treated with palbociclib.

IV. To determine progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in breast cancer patients treated with palbociclib and concurrent radiotherapy to bone metastases.

V. To evaluate the relationship between volume of irradiated bone and side effects of treatment, including leukopenia and neutropenia.

TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect, store, and analyze circulating tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) in metastatic breast cancer patients treated with palbociclib and radiotherapy to bone metastases and to determine the relationship between ctDNA and responders versus non-responders, PFS, and OS.

II. To collect, store, and analyze plasma for inflammatory cytokine measurements and determine their relationship with fatigue, depression, and quality of life before and after radiotherapy for bone metastases in metastatic breast cancer patients treated with palbociclib.

III. To collect, store, and analyze ribonucleic acid (RNA) for gene expression to identify functional biology processes over-represented in genes differentially regulated among patients who develop toxicities versus those who do not and those who are responders versus those who are not and to identify transcriptional regulatory pathways driving observed differences in gene expression.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo conventional radiation therapy over 5-10 days and receive palbociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. At the discretion of treating physician, patients also receive letrozole, anastrozole, exemestane, or tamoxifen PO QD on days 1-28, or fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) on days 1 and 15 of cycles 1 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months.