Acetylcysteine Rinse in Reducing Saliva Thickness and Mucositis in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer Undergoing Radiation Therapy
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies whether acetylcysteine oral rinse will lessen saliva thickness and painful mouth sores in patients with head and neck cancer undergoing radiation therapy. Side effects from radiation therapy to the head and neck, such as thickened saliva and mouth sores, may interfere with activities of daily living such as eating and drinking, and may also cause treatment to be stopped or delayed. Acetylcysteine rinse may reduce saliva thickness and mouth sores, and improve quality of life in patients with head and neck cancer undergoing radiation therapy.
Mucositis|Oral Complications|Recurrent Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Recurrent Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Lip|Recurrent Lymphoepithelioma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Lymphoepithelioma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage I Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage I Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Lip|Stage I Lymphoepithelioma of the Nasopharynx|Stage I Lymphoepithelioma of the Oropharynx|Stage I Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage I Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage I Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage I Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage II Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage II Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Lip|Stage II Lymphoepithelioma of the Nasopharynx|Stage II Lymphoepithelioma of the Oropharynx|Stage II Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage II Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage II Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage II Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage III Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage III Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Lip|Stage III Lymphoepithelioma of the Nasopharynx|Stage III Lymphoepithelioma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage III Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IV Lymphoepithelioma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IVA Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Lip|Stage IVA Lymphoepithelioma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Lip|Stage IVB Lymphoepithelioma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Lip|Stage IVC Lymphoepithelioma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Tongue Cancer
DRUG: acetylcysteine|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Groningen Radiotherapy-Induced Xerostomia (GRIX) Sticky Saliva Total Score Area Under the Curve (AUC), Groningen Radiotherapy-Induced Xerostomia (GRIX) sticky saliva total score Area under the curve (AUC).The GRIX questionnaire is a 14-item questionnaire with four subscales on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient and each subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation and assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale. AUC will be calculated for each patient from baseline to two weeks following radiotherapy. The AUC values will be compared between the two arms using t-test (equal variance)., Up to 2 weeks following radiotherapy
Groningen Radiotherapy-Induced Xerostomia (GRIX) Sticky Saliva Daytime Area Under the Curve (AUC), Groningen Radiotherapy-Induced Xerostomia (GRIX) sticky saliva Daytime Area under the curve (AUC).The GRIX questionnaire is a 14-item questionnaire with four subscales on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient and each subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation and assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale. AUC will be calculated for each patient from baseline to two weeks following radiotherapy. The AUC values will be compared between the two arms using t-test (equal variance)., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy|Groningen Radiotherapy-Induced Xerostomia (GRIX) Sticky Saliva Nighttime Area Under the Curve (AUC)., Groningen Radiotherapy-Induced Xerostomia (GRIX) sticky saliva Nighttime Area under the curve (AUC).The GRIX questionnaire is a 14-item questionnaire with four subscales on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient and each subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation and assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale. AUC will be calculated for each patient from baseline to two weeks following radiotherapy. The AUC values will be compared between the two arms using t-test (equal variance)., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy|GRIX Xerostomia Daytime AUC, GRIX Xerostomia Daytime AUC. The GRIX questionnaire is a 14-item questionnaire with four subscales on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient and each subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation and assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale. AUC will be calculated for each patient from baseline to two weeks following radiotherapy. The AUC values will be compared between the two arms using t-test (equal variance)., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy|GRIX Xerostomia Nighttime AUC, GRIX Xerostomia Nighttime AUC. The GRIX questionnaire is a 14-item questionnaire with four subscales on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient and each subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation and assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale. AUC will be calculated for each patient from baseline to two weeks following radiotherapy. The AUC values will be compared between the two arms using t-test (equal variance)., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy|GRIX Xerostiomia Total Score AUC, GRIX Xerostiomia Total Score AUC. The GRIX questionnaire is a 14-item questionnaire with four subscales on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient and each subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation and assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale. AUC will be calculated for each patient from baseline to two weeks following radiotherapy. The AUC values will be compared between the two arms using t-test (equal variance)., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy|EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) H&N Pain AUC, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of QLQ H\&N35 subscales including pain, swallowing, teeth, opening mouth, dry mouth, sticky saliva, senses problems, coughing, speech problems, felt ill, trouble with social contact, trouble with social eating, less sexuality, pain killers, nutritional supplements, feeding tube, weight loss, and weight gain. The QLQ H\&N35 scoring algorithm was used for pain (questions 31-34) on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient and subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation and assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy|EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) Swallowing, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of QLQ H\&N35 subscales including pain, swallowing, teeth, opening mouth, dry mouth, sticky saliva, senses problems, coughing, speech problems, felt ill, trouble with social contact, trouble with social eating, less sexuality, pain killers, nutritional supplements, feeding tube, weight loss, \& weight gain. The QLQ H\&N35 scoring algorithm was used for swallowing (questions 35-38) on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient \& subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation \& assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy|EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) H&N Sticky Saliva AUC, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of QLQ H\&N35 subscales including pain, swallowing, teeth, opening mouth, dry mouth, sticky saliva, senses problems, coughing, speech problems, felt ill, trouble with social contact, trouble with social eating, less sexuality, pain killers, nutritional supplements, feeding tube, weight loss, \& weight gain. The QLQ H\&N35 scoring algorithm was used for sticky saliva (question 42) on 0-100 scales with higher scores representing worse symptoms. The aAUCpa for each subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the end of radiotherapy. For example; for each patient \& subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation \& assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to the end of their radiotherapy are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subscale., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy|Adverse Event, as Measured by the Number of Patients With a Maximum Grade of Any Adverse Event, The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient. The overall adverse event rates (percentages) for adverse events are reported below., Up to 90 days after completion of radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effectiveness of N-acetylcysteine (acetylcysteine) in improving saliva viscosity (as measured by the Groningen Radiotherapy-Induced Xerostomia \[GRIX\]) in patients undergoing chemotherapy and radiotherapy for head and neck cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether N-acetylcysteine (NAC) can improve other GRIX subscale for patients undergoing chemotherapy and radiotherapy for head and neck cancer.

II. To determine whether NAC can improve patient reported quality of life as measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) Head \& Neck (H\&N)35.

III. To assess the adverse event profile of NAC as measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) every week during radiation.

IV. To determine patient adherence to N-acetylcysteine mucoadherent rinse using patient reported surveys.

V. To determine the long-term benefits of N-acetylcysteine as measured by the GRIX questionnaire at 45 days and 90 days post treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive acetylcysteine oral rinse and gargle or swish for 60 seconds then spit 5 times per day, beginning within 3 days of the initiation of radiotherapy to 14 days following completion of radiotherapy.

ARM II: Patients receive a placebo oral rinse and gargle or swish for 60 seconds and then spit 5 times per day beginning within 3 days of the initiation of radiotherapy to 14 days following completion of radiotherapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 45 and 90 days.