Evaluating Procedures for a Study of the AYA Survivors Coping and Emotional Needs Toolkit
The investigators developed a digital intervention that aims to help adolescent and young adult cancer survivors (AYAs) manage symptoms of depression. This tool includes daily mood tracking, a psychoeducational module about cancer and depression, four components that are based on evidence-based interventions for depression. The goal of this study is to evaluate the acceptability of procedures for a future trial in which the investigators will test which component or combination of components meaningfully contribute to improvements in depressive symptoms among AYAs. Additionally, the investigators will evaluate study feasibility as well as intervention acceptability, satisfaction, usability, and engagement.
Depression|Cancer|Adolescent|Young Adult|Adult
BEHAVIORAL: AYA Survivors Coping and Emotional Needs Toolkit (ASCENT)
Acceptability of Study Procedures - Quantitative, An investigator-developed survey will be used to evaluate acceptability of study procedures. Mean scale scores range from 1 to 4, with higher scores indicating greater acceptability. Descriptive statistics and exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be calculated., Week 6|Acceptability of Study Procedures - Qualitative, An investigator-developed semi-structured interview will be used to evaluate acceptability of study procedures. Transcriptions of semi-structured interviews will undergo rapid qualitative analysis to characterize the reasons for sub-optimal acceptability of study procedures., Weeks 6-8
Study Feasibility - Recruitment Rate, Recruitment rate will be calculated as the number of participants enrolled in the study divided by the number of participants contacted., Upon enrollment of 16 participants|Study Feasibility - Retention Rate, Retention will be defined as the proportion of patients who provide T1 (6 week) data. Patients who discontinue the intervention (refuse phone calls) but complete the outcome assessments will be counted in the numerator for calculating retention., Week 6|Intervention Acceptability - Quantitative, An investigator-developed survey will be used to evaluate acceptability of the intervention., Week 6|Intervention Satisfaction - Quantitative, An investigator-developed survey will be used to evaluate satisfaction with the intervention. Mean scale scores range from 1 to 4, with higher scores indicating greater satisfaction. Descriptive statistics and exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be calculated., Week 6|Intervention Acceptability & Satisfaction - Qualitative, A semi-structured interview will be used to further characterize acceptability of and satisfaction with the intervention. Transcriptions of semi-structured interviews will undergo rapid qualitative analysis to characterize the reasons for sub-optimal acceptability of and satisfaction with the intervention., Weeks 6-8|System Usability Scale, The System Usability Scale (SUS) will be administered to evaluate perceived usability of ASCENT. SUS scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating greater usability. Descriptive statistics and exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be calculated., Week 6|Intervention Adherence, Adherence will be calculated as the percentage of pages viewed by the participant within a module divided by the total number of pages in the module as indicated by metrics from the website. Mean adherence rate and exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for each intervention module will be calculated., Weeks 1-6|eHealth Engagement Scale, The eHealth Engagement Scale will be administered to evaluate how engaging users found ASCENT engagement. Mean scale scores range from 1 to 4, with lower scores indicating greater engagement. Descriptive statistics and exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be calculated., Week 6
The investigators developed a digital intervention that aims to help adolescent and young adult cancer survivors (AYAs) manage symptoms of depression. This tool includes daily mood tracking, a psychoeducational module about cancer and depression, four components that are based on evidence-based interventions for depression. The goal of this study is to evaluate the acceptability of procedures for a future trial in which the investigators will test which component or combination of components meaningfully contribute to improvements in depressive symptoms among AYAs. Additionally, the investigators will evaluate study feasibility as well as intervention acceptability, satisfaction, usability, and engagement.