ICG and SLN Mapping
The purpose of this research study is to assess the feasibility of using a different dye and imaging device, indocyanine green (ICG)-fluorescent imaging through the Asimov Imaging Platform, to perform sentinel lymph node biopsy.

Participants in this research study will be undergoing a sentinel lymph node biopsy as part of surgical treatment for breast cancer. Active participation will last through the post-operative visit.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: SLN mapping using technetium-99m +/- isosulfan blue dye|DEVICE: SLN mapping with ICG fluorescence using the Asimov Platform
Concordance Between Detection of Sentinel Lymph Nodes by ICG Versus Technetium-99, at the Lymph Node Level, The study team will describe concordance rates between technetium-99 and ICG-fluorescence for each sentinel lymph node removed., Day of operation|Concordance Between Detection of Sentinel Lymph Nodes by ICG Versus Technetium-99, at the Patient Level, The study team will assess concordance rates at the patient level rates between technetium-99 and ICG-fluorescence., Day of operation
Accuracy of the ICG Mapping, Using the technetium-99as the gold standard, the study team will describe the number of lymph nodes that would have been missed (i.e. technetium-99 + but ICG- in removed SLN) or would have been excised unnecessarily (i.e. residual ICG-fluorescence in axilla but no residual technetium-99) if ICG-fluorescent imaging had guided the SLN., Day of operation
In this study, the sentinel lymph node biopsy will be performed with radioactive tracer (technetium-99 sulfur colloid) and blue dye, which is standard of care. Decisions will be made during surgery about which lymph nodes to remove using information from the radioactive tracer and blue dye alone.

For this research, ICG fluorescence dye during participant's surgery will also be used. After anesthesia has started, the ICG fluorescence dye will be injected in the breast along at the edge of the areola in the same location as the radioactive tracer and blue dye injections. The breast and axilla will then be imaged with the Asimov Imaging Platform to look for the sentinel lymph nodes.