Dyadic Sleep Study
The purpose of this study is to learn about sleep behaviors and test different ways to help patients with cancer and caregiver partners.
Gastrointestinal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: My Sleep Our Sleep (MSOS) Program|BEHAVIORAL: Brief Behavioral Treatment for Insomnia (BBTI)
Change in sleep disturbance symptoms as measured by scores on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Change in sleep disturbance symptoms (patient-sleep-partner caregiver dyads) among participants will be compared and reported for both intervention groups, BBTI and MSOS, as measured by scores on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). The PSQI is a self-reported, 19-item questionnaire health-related quality of life (HRQOL) questionnaire which assesses sleep quality and disturbances at baseline, week 5 and week 13. Questions generate seven "component" scores: subjective sleep quality, sleep latency, sleep duration, habitual sleep efficiency, sleep disturbances, use of sleeping medication, and daytime dysfunction. The sum of scores for these seven components yields one global score. A decrease of ≥ 5 points on the PSQI) will be considered as clinical improvement of symptoms., Baseline, Up to 13 weeks
Change in insomnia symptoms as measured by scores on the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), Change in insomnia symptoms among participants (patient-sleep-partner caregiver dyads) will be compared and reported for both intervention groups, BBTI and MSOS, as measured by scores on the 7-item Insomnia Severity Index (ISI). The ISI is a self-reported, health-related quality of life (HRQOL) questionnaire used to assess insomnia symptoms at baseline, week 5 and week 13. The dimensions evaluated are: severity of sleep onset, sleep maintenance, and early morning awakening problems, sleep dissatisfaction, interference of sleep difficulties with daytime functioning, notice ability of sleep problems by others, and distress caused by the sleep difficulties. A 5-point Likert scale is used to rate each item, ranging from 0 to 4 (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem). The total score ranges from 0 to 28, the lower total score indicates a lower level of insomnia. Greater than a 6-point decrease on the ISI is considered substantial reduction in insomnia symptoms., Baseline, Up to 13 weeks
The purpose of this study is to learn about sleep behaviors and test different ways to help patients with cancer and caregiver partners.