Trial of Intravesical Measles Virotherapy in Patients With Bladder Cancer Who Are Undergoing Radical Cystectomy
This is a Phase 1 study designed to test the tolerability and feasibility of intravesical therapy with an attenuated Measles virus (MV-NIS) in patients with urothelial carcinoma who are undergoing radical cystectomy but are ineligible or do not desire neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Urothelial Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: MV-NIS
Number of participants with intravesical MV-NIS treatment related adverse events (NCI CTCAE; Version 4.03), Assessment of safety and toxicity of intravesical MV-NIS administration in patients with Urothelial Carcinoma undergoing cystectomy, 30 days after cystectomy
Pathologic staging at time of cystectomy following intravesical MV-NIS therapy, Preliminary assessment of antitumor efficacy of intravesical MV-NIS therapy, Measured in bladder specimen following cystectomy (up to 29 days following MV-NIS administration)|pT0 rate at time of cystectomy following intravesical MV-NIS therapy, Preliminary assessment of antitumor efficacy of intravesical MV-NIS therapy, Measured in bladder specimen following cystectomy (up to 29 days following MV-NIS administration)
Study VYR-MV1-102 is a Phase 1 study designed to determine the tolerability, feasibility and preliminary efficacy of attenuated MV-NIS virus after neoadjuvant intravesical administration prior to RC in patients with UC who are ineligible for current neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

Investigators will use a novel adaptive trial design that varies the time between TURBT, virus administration and RC.

Currently, intravesical administration of BCG is delayed four to six weeks after TURBT to reduce the likelihood of systemic BCG absorption and BCG sepsis. Given this clinical safety precedent, Investigators propose initial patients be treated within one week of RC to maximize the time between TURBT and MV-NIS administration.

Subsequent patients will be treated earlier before RC (up to 29 days prior), thereby reducing the interval between TURBT and virus administration to maximize the treatment duration before RC. An expansion cohort will also be used to test the feasibility, tolerability and efficacy of two repeat MV-NIS doses prior to RC. MV-NIS has been proven safe at a dose of 1x1011 TCID50 intravenously in patients lacking MV immunity (Russell 2014), which allays concern for systemic toxicity after intravesical administration even if post-TURBT administration results in systemic MV-NIS absorption.

Pathologic downstaging and CR (assessed by T0 rate) at surgery are secondary endpoints, designed to give an early indication of efficacy potential. This will facilitate future virotherapy strategies targeting replicative tumor destruction and stimulation of systemic anti-tumor immunity as possible strategies for neoadjuvant and bladder-sparing therapy.