Pediatric-type Therapy With Pre-transplant Blinatumomab for HR Patients - Phase II Study
Despite recent therapeutic advancements, the outcome of young adults with Philadelphia-negative (Ph-neg) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL) remains unsatisfactory, especially in those patients with high-risk disease features. In young adults pediatric-based chemotherapy approaches improve outcome. Furthermore, there is evidence that pre-transplant antibody-based therapy may render patients with positive minimal residual disease (MRD+) to an MRD-negative status (MRD-) and that this may be associated with improved post-transplant outcome.

This is prospective study to evaluate the potential benefit of a modified pediatric-based approach in young adults with Ph-neg ALL. Safety and efficacy of pre-transplant antibody-based consolidation in high-risk patients with Ph-neg ALL will be performed.
Philadelphia-Negative ALL|High-Risk Cancer
DRUG: Blinatumomab
Event-free survival (EFS), Measured from the date of entry on study until treatment failure, relapse from CR, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, 2 years
Overall survival (OS), Measured from the date of entry on study until until death from any cause, 2 years|Early death during induction, Death during the first 60 days from entering study from any cause, 60 days|MRD status, MRD status pre- and post-antibody-based therapy, MRD will be assess by PCR after induction I (day 33), after induction II (week 12), after blinatumomab therapy (prior to HSCT) and at days 30 and 100 post alloHSCT.
This is a national, multicenter, phase II clinical trial to evaluate the potential benefit of a modified pediatric-based approach in young adults with Ph-neg ALL. Safety and efficacy of pre-transplant antibody-based consolidation in high-risk patients with Ph-neg ALL will be assessed.

Young-adult patients eligible with Ph-neg ALL, LBL and mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) will undergo risk stratification and started on the pediatric Italian Association of Pediatric Hematology Oncology-Berlin-Frankfurt-Münster (AIEOP-BFM) 2009 protocol. Patients defined as having non-high-risk disease features (non-HR) as defined by MRD and/or cytogenetic criteria will complete the non-HR chemotherapy arm per protocol. Patients designated as having HR disease features after 2 induction blocks will be treated with CNS directed block followed by up to 2 cycles of blinatumomab (for B-cell ALL) followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation. All patients will be centrally assessed for MRD and for Ph-like status.