A Study Comparing Billroth II With Roux-en-Y Reconstruction for Gastric Cancer
Both Billroth II and Roux en Y are acceptable techniques of reconstruction after subtotal gastrectomy, however the debate one which is better remains unanswered. The aim of this study is to compare Billroth II and Roux en Y reconstruction techniques after radical distal subtotal gastrectomy for gastric cancer in terms of postoperative outcomes and quality of life. The investigators hypothesize that Roux en Y will have lesser gastrointestinal symptoms and reflux problems when compared to Billroth II reconstruction. Patients with resectable gastric cancer meeting the inclusion criteria will be consented and enrolled. Data on demographics, nutrition, gastrointestinal symptoms, and quality of life will be collected. They will be randomized after completion of distal subtotal gastrectomy to under go either Roux en Y or Billroth II reconstruction. Surgery data will be collected post-operatively.

At 6 months follow up a repeat nutritional assessment using clinical and biochemical parameters will be carried out. The biochemical markers are part of routine follow up. The final assessment will be at the one year post surgery visit when by interview using EORTC 30 questionnaire quality of life data, gastrointestinal symptoms and nutritional assessment and surgery data for recurrence will be repeated. At one year patients will also have upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, which is part of routine follow up. At endoscopy stump gastritis will be graded and esophageal reflux assessed as per Los Angeles classification. It is postulated that 5% of the patients on Roux en Y reconstruction will experience poor clinical symptoms compared to 25% of those on Billroth II based on reflux symptoms. To achieve a statistical significance with 95% power and a 2-sided test of 5% for this 20% clinical difference, 80 subjects for each arm will be required. Factoring a 10% attrition rate for mortality and lost to follow up, a total of 160 subjects to be randomized equally will be recruited.
Gastric Cancer|Stomach Cancer|Gastrectomy
PROCEDURE: Roux-en-Y or Billroth II
The aim of this study is to compare Billroth II and Roux En Y reconstruction after radical distal subtotal gastrectomy for gastric cancer in terms of postoperative outcomes., The outcomes include postoperative gastrointestinal symptoms, nutritional status, gastritis and/or esophagitis on endoscopy and quality of life up to one year after surgery. With the results, we can have a scientific basis in choosing the more suitable method of reconstruction for our patients., 1 year
Quality of life pre and post operatively will be compared between Billroth II and Roux En Y reconstruction after radical distal subtotal gastrectomy., Symptomatic outcomes of both procedures have significant bearing on quality of life of patients and at the end be able to identify the better among the two procedure., 1 year|Gastrointestinal symptoms assessment, Grading of clinical symptom is based on the total score of the the five items epigastric pain, heartburn, vomiting bile, postprandial bloating and nausea)pre and post operatively at 1 year. The higher the grade the poorer the outcome., 1 year|Assessing nutritional status, Biochemical parameters as well as the height and weight of patients are measured pre operatively, 6 months and 1 year post operatively to compute the BMI. The nutrition assessment are scored by using the NRI and total lymphocyte count., 1 year|Grading of gastritis and/or esophagitis on endoscopy, Endoscopic classification of inflammation of the remnant stomach to be graded one year after surgery. The gastritis will be reported according to the updated Sydney classification with the morphologic pattern, etiology \& topography being reported., 1 year
Subtotal distal gastrectomy with lymphadenectomy offers the best chance of cure either alone or in conjunction with other modalities for patients with operable distal gastric cancer. After a subtotal gastrectomy the gastrointestinal continuity can be restored by various techniques. Billroth I, Billroth II and Roux-en-Y reconstruction are all acceptable procedure with each having its merits and demerits. The choice of reconstructive procedure varies depending on individual Surgeons preference and institutional practice. There is geographical difference in practice with majority of surgeons in the east favoring Billroth I, while in the west; Roux-en-Y is more commonly employed (1). Billroth I vs Roux-en-Y reconstruction has been extensively studied with a prospective series by Sounya Nunobe et al that reported superior symptomatic and functional outcomes of Roux-en-Y procedure (2). However a randomised trial by Makoto Ishikawa et al found limited advantages of Roux-en-Y over Billroth I reconstruction (3). In this study Roux-en-Y had fewer problems related to reflux of bile but a higher incidence of stasis in the Roux limb resulting in longer hospital stay. Another reason that some surgeon avoids doing Roux-en-Y is a triad of post operative symptoms including abdominal pain, vomiting and nausea called Roux-en-Y loop syndrome (4,5). Billroth II reconstruction in comparison to Roux-en-Y is a simpler operation with only one anastomosis and faster operating time (6). This has implications while managing gastric cancer patients who may be malnourished and a simpler procedure may have lesser risk of complications and yield better outcomes. Billroth II has been criticized for increased reflux associated problem like esophagitis and gastritis, also noteworthy are risk of afferent loop and dumping syndrome. Long term nutritional outcomes are similar for both procedures (7).