Swallowing Exercises for Nasopharyngeal Cancer After Radiation Therapy
This study is designed to investigate the treatment efficacy of 8 weeks swallowing exercise programs for patients with NPC after radiation therapy. This study also compares two different swallowing exercise: effortful swallow and Mendelsohn's maneuver, to see which one can bring more benefits to patients after a certain period of exercise training. Three assessment tools are selected to evaluate the study result: Mann Assessment of Swallowing Ability (MASA), videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS), and Chinese version Swallowing Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (CSWAL-QOL). The hypothesis of this study is that the effortful swallowing exercise would have better treatment efficacy.
Nasopharyngeal Cancer|Dysphagia
OTHER: effortful swallowing exercise|OTHER: Mendelsohn swallowing exercise
Change from Baseline in videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS), Videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS) measures the bolus transit time including: 1.oral transit time; 2. pharyngeal transit time; and 3. pharyngeal delay time. It also reveals the occurrence of swallowing aspiration or not., Change from Baseline in VFSS at 8 weeks
Change from Baseline in Chinese version of the Swallow Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (CSWAL-QOL), The Chinese version of SWAL-QOL questionnaire (CSWAL-QOL) contains 10 scales related to swallowing and quality of life, including burden, eating desire, food duration, food selection, communication, fear, mental health, social functioning, sleep, and fatigue. All scales are linearly transformed into a 0-to-100 metric, with 0 indicating most dysfunction and 100 indicating no dysfunction., Change from Baseline in CSWAL-QOL at 8 weeks
Change from Baseline in the Mann Assessment of Swallowing Ability (MASA), The the Mann Assessment of Swallowing Ability (MASA) is designed to yield specific information about a patients's swallowing ability through examiner interpretation of responses. Two scores are obtained: a total score out of 200, and an ordinal risk rating for both aspiration and dysphagia (definite, probable, possible, unlikely)., Change from Baseline in MASA at 8 weeks
This study is designed to investigate the treatment efficacy of 8 weeks swallowing exercise programs for patients with NPC after radiation therapy. This study also compares two different swallowing exercise: effortful swallow and Mendelsohn's maneuver, to see which one can bring more benefits to patients after a certain period of exercise training. Three assessment tools are selected to evaluate the study result: Mann Assessment of Swallowing Ability (MASA), videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS), and Chinese version Swallowing Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (CSWAL-QOL). The hypothesis of this study is that the effortful swallowing exercise would have better treatment efficacy.