The Efficacy and Safety of Leflunomide or Azathioprine Therapy in Myasthenia Gravis Patients After Expand Thymectomy
This is a randomized controlled clinical study. The investigators screen of eligible patients, randomized divide into the following two groups: corticosteroids + azathioprine group, corticosteroids + leflunomide group. The investigators treat the enrolled patients, estimate efficacy and observed the side effects according to the requirements of program. The investigators establish a clinical database for recording patients date and statistical analysis. Evaluation of short-term and long-term efficacy of thymectomized myasthenia gravis patients in the different group prove that what kind of treatment can improve the cure rate. The investigators will evaluate the acute toxicity (gastrointestinal side effects, liver and kidney dysfunction) and long-term toxicity (immune dysfunction, gonadal suppression) when the investigators apply these therapy in the treatment of different clinical types of myasthenia gravis.
Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: Azathioprine|DRUG: Leflunomide
the percent of achieving good response, Pharmacologic Remission (PR) was the primary efficacy endpoint observed. Record the time the patient appears from the time of medication to the time of PR, and calculate the percentage of PR patients in each arm. Criteria for PR: The patient has had no symptoms or signs of MG for at least 1 year and continues to take some form of therapy for MG. There is no weakness of any muscle on careful examination by someone skilled in the evaluation of neuromuscular disease. Isolated weakness of eyelid closure is accepted. Patients taking cholinesterase inhibitors are excluded from this category because their use suggests the presence of weakness., 144 weeks
The changes of the disease severity and the antibody titer during the follow-up, The magnitude by which QMG or ADL scores are reduced. Total amount of steroid used during the follow-up. Level of the acetylcholine receptor antibody., 144 weeks
This is a randomized controlled clinical study. The investigators screen of eligible patients, randomized divide into the following two groups: corticosteroids + azathioprine group, corticosteroids + leflunomide group. The investigators treat the enrolled patients, estimate efficacy and observed the side effects according to the requirements of program. The investigators establish a clinical database for recording patients date and statistical analysis. Evaluation of short-term and long-term efficacy of thymectomized myasthenia gravis patients in the different group prove that what kind of treatment can improve the cure rate. The investigators will evaluate the acute toxicity (gastrointestinal side effects, liver and kidney dysfunction) and long-term toxicity (immune dysfunction, gonadal suppression) when the investigators apply these therapy in the treatment of different clinical types of myasthenia gravis.