Gemcitabine and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Upper Gastrointestinal Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving chemotherapy together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of gemcitabine when given together with radiation therapy in treating patients with locally advanced upper gastrointestinal cancer.
Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Gallbladder Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Small Intestine Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|PROCEDURE: conventional surgery|RADIATION: intraoperative radiation therapy|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Feasibility|Tolerance|Measurement of biochemical parameters in tumors that may correlate with the effectiveness of therapy
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine the feasibility of combining preoperative or intraoperative gemcitabine hydrochloride with intraoperative radiotherapy.
* To determine the tolerance of gemcitabine hydrochloride given concurrently with external-beam radiotherapy.
* To measure biochemical parameters in tumors that may correlate with the effectiveness of therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV 12-18 hours prior to planned surgery. All patients then undergo an exploratory laparotomy that may include tumor debulking, Whipple-type resection (pancreaticoduodenectomy), total pancreatectomy, gastrojejunostomy, total or partial gastrectomy, or cholecystectomy and en bloc resection depending on the extent of the disease. Patients with no metastatic disease beyond regional lymph nodes also undergo intraoperative radiotherapy.

Beginning 2-6 weeks after surgery, patients undergo external-beam radiotherapy (EBRT) once a day 5 days a week for up to 7 weeks. Patients also receive escalating doses of gemcitabine hydrochloride IV at the beginning of each week of EBRT.

Patients undergo tissue sample collection periodically for correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for thymidylate synthase (TS), ribonucleotide reductase (RR), excision-repair-cross-complementing (ERCC)-1 protein, deoxycytidine kinase mRNA. Biopsy tissues are also analyzed for gemcitabine triphosphate, dATP, and dCTP content. p53 status is assessed via immunohistochemistry and mRNA levels via quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then once a year thereafter.