Levocarnitine and Vitamin B Complex in Treating PEG-Asparaginase or Inotuzumab Ozogamicin-Induced Hyperbilirubinemia in Patients With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well levocarnitine and vitamin B complex works in treating abnormal high liver enzyme levels (hyperbilirubinemia) caused by treatment with PEG-asparaginase or inotuzumab ozogamicin in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Amino acids, such as levocarnitine, may work in normalizing liver enzyme levels due to treatment. Vitamin B complex is a dietary supplement that may be used for patients with nutritional deficiencies. Giving levocarnitine and vitamin B complex may work better in treating hyperbilirubinemia in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Hyperbilirubinemia
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Levocarnitine|DRUG: Vitamin B Complex
Response rates, Will be defined by normalization of hyperbilirubinemia. Response rates will be estimated along with the 95% confidence interval. The duration of time to hyperbilirubinemia normalization of at least 50% reduction in peak total bilirubin will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 30 days after completion of treatment
Evaluation of chemotherapy dose intensity, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize secondary endpoints. The incidence rates of binary secondary endpoints will be estimated, along with the 95% confidence intervals., Up to 30 days after completion of treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize secondary endpoints. The incidence rates of binary secondary endpoints will be estimated, along with the 95% confidence intervals. Safety data will be summarized by adverse event (AE) category, severity and frequency. The proportion of patients with AEs will be estimated., Up to 30 days after completion of treatment
Time to hyperbilirubinemia normalization, The time to hyperbilirubinemia normalization or achieving at least a 50% reduction in peak total bilirubin will be compared to historical controls using the Log rank test. Competing risk analysis will be considered in the case that patients died before bilirubin normalization or at least a 50% reduction in peak total bilirubin is achieved., From the start of study treatment up to 30 days after completion of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of levocarnitine in combination with vitamin B complex in treating PEG-asparaginase (PEG) or inotuzumab ozogamicin (INO) induced hyperbilirubinemia (total bilirubin \[Tbili\] \> 3 x upper limit of normal \[ULN\]) in patients (pts) with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate chemotherapy dose intensity in patients treated with PEG-asparaginase or inotuzumab ozogamicin.

II. To characterize the safety, tolerability, and adverse event profile of levocarnitine and vitamin B for the treatment of hyperbilirubinemia.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

Patients receive levocarnitine intravenously (IV) over 2-3 minutes every 6 hours up to 4 times a day (inpatient) or orally (PO) three times a day (TID) (outpatient). Patients also receive vitamin B complex PO twice daily (BID). Treatment continues for up to 30 days after the last dose of either PEG-asparaginase or inotuzumab, or until Tbili of ≤ 1.5 x ULN or at least a 50% reduction in peak Tbili is achieved.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.