Samotolisib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Advanced Solid Tumors, Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, or Histiocytic Disorders With TSC or PI3K/MTOR Mutations (A Pediatric MATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II Pediatric MATCH trial studies how well samotolisib works in treating patients with solid tumors, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or histiocytic disorders with TSC or PI3K/MTOR mutations that have spread to other places in the body (metastatic) and have come back (recurrent) or do not respond to treatment (refractory). Samotolisib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Ann Arbor Stage III Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Malignant Glioma|Recurrent Ependymoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma|Recurrent Glioma|Recurrent Hepatoblastoma|Recurrent Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Recurrent Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Recurrent Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Primary Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Recurrent Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Refractory Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Refractory Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Neuroblastoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Rhabdoid Tumor|Stage III Osteosarcoma AJCC v7|Stage III Soft Tissue Sarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Osteosarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Soft Tissue Sarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Osteosarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Osteosarcoma AJCC v7|Wilms Tumor
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: FDG-Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Samotolisib|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Objective Response Rate, A responder is defined as a patient who achieves a best response of partial response or complete response on the study. Response rates will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients who are responders. The revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) was used to determine response and progression in this study, with specific criteria outlined for the different subtypes of tumors (e.g., 2-dimensional measurements for central nervous system (CNS) tumors)., Up to 2 years from study entry
Percentage of Patients Experiencing Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events, Percentage of patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse events will be evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, Up to 2 years from study entry|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the 3-month PFS. PFS is defined as time from initiation of protocol treatment to disease progression, recurrence, death from any cause, or date of last contact., Up to 3 months from study entry|Pharmacokinetic (PK) of Samotolisib, Area Under the Curve (AUC)., The mean (sd) of the AUC, Up to day 15 of cycle 1
Potential Predictive Biomarker Identification Using Additional Genomic, Transcriptomic, and Proteomic Testing Platforms, A descriptive analysis will be performed and will be summarized with simple summary statistics. All of these analyses will be descriptive in nature., Up to 3 years|Biallelic Loss of Function Frequency and Mechanism, A descriptive analysis will be performed and will be summarized with simple summary statistics. All of these analyses will be descriptive in nature., Up to 3 years|Change in Tumor Genomic Profile, A descriptive analysis will be performed and will be summarized with simple summary statistics. All of these analyses will be descriptive in nature., Baseline up to 3 years|TSC1, TSC2, and PTEN Expression Levels, A descriptive analysis will be performed and will be summarized with simple summary statistics. All of these analyses will be descriptive in nature., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR; complete response + partial response) in pediatric patients treated with samotolisib (LY3023414) with advanced solid tumors, non-Hodgkin lymphomas or central nervous system (CNS) tumors that harbor TSC loss of function mutations, and/or other PI3K/MTOR activating mutations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression free survival in pediatric patients treated with LY3023414 with advanced solid tumors, non-Hodgkin lymphomas or CNS tumors that harbor TSC loss of function mutations, and/or other PI3K/MTOR activating mutations.

II. To obtain information about the tolerability of LY3023414 in children with relapsed or refractory cancer.

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of LY3023414 in children with recurrent or refractory cancer.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To increase knowledge of the genomic landscape of relapsed pediatric solid tumors and lymphomas and identify potential predictive biomarkers (other than the genomic alteration for which study treatment was assigned) using additional genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic testing platforms.

II. To explore approaches to profiling changes in tumor genomics over time through evaluation of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

III. To evaluate the frequency and mechanism of biallelic loss of function, and evaluate the expression of TSC1, TSC2, and PTEN in subjects who enroll with a loss of function mutation in one of these genes.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive samotolisib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity. Patients undergo an x-ray, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-position emission tomography (FDG-PET), and blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.