Deferred Cytoreductive Nephrectomy in Synchronous Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma: The NORDIC-SUN-Trial
BACKGROUND: For synchronous metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC), surgical resection of the primary tumor in the presence of distant metastases has been the standard of therapy for select patients followed by systemic therapy. In the era of TKIs two randomized trials, CARMENA and SURTIME, have questioned the role and timing of surgery in these patients, results point towards no surgery or a deferred approach.

RATIONALE: The antitumor activity of immune checkpoint blockage (ICB) is more potent than other therapy in mRCC. The deferred cytoreductive nephrectomy approach ensures systemic therapy for all patients, avoid systemic treatment delay, and spare surgery in patients with progressive tumors. Current data only point towards a survival benefit for cytoreductive nephrectomy in intermediate risk patients, but not in poor risk patients

HYPOTHESIS: Deferred cytoreductive nephrectomy after initial nivolumab combined with ipilimumab or a TKI/IO-combination will improve OS in patients with synchronous metastatic RCC and ≤3 IMDC risk features

This is an open, randomized, multicenter comparison trial, designed to evaluate the effect of deferred cytoreductive nephrectomy compared with no surgery following initial nivolumab combined with ipilimumab or a TKI-combination, in mRCC patients with IMDC intermediate and poor risk.
Kidney Cancer|Renal Cell Carcinoma Metastatic|Synchronous Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Cytoreductive nephrectomy|OTHER: Tissue sampling
Overall survival, Calculated from the date of inclusion, to the date of death of any cause or censored at the date at last follow-up., Minimum 3 years follow-up
Progression free survival, According to the RECIST v1.1, 3 years follow-up|Time to subsequent systemic therapy, Calculated from date of inclusion to date of initiation of subsequent therapy or death of any cause or censored at the date of last follow-up, 3 years follow-up|Objective response rate, According to the RECIST v1.1, 3 years follow-up|Rate of patients meeting randomization criteria, Compared with baseline values, 3 or 6 months|Fractional percentage of tumor volume (ratio of primary tumor measurement to total sum of target lesions) to survival outcome in deferred cytoreductive nephrectomy patients and no surgery patients, Compared with baseline values, 3 years follow-up|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Evaluation of adverse events, 3 years follow-up|Number of participant with surgical morbidity assessed according to the Clavien-Dindo classification of surgical complications, Evaluation of surgical morbidity, 3 years follow-up|Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes baseline and after surgery compared with OS, PFS, TST, ORR, As part of a biomarker analysis, 3 year follow-up|Immune subsets in blood measured by flowcytometry in serial samples compared with OS, PFS, TST, ORR., As part of a biomarker analysis, 3 year follow-up|Genetic profile of circulation tumor DNA measured by Next generation sequencing (NGS), compared with OS, PFS, TST, ORR., As part of a biomarker analysis, 3 year follow-up|Genetic profile of primary tumor tissue measured by measured by NGS compared with OS, PFS, TST, ORR., As part of a biomarker analysis, 3 year follow-up|Profile of gut microbiome measured by NGS compared OS, PFS, TST, ORR., As part of a biomarker analysis, 3 year follow-up
OUTLINE: This is a multicenter trial, patients are stratified according to institution, treatment choice, number of IMDC risk factors, and combined elevated neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio and hyponatremia.

All patients will receive induction checkpoint immunotherapy immediately after inclusion. After 3 months or a total of 4 series of nivolumab combined with ipilimumab or a TKI/IO-combination, the patient will be discussed for resectability at the multidisciplinary meeting (MDT). Whether the patient is eligible for cytoreductive nephrectomy is at the discretion of the urologist at the local MDT. Patients with ≤ 3 IMDC risk factors and deemed suitable for cytoreductive nephrectomy will then undergo randomization. Patients deemed not suitable for surgery or have \> 3 IMDC risk features at the 3 month evaluation continue systemic therapy for 3 months, followed by a 2nd evaluation. Patients with ≤ 3 IMDC risk factors and deemed suitable for cytoreductive nephrectomy at 2nd evaluation will then undergo randomization. Patients deemed not suitable for surgery or have \> 3 IMDC risk features at the 6 month evaluation continue systemic therapy. Nivolumab may continue until unacceptable toxicity or total treatment length of 2 years from inclusion.

ARM A: Deferred cytoreductive nephrectomy, followed by maintenance nivolumab or a TKI/IO-combination.

ARM B: No surgery, receive maintenance nivolumab or a TKI/IO-combination.

Patients undergo tumor tissue, blood, and stool collection at baseline, 3 and 6 months, for planned translational research.