Phase Ib Study of Axatilimab in Combination with Olaparib in BRCA1/2 and PALB2- Associated Metastatic HER2-negative Breast Cancer
This research is being done to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the new drug, axatilimab, in combination with olaparib (a standard of care treatment) in Breast Cancer 1/2 genes (BRCA 1/2) and PALB2 associated HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Axatilimab (a type of antibody)
* Olaparib (a type of PARP inhibitor)
Breast Cancer|PALB2-Mutated Breast Carcinoma|HER2-negative Breast Cancer|BRCA1 Mutation|BRCA2 Mutation
DRUG: Axatilimab|DRUG: Olaparib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), MTD is determined by Bayesian optimal interval (BOIN) design, where the target toxicity rate for the MTD is 0.25 and the maximum sample size is 20., Up to 4 weeks|Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), If the MTD is identified as 3mg/kg, we will complete enrollment of 10 pts at the 1 mg/kg dose level, to determine if there is biological effectiveness (and clinical efficacy) at the lower dose level., Up to 4 weeks
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Up to 6 months|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from registration to the earlier of progression (per RECIST 1.1) or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at data of last disease evaluation. Deaths that occur within the time frame of the disease assessment period will count towards the PFS estimate. Deaths that occur outside of this assessment period will be censored at date of last disease evaluation., Up to 6 months
This is a non-randomized, open-label, proof-of-concept phase 1 study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a drug known as Axatilimab in combination with the drug Olaparib in BRCA1/2 and PALB2 associated HER2-negative breast cancer.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved axatilimab as a treatment for any disease.

The FDA has approved olaparib as a treatment option for BRCA1/2 and PALB2 associated HER2-negative breast cancer, and it is considered standard of care for those types of breast cancer. The FDA has approved olaparib for metastatic (breast cancer that has spread) BRCA1/2 associated HER2-negative breast cancer.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment in-clinic visits, tumor biopsies, blood tests, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, and electrocardiograms.

Participation in this research study is expected to last for as long as there is clinical benefit and participants will be followed for a maximum of three years after finishing study treatment.

It is expected that about 16-20 people will take part in this research study.

Incyte Corporation is funding this research study and providing Axatilimab.