Laser Ablation After Stereotactic Radiosurgery
The need for new technologies and devices in the field of neurosurgery is well established. In April 2013, FDA cleared NeuroBlate™ System, minimally invasive robotic laser thermotherapy tool. It employs a pulsed surgical laser to deliver targeted energy to abnormal brain tissue caused by tumors and lesions. This post-marketing, multi-center study will include patients with metastatic tumors who failed stereotactic radiosurgery and are already scheduled for NeuroBlate procedure. The study will collect clinical outcome, Quality of Life (QoL) and, where feasible, healthcare utilization data for publication.
Metastatic Brain Tumors|Progression|Radiation Necrosis|Quality of Life
Percentage of Patients With Progression-Free Survival (PFS), To describe local (CNS) progression-free survival rate in patients with failed radiosurgery for brain metastases treated with the NeuroBlate System. Sites were requested to submit imaging to a centralized core laboratory for analysis. A total of 27 patients had images submitted--27/42 (64%) of patients submitted follow-up images at 12-weeks and 16/42 (38%) patients submitted follow-up imaging at 26 weeks. Due to the low submission of follow-up images at 26-weeks, 12-weeks and last follow-up are reported., Images were collected at 12 and 26 weeks post index procedure.
Quality of Life (Change in The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br) Score., FACT-Br questionnaire sub-scores (Physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, brain cancer subscale) are summed together, leading to a FACT-Br total score on a scale from 0-200; larger scores indicate better overall quality of life. This outcome measured the FACT-Br score change from Baseline at both 12 and 26 weeks post NeuroBlate procedure (values at 12 and 26 weeks, respectively, minus value at baseline). Version 4 of the Fact-BR scoring guidelines were used., baseline, 12 and 26 weeks post index procedure|Overall Survival, To describe/estimate the overall survival after the NeuroBlate Procedure., 12 and 26 weeks post index procedure|Percentage of Patients With Laser Ablation Related Adverse Events, To continue to monitor factors impacting the safe and efficacious use of NeuroBlate, All adverse events reported through 26 weeks post index procedure
The need for new technologies and devices in the field of neurosurgery is well established. In April 2013, FDA cleared NeuroBlate™ System, minimally invasive robotic laser thermotherapy tool. It employs a pulsed surgical laser to deliver targeted energy to abnormal brain tissue caused by tumors and lesions. This post-marketing, multi-center study will include patients with metastatic tumors who failed stereotactic radiosurgery and are already scheduled for NeuroBlate procedure. The study will collect clinical outcome, Quality of Life (QoL) and, where feasible, healthcare utilization data for publication.