Mogamulizumab and Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose and side effects of mogamulizumab in combination with pembrolizumab and to see how well they work in treating patients with diffuse large B cell lymphoma that have come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as mogamulizumab and pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Transformed B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Mogamulizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) or Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of Mogamulizumab in Combination With Pembrolizumab (Phase I), Will be determined by dose limiting toxicity (DLT). A standard 3+3 design will be used to find the MTD or RP2D for the combination of pembrolizumab and mogamulizumab., Up to 6 weeks|Incidence of Adverse Events (Phase I), Number of incidences of grade 3-5 adverse events at least possibly related to the study intervention will be reported. Adverse events will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03 (Version 5.0 beginning April 1, 2018)., Up to 25 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) (Phase II), The Kaplan Meier method will be used to estimate the median PFS., From course 1 day 1 to the first date of recurrence, progression, or death due to any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 12 months
Overall Response Rate, Will be calculated along with exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 25 months|Complete Response Rate, Will be calculated along with exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 25 months|Partial Response Rate, Will be calculated along with exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 25 months|Duration of Response, Will be summarized by Kaplan-Meier method in patients who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., Up to 25 months
Biomarker Analysis, Performed and summarized using descriptive statistics and graphical displays at pre and post treatment time points., Up to 25 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of KW-0761 (mogamulizumab) when administered in combination with MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in patients with relapsed, refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. (Phase I) II. To assess the safety and tolerability of KW-0761 (mogamulizumab) when administered in combination with MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in patients with relapsed, refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. (Phase I) III. To assess the progression-free survival of KW-0761 (mogamulizumab) when administered in combination with MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) compared to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) alone in patients with relapsed and refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphomas. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase I) II. To assess the overall response rate, complete response rate, partial response rate, duration of response of KW-0761 (mogamulizumab) and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) compared to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) alone in patients with relapsed and refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphomas. (Phase II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the progression-free survival of KW-0761 (mogamulizumab) and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) when administered to patients with relapsed and refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphomas differs based on the presence or absence of mutations in B2M or CD58 or amplifications in PD-L1.

II. To determine whether the progression-free survival of KW-0761 (mogamulizumab) and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) when administered to patients with relapsed and refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphomas differs based on changes in CD8 T-cell, natural killer (NK) cell, and FoxP3+ regulatory T cell (Treg) prevalence in response to therapy as measured by immunohistochemistry.

III. To determine whether KW-0761 (mogamulizumab) and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) alters the prevalence of peripheral blood CCR4+/FoxP3+ regulatory T-cells as well as effector CD4 and CD8 T-cells by multi-parametric flow cytometry.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of mogamulizumab followed by a phase II study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and mogamulizumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycle 1, then day 1 of subsequent courses. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.