The Effect of Progressive Relaxation Exercise on Caregiver Burden, Fatigue and Quality of Life in Caregivers of Patients With Advanced Cancer: Randomized Controlled Clinical Study
Caregivers of patients with advanced cancer will be entered. Participants will be randomized to one of two study arms: Arm 1: Progressive muscle relaxation; Arm 2: Attention matched control. Hypothesis: Progressive muscle relaxation will decrease caregiving burden and severity of fatigue and improve quality of life.
Caregiver Burnout|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Progressive muscle relaxation|OTHER: Attention matched control
Change in caregiver burden severity, Caregiver burden severity will be measured based on patient report by Experience-Based Caregiver Burden Scale in Advanced Cancer.

Maximum scores indicate worse caregiver burden., Baseline measurements, at the end of 8th week and two weeks after the completion of the interventions|Change in fatigue severity, Fatigue severity will be measured based on patient report by the Fatigue Severity Scale. Minimum scores indicate better level of fatigue., Baseline measurements, at the end of 8th week and two weeks after the completion of the interventions|Change in Quality of life status, Quality of life will be measured by the Caregiver's Quality of Life Index-Cancer Scale. Maximum scores indicate better quality of life., Baseline measurements, at the end of 8th week and two weeks after the completion of the interventions
Previous reports have revealed that progressive muscle relaxation to use to decrease symptom burden associated with cancer. However, there have been limited studies that directly focus on supporting caregivers of advanced cancer patients who face serious problems in diagnosis and treatment process, at least as much as cancer patients. Besides, till date, no study has been conducted to determine the effects of progressive relaxation exercise on caregiver burden, fatigue and quality of life in those providing care for patients with advanced cancer. The present study investigates the effects of progressive muscle relaxation in a single-site, 2-arm, randomized, controlled study of 64 caregivers of patients with advanced cancer. Arm 1: relaxation; Arm 2: Attention matched control. The investigators hypothesize that progressive muscle relaxation will decrease severity of caregiver burden and fatigue and improve quality of life.