Probe Based Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy During Thoracoscopy for Pleural Malignancies Diagnosis.
Probe based confocal laser endomicroscopy (pCLE) is a new optical endoscopic technique, generating fluorescent light emission from the tissue of interest and allowing in vivo live imaging at a cellular level ("optical biopsies"). It was first used in gastroenterology and came later to the light in pulmonary medicine and is still an experimental technique. In gastroenterology, this new investigational technique is used in Barret oesophagus, inflammatory bowel disease, pancreas cystic lesions... Nowadays, there are no data concerning usefulness of endomicroscopy in medical thoracoscopy. During thoracoscopy This new tool could help to target biopsies or help clinicians to do the right diagnosis early, allowing rapid therapeutic intervention (talc pleurodesis for example) . Furthermore, some details can be studied only during live imaging as microorganisms or bloodflows. The investigators performed an endomicroscopy to every patient needing a thoracoscopy (no matter the indication) and who agreed to participate. The pCLE features between malignant and benign pleura were compared in order to find specific criteria for malignant infiltration.
Pleural Carcinomatosis
DEVICE: Study of the pleural cavity with a confocal laser endomicroscope.
Pleural Carcinomatosis Identification (Compared to Standard Biopsies). Qualitative Criteria., Eleven preselected criteria were assessed in their ability to distinguish benign from malignant pleura Qualitative variables are presented in this table, One day.|Pleural Carcinomatosis Identification (Compared to Standard Biopsies), Quantitative Criteria., Eleven preselected pCLE criteria were assessed in their ability to distinguish benign from malignant pleura.

Here are presented Mean cell size and maximum vascular diameter, One day|Pleural Carcinomatosis Identification (Compared to Standard Biopsies), Quantitative Criteria., Eleven preselected pCLE criteria were assessed in their ability to distinguish benign from malignant pleura.

Quantitative criteria are presented in this table. Here is presented the mean cellular density, One day|Pleural Carcinomatosis Identification (Compared to Standard Biopsies), Quantitative Criteria., Eleven preselected pCLE criteria were assessed in their ability to distinguish benign from malignant pleura.

Quantitative criteria are presented in this table. Here is presented the vascular density., One day
Quality of the pCLE Acquisition, The investigators performing the thoracoscopy had to score the pCLE acquisition. Three level of quality were used: Good, Acceptable, Low., One day
Probe based confocal laser endomicroscopy (pCLE) is a new optical endoscopic technique, generating fluorescent light emission from the tissue of interest and allowing in vivo live imaging at a cellular level ("optical biopsies"). It was first used in gastroenterology and came later to the light in pulmonary medicine and is still an experimental technique. In gastroenterology, this new investigational technique is used in Barret oesophagus, inflammatory bowel disease, pancreas cystic lesions... Nowadays, there are no data concerning usefulness of endomicroscopy in medical thoracoscopy. During thoracoscopy This new tool could help to target biopsies or help clinicians to do the right diagnosis early, allowing rapid therapeutic intervention (talc pleurodesis for example) . Furthermore, some details can be studied only during live imaging as microorganisms or bloodflows. The investigators performed an endomicroscopy to every patient needing a thoracoscopy (no matter the indication) and who agreed to participate. The pCLE features between malignant and benign pleura were compared in order to find specific criteria for malignant infiltration.