Chatbot to Maximize Hereditary Cancer Genetic Risk Assessment
In this study, the investigators aim to compare a mobile health platform, known as a 'chatbot,' that leverages artificial intelligence and natural language processing to scale communication, to 'usual care' that patients would receive. This comparison will enable the investigators to determine if the chatbot system can improve rates of recommendation for genetic testing among patients at elevated risk of harboring a familial cancer syndrome in an all-Medicaid gynecology clinic. Furthermore, the investigators aim to evaluate facilitators of inequity in regard to patient access to and utilization of genetic testing services.
Gynecologic Cancer|Hereditary Cancer Syndrome
OTHER: Chatbot
Proportion recommended genetic testing, The proportion of high-risk patients that are recommended genetic testing for familial cancer syndromes in the chatbot vs. usual care arms., 2 years
Proportion completed recommended genetic testing, The proportion of high-risk patients who complete recommended genetic testing for familial cancer syndromes in the chatbot vs. usual care arms., 2 years|Facilitator of inequity in the utilization of genetic services, The specific facilitators of inequity that affect the utilization of genetic testing services, among high-risk patients who decline recommended genetic testing. Examples of these facilitators include patient race, ethnicity, education, affordability, and social determinants of health. The validated survey known as the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) will enable these patients to identify various facilitators that influenced their decision not to complete genetic testing. Specifically, the HADS survey has 7 questions each to assess depression and anxiety subscales. Scoring for each item ranges from 0 to 3, with 3 denoting highest anxiety or depression level, and 0 denoting the lowest. A total subscale score of \>8 points out of a possible 21 denotes considerable symptoms of anxiety or depression., 2 years|Facilitator of inequity in the utilization of genetic services, The specific facilitators of inequity that affect the utilization of genetic testing services, among high-risk patients who decline recommended genetic testing. Examples of these facilitators include patient race, ethnicity, education, affordability, and social determinants of health. The validated survey known as the NCCN Distress Thermometer will enable these patients to identify various facilitators that influenced their decision not to complete genetic testing. Specifically, the NCCN Distress Thermometer allows patients to self report how much distress they have been experiencing in the past week on a scale from 0 (no distress) to 10 (extreme distress)., 2 years|Facilitator of inequity in the utilization of genetic services, The specific facilitators of inequity that affect the utilization of genetic testing services, among high-risk patients who decline recommended genetic testing. Examples of these facilitators include patient race, ethnicity, affordability, and social determinants of health. The validated survey known as the Satisfaction with genetic assessment will enable these patients to identify various facilitators that influenced their decision not to complete genetic testing. Specifically, the Satisfaction with genetic assessment includes the review of a patient's personal and family history with regards to cancer that was performed by the medical provider during the patient's Gynecology New Patient Visit. This is scaled from strongly agree to strongly disagree., 2 years|Facilitator of inequity in the utilization of genetic services, The specific facilitators of inequity that affect the utilization of genetic testing services, among high-risk patients who decline recommended genetic testing. Examples of these facilitators include patient race, ethnicity, affordability, and social determinants of health. The validated survey known as the Satisfaction with Decision Scale will enable these patients to identify various facilitators that influenced their decision not to complete genetic testing. Specifically, the Satisfaction with Decision Scale will assess a patient's satisfaction with their decision to undergo genetic testing using 6 statements that a patient must agree or disagree with, scaled from strongly agree to strongly disagree., 2 years|Facilitator of inequity in the utilization of genetic services, The specific facilitators of inequity that affect the utilization of genetic testing services, among high-risk patients who decline recommended genetic testing. Examples of these facilitators include patient race, ethnicity, affordability, and social determinants of health. The validated survey known as the Feelings about Genomic Testing Results (FACToR) survey Scale will enable these patients to identify various facilitators that influenced their decision not to complete genetic testing. Specifically, the Feelings about Genomic Testing Results (FACToR) survey asks 12 questions regarding how the patient felt after they received their genetic results, indicating within the past week if they had the specific feeling: not at all, a little, somewhat, a good deal, or a great deal., 2 years|Facilitator of inequity in the utilization of genetic services, The specific facilitators of inequity that affect the utilization of genetic testing services, among high-risk patients who decline recommended genetic testing. Examples of these facilitators include patient race, ethnicity, affordability, and social determinants of health. The validated survey known as the Perceptions of Uncertainties in Genomic Sequencing (PUGS) survey will enable these patients to identify various facilitators that influenced their decision not to complete genetic testing. Specifically, the Perceptions of Uncertainties in Genomic Sequencing (PUGS) survey assesses patient's certainty about 8 aspects of their genetic testing, from 1 (very uncertain) to 5 (very certain)., 2 years|Facilitator of inequity in the utilization of genetic services, The specific facilitators of inequity that affect the utilization of genetic testing services, among high-risk patients who decline recommended genetic testing. Examples of these facilitators include patient race, ethnicity, affordability, and social determinants of health. The validated survey known as the Patient Reported Utility (PrU) survey will enable these patients to identify various facilitators that influenced their decision not to complete genetic testing. Specifically, the Patient Reported Utility (PrU) that assesses how useful patients found certain outcomes of their test results, ranking from 1 (not at all useful) to 7 (extremely useful)., 2 years|Barriers to genetic testing, The barriers (as identified through qualitative interviews) to genetic testing among high-risk patients who decline recommended genetic testing., 2 years
In this study, the investigators aim to compare a mobile health platform, known as a 'chatbot,' that leverages artificial intelligence and natural language processing to scale communication, to 'usual care' that patients would receive. This comparison will enable the investigators to determine if the chatbot system can improve rates of recommendation for genetic testing among patients at elevated risk of harboring a familial cancer syndrome in an all-Medicaid gynecology clinic. Furthermore, the investigators aim to evaluate facilitators of inequity in regard to patient access to and utilization of genetic testing services.