The Association Between CBT-I Dose, Sleep Duration, and Fatigue in Breast Cancer Patients
Cancer-related fatigue (CRF) and insomnia are prevalent among cancer patients and have been linked to de-creases in quality of life and poorer overall survivorship. Currently, the mechanisms underlying CRF are not well understood, which has led to treatments that are only moderately effective. In addition, when compared to CBT-I in the general population, the treatment outcomes in CBT-I with cancer patients are subpar and, as such, this study will evaluate whether dose of CBT-I is effective in ameliorating CRF.
Chronic Insomnia|Cancer-related Problem/Condition|Cancer-Related Syndrome
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia
Recruitment, Proportion of screened eligible subjects who: complete a screener; enroll; and accept randomization., Baseline to End of Treatment (Up to 12 weeks)|Adherence, Average adherence to Sleep Restriction Therapy (SRT) and Stimulus Control Therapy (SCT) \[overall and by week\] as measured by deviations between prescribed and actual times (from sleep diaries), overall and by group., Baseline to End of Treatment (Up to 12 weeks)|Treatment Acceptability, Average Insomnia Treatment Acceptability Scale (ITAS) scores, overall and by group.

Total score for each subscale is the average of the 8 items, with higher scores indicating greater willingness to utilize the treatment., End of Treatment|Retention, Percent of subjects who complete the study, overall and by group., Baseline to End of Treatment (Up to 12 weeks)
Subjects will be randomized into one of four groups, four, eight, ten or twelve sessions. Sessions will be con-ducted weekly by Telehealth and will be modified based on the duration of treatment but all will include the following, evaluation and orientation; data acquisition and delivery of sleep restriction therapy \& stimulus control instructions; review of sleep hygiene; cognitive therapy \[decatastrophization\]; managing non-adherence and relapse prevention), and, finally, the final sessions will be largely focused on time-in-bed titration. Treatment will be conducted by a master therapist via a HIPAA compliant video link.

All CBT-I related data will be obtained via dedicated internet websites built with RedCap, where subjects will be asked to complete weekly and monthly questionnaires. One website will be for use by subjects. One website will be for use by the therapist. The patient and therapist website will have a landing page (password entry), a login page, and an activities page (what questionnaires are due when). For an example of such a website, please see our pilot study, https://redcap.med.upenn.edu/surveys/?s=RXLLA7C4KJ (access using password "sleepstudy"). The patient website will contain daily sleep diaries, weekly severity measures of insomnia (ISI), sleepiness (ESS), fatigue (PROMIS 7a, Brief Fatigue Inventory, and FACIT-F), depression (PHQ-9), anxiety (GAD-7), a medical symptoms checklist.