Multimodal Prehabilitation for Resectable Gastric Cancer
Surgical resection is the mainstay for gastric cancer. Surgical stress response, like insulin resistance and catabolism, is inevitable and is a risk factor for postoperative outcome. To cope with this stress, the enhanced recovery protocol has been proposed and successfully implemented in clinical practice. Recently, prehabilitation have attracted increasingly attention, which is the preoperative part of enhanced recovery pathway. Prehabtilitation are bundles of evidenced elements in order to improve patient's functional capacity. Patients with gastric cancer are usually suffered from nutritional risk, anxiety and frailty. In this trial, we investigate whether multimodal prehabilitation (exercise, nutrition and psychological support) could improve patient's functional status to better tolerate surgical trauma.
Stomach Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: aerobic exercise; resistance exercise; nutritional support; psychological support
Duke Activity Status Index before surgery, Duke Activity Status Index score is a 12-item self-reported questionnaire that assesses daily activities such as personal care, ambulation, household tasks, and recreation with respective metabolic costs. Duke Activity Status Index score ranges from 0 to 58.2. The higher score indicates the better functional status. Duke Activity Status Index has been recommended by European Society of Cardiology guidelines for functional assessment of patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery., Duke Activity Status Index score on the day before surgery
Morbidity, Postoperative complication, In postoperative 30 day after gastrectomy|Postoperative hospital stay, Period from day of surgery to day of discharge from hospital, During the postoperative 30 day period|30-day readmission rate, Proportion of patients admitted to the hospital after discharge because of complications, During the postoperative 30 day period
Surgical resection is the mainstay for gastric cancer. Surgical stress response, like insulin resistance and catabolism, is inevitable and is a risk factor for postoperative outcome. To cope with this stress, the enhanced recovery protocol has been proposed and successfully implemented in clinical practice. Recently, prehabilitation have attracted increasingly attention, which is the preoperative part of enhanced recovery pathway. Prehabtilitation are bundles of evidenced elements in order to improve patient's functional capacity. Patients with gastric cancer are usually suffered from nutritional risk, anxiety and frailty. In this trial, we investigate whether multimodal prehabilitation (exercise, nutrition and psychological support) could improve patient's functional status to better tolerate surgical trauma.