Aprepitant Without Steroid in Preventing Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting in Patients With Colorectal Cancer
Addition of aprepitant, an NK1 receptor antagonist to a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and dexamethasone regimen was shown to be effective for prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (MEC). Little is known about the efficacy of aprepitant when used without dexamethasone. Dexamethasone is widely used to prevent both acute and delayed nausea and vomiting induced by chemotherapy. However, multi-period use of dexamethasone could be associated with side effect, such as hyperglycemia, dyspepsia and insomnia. This randomized phase III trial studies antiemetic therapy with aprepitant and tropisetron to see how well they work compared to dexamethasone plus tropisetron in preventing chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients with colorectal cancer receiving FOLFOX(oxaliplatin, leuvovorin and 5-fluorouracil) chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting|Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Aprepitant+Tropisetron|DRUG: Dexamethasone+Tropisetron
Complete response, No emetic episodes and no use of rescue medication, Day 1 to Day 5 after chemotherapy
Nausea score, Nausea scores measured by the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire, Day 1 to Day 5 after chemotherapy|Time to First Vomiting Episode or Use of Rescue Medication, Day 1 to Day 5 after chemotherapy|Frequency of rescue medication, Patients were asked to record daily number of extra nausea/vomiting pills taken because they developed nausea/vomiting in the following categories: None, One, Two, More than two in Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary Questionnaire, Day 1 to Day 5 after chemotherapy|Complete response in the acute phase (0-24 hours), No emetic episodes and no use of rescue medication in the acute phase (0-24 h), 0 to 24 hours after chemotherapy|Complete response in the delay phase (25 hours-120 hours), No emetic episodes and no use of rescue medication in the delay phase, Day 2 to Day 5 (25 hours-120 hours) after chemotherapy
Addition of aprepitant, an NK1 receptor antagonist to a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and dexamethasone regimen was shown to be effective for prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (MEC). Little is known about the efficacy of aprepitant when used without dexamethasone. Dexamethasone is widely used to prevent both acute and delayed nausea and vomiting induced by chemotherapy. However, multi-period use of dexamethasone could be associated with side effect, such as hyperglycemia, dyspepsia and insomnia. This randomized phase III trial studies antiemetic therapy with aprepitant and tropisetron to see how well they work compared to dexamethasone plus tropisetron in preventing chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients with colorectal cancer receiving FOLFOX(oxaliplatin, leuvovorin and 5-fluorouracil) chemotherapy.