A Study on the Gastrointestinal Disease and Helicobacter Pylori Controlled Long Non-coding RNA
Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) is a major human pathogenic bacterium in gastric mucosa which is linked to the development of gastritis, peptic ulcer disease, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma and gastric cancer. However the regulatory mechanism of H.pylori-induced immune response is not clear. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) has recently emerged as key post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression, differentiation. The investigators had a preliminary results which THRIL (TNFα and hnRNPL related immunoregulatory lincRNA) and PACER(p50-associated COX-2 extragenic RNA) played a potential role in H.pylori induced inflammatory cascade. However, there wasn't a previous study about expression of THRIL, PACER in a human tissue. Therefore, the investigators aimed to evaluate the expression of THRIL, PACER in patients with gastrointestinal disease according to H.pylori infection.
Helicobacter Pylori Infection|Gastric Ulcer|Duodenal Ulcer|Stomach Cancer
Expression of THRIL, PACER, Expression of THRIL, PACER according to Helicobacter pylori infection by Real-time aRT-PCR, Within 2 weeks after EGD
Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) is a major human pathogenic bacterium in gastric mucosa which is linked to the development of gastritis, peptic ulcer disease, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma and gastric cancer. However the regulatory mechanism of H.pylori-induced immune response is not clear. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) has recently emerged as key post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression, differentiation. The investigators had a preliminary results which THRIL (TNFα and hnRNPL related immunoregulatory lincRNA) and PACER(p50-associated COX-2 extragenic RNA) played a potential role in H.pylori induced inflammatory cascade. However, there wasn't a previous study about expression of THRIL, PACER in a human tissue. Therefore, the investigators aimed to evaluate the expression of THRIL, PACER in patients with gastrointestinal disease according to H.pylori infection.