Dinaciclib and Akt Inhibitor MK2206 in Treating Patients With Pancreatic Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of dinaciclib and Akt inhibitor MK2206 in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Dinaciclib and Akt inhibitor MK2206 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Unresectable Pancreatic Carcinoma
DRUG: Akt Inhibitor MK2206|DRUG: Dinaciclib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
MTD of dinaciclib in combination with Akt inhibitor MK2206 defined as the highest dose at which 0 or 1 dose-limiting toxicities are observed in six patients, The proportion of dose-limiting toxicities at each dose level will be reported with exact binomial proportions and 95% confidence intervals., 28 days
Disease control rate: complete response, partial response and stable disease evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, Calculated with exact 95% confidence intervals. The exact Cochran-Armitage trend test will be used to test if the probability of controlled disease at four months is increased with combinations of greater baseline activation of Ras and greater inhibition of Ras downstream pathway signaling. Logistic regression will be used to assess the effects of multiple covariates on the probability of controlled disease at 4 months., 4 months|Incidence of adverse events of the combination of dinaciclib and Akt inhibitor MK-2206, graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, The proportion of toxicities by type and grade will be reported with exact binomial proportions and 95% confidence intervals. Adverse events will be summarized by dose level for all doses., Up to 1 year|Overall survival, Summarized using overall hazard rate estimates and 95% confidence intervals as well as Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates., Up to 1 year|Progression-free survival, Summarized using overall hazard rate estimates and 95% confidence intervals as well as KM estimates. The median PFS and median survival will be reported. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to evaluate the impact of key covariates on PFS and survival., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year
Change in protein expression in serum after treatment with a single drug, and after treatment with both drugs as a measure of the drug specific effects on pathway markers, Baseline up to day 3 of course 2|Change in protein expression in the tumor tissue before and after treatment using semi-quantitative immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis as a measure of response to therapy, Baseline up to day 3 of course 2|Inhibition and concordance of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)/Ral and phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/pAkt pathways as measured in serum and tissue samples, Inhibition of the CDK/Ral pathway with dinaciclib will be assessed by pRb and pPOLR2, while inhibition of the downstream PI3K/pAkt pathway with MK-2206 will be evaluated with pAkt and pS6. A summary score will be obtained for each pathway by summing the HistoScores of the markers in that pathway. The percent inhibition of each pathway will be calculated as the percentage decrease in the summary score, relative to the pre treatment score. The concordance of the inhibition of both pathways, as measured in the serum samples, and as measured in the tissue, will be assessed with Kappa statistic., Up to day 3 of course 2|Pharmacokinetic profile of the combination of Akt inhibitor MK-2206 and dinaciclib, Will summarize and analyze the data via two-by-two tables, separately for each drug. Total exposure on each day will be calculated as area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) using the linear or log-linear trapezoidal rule by using noncompartmental methods and/or compartmental modeling. Maximum concentration (Cmax) and time to maximal concentration (Tmax) and minimum or trough concentrations (Cmin) will be obtained from the observed data., Pre-dose, at start of dinaciclib infusion, 5 minutes prior to end of dinaciclib infusion, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, and 8 hours after end of dinaciclib infusion on day 1 of course 1; at 24, 48, and 96 hours after Akt inhibitor MK-2206 infusion; days 8 and 15|Polymorphic variations in candidate genes (CYP3A4/5, ABCB1), Other genetic alterations that may be discovered during the conduct of the study, on MK-2206 and dinaciclib disposition, toxicity, and efficacy will be assessed., Up to day 3 of course 2|Protein expression in serum as measured by fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS), The correlation of serum pathway markers and these same markers measured in tissue samples with IHC will be assessed using Spearman's correlation coefficients., Up to day 3 of course 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), safety, and toxicity of the combination of MK-2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206) and dinaciclib in patients with advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma (Level 2.5, determined August 2015: Dinaciclib 9 mg/m2 intravenously \[IV\]; MK-2206 135 mg orally \[PO\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the preliminary efficacy of the combination of MK-2206 and dinaciclib in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients as determined by disease control rate in an expansion cohort of patients at the MTD.

II. Characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of the combination of MK-2206 and dinaciclib.

III. Analyze pre-treatment tumor specimens for activation of retrovirus-associated deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence (RAS) downstream pathway signaling as potential predictors of treatment benefit.

IV. Correlate post-treatment pharmacodynamic (PD) changes in phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (p-ERK), phosphorylated-v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (p-AKT), p-ribosomal protein S6 kinase (S6), phosphorylated DNA-directed ribonucleic acid (RNA) polymerase II subunit RPB1 (pPOLR2), phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein (pRB), proliferation-related Ki-67 antigen (Ki-67), and cleaved caspase-3 in tumor biopsies and peripheral blood mononuclear cells with MK-2206 and dinaciclib exposure and treatment response to demonstrate proof-of-concept and assess for post-treatment predictive biomarkers.

V. To assess the effect of polymorphic variations in candidate genes (cytochrome P450 3A4/5 \[CYP3A4/5\], ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B \[MDR/TAP\], member 1 \[ABCB1\]) and other genetic alterations that may be discovered during the conduct of the study, on MK-2206 and dinaciclib disposition, toxicity, and efficacy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive dinaciclib IV over 2 hours on day 1 of course 1.

ARM B: Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 PO on day 1 of course 1.

After day 1, all patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 PO on days 1, 8, and 15 and dinaciclib IV over 2 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.