Evaluation of Killing Activity of Expanded Natural Killer Cells From Blood in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer
Pancreatic cancer, one of the deadliest epithelial malignancies, has a 5-year survival rate of only about 8%. The mortality rate has decreased slightly, but the incidence rate has been steadily increasing, and it is predicted to be the second leading cause of cancer mortality in 2030. Early diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and the development of innovative therapies are needed, and various basic and clinical studies based on pancreatic cancer biology are underway. Recently, studies on the effect of natural killer (NK) cells on cancer progression and the development of therapeutic agents using them have been actively conducted. NK cells are a component of innate lymphoid cells, accounting for approximately 5-15% of total peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC).
Pancreatic Neoplasms
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Receptor specific activation method
NK cell activity, In order to compare the activity of NK cells according to the activation method, NK cells obtained from the blood of participants will be analyzed. Investigates will use two methods to analysis the activity of NK cell by FACS (Fluorescence-activated cell sorting). The degree of expression of CD107a on the cell surface and the degree of IFN-γ secretion will be compared by FACS., 1 month before operation
Tumor recurrence, In order to analyze the correlation of NK cell activity with the prognosis of the participants, investigators will follow up the recurrence of the tumor. This will be analyzed with the activity of NK cell., two year after tumor diagnosis|Survival of participants, In order to analyze the correlation of NK cell activity with the prognosis of the participants, investigators will follow up the survival of the patients. This will be analyzed with the activity of NK cell., two year after tumor diagnosis
Investigators will apply a new method to evaluate the activity of NK cells in pancreatic cancer patients, and to analyze the correlation with the progression of the tumor and the prognosis of the patient. And investigators will analyze the multifactorial factors affecting the activity of NK cells and conducted this study to help establish new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for pancreatic cancer.