Vincristine Sulfate Liposome in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This pilot phase II trial studies how well vincristine sulfate liposome works in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has returned after a period of improvement or has not responded to previous treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vincristine sulfate liposome, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Liposomal encapsulation prolongs bioavailability (proportion of drug that enters the circulation when introduced into the body) of vincristine sulfate, and may increase its delivery to cancer cells with fewer side effects.
Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate Liposome|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Number of Participants Able to Complete Two or More Courses of Therapy Regardless of Dose Modifications, Up to 56 days
Response Rate (CR, CRi, PR, and MLFS), Confidence intervals will be calculated around the estimates of the response rate (CR, CRi, PR, and MLFS) of VSLI. Assuming a response rate of 0.1, with 39 participants, 95 percent confidence intervals with a 0.09 margin of error (0.01, 0.19) or a margin of error of 0.16 around a response rate of 0.5 will be created.

(Complete remission (CR) bone marrow blasts \<5%, absence of blasts with Auer rods; absence of extramedullary disease, absolute neutrophil count \>1,000, platelet count \>100,000, independence of red cell transfusions; Complete remission with incomplete recovery (CRi) all complete remission except for residual neutropenia or thrombocytopenia; partial remission (PR), decrease of bone marrow blast to 5-25%, decrease of pre-treatment bone marrow blast by at least 50%; morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS) Bone marrow blasts \<5%, absence of Aeur rods, absence of extramedullary disease, no hematologic recovery required)., Up to 6 months after completion of study treatment|Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimation will be used to analyze overall survival., Up to 6 months after completion of therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of administering vincristine sulfate liposome injection (VSLI) to relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients having failed, refused or not a candidate for at least one chemotherapy salvage regimen.

II. To observe the hematologic improvement-rate of VSLI in this patient population.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe the overall survival of patients treated with VSLI. II. To observe the response rate (complete remission \[CR\], complete remission with incomplete count recovery \[CRi\], partial response \[PR\], and morphologic leukemia free state \[MLFS\]) of VSLI in this patient population.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive vincristine sulfate liposome via injection on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 6 months.