A Phase 2 Trial of Bevacizumab, Lenalidomide, Docetaxel, and Prednisone (ART-P) for Treatment of Metastatic Castrate-Resistant Prostate Cancer
Background:

* Prednisone and docetaxel have been used successfully in treating patients with prostate cancer, either when used alone or in combination with other agents. Researchers believe that these anticancer effects can be increased by giving them in this specific combination.
* A previous study at the National Cancer Institute combined docetaxel and prednisone with bevacizumab and thalidomide. The results of this study were promising; however, most patients in the study required a dose reduction of thalidomide because of its side effects.
* Lenalidomide, a drug similar to thalidomide, may have less severe side effects. Based on previous studies, lenalidomide is well tolerated in patients with solid tumors when used alone or in combination with docetaxel, and it may be a good substitute for thalidomide.

Objectives:

* To determine if lenalidomide is an appropriate and effective substitute for thalidomide in treating prostate cancer.
* To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of bevacizumab, lenalidomide, docetaxel, and prednisone as a prostate cancer treatment, and to study any side effects.

Eligibility:

- Men 18 years of age and older who have been diagnosed with metastatic prostate cancer that has not responded to standard treatment, including surgical removal of the testicles or treatment with androgen (sex-hormone) suppressing drugs.

Design:

* Participants will have a complete medical history and physical examination before beginning the study.
* Patients will be treated with 21-day cycles with a combination of four drugs:
* (1) Docetaxel, which will be given into a vein for 60 minutes on the first day of each 21-day cycle. Patients will take dexamethasone (a steroid agent) before and after taking docetaxel.
* (2) Prednisone, which will be taken by mouth daily.
* (3) Bevacizumab, which will be given through a vein over 30 to 90 minutes on the first day of each 21-day cycle following the infusion of docetaxel.
* (4) Lenalidomide, which will be taken by mouth during the first 2 weeks of each 21-day cycle. The dose of lenalidomide may be adjusted if side effects develop.
* Patients will also receive enoxaparin, a subcutaneous injection administered daily, to prevent blood clots and/or pegfilgrastim, a subcutaneous injection on day 2 of each cycle, to improve white blood cell counts, as directed by researchers.
Metastatic Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Prednisone
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), The RP2D is the dose at which there are no dose-limiting toxicities (defined as a ≥grade 3 hematological toxicity related to lenalidomide)., 3 weeks|Count of Participants With Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLT), DLT is defined as a ≥grade 3 non-hematological toxicity related to lenalidomide., First 28 days of treatment.|Median Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is evaluated from the on-study date until the date of progression or last follow-up after progression., median time of potential follow-up of 47.5 months
Median Overall Survival of Patients Studied, OS is evaluated from the on-study date until the date of death or last follow-up., median time of potential follow-up of 47.5 months|Count of Participants With Changes in Circulating Apoptotic Endothelial Cells (CAEC) From Baseline After Drug Administration, The definition of an increase is any increase (any number greater than zero) in the percent CAEC among total peripheral blood mononuclear cells comparing each patient's percent CAEC among total peripheral blood mononuclear cells at baseline to each patient's percent CAEC among total peripheral blood mononuclear cells at cycle 3 day 1. The definition of a decrease is any decrease (any number less than zero) in the percent CAEC among total peripheral blood mononuclear cells comparing each patient's percent CAEC among total peripheral blood mononuclear cells at baseline to each patient's percent CAEC among total peripheral blood mononuclear cells at cycle 3 day 1., After drug administration, an average of 3 months|Changes in the Molecular Markers of Angiogenesis (i.e Serum VEGF) Before and After Administration of Docetaxel, Prednisone,Lenalidomide and Bevacizumab, Serum and urine samples were collected before and after administration of Docetaxel, Prednisone, Lenalidomide and Bevacizumab to measure VEGF levels., median time of potential follow-up of 47.5 months|Survival Based on Expression of Programmed Cell Death Protein 1 (PD-1) on Cluster of Differentiation 8 (CD8) + T Cells, Expression of PD-1 on CD8 + T cells was evaluated by flow cytometry. High and low expression are based on the median values. Patients with a low expression of PD-1 proteins had better survival than those with a high expression., median time of potential follow-up of 47.5 months|Survival Based on Expression of T Cell Immunoglobulin and Mucin Domain (TIM-3) on Cluster of Differentiation 8 (CD8) + T Cells, Expression of TIM-3 on CD8 + T cells was evaluated by flow cytometry., 46.5 months|Count of Participants With a Radiologic Response, Radiologic response was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.0 criteria. Complete response is disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). Stable disease is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., median time of potential follow-up of 47.5 months|Count of Participants With Prostatic Antigen-Specific (PSA) Declines, PSA decline is defined as a ≥50% decline in measurable disease. Measurable lesions are defined as those that can be accurately measured in at least one dimension (longest diameter to be recorded) as ≥20 mm by chest x-ray, as ≥10 mm with computed tomography, or ≥10 mm with calipers by clinical exam., median time of potential follow-up of 47.5 months|Count of Participants With Serious and Non-serious Adverse Events Assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria in Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0) Who Were Administered the Four-Drug Combination, Here is the count of participants with serious and non-serious adverse events assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria in Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0). A non-serious adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence. A serious adverse event is an adverse event or suspected adverse reaction that results in death, a life threatening adverse drug experience, hospitalization, disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions, congenital anomaly/birth defect or important medical events that jeopardize the patient or subject and may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the previous outcomes mentioned., Date treatment consent signed to date off study, approximately 93 months and 22 days.
Background:

The dual antiangiogenic therapy with bevacizumab and thalidomide in combination with docetaxel and prednisone (ATTP) is highly active in patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC), associated with unprecedented results (90% patients had PSA declines of greater than or equal to 50% and 64% ORR in measurable disease).

Most patients in the ATTP trial required dose reduction due to thalidomide toxicities.

Lenalidomide, an analogue of thalidomide, possesses both antiangiogenesis and inhibition of TNF-alpha, but has a favorable toxicity profile. Lenalidomide is well tolerated in patients with solid tumors when used alone or in combination with docetaxel.

To preserve the efficacy of ATTP and to potentially reduce toxicity, lenalidomide may be a good substitute for thalidomide.

Objectives

Primary:

To assess if lenalidomide at its approved dosing schedule can be safely combined with docetaxel, bevacizumab, and prednisone in patients with mCRPC (less than 25% Grade 4 toxicity)

To evaluate the efficacy of the combination

Eligibility:

Patients with progressive mCRPC who have not received any chemotherapy or antiangiogenic therapy for mCRPC

Design:

A single-stage Phase 2 study, with an early stopping rule for excessive toxicity: the goal is to enroll 45 patients at the 25-mg dose level of lenalidomide. However, if 7 in the first 18 or fewer patients receiving lenalidomide at 25 mg develop grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity at anytime during study, no further patients will be enrolled. With respect to the stopping rule, a grade 4 hematologic toxicity will be considered if the episode has lasted for greater than or equal to 5 days. Grade 4 lymphopenia of any duration will not be counted. If less than 7 of the first 18 patients experience the above level of toxicity, accrual will continue until 45 patients have been enrolled at the 25 mg dose level of lenalidomide.

A run-in phase with lenalidomide at 15 mg will be conducted in the first three patients and at 20mg for the next three patients for assessing its tolerability within the combination prior to dosing at 25 mg thereafter.

An expansion cohort of a lower dose of lenalidomide (15 mg) in combination with docetaxel and and Avastin will be conducted to asses if this lower dose of lenalidomide could have similar efficacy with less toxicity.

Treatment Schema of ART-P

Dex -Dexamethasone 8 mg. po 12 hours pre, 3 hours pre, and 1 hour pre infusion of docetaxel (patients who were on prior regimen which included a lower dose of decadron and did not have a reaction do not have to increase their decadron to the 8 mg dose)

Len - Lenalidomide 25 mg po, days 1-14. Lenalidomide 15 mg and 20mg for the proposed run-in phase. Lenalidomide 15 mg for the expansion cohort.

Doc - Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV

Bev - Bevacizumab 15 mg/kg IV

Pre - Prednisone 10 mg PO daily throughout cycle

E - Enoxaparin given SQ daily based on weight (see dosing chart in section 4.2)

Peg - Pegfilgrastim 6mg SQ given at least 24 hours after docetaxel administration

Baseline screening evaluations are to be conducted within 15 days prior to protocol enrollment. Baseline scans and x-rays must be performed 4 weeks prior to protocol enrollment. Patients must be evaluated at the NCI clinic each cycle for treatment continuation. Staging scans will be performed after the first 2 cycles of treatment and then every three cycles. All follow-up evaluations can be done on the last week of the prior cycle.