Exploration of Fenestration Decompression Combined With Dalafenib in the Treatment of BRAF Mutant Ameloblastoma
This pilot clinical trial plans to carry out dabrafenib adjuvant therapy combined with lesion curettage after fenestrated decompressive surgery for BRAF mutation-positive multicystic ameloblastoma to explore the effectiveness of this therapy in preventing tumor recurrence, reducing or even avoiding postoperative deformity and dysfunction. effect. Based on this, we plan to launch a prospective clinical study of dabrafenib in the treatment of BRAF V600E ameloblastoma, verify the feasibility of drug treatment or drug-assisted treatment of ameloblastoma, and provide patients with a safer Effective new treatment options will benefit more patients.
Ameloblastoma
DRUG: Dabrafenib
objective response rate, It is defined as the proportion of patients whose tumor volume has been reduced by 40% between treatment after fenestration decompression and before curettage, that is, the sum of the proportions of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR)., 2 months after fenestration decompression
Relapse-free survival, The time from tumor curettage to disease recurrence (local, regional or distant metastasis), whichever occurs first, is determined according to the investigator's assessment., 2 years after tumor curettage
Main purpose:

To verify the application value of dabrafenib, a targeted drug targeting BRAF V600E mutation, combined with fenestration decompression and tumor curettage therapy in the treatment of multicystic ameloblastoma. It is expected to provide patients with a new treatment option that improves curative effect, reduces postoperative tumor recurrence, and avoids postoperative deformity.

Secondary purpose:

Study of regional heterogeneity in BRAF V600E-mutant ameloblastoma. Provide new ideas for finding other effective treatments.

Overall research design This study is a single-center, single-arm exploratory study. It is planned to enroll 10 patients with BRAF V600E mutation-positive multicystic ameloblastoma. After signing the informed consent form, you can enter the study as a subject.

Subjects will receive the study drug dabrafenib immediately after window decompression surgery. They will take dabrafenib for at least 8 weeks. Lesion curettage will be performed within the 8th to 9th week. Preoperative imaging will check the tumor volume. zoomed out situation. Patients whose lesions are not completely curettaged may choose to resume the dose of dabrafenib they received immediately before surgery.