Evaluation of Afatinib in Maintenance Therapy in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Afatinib in maintenance therapy after post-operative radiochemotherapy (66 Gy and Cisplatin at the dose of 100mg/m2 every 3 weeks)in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: AFATINIB|DRUG: Placebo of AFATINIB
Disease Free Survival 2 years after the end of radiotherapy, 2 years after the end of radiotherapy
Safety profile, Safety profile is characterized by type; frequency and seriousness of the toxicities showed by the patients and graded using CTCAE - V04, Every 28 days during the maintenance therapy,every 2 months during 1 year after maintenance therapy; and every 3 months during the following 3 years|Quality of life of patient, evaluated by questionnary, Quality of life will be evaluated at baseline; at the end of radiotherapy and also at 1 and 2 years after the beginning of maintenance treatment. The EORTC's questionnaire QLQ-C30 and the additional module " Head and neck " QLQ-H\&N35 will be used., Baseline; at the end of radiotherapy, at 1 and 2 years after the beginning of maintenance treatment|Overall Survival (OS), OS is the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause or date of the last news., Death
The reference treatment for operated squamous cell carcinoma of the head and the neck is a radiochemotherapy with Cisplatin (in the dose of intravenous 100 mg / m2 IV) every 3 weeks).

The Receptor of EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor) or REGF is a membrane receptor; it's activation leads the cellular growth and inhibits apoptotic capacities. This receptor is overexpressed in numerous solid tumors, including ENT tumors. Several clinical studies showed that an over expression of the REGF in ENT tumors was a dominant factor of poor prognostic.

Afatinib (BIBW2992) is a strong and irreversible inhibitor of the EGFR ( type 1 human epidermic growth factor receptor, also known as HER1) and of the HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2).

Currently, 3 phase III clinical studies in postoperative situation and using an anti-REGF are in progress: 2 in concomitant situation with the radiotherapy and 1 both in concomitance and in adjuvant therapy with radiotherapy.

The preliminary results of a phase II study show that Afatinib is efficient in patients with local or metastatic relapse of a squamous cell carcinoma of the sphere ENT after a first line with Cisplatin and its tolerance is correct.

These data lead us to propose in post-operative situation, in patients with a squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, a radiochemotherapy with Cisplatin followed by a treatment of maintenance by Afatinib or by placebo.