Patient Care Outreach, Navigation, Technology and Support 2.0
This is a feasibility study employing virtual patient navigation for underserved individuals who speak English, Chinese or Spanish and were diagnosed with breast cancer or cardiovascular disease to determine the extent of usability for a virtual patient navigation portal serving people in underserved communities. While not able to entirely replace in-person interactions, virtual patient navigation may be used to expand reach and availability of navigation services to a much greater segment of the population.
Breast Cancer|Cardiovascular Diseases
BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigation Program|OTHER: Quality-of-Life (QOL) Assessment|OTHER: Survey Administration
Proportion of participants who reported satisfaction with COUNTS program, Participant satisfaction will be assessed via a response of "satisfied" or "very satisfied" to survey item on satisfaction with Patient COUNTS navigation program, Up to 6 months|Rate of Participation, Participation is defined as having at least one contact with patient navigator, Up to 6 months|Utilization rate, Utilization is defined as the number of interactions with the patient navigator, Up to 6 months
Mean scores on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- Breast (FACT-B), The FACT-B is a self-report instrument that measures multidimensional quality of life (QOL) in patients with breast cancer. The FACT-B consists of 37 questions that address physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being, with specific questions relevant to women with breast cancer. Each item has a score range of 0 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much), with a total score ranging from 0-148. The higher the score, the better the QOL reported by the participant., Up to 6 months
Patient COUNTS 2.0 aims to improve and scale up the current Patient COUNTS program.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify underserved individuals who speak English, Chinese or Spanish and were diagnosed with breast cancer or cardiovascular disease through collaboration with Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital (ZSFG), University of California, San Francisco clinics (Athena), University of California, San Francisco registries (via medical chart review), San Francisco State University, and other community organization collaborators.

II. Conduct outreach to potential participants to let them know about the availability of virtual patient navigation via the Patient Care Outreach, Navigation, Technology and Support (COUNTS) web portal, and the Patient COUNTS patient navigation program (NCT03867916).

III. Provide patient navigation virtually.

OUTLINE:

The patient COUNTS portal will be available in English and expanded to include content in Chinese and Spanish. An initial cohort of focus group of 15 breast cancer patients, 5 navigators, social workers, caregivers or other person involved in breast cancer care will help develop the culturally and language specific components of the COUNTS program. Following implementation, breast cancer participants and cardiovascular participants will participate in an online navigation program along with family members of the patient community will be enrolled. Participants will use the online COUNTS portal to access navigation program and may choose to have online/virtual navigation support or in-person navigation support. Participants also complete data collection and surveys over 15 minutes via web portal at baseline and 6 months and user experience survey at end of program participation.