Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, and Nab-Paclitaxel Before Surgery in Patients With High-Risk Liver Bile Duct Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well gemcitabine, cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel work before surgery in treating participants with high-risk bile duct cancer in the liver (intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as nab-paclitaxel, cisplatin, and gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving combination chemotherapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.
Resectable Cholangiocarcinoma|Stage IB Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage II Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Completion of all preoperative and operative therapy, Completion of all therapy rate will be recorded., Up to 12 weeks after study start|Incidence of adverse events, Will be monitored using method of Thall, Simon and Estey, and will be tabulated by the maximum reported Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade., Up to 3 years after study start
Radiological response rate defined as the percentage of patients who will have complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) after the neoadjuvant therapy, Will be evaluated according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST)., Up to 12 weeks after study start|Recurrence-free survival (RFS), RFS is defined as the time between the date of surgery and the date of disease recurrence or death, whichever occurred first. If a patient did not have an event (i.e. disease recurrence or death) by the time of final analysis, patient will be censored at the last disease evaluation time., From the date of surgery up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of neoadjuvant treatment start to the date of death from any cause or to the date of last follow-up if patients are alive. If a patient is alive by the time of final analysis, the patient will be censored at the last follow-up date., From date of neoadjuvant treatment start up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

To assess the feasibility of therapeutic approach that includes neoadjuvant chemotherapy including gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine), cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel for high-risk but technically resectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and is completed with surgical resection.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the radiological response rate to neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST).

II. To determine the R0 resection rate.

III. To determine patient recurrence-free survival (RFS).

IV. To identify patient overall survival (OS) rate.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive nab-paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes, cisplatin IV over 60 minutes, and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants with stable disease (SD), partial response (PR), or complete response (CR) then undergo standard of care hepatectomy with portal lymphadenectomy.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 4 months for 3 years.