Trial Of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) for Oligoprogression on Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors (ICI) in Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
This Phase II trial will evaluate progression-free survival after Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy to oligoprogressive (1-5) lesions in metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients on any immune checkpoint inhibitor-containing regimen with last dose of systemic therapy within 3 months prior to trial enrollment.
Renal Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Oligoprogressive|Progression
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Progression Free Survival, The primary objective of this study is to assess progression free survival after SBRT to all sites of progression and continuation of the same systemic regimen in patients with mRCC on ICI-containing systemic regimens with oligoprogression at 1-5 sites. Progression will be defined by RECIST criteria., 6 Months
Recurrence, Imaging will be done every three months to determine rate of recurrence., Up to two years|Rate of Response, To determine rate of response at non-treated sites. Imaging will be done every three months., Up to two years|Overall survival, Overall survival will be assessed up to two years, Up to two years
This Phase II trial will evaluate progression-free survival after Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy to oligoprogressive (1-5) lesions in metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients on any immune checkpoint inhibitor-containing regimen with last dose of systemic therapy within 3 months prior to trial enrollment. Alternative local therapy (including but not limited to metastectomy or radiofrequency ablation) to one or more of the oligoprogressive lesions is allowed provided at least one of the lesions is receiving Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy. Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy will be delivered on nonconsecutive days (if \>1 fraction) for a total of 1-5 fractions depending on anatomic site at the treating physicians discretion. Treatment to multiple sites can be delivered sequentially or concurrently, at the treating physicians discretion. Patients will undergo response-assessment imaging (CT chest/abdomen/pelvis with IV contrast and/or PET CT scan and/or MRI plus or minus contrast), and response to treatment will be measured via RECIST. The acute and long-term toxicity will be monitored and graded per CTCAE 5.0 (https://ctep.cancer.gov/). Patients will continue on the same immune checkpoint inhibitor-containing regimen during Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy planning and delivery, and after completion of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy until progression of disease as defined by RECIST criteria. The immune checkpoint inhibitor-containing regimen can be continued beyond RECIST progression of disease if the treating physician feels that a patient will continue to benefit. Each eligible patient will be discussed at a multidisciplinary tumor board in the presence of medical and radiation oncology and will be seen in consultation in a Yale-affiliated radiation oncology department prior to enrollment in the trial.