Optimization of Preoperative Treatment in Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to compare effectiveness of short-term radiotherapy with neoadjuvant chemotherapy(TNT group) with preoperative long-term chemoradiotherapy(CRT group) in locally advanced rectal cancer. The hypothesis is 3-year disease-free survival in TNT group was non-inferior to that in CRT group.
Cancer, Rectum
RADIATION: Short-course radiotherapy with neoadjuvant chemotherapy|RADIATION: Long-term chemoradiotherapy
Disease-free survival rate, three year
Overall survival rate, three year|Distance metastasis free survival rate, three year|Locoregional recurrence free survival rate, three year|Incidence of surgical complications, Surgical complications are defined as those occurring within 30 days after surgery, such as re-operation, anastomotic fistula, bleeding, infection and death related to the operation, etc., one month|Incidence of acute toxicities during radiation or chemotherapy, Number of participants with abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events that are related to radiation or chemotherapy as assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects(CTCAE) v4.0., three months|Radical resection (R0), R0 resection rate is R0 resection probability of radical surgery in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer after neoadjuvant therapy, one year|The rate of pathological complete response (pCR), PCR rate is pathological ypT0N0 probability of radical surgery in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer after neoadjuvant therapy, one year|Quality of life (QoL), Quality of life will be assessed using the EORTC QLQ C30, EORTC QLQ Cr29 and Wexner score., up to three years
The study is a prospective phase III randomized multicenter trial. The purpose of this study is to compare short-term radiotherapy with neoadjuvant chemotherapy(TNT group) with preoperative long-term chemoradiotherapy(CRT group) for middle-lower locally advanced rectal cancer. The primary endpoint is 3-year disease-free survival,defined as the interval from randomization to the first occurrence of local-regional failure, distant metastasis, second primary tumor or death from any cause. The primary hypothesis was that DFS in the TNT group would be non-inferior to that in the CRT group. After preoperative radiotherapy and surgery, the DFS rate of LARC fluctuated from 50% to 65%. Assuming a 3-year DFS rate in CRT group is 65%, we consider the 3-year DFS rate in the TNT group is not lower than 54% (e.g., a margin of 11% or equivalently, hazard ratio (HR) \< 1.43). Guarding against a 5% ineligibility or drop-out rate, the accrual target was 600 patients, with the final analysis to occur after at least 194 DFS events to provide at least 80% power at 1-sided type 1 error of 0.05. The choices of type 1 error and power were made to provide an appropriate comprise between feasibility, timeliness and statistical rigor of evidence generation.

This study seeks to compare outcomes between two groups with respect to rates of overall survival(OS), distance metastasis free survival (DMFS), and locoregional recurrence free survival (LRRFS).In addition, acute and late toxicity profile, completion of preoperative treatment, the proportion of patients with radical resection (R0), surgical complication profile, the rate of pathological complete response (pCR), and quality of life (QoL) are also secondary endpoints.

The STELLAR-trial has been designed by National Cancer Center/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Peking Union Medical College, and the hypothesis is 3-year disease-free survival in TNT group was non-inferior to that in CRT group.