Study of Poly (ADP-Ribose) Polymerase (PARP) Inhibitor E7016 in Combination With Temozolomide in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
The purpose of this study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of poly (ADP-Ribose) polymerase inhibitor E7016 when used with temozolomide (TMZ) in patients with advanced solid tumors and gliomas.
Solid Tumors
DRUG: E7016 + TMZ
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) for E7016 in Combination With Temozolomide, The MTD was defined as the highest dose of E7016 in combination with temozolomide at which no more than one of six participants experienced a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). DLTs were defined as those adverse events (AEs) considered related to E7016 which occurred during the first cycle of study drug administration. DLTs were evaluated and graded based on the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version \[v\] 4.0)., Cycle 1 (Cycle length = 28 days)|Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), A DLT was defined as those AEs considered related to E7016 which occurred during the first cycle of study drug administration. DLTs were evaluated and graded based on the NCI CTCAE version 4.0. The following toxicities were regarded as DLTs: a Grade 4 hematologic toxicity (lasting \[greater than or equal to\] \>=5 days); a temozolomide dose reduction for Grade \>=3 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia; or a Grade \>=3 nonhematologic toxicity (except optimally managed nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea) that was assessed by the investigator as related to study drug. A participant with two or more DLTs with the same preferred term was counted only once for that preferred term., Cycle 1 (Cycle length = 28 days)|Alternative Dose of Interest (ADI) for E7016 in Combination With Temozolomide, The ADI determination plan was based primarily on clinical, and/or PK measurements of drug concentration and/or bioactivity as defined by preclinical studies. However, the ADI was not pursued due to the limited sample size., Cycle 1 (Cycle length = 28 days)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR) plus partial response (PR) as determined by the investigator, using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) in the evaluation of magnetic resonance imaging/computerized tomography (MRI/CT) scans of targeted lesions and photographs and bone scans if appropriate for the tumor type. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had to have reduction in short axis to less than 10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions. ORR = CR + PR, From Cycle 1 Day 1 up to 6 Cycles (Cycle length=28 days) of treatment, an average of 24 weeks|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who had BOR of CR plus PR plus stable disease (SD). The best observed response (BOR) was defined as the best response recorded from the start of the study treatment until discontinuation from the study. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had to have reduction in short axis to less than 10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions. SD was defined as nonCR/non-progressive disease (PD) (NN), for participants with nontarget lesions. The minimum duration of SD was 7 weeks of multiple dose treatment. For participants who did not have target lesions, the response category NN was used instead of SD. DCR = CR + PR + SD greater than or equal to 7 weeks, From Cycle 1 Day 1 up to 6 Cycles (Cycle length=28 days) of treatment, an average of 24 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the first dose of E7016 until 6 Cycles of treatment or death whichever occurs first., From Cycle 1 Day 1 up to 6 Cycles (Cycle length=28 days) of treatment, an average of 24 weeks
The purpose of this study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of poly (ADP-Ribose) polymerase inhibitor E7016 when used with temozolomide (TMZ) in patients with advanced solid tumors and gliomas.