Cancer and Aging Research Group (CARG) Chemotherapy Toxicity Risk Scores in Older Adults With Cancer in China
The goal of this observational study is to learn about the impact of chemotherapy-related toxicity on older cancer patients in China. The main question it aims to answer is:

Does the Cancer and Aging Research Group (CARG) chemotherapy toxicity risk score predict chemotherapy-related toxicity in Chinese cancer patients over age 70? Participants over age 70 on systemic chemotherapy will answer questions listed in the CARG chemotherapy toxicity risk tool.
Cancer|Cancer-related Problem/Condition
DRUG: Chemotherapy
Number of Participants with Grade 3-5 Chemotherapy-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, A grade 3 chemotherapy-related adverse event indicates an event that requires hospitalization. A grade 4 event is life-threatening. A grade 5 event is death., Each planned admission/unplanned hospitalization until 1 month after completion of chemotherapy or 6 months after the start of chemotherapy|Number of Participants with Unplanned Hospitalization Events, The unexpected admission to hospital after the initiation of chemotherapy, Each planned admission/unplanned hospitalization until 1 month after completion of chemotherapy or 6 months after the start of chemotherapy
Number of Participants with Treatment Discontinuation Events, The delivered cycles are fewer than the planned cycles., Each planned admission/unplanned hospitalization until 1 month after completion of chemotherapy or 6 months after the start of chemotherapy|Number of Participants with Dose Reduction Events, The dose of at least one chemotherapy drug was reduced by at least 15% compared to standard dose., Each planned admission/unplanned hospitalization until 1 month after completion of chemotherapy or 6 months after the start of chemotherapy|Number of Participants with Dose Delay Events, The administration of at least one cytotoxic drug from a chemotherapy regimen was delayed for at least 7 days., Each planned admission/unplanned hospitalization until 1 month after completion of chemotherapy or 6 months after the start of chemotherapy|Number of Participants with Dose Missing Events, During the cycle, at least one drug from the chemotherapy regimen is not administered., Each planned admission/unplanned hospitalization until 1 month after completion of chemotherapy or 6 months after the start of chemotherapy|Number of Participants with Events of Reduction in Relative Dose Intensity (RDI), Relative dose intensity (RDI) is the ratio of delivered dose intensity to standard or planned dose intensity. An RDI less than 85% is generally considered to be a clinically significant reduction from standard or planned therapy., Each planned admission/unplanned hospitalization until 1 month after completion of chemotherapy or 6 months after the start of chemotherapy
Study Background:

There's a high burden of cancer in the geriatric population. Because of factors such as declining organ function, older adults with cancer generally have lower tolerability of chemotherapy than younger patients. In cancer patients aged ≥ 70 years, chemotherapy-related toxic effects were associated with reduced quality of life and/or decreased physical functioning or death after 1 year. Identifying of older patients at high risk of experiencing chemotherapy-related adverse events is one of the key components for developing new prevention and intervention strategies to improve treatment outcomes in older adults with cancer. The CARG toxicity score prediction model and calculator established by the Cancer and Aging Research Group (CARG) in 2011 is widely used in many countries and regions around the world and are recommended by several international guidelines. However, data from older adults with cancer in China are scarce. Prospective studies exploring the correlation between the CARG chemotherapy risk score and unplanned hospitalizations are limited.

Study Objectives:

* To assess the predictive value of the CARG chemotherapy toxicity risk score in older adults with cancer in China
* To explore the correlation between the CARG scores and the unplanned hospitalizations

Study Method:

This is a multi-center prospective cohort study to collect data from cancer patients aged ≥ 70 years from Renji Hospital and Henan Cancer Hospital. Patients will complete the CARG chemotherapy toxicity risk score questionnaires upon initiating a new chemotherapy regimen. The demographics, tumor characteristics (type of cancer and stage), clinical characteristics (e.g. ECOG performance status, NRS-2002 score, and comorbidities), and cancer treatment (e.g. chemotherapy regimen, line of treatment, combined targeted and/or immunotherapy) will be documented for the baseline evaluation. Toxicity, unplanned hospitalization events, and completion of chemotherapy treatment will be assessed for each visit.