Iodine I 131 Tositumomab and Fludarabine Phosphate in Treating Older Patients Who Are Undergoing an Autologous or Syngeneic Stem Cell Transplant for Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate) when given together with iodine I 131 tositumomab in treating older patients who are undergoing an autologous or syngeneic stem cell transplant for relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies, such as iodine I 131 tositumomab, can find cancer cells and carry cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fludarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. A peripheral stem cell transplant may be able to replace blood-forming cells that were destroyed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Giving iodine I 131 tositumomab together with fludarabine followed by autologous stem cell transplant may be an effective treatment for NHL
Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation|RADIATION: iodine I 131 tositumomab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: flow cytometry|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction
Maximum tolerated dose/dose limiting toxicity, Assessed according to Bearman scale for Regimen-Related Toxicities., Up to 30 days post-transplant
Overall and progression-free survival rate, Up to 6 years|Response rate, Up to 12 months|Toxicity/tolerability of study regimen, Type, frequency, and severity of adverse events grade 3 and above (assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v3.0., Through day 100 post-transplant|Feasibility of concurrent high-dose radioimmunotherapy and chemotherapy, Ability to administer complete course of I 131-tositumomab and fludarabine phosphate as descried in protocol., Through day -7 prior to transplant
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximally tolerated dose of fludarabine that can be combined with 131I-anti-CD20 (iodine I 131 tositumomab) delivering =\< 27Gy to critical normal organs followed by autologous or syngeneic transplantation in patients \>= 60 years of age with relapsed B-NHL.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the overall and progression-free survival of the above regimen in such patients.

II. To evaluate the response rates of the above therapy.

III. To evaluate the toxicity and tolerability of the above therapy.

IV. To evaluate the feasibility of delivering concurrent high-dose radioimmunotherapy (RIT) and chemotherapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of fludarabine phosphate as used in combination with I 131 tositumomab and stem cell transplant.

Patients receive a dosimetric dose of iodine I 131 tositumomab intravenously (IV) over 40-60 minutes on day -24 followed by gamma camera imaging over the next 6 days. Patients then receive a therapeutic dose of iodine I 131 tositumomab via central line over 40-60 minutes on day -14. Patients also receive fludarabine phosphate IV once daily (QD) on days -11 to -9 OR days -11 or -7. Patients undergo autologous or syngeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

Patients with circulating lymphoma cells by peripheral smear receive tositumomab IV over 1 hour OR rituximab IV over 1 hour followed by tositumomab IV over 1 hour before the dosimetric iodine I 131 tositumomab infusion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months and then annually thereafter.