Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Uterine Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pazopanib hydrochloride works in treating patients with uterine cancer that has come back or has not responded to treatment. Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Pazopanib hydrochloride may also stop the growth of uterine cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Recurrent Uterine Corpus Sarcoma|Uterine Carcinosarcoma
DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride
Objective Tumor Response (Complete or Partial), Complete and Partial Tumor Response by RECIST 1.0. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion(s) for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 mnths; then every 3 mnths thereafter until dx progression is confirmed; also repeat any other time clinically indicated, assessed up to 6 months.|Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months, Progression-free survival is the period from study entry until disease progression, death or date of last contact. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20 % increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 6 months|Number of Patients With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, Grade 3 or higher adverse events were graded by CTCAE v4., Every cycle while on treatment
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is the period from study entry until disease progression, death or date of last contact, From start of treatment to time of progression or death, assessed up to 5 years|Overall Survival, The observed length of life from entry into the study to death or the date of last contact., Time from start of treatment to time of death or the date of last contact, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the activity of pazopanib in patients with persistent or recurrent carcinosarcoma of the uterus as measured by the proportion of patients who survive progression-free for at least 6 months and the proportion of patients who have objective tumor response (complete or partial).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria of Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0).

II. To determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.