Efficacy and Safety of Imatinib Mesylate Plus Hydroxyurea (HU) in Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM)
This was an investigational study to assess the objective overall response (OOR) rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) of imatinib mesylate and hydroxyurea (hydroxycarbamide) combination therapy in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (brain tumors). This study also evaluated the duration of tumor response (as per MacDonald criteria), clinical benefit, progression-free survival rate at 6 and 12 months, and the survival rate at 12 and 24 months.
Recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM)
DRUG: Imatinib tablets|DRUG: Hydroxyurea capsules
Percentage of Patients With an Objective Overall Response (OOR), Patients with an OOR were those whose best response to treatment was a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) assessed with magnetic resonance imaging. A patient had a CR if the target tumors disappeared. A patient had a PR if there was a ≥ 50% reduction in the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of the target tumors compared to the baseline value. A best response of CR required at least 2 determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart. A best response of PR required at least 2 determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart (and not qualifying for CR)., Baseline to end of study (Month 24)
Duration of Objective Overall Response (OOR), Duration of OOR only included patients whose best overall response was complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). The start date was the date of the first documented response (CR or PR); the end date was the date of the first documented disease progression (PD) or death from any cause. (PD) was defined as ≥ 25% increase in size of the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of the target tumors compared to the smallest value recorded at or after baseline. If a patient had not progressed or died, the duration of OOR was censored at the time of the last OOR assessment., Baseline to end of study (Month 24)|Percentage of Patients Who Had Clinical Benefit, Patients who had clinical benefit were patients with a best response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) lasting for more than 6 months from the start of treatment until the first documented disease progression (PD) or death from any cause. (PD) was defined as ≥ 25% increase in size of the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of the target tumors compared to the smallest value recorded at or after baseline. SD was defined as insufficient tumor shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR and no increase in lesions which would qualify as PD., Baseline to end of study (Month 24)|Percentage of Patients With Progression-free Survival at Months 6 and 12, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the start of treatment to the date of the first documented disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause. (PD) was defined as ≥ 25% increase in size of the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of the target tumors compared to the smallest value recorded at or after baseline. If a patient had not progressed or died, progression-free survival was censored at the time of the last overall response assessment., Months 6 and 12|Percentage of Patients Surviving at Months 6, 12, and 24, Patients not known to have died were censored at the time of last survival follow-up., Months 6, 12, and 24|Number of Patients With at Least 1 Adverse Event, An adverse event (AE) is any undesirable sign, symptom, or medical condition occurring after starting study drug even if the event is not considered to be related to study drug. Study drug refers to imatinib or hydroxyurea. The study treatment is the combination of these two study drugs., Baseline to end of study (Month 24)
This ClinicalTrials.gov record includes the results from two studies (Novartis protocol IDs CSTI571H2201 and CSTI571H2202) which were conducted separately but reported together in a single clinical study report. Both studies were phase II, open-label, multicenter, single-arm studies that evaluated the efficacy of imatinib mesylate plus hydroxyurea in subjects with progressive glioblastoma multiforme. The studies were identical in design with two exceptions: Patients in study CSTI571H2201 received a dose of imatinib 600 mg once daily and were not allowed concomitant use of enzyme-inducing anticonvulsant drugs (EIACDs); patients in study CSTI571H2202 received a dose of imatinib 500 mg twice daily and were allowed concomitant use of EIACDs.