Intraoperative Radiotherapy After Local Recurrence in Breast Cancer
The investigators propose a prospective, multicenter, single arm Phase II design to evaluate the feasibility of repeated breast-conserving surgery combined with re- irradiation using IORT after local recurrence of breast carcinoma.
Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: tumorectomy|RADIATION: Intra Operative Radiotherapy
The Tolerance of RIOP (Intra Operative Radiotherapy) in Patients With Delayed Local Recurrences, After a Second Conservative Treatment of Breast Cancer, Fibrosis rate of RIOP grade 2 at 12 months of IORT (Intra Operative Radiotherapy) according to NCI CTCAE v4.0 classification grade 0 is the better outcomes Grade \>= 2 is the worse outcomes, Up to 12 months post radiation
Rate of Early and Late Toxicities, Rate of Early toxicities (Hematoma, Lymphorrhea, Breast infection) Late toxicities (telangiectasia, breast pain, skin hyperpigmentation, skin ulceration, skin atrophy) grade 0 is the better outcomes, from the baseline to 5 years after treatment|Local Relapse-free Survival, Number of patient with or without the apparition of local relapse, from the baseline to 5 years after treatment|Metastasis Relapse-free Survival, number of patient with and without the apparition of metastatic relapse., from the baseline to 5 years after treatment|Disease-free Survival., Number of patient with and without a relapse, from the baseline to 5 years after treatment|Overall Survival, number de patient dead, from the baseline to 5 years after treatment|Free Interval Without Mastectomy., Number of patient with a mastectomy during the study and follow up, from the baseline to 5 years after treatment
Currently, the rate of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) after breast- conserving surgery and radiotherapy remains at 10% at 10 years to 15% at 20 years, respectively. IBTR is an independent predictor of poor survival with a 3 to 4.6 increased risk of cancer-related death.

In a heterogeneous population, local control remains a major therapeutic challenge for these relapses, especially those considered of better prognosis, namely occurring late and of low histological grade. Therapeutic de-escalation is possible for these relapses to avoid a mutilating and often traumatic mastectomy.

However, this second conservative surgery has a high rate of second local relapse (19 to 50% at 5 years) due to the absence of a re-irradiation, rendered impossible by the problem of tolerance of previously irradiated tissues.

Retrospective or prospective studies on partial breast irradiation (PBI) in adjuvant setting report promising results, both in terms of tolerance (saving healthy tissue) and local control (74% to 100% at 5 years). Used techniques include brachytherapy, external beam radiotherapy and intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT).

IORT is now the subject of renewed interest in breast cancer. It has the advantages of high-precision ballistics on the operated area and of preservation of healthy tissue. To date, no prospective data, however, have been published in the indication of ipsilateral breast recurrence.

A prospective, multicenter, single arm Phase II design will evaluate the feasibility of repeated breast-conserving surgery combined with re- irradiation using IORT after local recurrence of breast carcinoma.