Therasphere® and Systemic Therapy for Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma That is High-risk
The purpose of this research is to compare progression free survival between two available systemic therapies - immunotherapy and tyrosine kinase inhibitors - after Therasphere® (yttrium-90) treatment in adult patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. The immunotherapy consists of a standard-of-care treatment with Atezolizumab and Bevacizumab. Treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors consists of standard-of-care Lenvatinib or Cabozantinib.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Atezolizumab and Bevacizumab|DRUG: Y90 + TKI
Progression Free Survival (PFS), To compare PFS by RECIST v1.1 criteria, with Y90 followed by immunotherapy (atezolizumab + bevacizumab, Arm A) or Y90 followed by TKI treatment (lenvatinib or cabozantinib, Arm B). Progression is defined as either radiological progression (with MRI or CT scan) OR clinical progression., Up to 2 years
Time to Progression (TTP), To compare the TTP in patients with advanced HCC who receive Immunotherapy combination compared to TKI following Y90. The TTP will be measured as the time of the last available radiographical or clinical disease assessment documenting lack of disease progression., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), To compare the ORR as assessed by RECIST v1.1 in patients with advanced HCC who receive immunotherapy combination and those who receive TKI treatment after Y90. This will be assessed based on imaging., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), To compare the DOR in patients by RECIST v1.1 criteria and is defined as either radiological progression (with MRI or CT scan) OR clinical progression., Up to 2 years|Clinical Benefit Rates (CBR), To compare the CBR as assessed by RECIST v1.1, CBR is defined as the percentage of patients with best response documented as Complete Response (CR), plus those with Partial Response (PR) plus those with Stable Disease (SD)., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined from the date of randomization to the study until the date of death from any cause for up to 2 years., Up to 2 years|Adverse Events, To compare the safety and tolerability of patients with advanced HCC who receive immunotherapy combination and those who receive TKI treatment after Y90, as defined by NCI CTCAEv5., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare Progression Free Survival (PFS) in patients with advanced HCC who receive Y90 followed by immunotherapy (atezolizumab + bevacizumab, Arm A) or Y90 followed by TKI treatment ( lenvatinib or cabozantinib, Arm B). For ARM B, \[patients will receive Lenvatinib. If they have prior history of treatment with Lenvatinib, then can be given Cabozantinib\]..

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the Time to Progression (TTP) in patients with advanced HCC who receive Immunotherapy combination compared to TKI following Y90.

II. To compare the Objective Response Rate (ORR) as assessed by RECIST v1.1 in patients with advanced HCC who receive immunotherapy combination and those who receive TKI treatment after Y90.

III. To compare the Duration of Response (DOR) in patients with advanced HCC who receive immunotherapy combination and those who receive TKI treatment after Y90.

IV. To compare the Clinical Benefit Rates (CBR) \[CR, PR,SD\] as assessed by RECIST v1.1 in patients with advanced HCC who receive immunotherapy combination and those who receive TKI treatment after Y90.

V. To compare the Overall Survival (OS) in patients with advanced HCC who receive immunotherapy combination and those who receive TKI treatment after Y90.

VI. To compare the safety and tolerability of patients with advanced HCC who receive immunotherapy combination and those who receive TKI treatment after Y90, as defined by NCI CTCAEv5.

OUTLINE:

Patients will first be treated one time with liver directed therapy, Therasphere® (Y-90), following institutional procedures. After completion of Y- 90, patients will have some recovery time (14-21 days) prior to starting systemic therapy.

Patients will be followed up for 2 years after completion of study treatment.