ColoSeal™ ICD System Safety and Feasibility Study
The purpose of this clinical investigation is to evaluate the safety and feasibility of the ColoSeal ICD System in a prospective, multicenter, single-arm study. The ColoSeal ICD System is intended to be used to protect a damaged segment of colon such as a surgical anastomosis, anastomosis leak, or perforation from contact with fecal flow for up to 21 days. The device will be evaluated in adult patients with rectal and rectosigmoid cancer undergoing a resection with a colorectal anastomosis.
Colorectal Cancer
DEVICE: ColoSeal ICD Device
Number of participants with device related adverse events, Any device related adverse events during procedure and/or follow-up, 90 days post procedure
Procedure success, Rate of acute efficacy in placing and deploying the device at the desired location, Day 0|Procedure time, Time from insertion of the introducer to the vacuum system being ready to be connected and begin vacuum application, Day 0|Migration rate, Number of devices migrated over the anastomosis divided by the number of devices placed, Up to 21 days|Occurrence of anastomotic leakage, Anastomotic leak rate will be defined as any anastomotic leak during study follow-up period identified on radiographic analysis. Clinically symptomatic and non-symptomatic leaks (radiographically diagnosed only) will be analyzed separately and taken into account during comparative analysis to rates reported in literature. Anastomotic leak rate will be subdivided into those leaks occurring while device is in place in subject or late leaks after device removal., Up to 90 days post procedure|Need for ostomy surgery, Efficacy will be determined by ostomy avoidance rate. Need for ostomy percentage will be defined as the total number of subjects that required ostomy during study follow-up period over total number of subjects enrolled who would have a planned ostomy if not a study participant., Up to 90 days post procedure|Successful device removal, Percent of successful device removals without adverse effect, Up to 21 days
The purpose of this clinical investigation is to evaluate the safety and feasibility of the ColoSeal ICD System in a prospective, multicenter, single-arm study. The ColoSeal ICD System is intended to be used to protect a damaged segment of colon such as a surgical anastomosis, anastomosis leak, or perforation from contact with fecal flow for up to 21 days. The device will be evaluated in adult patients with rectal and rectosigmoid cancer undergoing a resection with a colorectal anastomosis. Subjects will undergo scheduled resection per the surgeon's preferred technique. Following completion of the colon anastomosis, a leak check will be performed prior to insertion of the ColoSeal ICD Device to confirm no leak is present. The ICD Device will be inserted, advanced and positioned with the ICD Delivery System transanally. The anchor portion is positioned \> 5 cm above and ideally 10-20 cm above (more proximal in GI tract) the area requiring protection from fecal flow (the anastomosis). The anchor portion of the device is designed to be placed in healthy bowel and not at the region of damaged bowel where protection is required. After positioning, deployment, and anchoring of the ICD Device the Delivery System is removed. The external portion of the device is further anchored to the subject's skin using an adhesive dressing and an optional extension tubing. The ICD Device will remain in place for 10+/-2 days post-operatively. An anastomosis leak test will be performed prior to device removal. Once no leak is confirmed, the ICD Device will be removed from the subject.