F18PET/CT Versus TC-MDP Scanning to Detect Bone Mets
The primary objective is to compare the diagnostic performance of 18F- Fluoride PET/CT scanning to that of conventional bone scanning for detecting cancer that has spread to the bone (bone metastasis). The intent of the study is to determine whether 18F-Fluoride PET/CT will lead to improved treatment and patient outcomes.
Bone Metastases
DEVICE: Bone Scan: F18-Fluoride PET/CT or TC-MDP
Analysis of the diagnostic performance of [18F]NaF fluoride PET/CT scanning, The primary endpoint will be an analysis of the diagnostic performance of \[18F\]NaF fluoride PET/CT scanning to that of conventional bone scanning for detecting cancer that has spread to the bone (bone metastasis). The hypothesis is that PET/CT is superior to conventional bone scanning for detecting bone metastases. The primary metrics used for comparison will be the relative areas under the ROC curves generated by blinded core lab interpretations of the scans., 6 Months
The trial will accrue four hundred-eighty eight (488) evaluable patients with breast cancer, prostate cancer or lung cancer (approximately 163 of each cancer type) referred for routine bone scanning by their respective physicians. The specific stages of cancer required for eligibility are described in the eligibility criteria.

Approximately eleven to fifteen qualified clinical centers will participate in the trial, with target enrollment for each site set at roughly 40-50 patients per site.

The images of the patients will be transmitted to ACR Image Metrix, an imaging contract research organization (iCRO), for quality assurance and archival. iCRO will conduct blinded core lab interpretations by 3 radiologists who have not been involved in the design of the trial nor the clinical image interpretation. The data from the core lab readings will be compared with the deliberations of a multidisciplinary panel of oncology experts who will be blinded to the initial scan results and will determine the standard of evidence (truth) for each patient. The analysis will be based on this comparison.