Non-Invasive Focused Ultrasound (FUS) With Oral Panobinostat in Children With Progressive Diffuse Midline Glioma (DMG)
The blood brain barrier (BBB) prevents some drugs from successfully reaching the target tumor. Focused Ultrasound (FUS) using microbubbles and neuro-navigator-controlled sonication is a non-invasive method of temporarily opening up the blood brain barrier to allow a greater concentration of the drug to reach into the brain tumor. This may improve response and may also reduce system side effects in the patient.

The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of safely opening the BBB in children with progressive diffuse midline gliomas (DMG) treated with oral Panobinostat using FUS with microbubbles and neuro-navigator-controlled sonication.

For the purpose of the study, the investigators will be opening up the BBB temporarily in one, two, or three locations around the tumor using the non-invasive FUS technology, and administrating oral Panobinostat in children with progressive DMG.
Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma|Diffuse Pontine and Thalamic Gliomas|Diffuse Midline Glioma, H3 K27M-Mutant
DRUG: Panobinostat 15 MG|DEVICE: Focused Ultrasound with neuro-navigator-controlled sonication
Number of Adverse Events, Safety will be assessed by evaluation of physical and neurologic examinations, laboratory studies, radiographic studies, and by adverse events as per the CTCAE version 5.0. An adverse event is any new or worsening symptom or clinical finding which occurs during the study period. Adverse events are to be recorded irrespective of causality on the adverse event form. Each event will be described by its severity (mild, moderate, severe, life-threatening), duration, and relation to the study medication (unrelated, unlikely, possible, probable, and definite)., Up to 7 months
Progression Free Survival at 6 Months (PFS6), PFS is defined as the duration of the time from the start of FUS treatment to time of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the international criteria proposed by the updated Pediatric Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) guidelines., Up to 6 months|Overall Survival at 6 Months (OS6), Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from the start of FUS treatment to death from any cause. OS will be measured by follow-up with a study participant every 3-6 months until death for any reason., Up to 7 months|Number of Subjects With Blood Brain Barrier/Tumor Imaging Changes, MRI and other radiological evidence to show successful blood brain barrier (BBB) opening and closing will be reviewed and tallied., Up to 8 months
Diffuse midline gliomas (DMGs), constitute 10% of all pediatric central nervous system (CNS) tumors. Subjects with Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Gliomas (DIPG) have a poor prognosis with a median survival that is usually reported to be 9 months, and nearly 90% of children die within 18 months from diagnosis. The mainstay of treatment is radiation to the primary tumor site. Surgical resection does not influence the outcome and is often not feasible in this part of the central nervous system.

Many promising drugs for central nervous system (CNS) disorders have failed to attain clinical success due to an intact blood brain barrier (BBB), limiting their access from the systemic circulation into the brain. Systemic administration of high doses may increase delivery to the brain, but this approach risks significant side effects and systemic toxicities. Direct delivery of the drugs to the brain by injection into the parenchyma bypasses the BBB, however, drug distribution from the site of injection tends to be limited.

The technique of using focused ultrasound (FUS) with microbubbles and neuro-navigator-controlled sonication can temporarily open up the blood brain barrier and allow for a greater concentration of drug to reach the tumor, thus potentially improving response in patients.

With the current study, the investigators are planning to evaluate the safety and feasibility of using FUS and open-space neuronavigator-controlled sonication to open one, two, or three tumor sites. For the purpose of the study, investigators will be administrating oral Panobinostat in children with progressive DMG. This drug has a known toxicity profile, dose, and well-documented efficacy against many metastatic cancers. Successful opening and closing of the BBB will be confirmed with periodic magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs).