Outcome Evaluation After Fertility Preservation
It is important to evaluate outcomes after different fertility preservation strategies. Therefore, this study aims to assess the outcomes after different fertility preservation strategies and identify any factors that may affect their reproductive outcome.
Cancer|Fertility Issues
OTHER: This is an observational cohort study
To determine any factors that may affect the success rate of different fertility preservation methods., The medical notes of these patients undergoing fertility preservation services will be reviewed. The baseline characteristics including the socio-demographic background will be obtained by reviewing their hospital record., 10 years
To assess the pregnancy rate after different fertility preservation methods., The medical notes of these patients undergoing fertility preservation services will be reviewed. The subsequent reproductive outcome will be obtained by reviewing their hospital record., 10 years|To report on the frequency of surgical complications, The medical notes of these patients undergoing fertility preservation services will be reviewed. The details of the surgical procedures will be obtained by reviewing their hospital record., 10 years
All patients who have undergone or will seek fertility preservation services in PWH will be invited to participate. For those patients who have undergone fertility preservation services in PWH, when they come back to use their frozen gametes or embryos, they will also be invited to participate.

Medical record assessment When patients come for fertility preservation consultation in PWH, they will be invited to participate. The medical notes of these patients undergoing fertility preservation services will be reviewed. The baseline characteristics including the socio-demographic background, past medical history, details of the surgical procedures, and the subsequent reproductive outcome, will be obtained by reviewing their hospital record. The participants will not be required to take any extra procedures.