Ipilimumab With or Without Dabrafenib, Trametinib, and/or Nivolumab in Treating Patients With Melanoma That Is Metastatic or Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase I trial studies the side effects and best way to give ipilimumab with or without dabrafenib, trametinib and/or nivolumab in treating patients with melanoma that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab and nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Dabrafenib and trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether ipilimumab works better with or without dabrafenib, trametinib, and/or nivolumab in treating melanoma.
BRAF V600E Mutation Present|BRAF V600K Mutation Present|Metastatic Melanoma|Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Dabrafenib|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Trametinib
Incidence of grade 3 or higher immune-related adverse events (irAEs), graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE v4.0, Presented with 90% confidence intervals calculated using exact binomial methods., Up to 3 weeks after end of ipilimumab induction
Proportion of patients receiving dabrafenib and trametinib with grade 3 or higher irAEs after disease progression on ipilimumab, according to the NCI CTCAE v4.0, Presented with 90% confidence intervals calculated using exact binomial methods by randomized treatment arm., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment|Response rate for the total treatment period according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors v1.1, Summarized by treatment arm and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals. Fisher's exact test will be used., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment|Disease-control rate, Summarized by treatment arm and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals. Fisher's exact test will be used., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
Biomarker expression levels, The relationship between pre-treatment marker levels and response will be assessed according to expression cut-off between positive and negative. Fisher's exact test will be used to detect an increase in response rate and a secondary, sensitivity analysis will use a stratified Fisher's exact test., Baseline|Fold-changes in biomarkers, Biomarkers measured on a continuous scale will be summarized and compared across response categories using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. For biomarkers measured categorically, pre/post response combinations will be compared between responders and non-responders using Fisher's exact test., Baseline to 3 weeks after fourth ipilimumab dose|Change in immune activation, measured by changes in biomarker levels, Biomarkers measured on a continuous scale will be summarized and compared across response categories using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. For biomarkers measured categorically, pre/post response combinations will be compared between responders and non-responders using Fisher's exact test., Baseline to 3 weeks after fourth ipilimumab dose
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of ipilimumab (part 1) or ipilimumab plus nivolumab (part 2) following lead-in of v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF) and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitors, either alone or in combination, in patients with BRAFV600 mutant melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate to ipilimumab (part 1) or ipilimumab plus nivolumab (part 2) after BRAF and MEK inhibitors, either alone or in combination, compared to no prior kinase inhibitor treatment.

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of dabrafenib and trametinib combination in the setting of prior ipilimumab alone or ipilimumab preceded by BRAF and MEK inhibitors, either alone or in combination (part 1).

III. To determine the safety and tolerability of dabrafenib and trametinib combination in the setting of prior ipilimumab plus nivolumab without prior BRAF/MEK inhibition or ipilimumab plus nivolumab preceded by BRAF and MEK inhibitors, either alone or in combination (part 2).

IV. To determine the response rate to dabrafenib and trametinib in the setting of prior ipilimumab alone or ipilimumab preceded by BRAF and MEK inhibitors, either alone or in combination (part 1).

V. To determine the response rate to dabrafenib and trametinib in the setting of prior ipilimumab plus nivolumab without prior MEK/BRAF inhibition or prior ipilimumab plus nivolumab preceded by BRAF/MEK inhibitors (part 2).

VI. To obtain peripheral blood and tumor tissue for biomarker analysis. VII. To describe the immune impact of kinase inhibitor therapy on the immune response associated with ipilimumab treatment (part 1) or ipilimumab plus nivolumab treatment (part 2).

VIII. To observe and record anti-tumor activity.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms for Part 2 (Part 1 closed to accrual 8/25/2015).

PART 1: (Closed to accrual as of 8/25/2015) ARM A1: Patients receive dabrafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and trametinib PO once daily (QD) for 25 days. Patients then receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B1: Patients receive trametinib PO QD for 25 days. Patients then receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C1: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID for 25 days. Patients then receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM D1: Patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PART 2:

ARM A2: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD for 25 days followed by nivolumab IV over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab monotherapy IV every 2 weeks continuously for up to 42 courses.

ARM B2: Patients receive trametinib PO QD for 25 days followed by nivolumab IV over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab monotherapy IV every 2 weeks continuously for up to 42 courses.

ARM C2: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID for 25 days followed by nivolumab IV over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab monotherapy IV every 2 weeks continuously for up to 42 courses.

ARM D2: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab monotherapy IV every 2 weeks continuously for up to 42 courses.

After 12 weeks of treatment with ipilimumab, or ipilimumab and nivolumab followed by nivolumab monotherapy, all patients may continue to receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD in the absence of disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 14 weeks.