Ruxolitinib Phosphate to Treat Diffuse Large B-Cell or Peripheral T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma After Stem Cell Transplant
This phase II trial studies how well ruxolitinib phosphate works in treating patients with diffuse large B-cell or peripheral T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has returned (relapsed) or that does not respond to treatment (refractory) after donor stem cell transplant. Ruxolitinib phosphate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mature T- and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Ruxolitinib Phosphate
Overall Response Rate, Number of patients achieving overall response rate, 24 weeks
Overall Survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the median OS time and its 95% CI., From the date of start of treatment to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 60 months|Progression-free Survival, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the median PFS time and its 95% CI., From the date of start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 60 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the overall response rate (ORR) of subjects with relapsed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) who are relapsed or refractory to front-line treatment and ineligible for stem cell transplantation or have recurrent disease after stem cell transplantation to oral ruxolitinib (ruxolitinib phosphate).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate safety of oral ruxolitinib in subjects with DLBCL and PTCL. II. Determine progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response, and overall response (OS) in subjects with DLBCL and PTCL.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore the relationship between responses to oral ruxolitinib and alterations in gene expression profiling (GEP) signatures as well as biomarker immunophenotypic changes related to JAK2/STAT3, NF-kB, PI3K/AKT, and mTOR pathways.

II. Evaluate potential effect of oral ruxolitinib exposure on JAK2/STAT3 pathway inhibition in serial tumor samples.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months thereafter.