Vaccination with Autologous Dendritic Cells Loaded with Autologous Tumour Homogenate in Glioblastoma
Single arm, monocentric trial to assess the safety and the progression-free survival related to the combined treatment of dendritic cell vaccine loaded with autologous tumor homogenate and temozolomide in patients operated for glioblastoma and then treated with standard radiochemotherapy (according to Stupp regimen).
Glioblastoma|Vaccination
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous Dendritic Cells (DC) vaccine|DRUG: Temozolomide
clinical activity, Progression free survival (PFS), measured as the proportion of patients without progression of disease at three months from leukapheresis, about 55 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Proportion of patients experienced grade 3 or higher adverse events related to the study treatment, about 55 months
Immune response in vivo, Evaluation of the prognostic role of a positive DTH test after at least four vaccine administrations, about 32 months|Clinical Outcome (Overall Survival (OS)), Overall Survival (OS) is calculated as the time from the date of leukapheresis to the date of death for any cause. Patients still alive at the time of analysis are censored at the last time they are known to be alive., about 55 months|Immunological efficacy, Immunological efficacy: ability to enhance the proportion of circulating immune effectors specific for tumor antigens; evaluation of the persistence of an anti-tumor immune response; determination of plasma levels of a panel of inflammatory cytokines and pro-angiogenic factors; evaluation of the prognostic and predictive role of tumor antigen expression in tumor tissue; analysis of the prognostic and predictive role of immune cells in the peripheral blood and in the tumor microenvironment, about 55 months|Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I and II characterization characterization of patients, Explorative endpoint (optional participation for patients): HLA class I and II characterization of patients, about 32 months
Single arm, monocentric trial to assess the safety and the progression-free survival related to the combined treatment of dendritic cell vaccine loaded with autologous tumor homogenate and temozolomide in patients operated for glioblastoma and then treated with standard radiochemotherapy (according to Stupp regimen).

The experimental treatment consists of an induction phase with 4 weekly doses of dendritic cell vaccine (10x10exp6 cells) intradermally administered (weeks 1-4), followed by a maintenance phase consisting of 28 days cycles with vaccine administration (start on week 7) and adjuvant temozolomide (150-200mg/m2/day) assumed orally from day 1 to 5 q28 (start on week 5). The combined maintenance treatment will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent by the patient, or up to a maximum of 1 year of treatments. After disease progression or the end of maintenance phase, is foreseen a one-year follow-up phase for each subject.

Primary objectives are clinical activity and safety of the study treatment. Secondary objectives are the evaluation of the prognostic role of the positive Delayed-Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) skin test after at least four vaccine administrations, the OS and the immunological efficacy of the study treatment. A series of exploratory objectives will be also assessed on samples from patients who participate to this optional part of the trial.

Simon's two-stage design (Simon, 1989) will be used for the sample size calculation.

A planned interim analysis will be done after the recruitment of the first 9 evaluable patients for toxicity and for efficacy.

If study will not be stopped due to lack of safety or efficacy, a total of 28 evaluable patients will be enrolled for the trial.

Time to events (PFS and OS) will be calculated with the Kaplan-Meier method and the analysis was performed on the eligible population. For the primary objective, the proportion of patients without progression at three months from leukapheresis date will be evaluated. The proportion of patients experiencing vaccine-related grade ≥ 3 adverse events (AEs) during the treatment will be inferred by means of the two-sided Clopper-Pearson, or a more appropriate one, 95% confidence interval. Descriptive statistics will be used to assess the extent of the secondary endpoints.