Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Trastuzumab in Treating Women With Metastatic Breast Cancer
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy with or without trastuzumab in treating women who have metastatic breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies such as trastuzumab can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.
Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: docetaxel|BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Grades of Cardiotoxicity Events in the Subset of Patients Reporting a Cardiotoxicity Event, This table summarizes the cardiotoxicity events of different grades. Grade 1 is a decline of left ventricular ejection fraction(LVEF) \>=10% but \<20% of baseline value. Grade 2 is LVEF below LLN (50%) or decline of LVEF \>=20% of baseline value. Grade 3 is congestive heart failure responsive to treatment. Please note that only a subset of patients reported cardiotoxic events so the totals will not add up to the total number of participants., Baseline, after cycle 4 (~84 days), after cycle 8 (~168 days), and 30 or more days after last cycle of induction therapy|Summary of Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction Values, This table summarizes the LVEF information at baseline, post Cycle 4, post Cycle 8, and 30 or more days after Cycle 8 on all treated patients and on the eligible subset. LVEF drops reported are absolute (not relative) drops., Baseline, after cycle 4, after cycle 8, and 30 or more days after last cycle of induction therapy.
Best Overall Response Using Eastern Cooperative Group Solid Tumor Response Criteria., Please note that overall response includes CR and PR. CR is defined as complete disappearance of all clinically detectable malignant disease for at least 4 weeks. PR is greater than or equal to 50% decrease in tumor size for at least 4 weeks without increase in size of any area of known malignant disease of greater than 25%, or appearance of new areas of malignant disease. No change is defined as no significant change in measurable or evaluable disease for at least 4 weeks. Progression is defined as a significant increase in size of lesions present at the start of therapy or after a response., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually until death or until reaching full study stop date. Data as of Nov 21, 2007 is used for this report. Please note that best overall response is reported in the table.|Overall Survival, Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually until death or until reaching full study stop date. Data as of November 21, 2007 is used for this report.|Progression-Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival was defined as time from study entry to progression or to death without documentation of progression. A progression is defined as a significant increase in size of lesions present at the start of therapy or after a response., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually until death or until reaching full study stop date. Data as of November 21, 2007 is used for this report.|Duration of Response, Defined as time from onset of PR or CR, whichever occurred first, until objective evidence of progression., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually until death or until reaching full study stop date. Data as of November 21, 2007 is used for this report.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of the combination of liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) and Taxotere (Taxotere) ± trastuzumab (Herceptin), particularly with respect to cardiotoxicity.

II. To evaluate the overall objective response rate, response duration, time to treatment failure, and median survival of patients with metastatic breast cancer treated with Doxil and Taxotere ± Herceptin.

III. To determine the overall toxicity of Doxil and Taxotere ± Herceptin in patients with advanced breast cancer.

IV. To determine whether there is an association between trough plasma levels of cTnT (cardiac troponin T) and NT-proBNP (brain natriuretic peptide) and any cardiac event (CHF or LVEF decrease).

V. To determine tissue and plasma levels of HER2 using several assays and explore potential correlation with protocol treatment toxicity and/or response.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to one of two treatment arms according to HER2 overexpression status.

Arm I (HER2 nonoverexpressed): Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome IV over 30 minutes followed by docetaxel IV over 1 hour. Treatment is repeated every 3 weeks for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients may receive maintenance therapy of docetaxel IV over 1 hour either weekly or every 3 weeks. Maintenance continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Arm II (HER2 overexpressed): Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1, with subsequent doses over 30 minutes. Patients receive doxorubicin HCl liposome IV over 30 minutes followed by docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 2 of course 1, followed by subsequent doses on day 1 of each course. Antibody therapy continues weekly and chemotherapy every 3 weeks for 8 courses.

Patients may receive maintenance therapy of trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes weekly followed by docetaxel IV over 1 hour weekly or every 3 weeks. Maintenance continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 89 patients were accrued for this study.