Orteronel as Monotherapy in Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) That Expresses the Androgen Receptor (AR)
The androgen receptor (AR) is expressed in 70-90 percent of primary breast tumors and in 75 percent of breast metastases. There is evidence to suggest that Androgen Receptor (AR) may be a target in patients with advanced breast cancer. Breast cancer patients whose tumors do not express the ER, PR or HER2 (triple negative) have very few options for treatment. Orteronel is being developed as an endocrine therapy for relevant hormone-sensitive cancers such as prostrate cancer and breast cancer. Triple-negative metastatic breast cancer patients with AR expression could potentially benefit from anti-androgen therapy like orteronel.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Orteronel
Response Rate (RR), Response rate (RR) will be estimated as the percentage of patients exhibiting complete response or partial response out of all evaluable cases. Complete Response is defined per RECIST as the disappearance of all target/non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Partial Response is defined per RECIST as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Complete and partial responses were confirmed at least 4 weeks after the initial response., upto 36 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Defined as the percentage of patients who do not exhibit progression (CR+PR+SD) at 6 months among those patients who are evaluable for response by RECIST V1.1. Complete Response is defined per RECIST as the disappearance of all target/non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Partial Response is defined per RECIST as At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Stable disease is defined per RECIST as Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest (nadir) sum LD since the treatment started., 6 months
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety, Assessments will be made through analysis of the reported incidence of treatment-related Adverse Events as determined by the investigator and assessed by NCI CTCAE, Version 4.0., weekly for 4 weeks then every 8 weeks until end of study treatment, up to 36 months.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the first day of treatment until the day tumor progression or date of death was documented. The response was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1). Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every 8 weeks during treatment then every 6 months for 2 years, annually thereafter up to 5 years.|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the first treatment until the date of death due to any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death or lack of data beyond the follow-up period, the survival time was censored to the last date the participant was known to be alive., After disease progression is documented, survival was monitored every 6 months for 2 years and annually thereafter up to 5 years.|Measurement of Serum Hormone Levels - Estradiol, Blood samples collected At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4, and at end of treatment visit to test for serum estradiol levels, At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4 (treatment cycle repeated every 4 weeks), and at end of treatment visit, up to 36 months|Measurement of Serum Hormone Levels - Total Testosterone, Blood samples were collected at baseline, on day 1 of cycles 2 and 4, and at end of treatment visit to test total testosterone levels, At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4 (treatment cycle repeated every 4 weeks), and at end of treatment visit, up to 36 months|Measurement of Serum Hormone Levels - Free Testosterone, Blood samples were collected At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4, and at end of treatment visit to test free testosterone levels, At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4 (treatment cycle repeated every 4 weeks), and at end of treatment visit, up to 36 months|Measurement of Serum Hormone Levels - Sex Hormone-binding Globulin, Blood samples were collected at baseline, on day 1 of cycles 2 and 4, and at end of the treatment visit for sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels, At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4 (treatment cycle repeated every 4 weeks), and at end of treatment visit, up to 36 months|Measurement of Serum Hormone Levels - Adrenocorticotropic Hormone, Blood samples were collected at baseline, on day 1 of cycles 2 and 4, and at end of the treatment visit to test for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels, At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4 (treatment cycle repeated every 4 weeks), and at end of treatment visit, up to 36 months|Measurement of Serum Hormone Levels - Dehydroepiandrosterone Sulfate (DHEA-S), Blood samples were collected at baseline, on day 1 of cycles 2 and 4, and at end of the treatment visit dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S) levels, At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4 (treatment cycle repeated every 4 weeks), and at end of treatment visit, up to 36 months|Measurement of Serum Hormone Levels - Cortisol, Blood samples to test for serum cortisol levels, At baseline, at day 1 of cycle 2 and 4 (treatment cycle repeated every 4 weeks), and at end of treatment visit, up to 36 months
Number of Participants With PTEN Gene Expression Status of Positive, Weak Positive, or Negative, Archived tumor tissue was assayed for loss of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) biomarker. PTEN loss was determined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining. pTEN Positive by IHC is defined as strongly positive (2+ intensity) staining for PTEN protein expression in the entire tumor or the vast majority of the tumor cells. pTEN Negative by IHC is defined as no staining (0+intensity) in entire tumor cells for pTEN protein expression. pTEN Weakly positive(1+intensity) by IHC is defined as tumor cells showing weak pTEN protein expression., At pre-screening|Number of Participants With PIK3CA Gene Mutation Status of Mutated or No Mutation, Archived tumor tissue was assayed for the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PIK3CA) biomarker. PIK3CA hotspot mutations at codons 88, 539-549, 1020-1025, 1043-1049 were tested by pyrosequencing. 'PIK3CA-'mutated' is defined as the presence of mutation in one of the codons 88, 539-549, 1020-1025, 1043-1049 of the PIK3CA gene.

PIK3CA-'no mutation' is defined as the absence of mutation in codons 88, 539-549, 1020-1025, 1043-1049 of the PIK3CA gene., At pre-screening
This open-label multicenter study will be conducted in 2 stages.

* Lead-in Phase: The first 6 patients treated will be evaluated to confirm the safety and feasibility of this regimen. After all 6 patients complete at least 4 weeks of treatment, and if no prohibitive toxicities are identified, continuous study treatment will begin.
* Continuous Study Treatment: Patients will continue to be enrolled into both cohorts based on their tumor specificities with an anticipated total of 31 patients in Cohort 1 (ER-/PR-/HER2-/AR+) and an anticipated total of 55 patients in Cohort 2 (ER+ and/or PR+/AR+).

Patients will be evaluated every eight weeks for response to treatment. All patients who respond to treatment (complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\]) or have stable disease (SD) will continue to receive orteronel until they develop progressive disease (PD) or unacceptable toxicity.