Acalabrutinib, Lenalidomide, and Rituximab for the Treatment of CD20 Positive Stage III-IV, Grade 1-3a Follicular Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well acalabrutinib, lenalidomide, and rituximab work in treating patients with CD20 positive stage III-IV, grade 1-3a follicular lymphoma. Acalabrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving acalabrutinib, lenalidomide, and rituximab may help to control the disease.
Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Complete remission rate, Will be based on Cheson, Lugano classification 2014. The number and percentage of subjects with a complete remission at the end of treatment will be tabulated., (Up to end of treatment; 1 year)
Overall response rate (complete response + partial response), Will be based on Cheson, Lugano classification 2014. The number and percentage of subjects with an overall response rate will be tabulated. The best overall response rate will be recorded., (At the end of treatment ; 1 year )|Duration of response, Will be based on Cheson, Lugano classification 2014. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to assess the effects of patient prognostic factors on duration of response. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% confidence interval., From the time by which measurement criteria for complete response or partial response, whichever is recorded first, is met until death or the first date by which progressive disease is documented, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival within 24 months from treatment initiation, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be summarized. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to assess the effects of patient prognostic factors on progression-free survival., From the treatment start date (cycle 1, day 1) until the firstdate of objectively documented progressive disease or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% confidence interval. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to assess the effects of patient prognostic factors on progression-free survival., From the date of cycle 1, day 1 to the date of first documented progression, transformation to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, initiation of new anti-lymphoma treatment, or death, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% confidence interval. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to assess the effects of patient prognostic factors on overall survival., From the date of cycle 1, day 1 to the date of death regardless of cause, assessed up to 3 years|Frequency, severity, and relatedness of treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs), Adverse experiences will be graded and recorded throughout the study and during the follow-up period according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5. Safety summaries will include tabulations in the form of tables and listings. The frequency (number and percentage) of treatment-emergent AEs will be reported. Additional AE summaries will include AE frequency by AE severity and by relationship to study drug. Clinically significant abnormal laboratory values will be summarized., Up to 3 years|Frequency of treatment-emergent AEs requiring study drug discontinuation or dose reduction, Adverse experiences will be graded and recorded throughout the study and during the follow-up period according to NCI CTCAE version 5. Safety summaries will include tabulations in the form of tables and listings. The frequency (number and percentage) of treatment-emergent AEs will be reported. Additional AE summaries will include AE frequency by AE severity and by relationship to study drug. Clinically significant abnormal laboratory values will be summarized., Up to 3 years
Alteration in immune cell subsets, Will assess whole exome sequencing (WES) of the tissue microenvironment to determine alteration in immune cell subsets. The association between somatic mutations and duration of response will be determined using Cox regression., Up to 3 years|Alteration in immune cell subsets, Will assess ribonucleic acid sequencing of tissue microenvironment to determine alteration in immune cell subsets. The frequencies of tumor infiltrating immune cells will be inferred, and their abundance correlated with duration of response., Up to 3 years|Cell free circulating deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), Will assess cell-free circulating DNA and association with response to therapy. The dynamics of response (i.e. rate of decline of tumor-derived somatic mutations) and ability to achieve negativity of molecular residual disease will be correlated with the duration of response., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of acalabrutinib combined with rituximab and lenalidomide in patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma (FL) (determined by complete remission \[CR\] rate by the end of treatment).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of acalabrutinib combined with rituximab and lenalidomide in subjects with FL as assessed by objective response rate (ORR) at the end of treatment, duration of response (DOR), progression rate within 24 months from treatment initiation (progression-free survival \[PFS\] 24), PFS and overall survival (OS).

II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of acalabrutinib combined with rituximab and lenalidomide in previously untreated subjects with FL.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the pharmacodynamic effects and investigate biomarkers of response and resistance of the 3-drug combination.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive acalabrutinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Beginning cycle 2, patients receive lenalidomide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and rituximab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycle 2 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years.