Comparison of Nexavar/Placebo as Maintenance Therapy for Patients With Advanced Ovarian or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
Comparison of Nexavar with a placebo as maintenance therapy for patients with advanced Ovarian or primary Peritoneal cancers in complete remission following surgery and one regimen of chemotherapy.
Ovarian Neoplasms
DRUG: Sorafenib (Nexavar, BAY43-9006)|DRUG: Placebo
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Based on Radiological or Pathologic Assessment, Time from randomization to the first documented disease progression by radiological or pathologic assessment or death due to any cause whichever occurred first. For patients who had not progressed or died at the time of analysis, PFS was censored at the date of their last evaluable tumor scan., From randomization of the first patient until 32.5 months later, assessed every 8 weeks
Time to First Pathologic CA-125 (Cancer-associated Tumor Marker) Serum Level, Time from randomization to the first documented increase of CA-125 above the upper limit of normal. Patients without pathologic CA-125 increase at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of evaluation of CA-125., From randomization of the first patient until 32.5 months later, assessed every 8 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), The OS time was measured from the date of randomization until the date of death due to any cause. Patients who were alive at the time of analysis were censored at the date of the last contact (last time the patient was known to be alive)., From randomization of the first patient until 32.5 months later
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)/National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Ovarian Symptom Index (FOSI) Total Score at Cycle 1/Baseline, The FOSI is an 8-item index derived from the FACT-Ovarian Cancer (FACT-O) to measure symptom response to treatment for ovarian cancer. The FOSI total score ranges from 0 (severely symptomatic) to 32 (asymptomatic)., At Cycle 1 (4 weeks per Cycle)/baseline|FOSI Total Score at Cycle 3, The FOSI is an 8-item index derived from the FACT-Ovarian Cancer (FACT-O) to measure symptom response to treatment for ovarian cancer. The FOSI total score ranges from 0 (severely symptomatic) to 32 (asymptomatic)., At Cycle 3 (4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in FOSI Total Score at Cycle 3, The FOSI is an 8-item index derived from the FACT-Ovarian Cancer (FACT-O) to measure symptom response to treatment for ovarian cancer. The change is calculated as score at Cycle 3 minus baseline score. The change in FOSI total score ranges from -32 (most deterioration from baseline) to 32 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and Cycle 3 (4 weeks per Cycle)|FOSI Total Score at Cycle 5, The FOSI is an 8-item index derived from the FACT-Ovarian Cancer (FACT-O) to measure symptom response to treatment for ovarian cancer. The FOSI total score ranges from 0 (severely symptomatic) to 32 (asymptomatic)., At Cycle 5 (4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in FOSI Total Score at Cycle 5, The FOSI is an 8-item index derived from the FACT-Ovarian Cancer (FACT-O) to measure symptom response to treatment for ovarian cancer. The change is calculated as score at Cycle 5 minus baseline score. The change in FOSI total score ranges from -32 (most deterioration from baseline) to 32 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and Cycle 5 (4 weeks per Cycle)|FOSI Total Score at End of Treatment, The FOSI is an 8-item index derived from the FACT-Ovarian Cancer (FACT-O) to measure symptom response to treatment for ovarian cancer. The FOSI total score ranges from 0 (severely symptomatic) to 32 (asymptomatic)., At End of treatment (up to Cycle 33, 4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in FOSI Total Score at End of Treatment, The FOSI is an 8-item index derived from the FACT-Ovarian Cancer (FACT-O) to measure symptom response to treatment for ovarian cancer. The change is calculated as score at End of treatment minus baseline score. The change in FOSI total score ranges from -32 (most deterioration from baseline) to 32 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and End of treatment (up to Cycle 33, 4 weeks per Cycle)|EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) Index Score at Cycle 1/Baseline, The EQ-5D contains a descriptive system which measures 5 health dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activity, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. These five health dimensions are summarized into a single score, the EQ-5D index score which ranges from -0.594 (worst) to 1 (best) when the United Kingdom (UK) weights are applied., At Cycle 1 (4 weeks per Cycle)/baseline|EQ-5D Index Score at Cycle 3, The EQ-5D contains a descriptive system which measures 5 health dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activity, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. These five health dimensions are summarized into a single score, the EQ-5D index score which ranges from -0.594 (worst) to 1 (best) when the United Kingdom (UK) weights are applied., At Cycle 3 (4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in EQ-5D Index Score at Cycle 3, The EQ-5D contains a descriptive system which measures 5 health dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activity, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. These five health dimensions are summarized into a single score, the EQ-5D index. The change is calculated as score at Cycle 3 minus baseline score. The change in EQ-5D index ranges from -1.594 (most deterioration from baseline) to 1.594 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and Cycle 3 (4 weeks per Cycle)|EQ-5D Index Score at Cycle 5, The EQ-5D contains a descriptive system which measures 5 health dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activity, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. These five health dimensions are summarized into a single score, the EQ-5D index score which ranges from -0.594 (worst) to 1 (best) when the United Kingdom (UK) weights are applied., At Cycle 5 (4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in EQ-5D Index Score at Cycle 5, The EQ-5D contains a descriptive system which measures 5 health dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activity, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. These five health dimensions are summarized into a single score, the EQ-5D index. The change is calculated as score at Cycle 5 minus baseline score. The change in EQ-5D index ranges from -1.594 (most deterioration from baseline) to 1.594 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and Cycle 5 (4 weeks per Cycle)|EQ-5D Index Score at End of Treatment, The EQ-5D contains a descriptive system which measures 5 health dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activity, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. These five health dimensions are summarized into a single score, the EQ-5D index score which ranges from -0.594 (worst) to 1 (best) when the United Kingdom (UK) weights are applied., At End of treatment (up to Cycle 33, 4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in EQ-5D Index Score at End of Treatment, The EQ-5D contains a descriptive system which measures 5 health dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activity, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. These five health dimensions are summarized into a single score, the EQ-5D index. The change is calculated as score at End of treatment minus baseline score. The change in EQ-5D index ranges from -1.594 (most deterioration from baseline) to 1.594 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and End of treatment (up to Cycle 33, 4 weeks per Cycle)|EQ-5D Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) Score at Cycle 1/Baseline, The EQ-5D also contains a VAS, which records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated scale. The scale ranges from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state)., At Cycle 1 (4 weeks per Cycle)/baseline|EQ-5D VAS Score at Cycle 3, The EQ-5D also contains a VAS, which records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated scale. The scale ranges from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state)., At Cycle 3 (4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in EQ-5D VAS Score at Cycle 3, The EQ-5D also contains a VAS, which records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated scale. The change is calculated as score at Cycle 3 minus baseline score. The change in EQ-5D VAS ranges from -100 (most deterioration from baseline) to 100 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and Cycle 3 (4 weeks per Cycle)|EQ-5D VAS Score at Cycle 5, The EQ-5D also contains a VAS, which records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated scale. The scale ranges from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state)., At Cycle 5 (4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in EQ-5D VAS Score at Cycle 5, The EQ-5D also contains a VAS, which records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated scale. The change is calculated as score at Cycle 5 minus baseline score. The change in EQ-5D VAS ranges from -100 (most deterioration from baseline) to 100 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and Cycle 5 (4 weeks per Cycle)|EQ-5D VAS Score at End of Treatment, The EQ-5D also contains a VAS, which records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated scale. The scale ranges from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state)., At End of treatment (up to Cycle 33, 4 weeks per Cycle)|Change From Baseline in EQ-5D VAS Score at End of Treatment, The EQ-5D also contains a VAS, which records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated scale. The change is calculated as score at End of treatment minus baseline score. The change in EQ-5D VAS ranges from -100 (most deterioration from baseline) to 100 (most improvement from baseline)., Baseline and End of treatment (up to Cycle 33, 4 weeks per Cycle)
Comparison of Nexavar with a placebo as maintenance therapy for patients with advanced Ovarian or primary Peritoneal cancers in complete remission following surgery and one regimen of chemotherapy.