Hearing Outcomes Using Fractionated Proton Radiation Therapy for Vestibular Schwannoma
In this research study we are looking at another type of radiation called proton radiation which is known to spare surrounding normal tissues from radiation. The proton radiation will be delivered using fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (FSRT) to improve localization of the small tumor target. Proton radiation delivers minimal radiation beyond the area of the tumor. This may reduce side effects that patients would normally experience with conventional radiation therapy. In this research study, we are looking to determine the effects of fractionated proton radiotherapy on long-term hearing preservation and controlling tumor growth.
Vestibular Schwannoma|Acoustic Neuroma
RADIATION: Fractionated proton radiation|DRUG: Losartan
Characterization of long-term hearing effects, Characterization of long-term hearing effects of fractionated proton therapy in patients with vestibular schwannomas., 5 years
Local control rate after fractionated proton radiation, 5 years|Delineation of dosimetric parameters after fractionated proton radiation, The distribution of dosimetric parameters will be summarized, and their correlation to clinical outcomes, including hearing loss, will be explored., 5 years|Incidence of second tumors after fractionated proton radiation, 5 years|Toxicity profile of Losartan given concurrently with proton radiation, Toxicities associated with losartan before, during and after proton radiation will be summarized by grade according to CTCAE 4.0. The losartan cohort of 10 participants will provide 90% confidence interval of maximal width +/-27% based on the exact binomial distribution., 5 years|Impact of Losartan on hearing preservation, 5 years|Impact of Losartan on circulating biomarkers, 5 years
* Proton radiation will be delivered daily for approximately 5.5 weeks. Participants will be assessed weekly for any side effects they may be experiencing.
* Participants will have a follow-up visit 6 months after their last proton radiation treatment and then every year from the time of treatment completion for 5 years. The following tests and procedures will be performed at these visits: medical history, physical exam, MRI scan, comprehensive hearing tests and a questionnaire.