A Study to Demonstrate the Benefit of a New Kind of Anti-cancer Treatment [PReferentially Expressed Antigen of MElanoma (PRAME) Immunotherapy] for Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), After Removal of Their Tumor
The purpose of this study was to test a potential new kind of anti-cancer treatment, called PRAME immunotherapy in resected patients with lung cancer.

Based on scientific and medical relevance, the clinical study was ended on 24 August 2016. The participants were no longer enrolled in the study, the follow ups on subjects were stopped and the collection and analysis of samples for further research purposes was stopped.

After the stop to recruitment, the study was unblinded, as per the amended protocol, the study treatment was continued and completed with the subjects of the active treatment group who were willing to continue. Subjects in the placebo group were withdrawn.

There was no longer an active follow-up of patients after discontinuation or completion of the treatment. The study ended 30 days after the last dose was administered.

As a result, primary and secondary objectives were not assessed as planned. All clinical and safety data collected in the study were analysed descriptively. For each biological sample already collected in the scope of this study and not tested yet, testing was not performed by default, except if a scientific rationale remained relevant despite the premature termination of the study.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell
BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant PRAME protein combined with the AS15 Adjuvant System GSK2302032A|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo
Time to Occurrence of Any Recurrence of Disease, Time to occurrence of any recurrence of disease was expressed in terms of rate: Person-year rate in each group = number of patients reporting at least one recurrence of disease (n)/ sum of follow-up period expressed in years (T\[year)\]) As a consequence of the decision to stop the PRAME-AS15-NSC-002 (ADJ) study, not all data were available for a full analysis. The median follow-up time was 10.3 months in the GSK2302032A group and 5.7 months in the Placebo group. Considering that two Phase III studies with recMAGE-A3 + AS15 failed to demonstrate clinical efficacy of the MAGE-A3 antigen specific cancer immunotherapeutic, GSK decided to stop the development of all recombinant protein based cancer vaccines and to stop recruitment in all the ongoing clinical studies., During the entire study (From Week 1 to Week 112)
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the interval from randomization to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death; patients still alive were censored at the last visit they are known to be alive. Considering that two Phase III studies with recMAGE-A3 + AS15 failed to demonstrate clinical efficacy of the MAGE-A3 antigen specific cancer immunotherapeutic, GSK decided to stop the development of all recombinant protein based cancer vaccines and to stop recruitment in all the ongoing clinical studies. Therefore, based on scientific and medical relevance, the decision was made to stop patient enrollment in the PRAME-AS15-NSC-002 (ADJ) clinical study and to stop follow-up visits, further sample collection for research purposes and the analysis of samples for research purposes. In consequence, the primary and secondary outcomes were not analysed as planned and clinical data for this outcome was not collected., During the entire study (From Week 1 to Week 112)|Lung-cancer-specific Survival, Lung-cancer specific survival was defined as defined as the interval from randomization to the date of death due to lung cancer; deaths due to other or unknown causes were censored at the date of death. Considering that two Phase III studies with recMAGE-A3 + AS15 failed to demonstrate clinical efficacy of the MAGE-A3 antigen specific cancer immunotherapeutic, GSK decided to stop the development of all recombinant protein based cancer vaccines and to stop recruitment in all the ongoing clinical studies. Therefore, based on scientific and medical relevance, the decision was made to stop patient enrollment in the PRAME-AS15-NSC-002 (ADJ) clinical study and to stop follow-up visits, further sample collection for research purposes and the analysis of samples for research purposes. In consequence, the primary and secondary outcomes were not analysed as planned and clinical data for this outcome was not collected., During the entire study (From Week 1 to Week 112)|Disease-free Specific Survival (DFSS), DFSS was defined as the interval from randomization to the date of first recurrence of disease or date of death due to lung cancer, whichever occurs first. Patients without recurrence or death due to lung cancer were censored at the date of last assessment. Considering that two Phase III studies with recMAGE-A3 + AS15 failed to demonstrate clinical efficacy of the MAGE-A3 antigen specific cancer immunotherapeutic, GSK decided to stop the development of all recombinant protein based cancer vaccines and to stop recruitment in all the ongoing clinical studies. Therefore, based on scientific and medical relevance, the decision was made to stop patient enrollment in the PRAME-AS15-NSC-002 (ADJ) clinical study and to stop follow-up visits, further sample collection for research purposes and the analysis of samples for research purposes. In consequence, the primary and secondary outcomes were not analysed as planned and clinical data for this outcome was not collected., During the entire study (From Week 1 to Week 112)|DFS (Disease-free Survival) at 2, 3, 4 and 5 Years After Randomization, Defined as the time from randomization to either the date of first recurrence of the disease or the date of death (whatever the cause), whichever occurred first. The 5-year active follow-up period planned in the initial study protocol was cancelled per Protocol Amendment 2, hence this analysis was not performed., During the entire follow-up period (From year 2 to Year 5)|Number of Subjects With Any Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs), Unsolicited AEs covered any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation subject temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product and reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study and any solicited symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms. Any was defined as the occurrence of any unsolicited AE regardless of intensity grade or relation to vaccination., Within the 31-day (Days 0-30) post-vaccine administration period|Anti-PRAME Antibody Concentrations, Considering that two Phase III studies with recMAGE-A3 + AS15 failed to demonstrate clinical efficacy of the MAGE-A3 antigen specific cancer immunotherapeutic, GSK decided to stop the development of all recombinant protein based cancer vaccines and to stop recruitment in all the ongoing clinical studies. Therefore, based on scientific and medical relevance, the decision was made to stop patient enrollment in the PRAME-AS15-NSC-002 (ADJ) clinical study and to stop follow-up visits, further sample collection for research purposes and the analysis of samples for research purposes. In consequence, the primary and secondary outcomes were not analysed as planned and clinical data for this outcome was not collected., At each defined time point from Week 0 till Concluding Visit (Week 112)|Number of Subjects With Any Abnormal Hematological and Biochemical Parameters, Hematological and biochemical parameters assessed were tabulated by maximum grade versus baseline, by CTCAE = Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (Grade 1= mild; Grade 2= moderate; Grade 3= severe; Grade 4= life-threatening; Grade 5 = death; Grade Unknown) and by the type of abnormality (e.g. increased, decreased, prolonged, etc.). Some parameters (e.g. Anemia) already comprise within their definition the type of abnormality presented., During the entire study period (From Week 1 to Week 112)|Number of Subjects With Any Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed included medical occurrences that resulted in death, were life threatening, required hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization or resulted in disability/incapacity. An event that was part of the natural course of the disease under study (i.e., disease progression, recurrence) was captured in the study as an efficacy measure; therefore it did not need to be reported as an SAE., During the entire study (From Week 1 to Week 112)|Number of Subjects With Any Adverse Events (AEs) by Intensity Grade., Grading was done as per the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) of the U.S. National Cancer Institute, version 4.0. The intensity grades assessed were: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and Unknown., From Week 0 to Week 112
During the treatment period, safety monitoring continued as initially foreseen. Reporting of post-study adverse events (AEs) and serious AEs (SAEs) continued as per protocol. In the best interest of the patient, no more biological samples for protocol research purposes (i.e. serum sampling for humoral immunity, whole blood sampling for pharmacogenetics) were taken.