A Study Evaluating UCART019 in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory CD19+ Leukemia and Lymphoma
Autologous T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) against leukemia antigens such as CD19 on B cells have shown promising results for the treatment of relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies. However, a subset of cancer patients especially heavily pretreated cancer patients could be unable to receive this highly active therapy because of failed expansion. Moreover, it is still a challenge to manufacture an effective therapeutic product for infant cancer patients due to their small blood volume. On the other hand, the inherent characters of autologous CAR-T cell therapy including personalized autologous T cell manufacturing and widely "distributed" approach result in the difficulty of industrialization of autologous CAR-T cell therapy. Universal CD19-specific CAR-T cell(UCART019),derived from one or more healthy unrelated donors but could avoid graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) and minimize their immunogenicity, is undoubtedly an alternative option to address above-mentioned issues. We have generated gene-disrupted allogeneic CD19-directed BBζ CAR-T cells (termed UCART019) by combining the lentiviral delivery of CAR and CRISPR RNA electroporation to disrupt endogenous TCR and B2M genes simultaneously and will test whether it can evade host-mediated immunity and deliver antileukemic effects without GVHD.

The main goal of the phase 1 portion of this phase 1/2 trial is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of several doses of UCART019 in patients with relapsed or refractory CD19+ leukemia and lymphoma, so as to establish the recommended dose and/or schedule of UCART019 for phase 2 portion. The recommended Phase 2 dose will be defined as the highest dose level of UCART019 that induced DLT in fewer than 33% of patients (i.e., one dose level below that which induced DLT in at least two of six patients). Phase 2 portion of the trial will not be initiated until the recommended Phase 2 dose is determined. In the phase 2 portion of this trial, we will mainly determine if UCART019 help the body's immune system eliminate malignant B-cells. Safety of UCART019 and impact of this treatment on survival will also be observed.
B Cell Leukemia|B Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: UCART019
Number of Participants with Severe/Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, 24 weeks|Highest dose of UCART019 that is estimated to result in defined DLT with the exception of allowable UCART019 infusion related 'expected' AEs, using CTCAE 4.0, in less than 1/3 patients, 8 weeks|Copy numbers of UCAR019 in PB, BM and lymph nodes, 24 weeks
Objective response rate of complete remission and partial remission.Descriptive statistics will be used, 24 weeks|Overall survival.Descriptive statistics will be used, 24 weeks|Progression free survival.Descriptive statistics will be used, 24 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To evaluate the feasibility and safety of UCART019 in patients with relapsed or refractory CD19+ leukemia and lymphoma.
2. To evaluate the duration of in vivo persistence of adoptively transferred T cells, and the phenotype of persisting T cells. Real Time polymerase chain receptor (RT-PCR) analysis of peripheral blood(PB), bone marrow(BM) and lymph node will be used to detect and quantify survival of UCART019 over time.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. For patients with detectable disease, measure anti-tumor response due to UCART019 cell infusions.
2. Determine if cellular or humoral host immunity develops against the murine anti-CD19, and assess correlation with loss of detectable UCART019 (loss of engraftment).

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of allogeneic CD19 CAR-T-cells followed by a phase II study.

The UCART019 will be administered by i.v. injection over 20-30 minutes as a using a "split dose" approach to dosing: 10% on day 0, 30% on day 1 and 60% on day 2.