A Study Comparing Sotorasib With Durvalumab in People With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
In this study, the researchers will look at whether having participants switch from durvalumab to sotorasib when they have detectable minimal residual disease (MRD) is an effective treatment approach for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (LA-NSCLC). The researchers will see whether this switch to sotorasib can control LANSCLC longer compared to the treatment approach of staying on durvalumab (and not switching to sotorasib).
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Sotorasib
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time from randomization until progression or death , or from the time of randomization until the last follow up imaging (if no progression and alive). Progression will be evaluated by RECIST 1.1 guidelines., up to 3 years
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), which we define as a hospitalization, life threatening condition, any death not clearly due to the underlying disease or extraneous causes, or therapy-related grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxicity. The study will continue if the definition of "acceptable safety" is met., 1 month after starting Sotorasib
In the first phase of the randomized trial, defined as the Pre-Monitoring Phase, patients with LANSCLC with a KRAS G12C mutation who are planned to undergo, are undergoing, or very recently completed definitive chemoradiation with the plan for durvalumab consolidation are enrolled. Chemoradiation treatment and all clinical assessments during the Pre-Monitoring Phase are per standard of care as per institutional standards.

Patients who (1) complete chemoradiation, (2) have detectable ctDNA post chemoradiation, (3) are without evidence of progressive disease on imaging, (4) and are planned to start durvalumab consolidation then continue into the Monitoring Phase. All other patients are no longer on trial and are taken off study. Patients in the Monitoring Phase will have ctDNA measured again early-on during durvalumab consolidation (i.e. cycle 3 of durvlalumab +/- 2 weeks) in conjunction with standard of care imaging. Patients with MRD will then continue to the Randomization Phase of trial.

In the Randomization Phase patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to continue standard of care durvalumab (group 1) vs. switch to sotorasib at 960 mg daily (group 2), with the primary endpoint of PFS. Patients switching to sotorasib will undergo a 28-day durvalumab washout and will receive sotorasib at 960 mg daily until progression. Washout will be confirmed by ensuring that cycle 1, day 1 of sotorasib is scheduled for at least 28 days after the most recent durvalumab dose.