Infliximab to Treat Crohn'S-like Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Chronic Granulomatous Disease
This study will determine if the drug infliximab is safe for treating inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in patients with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD). IBD is an inflammation or irritation of the gut that leads to symptoms such as diarrhea, bloating and stomach cramps. CGD is an inherited disease affecting white blood cells called neutrophils in which patients are susceptible to repeated bacterial and fungal infections. They also have a higher incidence of some autoimmune diseases, such as IBD. Infliximab is approved to treat Crohn's disease, an IBD similar to that seen in patients with CGD.

Patients 10 years of age and older with CGD and IBD may be eligible for this study. Candidates are screened with a medical history, physical examination, blood and urine tests, electrocardiogram (EKG), tuberculosis skin test (PPD skin testing), and stool test for the presence of infections. Additional tests may be done, including colonoscopy (procedure using a flexible tube through the rectum to examine the lining of the gut) and imaging studies such as an x-ray, chest CT scan (test using a special x-ray machine), MRI (test using a magnetic field and radio waves), and barium studies (study using a drinkable solution of barium to help enhance the x-ray pictures of the gut).

Participants are divided into patients with IBD symptoms (Group 1) and patients without IBD symptoms (Group 2) for the following procedures:

Group 1

Patients are evaluated every 6 months with a medical history and physical examination for signs and symptoms of IBD. Patients who are taking moderate to high doses of steroid medications have their medication slowly lowered (tapered) and are evaluated every 3 months for a total of 2 years. Patients in this group who start to develop IBD symptoms are moved to Group 2 for treatment with infliximab (see below).

Group 2

Patients in Group 2 receive infliximab infusions at 2-week intervals for three doses. The drug is given over a 2-hour period through a catheter placed in a vein. Patients are evaluated with a medical history, physical exam, and blood tests the day of each dose. One week after the last dose, they have another evaluation, including a colonoscopy. Patients who respond well to infliximab may continue to receive the drug every 2 months for a total of 1 year, with evaluations at every dosing visit. At the end of the first year of receiving infliximab, all patients have follow-up evaluations every 6 months for a total of 2 years.

Group 3

Subjects who volunteer to undergo colonoscopy and research biopsies that serve as controls for evaluation of the patient gut samples.
Chronic Granulomatous Disease|Crohn'S-like IBD|Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)
DRUG: Infliximab
Safety of Study Drug, Number of Infections from Baseline to 1 year, Baseline to 1 year|Efficacy of Treatment With Study Drug, Measured participant Crohn's disease Activity Index (CDAI) values. The CDAI is a tool comprised of clinical and laboratory factors such as stool frequency, consistency, abdominal pain, general well being, weight and blood profile as an objective measure of disease activity. A higher score corresponds to greater severity of inflammatory bowel disease; severe disease conventionally defined as \>450, a remission as \<150, and a response to treatment as a fall of CDAI of \>70 points. Infections and IBD are not expected in healthy control subjects. The greater the score, the more severe the disease, and a score of less than 5 represents clinical remission., Baseline, 1 year
Gut Immune Cell Types and Their Cytokine Profile, Gut Immune cell types and their cytokine profile, 1 year
Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) is an inherited immune disorder involving decreased phagocytic superoxide oxygen radical production, resulting in increased susceptibility to infections. Furthermore, there is a predominance of immune-related inflammatory problems in a subset of CGD patients, such as the inflammatory bowel disease (CGD-IBD). CGD-IBD is often complicated by obstruction, strictures, fissures, fistulae, and extra-intestinal problems. In fact, it is clinically and histologically indistinguishable from Crohn's Disease (CD), another inflammatory bowel disease that affects the general population. Crohn's disease (CD) is a prototypic T helper cell type 1 (Th1) immune disease. Since CGD-IBD bears such close resemblance to CD, it is possible that CGD-IBD is also immune-based. Furthermore, mice studies also support a primarily immune basis for CGD-IBD. However, currently there is little data on this Crohn's-like CGD-IBD in human patients. Treatment for the Crohn's-like CGD-IBD has been primarily oral or topical corticosteroids. Antibiotics have been ineffective and stool cultures typically do not identify clear pathogens. Many patients with the Crohn's-like CGD-IBD disease remain steroid-dependent, thus new therapeutic regimens are needed.

This is a Phase I/II study that will evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha Inhibitor (Infliximab or Adalimumab) in CGD patients with symptomatic Crohn's-like IBD. Infliximab and Adalimumab are standard-of-care treatments for moderate to severe CD, with extensive experience using these agents being well documented in terms of safety and efficacy. Preliminary reports from ongoing studies of CD at NIH are encouraging in inducing remission. We will also evaluate changes in immunophenotype and cytokine profiles of peripheral blood and colonic lamina propria lymphocytes following treatment. In addition, we will evaluate the immunophenotype and cytokine profile of blood and mucosal cells in CGD patients, with or without IBD, to determine the CGD-specific cytokine profile. Specific cytokine profiles have been observed in different genetic immunodeficiencies, despite similar IBD clinical manifestation.

Documentation of clinical status will be performed using the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI). Potential effects of genetic variation (including CGD mutation type) on the expression of IBD in patients with CGD, and their responses to treatment will also be assessed. The long-term goal of this study is to establish better or alternative treatment modalities with low risk profiles for CGD patients with Crohn's-like IBD.