Glutamine PET Imaging in LAM
In this study, subjects with spontaneous or tuberous sclerosis complex associated lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) who have not been started on therapy with mTOR inhibitors such as sirolimus or everolimus to undergo a PET/CT scan using an novel PET tracer that may better evaluate disease activity in LAM subjects both before and after the initiation of mTOR inhibitor therapy will be enrolled. The procedure for each scan will be similar, involving one administration of the novel tracer C11-glutamine followed by a whole body PET/CT scan.
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM)
DRUG: Glutamine
Evaluate the uptake of the PET tracer throughout the entire lung and any associated neoplasms (AML, Lymphangiomas) in patients with LAM, While these imaging techniques have not been used in normal populations, the pulmonary uptake of patients with known intraabdominal malignancy will serve as control for evaluation of any potential uptake. When comparing treatment effects, each patient can serve as their own control as they will have already had imaging completed prior to the initiation of therapy. VEGF-D levels will be collected from clinical laboratory assessment or will be collected at time of enrollment, and relative elevation of VEGF-D will be compared to the relative uptake of tracer within the pulmonary parenchyma of each individual patient., 8 weeks
Objectives This is a hypothesis-driven prospective pilot study of the targeted PET reagent 11C-Glutamine in LAM.

The objective is to test the hypothesis that 11C-Glutamine PET/CT will demonstrate uptake within the lungs and/or associated neoplasm of patients with LAM and that this effect will be modified by treatment with mTOR inhibitors.

Rationale Our rationale is that 11C-Glutamine PET/CT may provide an improved ability to diagnose LAM, as well as predict and monitor treatment response to mTOR inhibitors.

Aims Test the hypothesis that 11C-Gln PET imaging of the lungs in humans will reflect the known "glutamine addiction" seen in mechanistic preclinical studies of LAM. As a result, PET imaging will show increased tracer uptake in affected areas of diseased lungs and will show reduced uptake after initiating treatment with mTOR inhibitors.

Approach: We will evaluate 11C-Glutamine PET/CT uptake in patients with known LAM, and if possible, we will test subjects again after 8 weeks of mTOR inhibitor therapy (either sirolimus or everolimus).