International Study for Treatment of High Risk Childhood Relapsed ALL 2010
The main goal of this study is to improve the outcome of children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia with high risk first relapse by optimization of treatment strategies within a large international trial and the integration of new agents.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL)
DRUG: Bortezomib
Rate of Complete Remission, Rate of complete second remission (CR2) quantified by cytology after induction with standard chemotherapy + bortezomib (arm B) compared with standard chemotherapy (arm A)., Week 4
Event-free Survival, Improvement of three years event-free survival (EFS), Year 3|Overall Survival, Improvement of three years overall survival (OS), Year 3|Minimal Residual Disease Reduction (MRD), Improvement of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) reduction after induction with versus without bortezomib, Week 4|Minimal Residual Disease Load, Improvement of MRD load prior to stem cell transplantation (SCT)., Week 15|Minimal Residual Disease (MRD), Prognostic relevance of MRD pre stem cell transplantation (SCT). MRD will be quantified before stem cell transplantation with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and will be related to EFS after SCT. Multicolour flow cytometry will be used in parallel with PCR. Flow cytometry is used instead of PCR if PCR based MRD-quantification cannot be performed, because criteria for a reliable and reproducible sensitive quantification are not fulfilled., Week 15|Complete Remission/Minimal Residual Disease Rates During Consolidation, Improvement of CR2 and/or MRD rates during consolidation, Week 5, 8, 11, 15|Toxicity of induction classified with the COMMON TOXICITY CRITERIA (CTC), Toxicity of induction with versus without bortezomib. Toxicity of the central nervous system and peripheral neuropathy will be classified with the COMMON TOXICITY CRITERIA (CTC)., At induction up to week 5
Minimal Residual Disease in Isolated Extramedullary Relapse, The rate and extent of sub-microscopic bone marrow (BM) involvement in extramedullary leukemia will be investigated prospectively., Day 0; Week 5, 8, 11, 15|Extended Genetic Characterization, Extension of genetic characterization and correlation with clinical data, Day 0|In-vitro drug response profile, Generation of primografts from patient samples for bio-banking and drug testing by using immunodeficient mice. The outcome measure is the in-vitro drug response profile using the primograft of primary patient sample. The in-vitro drug response profile will be compared to the in-vivo drug response of a patient. In order to get an "in-vitro drug response profile" apoptosis/viability of the primary patient sample or patient-derived xenograft sample is measured using different concentrations of novel drugs normally after 48 hours of treatment. These drugs could be potentially given to a patient, when there will be no response to conventional protocol treatment. Apoptosis/viability is measured by live cell imaging microscopy or/and by flow cytometry. The report will include half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50), the concentration of a drug which kills half of the cell after a defined time (normally 48h) for a variety of potential drugs., Day 0
Though survival of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has considerably improved over the past few decades, relapsed ALL remains a leading cause of mortality in children with cancer. Risk has been defined by the International (I) Berlin, Frankfurt, Münster (BFM) Study Group (SG) based on duration of first remission, immunophenotype of malignant clone, and site of relapse. Patients classified as high risk (HR) by these criteria have poor response rates to standard induction therapy, high rates of subsequent relapse and require an allogeneic hematopoetic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) for consolidation of 2nd remission. Over the last decade members of the I-BFM-SG have investigated the use of different combinations of conventional cytotoxic agents. Even with allo-HSCT, none of these approaches have improved outcome above 40%. Therefore, for HR patients there is a need to investigate the curative potential of new agents combined with systemic therapy. The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib has shown synergistic activity with acceptable toxicity when combined with corticosteroids, anthracyclines and alkylating agents in adult patients with cancer as well as with dexamethasone, doxorubicin, vincristine and polyethylene glycol (PEG) asparaginase in children with refractory or relapsed ALL. In the I-BFM-SG International Study for Treatment of High Risk Childhood Relapsed ALL (IntReALL) HR 2010 study, the potential of Bortezomib combined with a modified ALL relapse protocol 3 (R3) backbone as induction regimen for HR patients to improve complete 2nd remission (CR2) rates will be investigated in a randomized phase II design. Induction is followed by conventional intensive consolidation. After termination of the trial patients may be subjected to an investigational window, before all of them receive allo-HSCT.