Improving Adherence to Recommended Surveillance in Breast Cancer Survivors
Evidence-based guidelines recommend cancer surveillance procedures for breast cancer survivors including physical examination, mammography, breast self-exam, and gynecologic follow-up. The early detection of recurrent and new cancers can best be achieved through the combined, on schedule use of these surveillance procedures. Yet, data suggest that up to 55% of breast cancer survivors do not undergo these procedures as recommended. This study tests a telephone-based psychosocial intervention aimed at improving adherence to recommended surveillance in breast cancer survivors. The psychosocial intervention for improving adherence is compared to treatment as usual.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Psychosocial Intervention
Surveillance adherence, Receipt of recommended mammograms and clinical breast exams (coded 0=no, 1=yes), 15 month follow-up
Gynecologic exam adherence, Receipt of recommended gynecologic exams (coded 0=no, 1=yes), 15 month follow-up|Breast self-exam adherence, Frequency of conducting breast self-exams assessed via patient report., 6 month follow-up
Perceived benefits of surveillance, Patient reported perceived benefits of breast cancer surveillance, 6 month follow-up|Perceived barriers to breast cancer surveillance, Patient reported perceived barriers to completing recommended breast cancer surveillance, 6 month follow-up
Evidence-based guidelines recommend cancer surveillance procedures for breast cancer survivors including physical examination, mammography, breast self-exam, and gynecologic follow-up. The early detection of recurrent and new cancers can best be achieved through the combined, on schedule use of these surveillance procedures. Yet, data suggest that up to 55% of breast cancer survivors do not undergo these procedures as recommended. This study tests a telephone-based psychosocial intervention aimed at improving adherence to recommended surveillance in breast cancer survivors. The psychosocial intervention for improving adherence is compared to treatment as usual.