Oral Immunonutrition Therapy to Reduce Acute Toxicity After Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy Pancreatic Cancer Patients
A prospective, single-arm clinical trial is conducted to investigate the role of oral immunonutrion in reducing acute toxicity after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy among pancreatic cancer patients.
Pancreatic Cancer|Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy|Immunonutrition
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Oral Immunonutrition
Incidence rate of grade 3 or higher acute toxicity related to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, Grading of acute toxicity would be assessed according to National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0., Baseline, week 17
Usual Body Weight Percentage(UBW%), The baseline weight would be considered as usual body weight. UBW%= current weight/usual weight ×100%, Baseline, Week 3,5,7,9,13,17|Nutritional Assessment, Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment（PG-SGA）, Baseline, Week 3,5,7,9,13,17|Nutritional Risk, Nutritional Risk Screening 2002 (NRS 2002), Baseline, Week 3,5,7,9,13,17|Quality of Life, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30), Baseline, Week 3,5,7,9,13,17|Inflammatory Indexes, The serum level of procalcitonin (PCT),C-reactive protein(CRP) , serum amyloid A(SAA)., Baseline; Week 7;|Immunological Indexes, The white blood cell (WBC) count and neutrophil (NE) count., Baseline; Week 7;|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) was defined as the percentage of CR+PR+SD among the patients who could be evaluated for efficacy., Baseline; Week 13,17;|Resectable Status Rate, Incidence rate of conversion from unresectable to resectable status after radiotherapy.

Resectable status was defined according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Guidelines Version 1 2012. Tumors considered resectable were defined by the following objective criteria: (1) no distant metastases, (2)venous involvement of the portal vein demonstrating tumor abutment with impingement and narrowing of the lumen, encasement of the superior mesenteric vein (SMV)/portal vein allowing for safe resection and reconstruction, (3) no extension to the celiac axis, (4) tumor abutment of the SMA not to exceed \>180° of the circumference of the vessel wall., Baseline; Week 13,17;|Radiotherapy Interruption (RTI), Radiotherapy interruption (RTI) often occurs because of severe acute treatment-related toxicity, disease progression, and patients' treatment compliance. RTI was defined as the difference between radiation treatment time and planned radiation time., Week 3,5,7,9;|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was calculated from the date of treatment to either the date of death or last follow-up., Week 17; Year 2;
Pancreatic cancer has a poor prognosis for its high malignancy. Radical surgical resection is an effective means for prolonging survival. However, only a few patients can be directly treated with surgical resection. Neoadjuvant therapy can reduce the tumor size, improve the relationship between the tumor and adjacent blood vessels，to gain surgical opportunities and prolonging patients' survival.

Nutritional treatment of cancer has been valued by more and more researchers. As an important branch of nutrition therapy, immunonutrition plays an important role in regulating the immune. Studies have shown that immunonutrition can reduce antitumor treatment related toxicity among patients with head and neck cancer, esophageal cancer. At present, most studies on immunonutrition therapy focus on perioperative patients, and there is no study on patients with pancreatic cancer undergoing radiotherapy.

This prospective, single-arm clinical trial aimed to explore the efficacy and safety of oral immunonutrition therapy in reducing acute toxicity after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy among pancreatic cancer patients. A total of 98 pancreatic cancer patients will be enrolled. All of the patients will receive oral immunonutrition therapy for 6 weeks from one week before radiotherapy. The total follow time is 4 months.