A Phase II/III Trial of Nivolumab, Ipilimumab, and GM-CSF in Patients With Advanced Melanoma
This phase II/III trial studies the side effects of nivolumab and ipilimumab when given together with or without sargramostim and to see how well they work in treating patients with stage III-IV melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) and that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab and nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Colony-stimulating factors, such as sargramostim, may increase the production of white blood cells. It is not yet known whether nivolumab and ipilimumab are more effective with or without sargramostim in treating patients with melanoma.
Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Elastography|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Sargramostim
Overall survival, Overall survival between the two arms will be compared using the stratified log-rank test. One-sided type I error rate of 0.2 will be used. Kaplan-Meier plot will be generated and two-sided p-values will be reported. This analysis will be summarized using the forest plots with hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals. Cox multivariate models will be developed for overall survival., Time from randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Progression free survival, Evaluated based on international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guideline (version 1.1). This analysis will be summarized using the forest plots with hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals. Cox multivariate models will be developed for progression free survival., Time from randomization to disease progression or death (whichever occurs first), assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of toxicities, Defined using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 criteria. Individual toxicity type adverse event and categorized adverse event data (by autoimmune disorders, endocrine, gastrointestinal, liver, nervous system, pancreas, psychiatric disorders, skin, thromboembolic disorders) will be summarized by grade and treatment arm. The percentages of patients experiencing the worst degree toxicities (highest grade event per adverse event type per patient) will be evaluated and the distribution of the worst degree toxicities will be compared among the treatment arms. The proportion of patients with worst degree toxicities with 3 or higher will be summarized and compared among the treatment arms., Up to 90 days after the last study drug administration|Immune response, Assessed using the utility of immune related response criteria. The immune related response criteria and the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors-based clinical response data will be compared between the two treatment arms, using the Fisher's exact test. Two-sided p-values will be reported. Furthermore immune related response criteria data will be associated with the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors-based clinical response. The Kappa statistics which measures the degree of agreement between the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors-based response and immune related response criteria will be estimated. McNemar's test will be used to evaluate the agreement between immune related response criteria and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors-based clinical response., Up to 5 years|Clinical response, Assessed using the utility of immune related response criteria. Standard response criteria (based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) will be applied to assess clinical response. The immune related response criteria and the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors-based clinical response data will be compared between the two treatment arms, using the Fisher's exact test. Two-sided p-values will be reported. Furthermore immune related response criteria data will be associated with the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors-based clinical response. The Kappa statistics which measures the degree of agreement between the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors-based response and immune related response criteria will be estimated. McNemar's test will be used to evaluate the agreement between immune related response criteria and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors-based clinical response., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the overall survival (OS) of nivolumab/ipilimumab/sargramostim (GM-CSF) versus nivolumab/ipilimumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) of patients treated with nivolumab/ipilimumab/GM-CSF versus nivolumab/ipilimumab.

II. To assess for differences in tolerability, specifically the rate of grade III or higher adverse events, between nivolumab/ipilimumab/GM-CSF versus nivolumab/ipilimumab.

III. To evaluate immune-related response rate (based on immune-related response criteria) and response rate (based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria) and to compare them.

EXPLORATORY TOBACCO USE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events \[both clinical and hematologic\] and dose modifications).

II. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and psychological symptoms.

III. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication utilization.

IV. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each age, and sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-14 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab and sargramostim as in induction therapy. Patients with partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or complete response (CR) at 24 weeks may continue maintenance therapy for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) scan, and blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may also undergo a multigated acquisition (MUGA) during screening, as well as an echocardiography (ECHO) throughout the trial as clinically indicated.

ARM B: INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab and ipilimumab as in Arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab as in induction therapy. Patients with PR, SD, or CR at 24 weeks may continue maintenance therapy for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo MRI, CT scan, and blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may also undergo a MUGA during screening, as well as an ECHO throughout the trial as clinically indicated.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.