Ipilimumab in Combination With Androgen Suppression Therapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well ipilimumab works when given together with androgen suppression therapy in treating patients with hormone-resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumors to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Androgen can cause the growth of prostate cancer. Androgen deprivation therapy may stop the adrenal glands from making androgen. Giving ipilimumab together with androgen suppression therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Hormone-resistant Prostate Cancer|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: ipilimumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Percentage of Patients Who Achieve an Undetectable PSA (=< 0.2 ng/ml), Undetectable PSA (prostate-specific antigen) defined as PSA ≤ 0.2 ng/mg after initiation of ipilimumab therapy.

Provided with the exact 95% confidence interval. PSA response as recommended by the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group (PCWG2) definitions.

Percentage can take on values between 0% and 100%., Up to 5 years
Time to PSA Progression, PSA (prostate-specific antigen) progression defined as a PSA increase of \>= 25% and at least 2 ng/mL from baseline or nadir PSA achieved, confirmed by a second measurement at least three weeks later

Time to PSA progression is calculated as the time from Day 1 of combination therapy to first PSA measurement of \>= 25% increase and at least 2 ng/mL above the nadir and confirmed by a second measurement at least three weeks later. For subjects without a PSA decline from baseline, time to PSA progression is calculated as the time from Day 1 of combination therapy to first PSA measurement of \>= 25% increase and at least 2 ng/mL increase from baseline after 12 weeks and confirmed by a second measurement at least three weeks later.

Outcome is reported as median time to event determined by the Kaplan Meier method with 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|Time to Progression by Any Measure, Time to progression is calculated from Day 1 of combination therapy to first evidence of progression by any measure (PSA, Measurable Disease or Clinical Progression).

Outcome is reported as median time to event determined by the Kaplan Meier method with 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|Time to Death From Any Cause, Time to death is calculated from Day 1 of combination therapy to death from any cause.

Outcome is reported as median time to event determined by the Kaplan Meier method with 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|Number of Patients With IRAEs, Immune-Related Adverse Events (IRAEs) are defined as an adverse event (AE) of unknown etiology associated with drug exposure and consistent with an immune phenomenon

Tabulated for each treatment group and summarized according to major organ categories of the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 6 months|Correlation Between IRAE and PSA Progression., Immune related adverse event (IRAE) is defined as any adverse event associated with drug exposure and consistent with an immune-mediated event. PSA (prostate-specific antigen) Progression is defined as a PSA increase of \>= 25% and at least 2 ng/mL from Baseline, or Nadir PSA Achieved, confirmed by a second measurement at least three weeks later.

The correlation between IRAEs and clinical outcomes will be evaluated using logistic regression for binary endpoints and Cox regression for the time to event outcomes. Due to sample size, regression is not feasible. Instead, correlation will be assessed by Fishers Exact test of association., Up to 5 years|Correlation of IRAEs With Ratio of T Regulatory Cells to T Effector Cells, Immune related adverse event (IRAE) is defined as any adverse event associated with drug exposure and consistent with an immune-mediated event.

Raw T cells data was collected, but has not been analyzed by the lab and will not be done due to constraints.

No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to day 1 of course 4|Correlation Between IRAEs and Immune Response, Immune related adverse event (IRAE) is defined as any adverse event associated with drug exposure and consistent with an immune-mediated event.

Outcome not evaluated due to technical challenges collecting the data, and lack of budget and personnel to complete the analysis.

No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to day 1 of course 4|Correlation Between IRAE and Radiographic Progression., Immune related adverse event (IRAE) is defined as any adverse event associated with drug exposure and consistent with an immune-mediated event. Radiographic progression is progression determined by scan.

The correlation between IRAEs and clinical outcomes will be evaluated using logistic regression for binary endpoints and Cox regression for the time to event outcomes. Due to sample size, regression is not feasible. Instead, correlation will be assessed by Fishers Exact test of association., Up to 5 years|Correlation Between IRAE and Any Progression., Immune related adverse event (IRAE) is defined as any adverse event associated with drug exposure and consistent with an immune-mediated event.

The correlation between IRAEs and clinical outcomes will be evaluated using logistic regression for binary endpoints and Cox regression for the time to event outcomes. Due to sample size, regression is not feasible. Instead, correlation will be assessed by Fishers Exact test of association., Up to 5 years|Correlation Between IRAE and Overall Survival., Immune related adverse event (IRAE) is defined as any adverse event associated with drug exposure and consistent with an immune-mediated event.

The correlation between IRAEs and clinical outcomes will be evaluated using logistic regression for binary endpoints and Cox regression for the time to event outcomes. Due to sample size, regression is not feasible. Instead, correlation will be assessed by Fishers Exact test of association., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Proportion of patients who achieve an undetectable prostate-specific antigen (PSA) (=\< 0.2 ng/ml) after initiation of ipilimumab therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Time to PSA progression. II. Time to progression by any measure. III. Maximum percentage of PSA reduction in each patient. IV. Number of patients with immune related adverse events (IRAEs) and correlation of these with complete PSA response, time to progression, and T cell measurements.

V. Measures of T cell response to therapy with flow cytometry. VI. Response in measurable disease by modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

VII. Time to death from any cause. VIII. To examine correlative biomarkers and their relationship to clinical outcomes. Potential biomarkers include, but are not limited to C-reactive protein (CRP), insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 and -2, or follicle stimulating hormone (FSH).

XV. Bank samples for future molecular correlative studies, biomarker, or other studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients without progression then receive maintenance ipilimumab IV once every 3 months for 4 additional doses.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5 years.