Effectiveness of a Cervical Cancer Stigma Reduction Intervention Program on Cancer Stigma Score and Cervical Cancer Screening Uptake in Nepal
It is a cluster randomized control trial to assess the effectiveness of the cervical cancer stigma reduction intervention on cancer stigma score and cervical cancer screening uptake in Nepal
Cervical Cancer|Stigma|Screening
BEHAVIORAL: "Cervical Cancer Stigma Reduction Intervention"
Mean stigma score, Change in mean stigma score using Cancer Stigma Scale at baseline and follow up, Measured at baseline and endline (after 2 months gap from baseline)
Cervical cancer screening uptake, Number of women attending cervical cancer screening program in intervention and control groups, Measured within a month after endline
Despite the presence of ample evidence, that stigma is one of the major reasons for low screening coverage, Nepal does not have a single stigma reduction intervention targeted among women to increase cervical cancer screening coverage. Therefore, we aim to assess the effectiveness of a stigma reduction education program on stigma score and cervical cancer screening uptake in Nepal. We will conduct a two-arm open-label cluster-interventional study in Budanilkhantha Municipality. A computer-based program will randomly allocate the 12 wards of Budanilkhantha Municipality with an allocation ratio 1:1; 6 wards in intervention group and 6 wards in control group. We will conduct a "stigma reduction education program" in the intervention group. After that we will follow up the participants for2 months to see the effectiveness of a stigma reduction education program on stigma score and cervical cancer screening uptake in Nepal. We will analyze data using STATA 14. We will use independent tests to find the mean difference between cervical cancer screening uptake and cervical cancer stigma score. The difference in mean among the two groups will actually be the difference due to intervention given. Findings from this study will help managers and stakeholders to formulate and improve strategies on screening programs and develop programs to reduce stigma on cervical cancer among women in Nepal.