Mobile Application Using the PRO-CTCAE to Improve Patients' Participation in Symptom Management During Treatment.
This study aims to evaluate the effect of a mobile application system using the Patient Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) to improve patients' participation in symptom management during cancer treatment. Our hypothesis is that patients who use a mobile application using the PRO-CTCAE will more likely to recognize symptoms due to cancer treatment and report them better to their clinicians than patients who do not use the mobile application.
Neoplasms
OTHER: ePRO-CTCAE application
Patients' participation in symptom management, Patients' participation in reporting and managing symptoms due to cancer treatment will be measured using 7 questions developed by study team. Questions will be asked using 4 Likert scale. Minimum value is 0 and maximum value will be 21. Higher score means better outcome., 8 weeks after the intervention
European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C-30, State of well-being evaluated by an individual, including both physical, mental, social, and spiritual areas. This will be measured using relevant items of European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30. Scores will be calculated by manual (0-100) and higher score means better quality of life., 8 weeks after the intervention|Unexpected visits, number of unexpected hospital visits (emergency room visits, unplanned outpatient visits, or unplanned hospitalization) due to symptoms or adverse events due to cancer treatment, 8 weeks after the intervention
This is a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effect of a mobile application system using the Patient Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) to improve patients' participation in symptom management during cancer treatment. Breast, lung, head and neck, esophagus, and gynecologic cancer patients who will begin new lines of chemotherapy or radiation therapy will be randomly assigned into the intervention and control groups (2:1 ratio). The intervention group will have the mobile application installed on their smart phones which they could record symptoms and adverse events due to cancer treatments using the pre-specified PRO-CTCAE questions for different types of cancer. The control group will have usual care. Primary endpoint is patients' participation/engagement of reporting symptoms and it will be evaluated at 8 weeks after the intervention using a questionnaire developed by the research team. Secondary end points are unexpected hospital visits during treatment during 8 weeks after the beginning of the treatment and quality of life at 8 weeks after the intervention.