Lenalidomide After Donor Bone Marrow Transplant in Treating Patients With High-Risk Hematologic Cancers
This phase I clinical trial is studying the side effects and the best dose of lenalidomide after donor bone marrow transplant in treating patients with high-risk hematologic cancer. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13.1q22); CBFB-MYH11|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13.1;q22); CBFB-MYH11|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21); (q22; q22.1); RUNX1-RUNX1T1|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(9;11)(p22.3;q23.3); MLLT3-KMT2A|Adult Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia With PML-RARA|Adult Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Adult Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-Cell Lymphoma|Alkylating Agent-Related Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma|Intraocular Lymphoma|Lymphomatous Involvement of Non-Cutaneous Extranodal Site|Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Post-Transplant Lymphoproliferative Disorder|Primary Cutaneous B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia|Richter Syndrome|Small Intestinal Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|T-Cell Large Granular Lymphocyte Leukemia|Testicular Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
MTD of lenalidomide after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.0, Up to day 28
Overall response in patients treated with lenalidomide according to the International Working Group (IWG) criteria, Estimated using exact binomial methods along with its confidence interval. The non-parametric Wilcoxon signed-rank procedure will be used to compare to baseline values for correlative studies., Up to day 365
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximal-tolerable dose (MTD) of lenalidomide after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AHSCT) in patients with advanced acute myeloid leukemia (AML), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

II. Define the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of lenalidomide in regard to organ specificity, time course, predictability, and reversibility following AHSCT in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the anti-tumor response in patients treated with lenalidomide after AHSCT when compared with historical controls.

II. Evaluate the plasma and cellular pharmacokinetics of lenalidomide in patients enrolled on this study and interactions with supportive agents such as calcineurin inhibitors.

III. Evaluate the frequency of acute and chronic graft-vs-host disease and graft failure in patients enrolled on this study.

IV. Prospectively assess the feasibility of administering an oral agent post-transplant as measured by efficiency of patients being registered to therapy early and also meeting eligibility criteria for lenalidomide treatment.

V. Perform pharmacodynamic studies following lenalidomide treatment including development of B, T, and myeloid cell chimerism; assessment of immune activation; cytokines; tumor cell expression of co-stimulatory molecules; development of anti-tumor antibodies and immunoglobulin recovery; and re-expression of microRNAs that may mediate lenalidomide anti-tumor effect.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according to diagnosis (high-risk acute myeloid leukemia vs non-Hodgkin lymphoma vs high-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia, small lymphocytic lymphoma, or B-prolymphocytic leukemia).

Patients receive oral lenalidomide once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood and bone marrow biopsies and aspirate collection at baseline and periodically during study for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies. Buccal swab samples are also collected at baseline and analyzed for genetic polymorphisms.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for up to 1 year.