Clinical Study of the Mirabilis High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound System for Non-Invasive Treatment of Uterine Fibroids
The Mirabilis High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) Treatment System delivers therapeutic focused ultrasound energy to the uterus under integrated ultrasound imaging guidance to offer non-invasive treatment for uterine fibroids. The purpose of this clinical study is to assess the initial safety and performance of the Mirabilis HIFU Treatment System for transabdominal treatment of uterine fibroids in eligible women who are scheduled to undergo hysterectomy following treatment with the device or who are seeking relief from fibroid-related symptoms.
Uterine Fibroids (Leiomyomas)
DEVICE: Mirabilis High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound Treatment System
Evaluation of All Adverse Events Encountered, Safety of the treatment was determined by evaluating the incidence of Adverse Events and Adverse Device Effects. Adverse Device Effects are Adverse Events that are related to treatment with the device. Relatedness of an Adverse Event to the treatment was determined on a case-by-case basis by the investigator. The average number of Serious Adverse Device Effects per patient and the average number of Non-Serious Adverse Device Effects per patient are reported to provide numeric outcomes of this evaluation., Adverse Events were monitored until the patient's exit from the study (up to 6 months post-treatment).
HIFU-related Non-Perfused Volume (NPV), Efficacy of the treatment was quantified by measuring the HIFU-related Non-Perfused Volume (NPV) of tissue in each patient using either post-treatment contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or pathology assessment following hysterectomy. The NPV is used to measure the amount of tissue that was treated during the procedure., The NPV was measured between 0 and 7 days post-treatment.
The Mirabilis High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) Treatment System delivers therapeutic focused ultrasound energy to the uterus under integrated ultrasound imaging guidance to offer non-invasive treatment for uterine fibroids. The purpose of this clinical study is to assess the initial safety and performance of the Mirabilis HIFU Treatment System for transabdominal treatment of uterine fibroids in eligible women who are scheduled to undergo hysterectomy following treatment with the device or who are seeking relief from fibroid-related symptoms.