Aromatherapy and Essential Oils in Improving Insomnia and Other Symptoms in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Leukemia Undergoing Chemotherapy
This randomized clinical trial studies aromatherapy and essential oils in improving insomnia and other symptoms in patients with newly diagnosed acute leukemia. Aromatherapy and essential oils may help improve insomnia and other complications caused by chemotherapy.
Acute Leukemia|Anorexia|Anxiety|Depression|Dyspnea|Insomnia|Nausea|Pain
PROCEDURE: Aromatherapy and Essential Oils|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Improvement of Insomnia graded by Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Statistical analysis will be performed using a mixed effects linear regression model. This model is designed to test the effects of interest (i.e., the effect of aromatherapy relative to baseline and to placebo) while accounting for the within-subject correlation arising from the repeated measures design. A 20% positive change in PSQI score will be seen as significant., 1 month
Improvement of common symptoms including pain, nausea, lack of appetite, shortness of breath, depression, anxiety, and wellbeing graded by Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale - revised (ESASr), Baseline to 2 weeks|Rate of positive experience with aromatherapy, Up to 2 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Does the addition of aromatherapy by diffusion of essential oils improve insomnia in newly diagnosed, hospitalized leukemia patients?

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Does the addition of aromatherapy by diffusion of essential oils improve other common symptoms in newly diagnosed, hospitalized leukemia patients, including pain, nausea, lack of appetite, shortness of breath, depression, anxiety and wellbeing? II. Do newly diagnosed, hospitalized leukemia patients find the use of aromatherapy for symptom management a positive experience?

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients select between 3 scented essential oils: peppermint, lavender, or chamomile which is diffused in the hospital room from approximately 9 PM in the evening until morning during week 1 and placebo intervention using rose water during week 2.

GROUP II: Patients undergo placebo intervention using rose water during week 1 and aromatherapy and essential oils as in Group I during week 2.