A Study to Evaluate the Safety and Clinical Efficacy of STR-P004
This study is a single-arm, single-center, open-label, multiple-dose, dose-escalation early clinical study aimed at evaluating the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic profile of STR-P004 in subjects with relapsed/refractory CD19-positive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and preliminarily observing its antitumor activity.
Non Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: STR-P004
In accordance with the (US) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and the ASTCT consensus. The incidence of DLT events in this trial., DLTs in this trial are defined as dose-escalation phase, toxic reactions related to the study drug (including definitely related, probably related, and possibly related) that occur from the time of first receipt of STR-P004 IV infusion to the end of the first treatment cycle (i.e., D1\~ D28), and primarily include hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities.

\>

Hematologic DLT:

- Grade 4 neutropenia does not return to ≤ grade 2 or baseline status within 28 days of G-CSF (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor) treatment and excludes involvement/infiltration due to the disease itself;

- Grade 4 thrombocytopenia that does not return to grade ≤2 or baseline status within 28 days of rhTPO/TPO-RA (recombinant human thrombopoietin and thro, 24 months
This study employs a dose-escalation approach combining "accelerated titration" and "traditional 3+3". Within the dose range of xxmg/kg to xxxmg/kg, five dose-escalation cohorts are planned. The escalation follows a modified Fibonacci sequence (i.e., 2, 1.67, 1.5, 1.4, 1.33, 1.33 ...... 1.33-fold increments). A faster escalation rate is used in the early phase to minimize patient exposure to ineffective doses and rapidly reach the predicted effective dose range, after which the escalation rate is reduced to ensure safety and explore efficacy.

This study plans to enroll adult patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Enrolled patients will receive STR-P004 at the corresponding dose via intravenous infusion. Patients will receive weekly treatment doses starting from D1 for 4 consecutive weeks (D1, D8, D15, D22), with each 4-week period constituting a treatment cycle. Based on preliminary treatment results from Cycle 1, the investigator will decide whether to proceed with subsequent cycles, which will follow the same regimen as Cycle 1. The DLT observation period is 28 days (i.e., D1 to D28). If no DLT occurs or if no Grade ≥2 AE judged by the investigator to be related to the study drug and medically significant is observed, patients will be enrolled into the next dose group after the 28-day DLT observation period for the previous dose group is ended. During the accelerated titration phase, if a DLT or any Grade ≥2 AE judged by the investigator to be related to the study drug and medically significant occurs within 28 days, enrollment will switch to the "3+3" pattern.