Intra-Osseous Co-Transplant of UCB and hMSC
This clinical trial studies intra-osseous donor umbilical cord blood and mesenchymal stromal cell co-transplant in treating patients with hematologic malignancies. Giving low doses of chemotherapy and total-body irradiation before a co-transplant of donor umbilical cord blood and mesenchymal stromal cells into the bone (intra-osseous) helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. The donated stem cells may replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining cancer cells (graft-versus-tumor effect). Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can also make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil at the time of transplant may stop this from happening.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myelogenous Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myelofibrosis|Relapsed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma|Relapsed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Lymphoid Malignancies|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|RADIATION: total-body irradiation|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|PROCEDURE: umbilical cord blood transplantation|PROCEDURE: mesenchymal stem cell transplantation
Number of patients with BM cellularity failure: Measure of feasibility, Primary graft failure is defined by \<10% BM cellularity in bone marrow biopsies. Failure in more than 30% of patients will indicate unfeasibility of treatment, 42 days after transplant|Number of patients with ANC failure without evidence of disease: Measure of feasibility, Primary graft failure is defined by \<500 ANC cell/ul in bone marrow biopsies. Failure in more than 30% of patients will indicate unfeasibility of treatment, 42 days after transplant|Number of patients with hematopoietic recovery without evidence of donor umbilical cord blood engraftment: Measure of feasibility, Primary graft failure is defined by hematopoietic recovery with \<10% donor cell chimerism. Failure in more than 30% of patients will indicate unfeasibility of treatment, 42 days after transplant|Number of patients with hematopoietic recovery without evidence of donor umbilical cord blood engraftment: Measure of feasibility, Primary graft failure is defined by hematopoietic recovery with \<40% donor cell chimerism. Failure in more than 30% of patients will indicate unfeasibility of treatment, 100 days after transplant
Incidence of toxicities assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Descriptive statistics will be used., Up to 12 months|Rate of neutrophil recovery, The rate of neutrophil recovery and median time of recovery will be estimated using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 12 months|Rate of platelet recovery, The rate of platelet recovery and median time of recovery will be estimated using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 12 months|Median time of neutrophil recovery, The median time of neutrophil recovery will be estimated using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 12 months|Median time of platelet recovery, The median time of platelet recovery will be estimated using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the feasibility of combining intra-osseous umbilical cord blood (UCB) hematopoietic stem cells and human mesenchymal stromal cells (hMSC) following reduced intensity conditioning (RIC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the time to engraftment of intra-osseous (IO) UCB transplant combined with hMSC following RIC.

II. To estimate the safety profile of IO UBC transplant combined with hMSC.

OUTLINE:

REDUCED INTENSITY CONDITIONING: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on day -6 and fludarabine phosphate IV on days -6 to -2 and undergo total body irradiation (TBI) on day -1.

GRAFT-VERSUS-HOST DISEASE (GVHD) PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) or IV over 2 hours every 12 hours on beginning on days -5 to 100 with taper beginning on day 100 and mycophenolate mofetil IV or PO twice daily (BID) on days -5 to 100.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo intra-osseous UCB and hMSC co-transplant on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 28 and 100, and then at 6, 9, and 12 months.