Androgen Deprivation Therapy in Advanced Salivary Gland Cancer
Salivary Gland (SG) Cancers are a rare and heterogeneous group of tumors, usually approached by multidisciplinary teams in high specialized centers. Until today no standard of care exists to treat these cancers. The identification of a target, the androgen receptor, in SG tumors has allowed for new treatment strategies options for this rare group of diseases. As a matter of fact, strong positivity for androgen expression has been found in salivary duct carcinoma and adenocarcinomas. The purpose of this study is therefore to evaluate the efficacy and safety of chemotherapy versus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) in patients with recurrent and/or metastatic AR expressing SGCs.

The study will include two cohorts of patients: Cohort A, which comprises chemo-naïve patients, and Cohort B, which comprises pretreated patients.
Salivary Gland Cancer
DRUG: bicalutamide + triptorelin|DRUG: Cisplatin + Doxorubicin|DRUG: Carboplatin + Paclitaxel
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is a primary outcome for cohort A, 37 months after First Patient In|Response rate (RR), RR is a primary outcome for cohort B, 37 months after First Patient In
Response Rate (RR), RR is a secondary outcome for cohort A, 37 months after First Patient In|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is a secondary outcome for cohort B, 37 months after First Patient In
Overall Survival (OS), 37 months after First Patient In|Adverse Events according to CTCAE v4.0, adverse events will be recorded using International Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0, the investigator will assess whether those events are drug related (reasonable possibility, no reasonable possibility) and this assessment will be recorded in the database for all adverse events, 37 months after First Patient In
Patients in Cohort A will be randomized 1:1 at the study entry to receive ADT (triptorelin + bicalutamide 50 mg) or standard chemotherapy. Patients of Cohort A randomized to the control arm (chemotherapy arm) will be given the option to enter Cohort B at the time of disease progression. As long as Cohort A is open to recruitment, patients who will be treated by chemotherapy will be simultaneously enrolled in Cohort B. Accrual in Cohort B will be stopped when recruitment of 76 eligible patients in Cohort A is reached.