MicroRNA Profiles in Triple Negative Breast Cancer
Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive disease with higher proportion of Blacks affected and in younger age groups. There is no targeted therapy unlike other types of breast cancer such as hormone positive and Human Epidermal Growth factor 2 (HER2) positive subtypes. Chemotherapy is therefore the main choice of systemic treatment with rapid development of resistance in most cases. At present, there is no blood test to monitor treatment response and disease relapse. This one-stage phase II study with a single arm design will determine the response rate of standard chemotherapy using Epirubicin (60mg/m2), Cyclophosphamide (600mg/m2) , Paclitaxel (120mg/m2) and Carboplatin (6AUC) in TNBC patients. We will measure the blood level of microRNA molecules and circulating tumor DNA during and after treatment to test if changes can be used to indicate drug failure in these patients. Disease status and tumor response will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines while toxicity will be assessed using CTCAE v5). The trial will be conducted as per the International Council on Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP) Guidelines E6 (R1) and other applicable guidelines
Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
Number of participants achieving pathological complete response (pCR) at surgery following neoadjuvant treatment with epirubicin + cyclophosphamide every three weeks for four cycles followed by paclitaxel + carboplatin every three weeks for four cycles, Percentage of participants achieving pathological complete response (pCR) at surgery, 4 - 6 months from commencement of chemotherapy. (Surgery will be performed within 4-6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Percentage of participants experiencing grades 3 and 4 hematological, gastro-intestinal, neurological and cardiovascular toxicities., From the date of commencement of chemotherapy till date of first documentation of adverse event up to 60 months or withdrawal or death from any cause or which ever occurs first.
Number of Participants without disease for 2 , 5 and 10 years respectively, Invasive Disease Free Survival (iDFS ), From date of first dose of study drug treatment up to a maximum of 120 months years.|Change in quality of life (QoL) score of patients from baseline using the EORTC quality of life questionnaire during chemotherapy and at study completion, The various domains of QoL over time and the changes from baseline using the validated European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)) QoL instrument (global and breast module)., From date of commencement of study medications up to 60 months
The serum levels of circulating microRNAs during chemotherapy in TNBC. To explore mechanisms of resistance to chemotherapy in Nigerian women with TNBC, The fold change in serum levels of miRNA during chemotherapy will be determine in TNBC patients before and during each course of chemotherapy., From date of commencement of chemotherapy up to 24 weeks
Triple negative subtype of breast cancer (TNBC), accounts for about 55% of all breast cancer among indigenous blacks, such as Nigerians, and younger women are more susceptible Patients with TNBC generally experience a more aggressive clinical course with faster disease progression and poorer overall survival. There is no targeted treatment available beyond conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy . Unfortunately, standard chemotherapy is only effective in about 40% of patients with pathological complete response (pCR) achieved only in 20%-30% . Local relapse occurs early. Therefore, chemo-resistance is the main cause of chemotherapeutic failure and leads to suboptimal response rates . There are no biomarkers of response for close monitoring of TNBC patients to identify chemotherapy failure early. This one-stage phase II study with a single arm is designed to assess the response rate and toxicity of Epirubicin-Cyclophosphamide with Paclitaxel-Carboplatin (ECPC) and examine the potential of using circulating microRNa and circulating tumor cells as a surrogate marker of chemotherapy resistance in Nigerian women with triple negative breast cancer. A total of 42 patients will be enrolled into the trial. Each participant will receive Epirubicin (60mg/m2), Cyclophosphamide (600mg/m2) , Paclitaxel (120mg/m2) and Carboplatin (6AUC) . Blood microRNA and circulating tumor DNA will be determined before and after therapy. Tumor response will be measured by breast ultrasound and described using RECIST criteria while toxicity will be graded using CTCAE criteria. Quality of life (QoL) of participants while on chemotherapy will also be assessed using EORTC quality of life questionnaire - (General and Breast cancer specific).