Research on Laparoscopic Fertility-Sparing Surgery in Early-Stage Cervical Cancer
Purpose: To evaluate the oncological and obstetrical outcomes of women with early-stage cervical cancer who underwent laparoscopic-assisted vaginal radical trachelectomy (LAVRT). All women with early-stage cervical cancer who planned to undergo fertility-preserved radical trachelectomy. The obstetric outcome evaluation was restricted to women with ≥12 months of follow-up and an active desire to conceive. The oncological outcome was evaluated in all patients.

Statistical methods: Statistical analyses were performed using IBM SPSS Statistics, version 26. The t-test is used for analyzing the continuous variables and the chi-squared test for categorical variables.
Cervical Cancer
PROCEDURE: Received laparoscopic-assisted vaginal radical trachelectomy
Progression-Free Survival, the date of the treatment to the date of disease progression or death from any cause in the absence of progression, 5-10 years|Pregnancy rate after surgery, Postoperative patients who have successfully conceived, 5 years|Recurrence rate, The ratio of recurrent patients to the total enrolled patients, 20years
Average operation time, The length of the surgery, Intraoperative|bleeding volume, the amount of blood loss in the patient, Intraoperative
This retrospective cohort study reported the reproductive intentions and outcomes of cervical cancer patients who underwent laparoscopic-assisted vaginal radical trachelectomy (LAVRT) .The LAVRT procedure began with laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy, and all lymph nodes were removed for frozen pathological analysis. The laparoscopic-assisted vaginal radical trachelectomy procedure was continued only if the nodes were negative. The pararectal pouch was revealed, and the uterine arteries were divided from their origin to the internal iliac artery. The ureters were freed from the posterior leaf of the broad ligament down to the level where they entered the ureteral tunnel and then displaced laterally. The uterosacral ligaments, cardinal ligaments, and parametrial portions were then divided and dissected. The section of the procedure was performed laparoscopically. The vaginal epithelium was circumferentially incised approximately 3 cm distal to the endocervix. Frozen section analysis confirmed no cancer involvement at the endocervical or vaginal margin. The vaginal mucosa was sutured to the cervical stump to form a "new cervical os".

Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy is indicated when women have at least one of 3 intermediate risk factors: stromal invasion of more than half of the cervix, lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI), or a tumor diameter of 4 cm or greater. Platinum-based chemotherapy (combination of paclitaxel and cisplatin or carboplatin for 3 courses) was used for these women.

Women attended follow-up visits every 3 months for the first 2 years, every 6 months for the next 3 years, and annually every year thereafter. At each follow-up visit, a physical and gynecological examination and a conventional Pap smear combined with an HPV test were performed. Abdominal (including both kidneys) and pelvic ultrasound (US) and serum tumor marker (SCC antigen or CA125 for adenocarcinoma) data were also included.

When tumor recurrence was suspected based on clinical findings or imaging studies, a positron emission tomography (PET)-CT scan was performed to investigate the extent of disease. Recurrence was confirmed by a lesion on biopsy or a positive PET-CT scan. The follow-up duration was measured from the day of the operation to the day of the last follow-up, death or loss to follow-up.