Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Measuring the Effect of Cabozantinib in Patients With Castrate Resistant Prostate Cancer
This study is being done to help researchers understand more about prostate cancer that has spread to the bones by using the newest magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques and to better understand the effect of an experimental drug called XL184 (or cabozantinib) on bone disease. The other purposes of the study are to better understand the effect of XL184 on prostate cancer progression, bone pain, and on any cancer cells that patients may have circulating within the blood (called circulating tumor cells)
Bone Metastases|Castrate-resistant Prostate Cancer|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: cabozantinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: magnetic resonance imaging
Change in the Functional MRI Metrics Ktrans Between 2 Weeks and Baseline, Ktrans is a measurement calculating the volume transfer constant of the contrast reagent and essentially is a measurement of vascular perfusion.

To determine the effect of XL184 on the functional MRI metrics Ktrans, Ktrans parameters were measured at baseline, two week time-point, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks for disease monitoring. Change between baseline and 2 weeks reported., baseline, 2 weeks
Association of Progression Free Survival (PFS) With Ktrans and ADC, Time to progression or progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first.

The approximate survival after standard therapies in this setting is bleak and in the order of months.

Too few events for a meaningful statistical analysis; no significant results were obtained in Cox regression analyses.

Therefore, we calculated the median PFS time and its 95% confidence interval., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Changes in Bone Scan Response, Bone Scan Response at weeks 2, 12, and 24 were collected. Change between baseline and 2 weeks are reported Bone Scan Response were measured as increase, decrease, or stable of bone lesions and scored as 1, -1, or 0, respectively, where higher values represent a worse outcome., baseline, 2 weeks|Correlation of Percent Change in the Functional MRI Metrics to RECIST Tumor Measurements, The protocol proposed to collect RECIST tumor measurements at weeks 0, 12, and 24.

However, the data were not collected, baseline, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks|Change of PSA Between 12 Weeks and Baseline, PSA at weeks 0, 12, and 24 were collected. Change between baseline and 12 weeks are reported, baseline, 12 weeks|Correlation of Percent Change in the Functional MRI Metrics With CTC, The protocol proposed to collect CTC measurements at weeks 0, 12, and 24. However, the data were not collected, baseline, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks|Change in Pain Scale Between 12 Weeks and Baseline, Pain scores are measured at baseline and weeks 12, and 24. Change between baseline and 12 weeks are reported .

In the pain score ranged from 0 to 10. 10 denotes most pain., baseline,12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine effect of XL184 on the functional MRI metrics Ktrans and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) within castrate resistant prostate cancer bone metastases.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To quantify progression free survival in men with castrate resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) treated with XL184 according to Prostate Cancer Working Group criteria.

II. To correlate and changes in MRI based functional metrics with bone scan, prostate specific antigen (PSA), Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) response criteria, circulating tumor cells (CTC) number and with changes in pain.

III. To explore c-MET, phospho-c-MET staining on circulating tumor cells as a predictive biomarker for response and duration of response to XL-184.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.