Behavioral Dietary Intervention for the Improvement of Bladder Cancer Survivorship
This phase I trial investigates how well a healthy eating program works in improving outcomes in patients with bladder cancer. The behavioral dietary program consists of educational materials, live phone calls, and interactive voice response phone messages. Participating in the healthy eating program may improve eating habits and/or reduce the risk of bladder cancer from coming back.
Stage 0a Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage 0is Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Bladder Cancer AJCC v8
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Dietary Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Dietary Intervention|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Urinary Isothiocyanates Levels, Will be measured using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-based cyclocondensation assay. The outcome is defined as change from baseline in measured levels. Between-group difference of change from baseline was analyzed using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests., 6 months|Cruciferae Intake Change, Will be assessed using a questionnaire adapted from Thomson et al. to capture both intake and cooking styles. The outcome is defined as change from baseline in measured levels. Between-group difference of change from baseline was analyzed using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests., 6 months
Gene Expression, Will be evaluated via ribonucleic acid-sequencing (RNA-seq) as a surrogate for intermediate efficacy, conducted at Roswell Park's Genomics Shared Resource using NextSeq500 platform (Illumina Inc.). Will summarize changes between pre- and post-intervention for both arms and calculate point estimates and their corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Will analyze between-group differences in the change of outcome variables between baseline and post-intervention using ANCOVA., 6 months|Change in Cruciferous Vegetable Intake, Cups/Day, Will be evaluated by three non-consecutive 24-hour dietary recalls (two weekdays, one weekday) conducted by trained staff using the interview-administered Nutrition Data System for Research (NDSR). The outcome is defined as change from baseline in measured levels. Between-group difference of change from baseline was analyzed using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests., 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Develop an evidence-based behavioral intervention to increase cruciferous vegetable intake, with the goal of attaining desirable urinary isothiocyanates (ITC) levels effective for anti-cancer activities.

II. Conduct a feasibility pilot of our dietary behavioral intervention through a hybrid I implementation randomized controlled design in 80 non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) survivors, where the treatment group (n=40) will receive an evidence-based telephone intervention to increase cruciferous vegetable intake and the control group (n=40) will receive a general fruit and vegetable intake intervention based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) guidelines.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To ascertain the level of gene expression changes in urinary exfoliated epithelial cells (due to the intervention) as a surrogate for intermediate efficacy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Engage the clinical care providers of patients enrolled in our intervention to ascertain the barriers and facilitators of intervention implementation within clinical practice through conducting 20 semi-structured interviews.

OUTLINE:

AIM I: Develop an evidence-based behavioral intervention using a systematic process consisting of information gathering, discussion groups, and mock intervention delivery.

AIM II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A (HEALTHY EATING PROGRAM A): Patients receive mailed educational materials about the importance of consuming cruciferae, setting healthier eating goals, and the importance of keeping track of what they eat. Patients also receive one phone call from study staff to make sure they understood the educational materials received and 11 interactive voice response (IVR) phone messages over 6 months.

ARM B (HEALTHY EATING PROGRAM B): Patients receive mailed educational materials about general fruit and vegetable intake, setting healthier eating goals, and the importance of keeping track of what they eat. Patients also receive one phone call from study staff to make sure they understood the educational materials received and 11 IVR phone messages over 6 months.