Buparid/PARI SINUS Versus Budes® Nasal Spray in the Therapy of Chronic Rhinosinusitis With Polyposis Nasi
The study should create data for the selection of a clinically relevant primary endpoint to assess the efficacy and safety of Buparid/PARI SINUS as compared to Budes Nasal Spray in the therapy of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) with polyposis nasi in adult patients. Ideally, the selected parameter should allow a correlation between an objective methodology and the clinical outcome of the study patients.
Rhinosinusitis|Chronic Polyposis
DRUG: Budesonide|DRUG: Budesonide
Change of Inflammation of the Nasal Mucosa and Paranasal Sinus, Inflammation of the nasal mucosa and paranasal sinus was assessed using the Lund-Mackay score based on magnetic resonance imaging. The score can take on values between 0 and 24 points, with higher values indicating more severe impairment. The outcome investigated is the intraindividual mean score of 2 independent raters assessing the same images., Change from Baseline to Week 8
Safety Assessment, Treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) Each participant has been monitored for adverse events up to 26 weeks. All patients withdrawn from the study will be followed-up for AEs or SAEs for further 2 weeks or 4 weeks, respectively., up to 26 weeks
Health-specific Quality of Life, Health-specific quality of life was assessed by means of the self-rated, 22-item Sino-Nasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22). The SNOT-22 total score has a (theoretical) range of 0 - 110 points, with higher scores indicating more severe impairment.

Presented are the mean values of the SNOT-22 total score after 24 weeks minus value at day 0 (baseline)., 24 weeks|Nasal Obstruction, Nasal obstruction was assessed using the method of rhinomanometry by measuring the positive nasal inspiratory flow (PNIF). For the assessment the subject had to inhale maximally through the nose three times and the highest value of flow rate was recorded after 4 weeks and 8 weeks of treatment., 4 weeks / 8 weeks
The study should create data for the selection of a clinically relevant primary endpoint to assess the efficacy and safety of Buparid/PARI SINUS as compared to Budes Nasal Spray in the therapy of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) with polyposis nasi in adult patients. Ideally, the selected parameter should allow a correlation between an objective methodology and the clinical outcome of the study patients.