Bevacizumab Plus Capecitabine (Xeloda) in Patients With Untreated Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the bevacizumab and capecitabine combination in frail patients with untreated metastatic colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine (Xeloda)|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Time to Disease Progression, Progression Free Survival (PFS)- the interval from the date of enrollment to the first documented date of disease progression, death due to cancer, or the last date of a definitive assessment (not an unknown assessment) at which the patient is known to be progression-free. If there is an unknown assessment, then (a) if the next subsequent definitive assessment is complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD), the patient is considered to be progression-free at the date of the subsequent definitive assessment and PFS is calculated as above; (b) if the next subsequent definitive assessment is progressive disease (PD), the patient is considered to be a failure at the time of the (earliest) assessment of unknown preceding the documented disease progression (i.e. PFS is back-dated to the date of the unknown assessment) and (c) if there is no subsequent definitive assessment, PFS for the patient is considered to be a censored observation at the date, 12 months|Number of Subjects Requiring Dose Modifications, Number of Subjects that required Bevacizumab or Capecitabine dose modifications, delay, reduction or discontinuation due to adverse reactions., 3 months
Response Rates, Evaluation of target lesions Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions, every 21 days up to 12 months|Quality of Life of Patients, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Colorectal (FACT-C) Trial Outcome Index (TOI) - a questionnaire assessing quality of life concerns pertinent to colorectal cancer patients. Questions address Physical, Emotional and Functional Well-Being. Scale: Not at all (0), A little bit (1), Somewhat (2), Quite a bit (3), and very much (4). Higher numbers indicate a better state of well being. Scale 0 -136. Higher numbers indicating a better state of well-being.

The Overall scores for the FACT-C Composite scale range between 0-100 with higher scores indicating a better state of well being.

The EQ VAS= Euro Quality of Life 5 Dimension Self Reported Healthstate. It records the respondent's self-rated health on a vertical, visual analogue scale where the endpoints are labeled 0 'Best imaginable health state' and 100 'Worst imaginable health state'., Baseline, Cycle 2, and End of Study
The study will evaluate the tolerability, safety, and feasibility of combination bevacizumab and capecitabine in a small number of frail patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have a compromised performance status. Preclinical studies suggest that the combination of chemotherapy and anti-angiogenic therapy offer an increased anti-tumor effect compared with either treatment alone.