Vorinostat, Paclitaxel, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients Unable to Tolerate Cisplatin With Stage III Non-Small Lung Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of vorinostat when given together with paclitaxel and radiation therapy and to see how well it works in treating patients unable to tolerate cisplatin with stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that cannot be removed by surgery. Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving vorinostat together with paclitaxel and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells
Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: vorinostat|DRUG: paclitaxel|RADIATION: radiation therapy
MTD of Vorinostat When Administered in Combination With Paclitaxel and Radiotherapy Therapy as Assessed by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0 (Phase I), Defined as the highest dose level at which no more than 1 of 6 patients experiences dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Toxicity was graded according to the National Institutes of Health Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. A DLT was defined as any Grade 3 or higher non-hematologic adverse event with the exception of alopecia, fatigue, or anorexia. Nausea and/or vomiting that persisted \> 48 hours despite optimal medical management at grade 3 or higher was considered a DLT. Hematologic dose-limiting toxicity was defined as either: Grade 4 neutropenia lasting for ≥ 7 days in duration, Grade \> 3 febrile neutropenia with/without infection, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or Grade 5 hematologic toxicity., 8 weeks
Radiological Response Rate as Assessed by CT, Count of participants with stable disease or partial response. Patients were evaluated for treatment response per RECIST criteria (version 1.0)., 12 weeks post-treatment, then every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for a year thereafter|Duration of Response, Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0)., 1 year|Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate, 1 year|Safety and Toxicity of Vorinostat at the MTD as Assessed by NCI CTCAE Version 3.0, Count of participants with a grade 3 or higher toxicity. Toxicities were assessed using the NCI CTCAE (v3.0). Grade 3 or higher toxicities were considered worse., Weekly during treatment, 30 days post-treatment, and 12 weeks post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vorinostat when administered in combination with paclitaxel and thoracic radiation therapy in patients with locally advanced NSCLC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and toxicity of vorinostat when administered in combination with paclitaxel and thoracic radiation therapy in patients with locally advanced NSCLC.

II. To determine the radiological response rate, by computed tomography (CT) scan, of vorinostat when administered in combination with paclitaxel and thoracic radiation therapy in patients with locally advanced NSCLC.

III. To describe the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of this regiment over 3 years of follow up.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of vorinostat followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD), 5 days a week and paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour once a week. Patients also undergo radiation therapy QD, 5 days a week. Treatment repeats every week for 7 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 12 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 1 year.