Adjuvant Chemotherapy After Preoperative Chemoradiotherapy to Treat Rectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the disease-free survival in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer treated with preoperative chemoradiotherapy with fluoropyrimidines and surgery followed by adjuvant combination chemotherapy with oxaliplatin/5-FU/Leucovorin vs 5-FU/Leucovorin.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Adjuvant FL|DRUG: Adjuvant FOLFOX
Number of Participants With Disease Recurrence, Disease-free survival will be measured as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease relapse or death due to any cause. Using Cox-proportional hazard regression, the hazard ratio together with the 95% confidence interval will be reported, in addition to Kaplan-Meier estimates of the survival curves, including medians and rates with 95% confidence intervals. Intent-to-treat population included all randomised patients, and per-protocol population included patients who received at least 1 dose of chemotherapy without any violation of inclusion criteria, up to 3 years after completion of treatment|Number of Participants With Disease Recurrence With Pathological Stage III, Disease-free survival will be measured as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease relapse or death due to any cause. Using Cox-proportional hazard regression, the hazard ratio together with the 95% confidence interval will be reported, in addition to Kaplan-Meier estimates of the survival curves, including medians and rates with 95% confidence intervals. Intent-to-treat population included all randomised patients, and per-protocol population included patients who received at least 1 dose of chemotherapy without any violation of inclusion criteria., up to 3 years after completion of treatment|Number of Participants With Disease Recurrence With Pathological Stage II, Disease-free survival will be measured as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease relapse or death due to any cause. Using Cox-proportional hazard regression, the hazard ratio together with the 95% confidence interval will be reported, in addition to Kaplan-Meier estimates of the survival curves, including medians and rates with 95% confidence intervals. Intent-to-treat population included all randomised patients, and per-protocol population included patients who received at least 1 dose of chemotherapy without any violation of inclusion criteria., up to 3 years after completion of treatment
Death Rate, overall survival was defined as the time from randomisation to death. We used the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate disease-free and overall survival. Patients were censored at the last follow-up if they were alive and free from disease recurrence. We used the log-rank test to compare the two survival distributions. We estimated crude and stratified hazard ratios (HRs) and their corresponding 95% CIs using the Cox proportionalhazards regression model., Up to 3 years after completion of treatment.|Pattern of Recurrence, After the completion of study treatment, chest radiography and measurement of carcinoembryonic antigen were done every 3 months for the fi rst 2 years and every 6 months thereafter. Abdominopelvic CT scans were done every 6 months and chest CT scans annually. Colonoscopy was scheduled at 1 year, 3 years, and 5 years from the date of surgery. Local recurrence was defined as any clinically proven tumour relapse within the pelvis or perineum. Distant metastasis was defined as relapse at any other site rather than local recurrence. We regarded any local or distant recurrence as a disease recurrence event. Disease recurrence was judged by the investigators with no central review., the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease relapse, , assessed up to 5 years
Preoperative chemoradiotherapy with fluoropyrimidines followed by surgery is one of the standard treatments for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer; however, the role of adjuvant chemotherapy is still controversial. The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy of adjuvant FOLFOX for rectal cancer who underwent fluoropyrimidine based chemoradiotherapy and complete total mesorectal excision.