Early-Line Anti-EGFR Therapy to Facilitate Retreatment for Select Patients With mCRC
The study will use previously established doses of panitumumab or cetuximab in the metastatic setting for the treatment of unresectable colorectal cancer (CRC). It is designed to investigate an alternative treatment strategy to maximize the benefit to inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) for a highly selected patient population. It will enroll 71 participants with left-sided, unresectable metastatic CRC. Participants will be on study up to 5 years.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Panitumumab|DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: FOLFIRI Protocol|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Disease Control Rate (DCR) at 6 months for Cohorts A and B, The disease control rate is the proportion of all subjects with stable disease (SD) for 8 weeks, or partial response (PR), or complete response (CR) according to RECIST 1.1, from the start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the start of treatment)., 6 months|Cohort C Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the duration (in months) from the date of study enrollment to date of disease progression (or death). If no progression (or death) event is observed during the follow-up period of the study, then PFS will be censored at the last date of follow-up per standard RECIST vs. 1.1 evaluation., up to 4 years
Cohort A and B Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the duration (in months) from the date of study enrollment to date of disease progression (or death). If no progression (or death) event is observed during the follow-up period of the study, then PFS will be censored at the last date of follow-up per standard RECIST vs. 1.1 evaluation., up to 4 years|Cohort A, B, and C Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective responses which will include all confirmed complete responses (CR) and confirmed partial responses (PR) determined as per RECIST v1.1 on treatment with panitumumab in metastatic, left-sided, non-bulky colorectal cancer., up to 1 year|Type and Severity of Toxicities, Toxicities will be graded using the most recent version of the CTCAE criteria. Toxicities will be summarized by type and severity in tabulator format., up to 1 year (adverse events collected to 30 days post treatment)|Rate of Retreatment with EGFRi for Cohorts A and B, The rate of retreatment with EGFRi will be defined as the proportions of all eligible subjects who are retreated with EGFRi among all eligible subjects., up to 4 years|Cohort A, B, and C Overall Survival (OS), OS will be defined as the duration (in months) from the date of study enrollment to the date of death (of any case). If no death event is observed during the follow-up period in a subject, then OS for that subject will be censored at the date of the last known survival status., up to 4 years
Change in Participant Derived Organotypic Spheroid Response over baseline, To determine the ability of patient-derived colorectal cancer organoids to predict clinical response to EGFR inhibition, participant derived organotypic spheroids will be grown from biopsy at baseline assessment and compared to clinical response from EGFR inhibitor. This measure will a percentage change from the baseline., baseline, post treatment (up to 1 year)|Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA) at time of Progression, To evaluate ctDNA for early markers predictive of clinical resistance, ctDNA will be evaluated for subclonal alterations at the time of clinical disease progression and compared to repeat tissue biopsy., 1 month (cycle 1, day 1 of 28 cycle), 4 months (cycle 3, day 1 of 28 day cycle), up to 1 year (30 days post treatment)
The study will use previously established doses of panitumumab or cetuximab in the metastatic setting for the treatment of unresectable colorectal cancer (CRC). It is designed to investigate an alternative treatment strategy to maximize the benefit to inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) for a highly selected patient population. It will enroll 71 participants with left-sided, unresectable metastatic CRC. Participants will be on study up to 5 years.