Trial of pIL-12 Electroporation Malignant Melanoma
This study will assess the safety and effectiveness of different dosing regimens of ImmunoPulse IL-12® in malignant melanoma. ImmunoPulse IL-12® is the combination of intratumoral interleukin-12 gene (also known as tavokinogene telseplasmid \[tavo\]) and in vivo electroporation-mediated plasmid deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\] vaccine therapy (tavo-EP) administered using the OncoSec Medical System (OMS). ImmunoPulse IL-12® is a gene therapy approach to directly induce a pro-inflammatory response within a tumor to initiate and/or enhance anti-tumor immunity.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Tavokinogene Telseplasmid (tavo)|DEVICE: OncoSec Medical System (OMS)
Best Overall Objective Response Rate (ORR) by Modified "Skin" RECIST, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with evaluable lesions that achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator using Modified "Skin" Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST). CR: complete disappearance of all lesions (whether measurable or not) and the absence of new lesions for at least 4 weeks duration, confirmed by additional scan and visit 4 to 6 weeks after first documentation of CR. PR: ≥30% decrease in longest dimension (LD) from baseline lesion, and no new lesions., Main Study: Screening and Days 90, 180, 270 and 360; Addendum: Screening and Weeks 12, 24, 36, and 48
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, medical treatment or procedure and which did not necessarily have to have had a causal relationship with this treatment. An adverse event could have, therefore, been any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, medical treatment or procedure whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE was defined an any untoward medical occurrence that at any dosage resulted in one or more of the following: death, A life-threatening adverse event (real risk of dying), inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly, required intervention to prevent permanent impairment of damage., From first administration of study treatment up to 30 days after last dose or until initiation of new anti-cancer treatment.|Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) time is defined as the duration between the date of treatment initiation (Study Day 1) to the date of death, regardless of the cause of death, assessed up to 30 months., From the start of study treatment until death, assessed up to 30 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) by Immune Related Response Criteria (irRC), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with evaluable lesions that achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator using irRC criteria. CR: complete disappearance of all lesions (whether measurable or not) and the absence of new lesions for at least 4 weeks duration, confirmed by additional scan and visit 4 to 6 weeks after first documentation of CR. PR: ≥50% decrease in the product of the diameters from baseline., Main Study: Screening and Days 90, 180, 270 and 360; Addendum: Screening and Weeks 12, 24, 36, and 48|Duration of Objective Response, Duration of objective response (CR or PR based on Modified RECIST criteria) is defined as the number of days from the initial documentation of an objective response to the most current evaluation of that response or to documentation of progression or death associated with disease progression. CR: complete disappearance of all lesions (whether measurable or not) and the absence of new lesions for at least 4 weeks duration, confirmed by additional scan and visit 4 to 6 weeks after first documentation of CR. PR: ≥30% decrease in longest dimension (LD) from baseline lesion, and no new lesions. Patients who had an initial response and did not progress were censored at their date of last assessment., From first documented response until disease progression (Up to 29.7 months)|Time to First Objective Response, Time to objective response (CR or PR based on Modified RECIST criteria) is defined as the number of days between the date of treatment initiation (Study Day 1) to the first date of the first documentation of an objective response. CR: complete disappearance of all lesions (whether measurable or not) and the absence of new lesions for at least 4 weeks duration, confirmed by additional scan and visit 4 to 6 weeks after first documentation of CR. PR: ≥30% decrease in longest dimension (LD) from baseline lesion, and no new lesions. Patients who had an initial response and did not progress were censored at their date of last assessment. Patients who did not have an objective response were censored at their date of last assessment., From start of study treatment until overall objective response (Up to 29.7 months)|Median Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration between the date of treatment initiation (Study Day 1) to the first date of either disease progression at either local or distant sites, or death from any cause. Disease progression at local or distant lesions is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression). Patients were censored at their last assessment date if there was no evidence of disease progression., From start of study treatment until disease progression or death (Up to 29.7 months)|Regression Rate of Treated and Untreated Lesions, The treated (injected, electroporated) lesion regression rate is defined as the percentage of patients who had at least one treated lesion that decreased in longest dimension by ≥ 30%. The untreated (non-injected, non-electroporated) lesion regression rate is defined as the percentage of patients who had at least one untreated lesion that decreased in longest dimension by ≥ 30%., Main Study: Screening and Days 1, 39, 90, 120, 180, 270, 360, End Of Study; Addendum: Screening and Weeks 12, 24, 36,28, End of Study
Plasmid IL-12 (pIL-12) at a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL will be injected intratumorally at a dose volume of ¼ of the calculated lesion volume and a dose volume per lesion of 0.1 mL for lesions of volume \< 0.4 cm3. Six pulses at field strengths of (E+) of 1500 V/cm and pulse width of 100 μs at 1-second intervals will be administered using the OncoSec Medical System (OMS) to each previously injected tumor.

Three treatment regimens will be explored:

Main Study: Treatment on Days 1, 5 and 8 for 1 cycle. Additional cycles may be repeated every 3 months at the Investigator's discretion.

Addendum Regimen A: Treatment on Days 1, 8 and 15 every 6 weeks. Subsequent cycles may be given at 6-week intervals, for up to 9 treatment cycles in total.

Addendum Regimen B: Treatment on Days 1, 5 and 8 every 6 weeks. Subsequent cycles may be given at 6-week intervals, for up to 9 treatment cycles in total.

NOTE: An Addendum was added to the Main Protocol with the purpose of exploring the safety and efficacy of an increased treatment frequency schedule.