Eribulin Mesylate in Treating Patients With Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial, Primary Peritoneal Cavity, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well eribulin mesylate works in treating patients with recurrent ovarian epithelial, primary peritoneal cavity, or fallopian tube cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as eribulin mesylate, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
DRUG: eribulin mesylate
Objective Response to Treatment With Eribulin Mesylate in Patients With Recurrent Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Peritoneal Cancer., Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., up to a total of a year
Toxicity Profile of Eribulin Mesylate in Patients With Recurrent Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Peritoneal Cancer, Measured by NCI CTCAE Version 4.0. The 95% confidence intervals should be provided. Please see adverse events., From the time of their first treatment with eribulin mesylate
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the frequency of objective response (complete and partial responses) in patients with recurrent ovarian epithelial, primary peritoneal cavity, or fallopian tube cancer treated with E7389 (eribulin mesylate).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

II. Determine the toxicity profile of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior platinum sensitivity (yes vs no).

Patients receive eribulin mesylate intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.