Mindfulness-Based Reduction Stress Program
The participants consisted of 1332 caregivers of patients diagnosed with cancer, who applied to Atatürk University Health Research and Application Center, Outpatient Chemotherapy Unit between December 2022 and March 2023. In the power analysis, the sample of the research; According to Cohen, a total of 108 people, 54 of whom were in the experimental group and 54 in the control group, with a medium effect size of 0.5%, an error margin of 0.05% and a confidence interval of 0.95%, were 95% representative of the universe. Against the possibility of data loss, 20% backup sample was included in this number and the study was planned with a total of 124 people, 62 in the experimental group and 62 in the control group. 20 participants were excluded on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria. 104 participants formed the sample
Cancer|Caregiver Stress|Quality of Life
BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction Program
Caregiver Stress Scale, The scale was developed by Robinson (1983) to measure the subjective care burden of caregivers and to quickly identify families with care concerns. Its Turkish adaptation was made by Uğur and Fadıloğlu (2006). The reliability coefficient of the scale was found to be 0.77. The scale consists of 13 items. The scoring of the scale is between 0-1. A score above 7 indicates the burden of care subjectively., two week|The Caregiver Quality of Life Index Cancer Scale -CQOLC, It was developed by Weitzner et al. to measure the quality of life of caregivers of cancer patients, including physical function, emotional function, family function, and social function. The total score of each sub-dimension and scale in the scale varies between 0 and 140. A higher score indicates a better quality of life., Two week
Pretest measurements (T1) were made to the individuals in the experimental and control groups. 8-week mindfulness-based interventions were administered online to caregivers of cancer patients (Table 1). Before starting the MDI program in the experimental group, visual and written materials about the sessions prepared by the researchers were distributed. The program was implemented 4 days a week, 1 session a day, and each session was implemented in groups of 10-15 people for 60-90 minutes. After the 8-week MDI Program of the experimental group was completed, the data collection forms were re-applied to the individuals in the experimental and control groups, and posttest-1 measurements (T2) were made. 4 weeks after the posttest-1 measurements, the posttest-2 measurements (T3) of the individuals in the experimental and control groups were performed.