Cytoreductive Surgery(CRS) Plus Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy(HIPEC) With Lobaplatin in Advanced and Recurrent Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
A phase III prospective study with the primary objective to compare the efficacy and safety of HIPEC( Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy). The target population for this study is patients with primary or recurrence ovarian, peritoneal or fallopian tube cancers undergoing CRS( Cytoreductive Surgery). Patients will be divided into two groups. Group A will undergo CRS plus HIPEC and then go on to receive standard platinum-based combination doublet intravenous chemotherapy. Group B will undergo CRS and then go on to intravenous chemotherapy.
Ovarian Cancer|Ovary Neoplasm|Ovarian Neoplasms|Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Ovarian Cancer, Epithelial|Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy(HIPEC)
DEVICE: HIPEC|DEVICE: CRS|DEVICE: IVCT
Overall Survival rate, assess overall survival rate in 5 years in both arms, 5 years|1 year survival rate, assess the survival rate in 1 year for both arms, 1 year|3 year survival rate, assess the survival rate in 3 years for both arms, 3 years
Progression-free survival, assess the Progression-free survival rate during 5 years for both study arms, 5 years|quality of life, Patients will fill the EORTC Quality of life questionaire-C30 form to measure the quality of life after a standard treatment., 5 years after CRS or until death|postoperative complication, measured with physical examination and/or computed tomography（CT）and/or ultrasound examination., 5 years
This is a phase III prospective study with the primary objective to compare the efficacy and safety of HIPEC. The target population for this study is patients with primary or recurrence ovarian, peritoneal or fallopian tube cancers undergoing CRS. 'Platinum-sensitive' recurrence is defined as recurrence 6 months after the completion of the primary platinum-based chemotherapy. A single dose of lobaplatin 40mg/m2 will be administered via HIPEC , and will be administered at the time of surgery, 3 days after surgery and 5 days after surgery. Patients of group A will undergo CRS plus HIPEC and then go on to receive standard platinum-based combination doublet intravenous chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel, carboplatin and gemcitabine, or carboplatin and liposomal doxorubicin) for 6 cycles. Patients of group B will undergo CRS and then go on to intravenous chemotherapy.