Pharmacokinetics and Hepatic Safety of EGCG
A trial to assess the pharmacokinetics and hepatic safety of EGCG in women with and without uterine fibroids.
Uterine Fibroids
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG)|DRUG: Clomiphene Citrate|DRUG: Letrozole
Changes in Epigallocatechin Gallate (EGCG), Changes in epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) from Visit 1 to Visit 4 (end of study). EGCG levels measured at 1 hour after taking study medication were used for both visits., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Changes in Epigallocatechin (EGC), Changes in epigallocatechin (EGC) from Visit 1 to Visit 4 (end of study). EGC levels measured at 1 hour after taking study medication were used for both visits., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Changes in Epicatechin Gallate(ECG), Changes in epicatechin gallate(ECG) from Visit 1 to Visit 4 (end of study). ECG levels measured at 1 hour after taking study medication were used for both visits., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)
Changes in Total Bilirubin, Changes in total bilirubin between the 3 groups., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Changes in ALT/SGPT, Changes in alanine aminotransferase /SGPT between the 3 groups., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Changes in Alkaline Phosphatase, Changes in Alkaline Phosphatase between the 3 groups., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Changes in Estrogen (E2), Changes in Estrogen (E2) between the 3 groups., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Changes in Endometrial Thickness, Changes in endometrial thickness between the 3 groups., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Change in Serum Folate Level Between MTHFR677-Wild Type (WT) Group and MTHFR677-Hetero Group, Change in serum folate levels between MTHFR677-Wild Type (WT) group and MTHFR677-Hetero group, Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Change in Serum Folate Level Between MTHFR1298-Wild Type (WT) Group and MTHFR1298-Hetero Group, Change in serum folate levels between MTHFR1298-Wild Type (WT) group and MTHFR1298-Hetero group, Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)|Change in Serum Folate Level Between DHFR-Wild Type (WT) Group and DHFR-Hetero or Homo Group., Change in serum folate levels between DHFR-Wild Type (WT) group and DHFR-Hetero or homo group., Baseline, and Visit 4 (end of study, up to 40 days)
This will be a randomized, multi-center, pharmacokinetics and hepatic safety trial of EGCG with 36 total patients in 3 treatment arms. 36 women will be randomized to one of the following groups: EGCG daily alone, EGCG daily with clomiphene citrate and EGCG daily with letrozole. The randomization scheme will be stratified for age groups 18-29 and 30-40 and presence of uterine fibroids. The pharmacokinetics and hepatic safety of EGCG with clomiphene citrate and letrozole are unknown. The trial conducted in women with and without fibroids will allow comparisons between these groups. The results of this study will be used to confirm hepatic safety for the larger multi-center FRIEND study.