Study to Evaluate SBRT for EGFR Mutant NSCLC Patients Receiving Osimertinib (CULTRO)
Phase II Study to Evaluate the Impact of SBRT (Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy) and/or SRS (Stereotactic Radiosurgery) on Oligoresidual Disease in EGFR Mutation Patients Treated with Osimertinib as First-Line Systemic Intervention. All candidates must exhibit a partial response after 12 weeks of treatment with the third-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor (alone or in combination with chemotherapy) and a maximum of five (5) residual lesions in a maximum of two (2) organs. The primary outcome will be progression-free survival (PFS), and secondary outcomes will include overall survival (OS), proportion of patients without progression at months 12 and 36, safety, and overall response rate (ORR). Additionally, an exploratory analysis will be conducted on the prognostic value of liquid biopsy (supplementary information), considering baseline presence of mutations (determined by Next Generation Sequencing tests) and reduction or negativization of allelic fraction (AF).
EGF-R Positive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|EGFR Exon 19 Deletion|EGFR Exon 21 Mutation|EGFR G719X
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy SBRT
Progression-Free Survival, Time from the initiation of systemic treatment (Osimertinib) to disease progression or death. This outcome is not influenced by second-line interventions and allows for the estimation of the relative efficacy of the treatment and its Hazard Ratio (HR), Month 12
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Proportion of patients with partial or complete response following the implementation of SBRT. This measurement does not include stable disease, Month 12|Overall Survival (OS), Time from diagnosis, the first day of systemic treatment, and implementation of SBRT to death from any cause or last follow-up, Month 12|Progression-Free Time (PFT), Time from the execution of SBRT to objective tumor progression, excluding death, Month 12|Adverse Events and Safety, Adverse events will be graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) US, Month 12
Phase II study with a single-stage Fleming design based on a normal approximation to the binomial distribution, with a one-sided type I error of 10% and a power of 90% to detect 30 events related to disease progression. Under the alternative hypothesis to detect a 35% improvement in PFS, 35 patients are required to be recruited over 22 months, with a minimum median follow-up of 14 months. An interim analysis will be conducted to determine early termination of the study using a Lan-DeMets monitoring boundary and an O'Brien-Fleming stopping rule. The interim analysis will be performed when 20 out of the expected 30 events have been observed. Employing the O'Brien-Fleming statistic, the critical value for the Z-score in the interim analysis (to stop and reject the null hypothesis) will be 1.054, and the critical value for the Z-score to stop and reject the alternative (futility) will be -0.204.