Erector Spinae vs TAP in Lower Abdominal Surgery
The aim of this study is to compare the analgesic effect and safety profile of erector spinae plane block with transverses abdominis plane block in controlling peri-operative pain for lower abdominal cancer surgery.
Postoperative Pain
PROCEDURE: lower abdominal surgery|OTHER: Erector spinae plane block|OTHER: Transversus abdominis plane block
Total morphine consumption, The total amount of morphine which was consumed post-operatively measured in milligrams, 24 hours
Intraoperative fentanyl consumption., The total amount of fentanyl which was consumed during the surgery measured in milligrams, intraoperative
Postoperative nausea and vomiting, the number of patients who had nausea and vomiting, 24 hours postoperative|Time for first rescue analgesia., the time at which the patient will request an analgesic, 24 hours postoperative|Heart rate, the number of heart beats in one minute, 24 hours|Numerical rating scale for pain assessment., This is a numerical rating scale for pain assessment which ranges from 0 to 10 with the least pain at scale 0 and the worst pain at scale 10, 24 hours|mean arterial blood pressure, the mean arteiral blood pressure measurend in mmHg, 24 hours
Pain triggers a complex biochemical and physiological stress response leading to impairment of pulmonary, immunological and metabolic functions. Opioids are the current gold standard drug for postoperative pain relief, however exposure to large doses lead to multiple side effects of varying significance such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, constipation, respiratory depression, hypoventilation and sleep breathing disorders. Therefore strategies other than opioids are recommended without sacrificing proper and effective analgesia. Especially in cancer patients who are more susceptible to tolerance and addiction.

The Transversus Abdominis Plane (TAP) block, is a regional anaesthesia technique used effectively in laparotomies. Unilateral analgesia to the skin, muscles, and parietal peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall will be achieved without affecting visceral pain, when the anterior rami of the lower six thoracic nerves (T7-T12) and the first lumbar nerve (L1) are blocked.

Erector spinae plane block (ESPB) was shown to be an effective analgesic option for different types of surgeries. It's relatively a simple block, drug is injected in the plane between the erector spinae muscle and the vertebral transverse process. Blocking the ventral and dorsal rami of spinal nerves on the paravertebral area distributed from T2-T4 to L1-L2 and gives good coverage to visceral pain. Owing to the lower risk of blood vessel damage and neural damage compared to the epidural or the paravertebral block.

Both blocks haven't been compared to each other in this type of surgery before.