QL Block in Laparoscopic Myomectomy
This study aims to determine the efficacy of a quadratus lumborum (QL) block in decreasing postoperative pain in patients undergoing myomectomy for uterine fibroids. A QL block is a temporary anesthetic injection in the quadratus lumborum muscle, a muscle in the lower back, that has been previously shown to significantly reduce postoperative pain levels in patients undergoing abdominal and pelvic surgery. Because of its demonstrated effects, the QL block is becoming a standard of anesthesia and surgical care. Since participants will be undergoing a myomectomy procedure, the investigators believe that participants may qualify to participate in this study. The investigators will be comparing patients who receive the QL block (in addition to standard anesthesia and postoperative pain care) with patients who do not receive the QL block (in addition to standard care). The participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups and may or may not actually receive the block.
Postoperative Pain|Fibroid Uterus
DRUG: Bupivacain|DRUG: Saline
Time in minutes from first analgesic request as measured by medical chart review, Up to 24 hours|Total number of doses of rescue analgesics given as measured by medical chart review, Up to 24 hours
Pain as measured by visual analog scale (VAS), VAS is a pain scale from 0-10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain ever., Up to 48 hours after discharge from hospital.|Patient satisfaction with perioperative pain management measured on a scale of 1-10, Pain management scale with 1 being very disappointed in pain management with 10 being highly satisfied with pain managment., Up to 48 hours after discharge from hospital.
Pain as measured by Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS), RASS is measured from -5 to +4 with -5 being no response to voice or physical stimulation and +4 being overtly combative, violent, immediate danger to staff, Up to 24 hours
This study aims to determine the efficacy of a quadratus lumborum (QL) block in decreasing postoperative pain in patients undergoing myomectomy for uterine fibroids. A QL block is a temporary anesthetic injection in the quadratus lumborum muscle, a muscle in the lower back, that has been previously shown to significantly reduce postoperative pain levels in patients undergoing abdominal and pelvic surgery. Because of its demonstrated effects, the QL block is becoming a standard of anesthesia and surgical care. Since participants will be undergoing a myomectomy procedure, the investigators believe that participants may qualify to participate in this study. The investigators will be comparing patients who receive the QL block (in addition to standard anesthesia and postoperative pain care) with patients who do not receive the QL block (in addition to standard care). The participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups and may or may not actually receive the block.