Phase I Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) for Benign Dermal Neurofibromas (NF1)
GENERAL OBJECTIVE The general objective is to assess the safety and efficacy of photodynamic therapy (PDT) in the treatment of neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) tumors in the skin.

SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE This is a light dose escalation pilot study to determine the safety and efficacy of PDT using 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and 633 nm light in the treatment of benign dermal neurofibromas.

Specifically, the primary goal of the current study is to determine the maximum tolerable light doses that can be administered to subjects undergoing topical photoillumination photodynamic therapy with standard application of Levulan Kerastick (ALA) for Topical Solution.
Neurofibromatoses
DRUG: Part 1 Levulan injection|DRUG: Part 1 Levulan surface application|DRUG: Part 1 Levulan surface application twice|DRUG: Part 1 Levulan surface application twice with microneedling|DRUG: Levulan (5-aminolevulinic acid) photodynamic therapy - Dose level 1|DRUG: Levulan (5-aminolevulinic acid) photodynamic therapy - Dose level 2|DRUG: Levulan (5-aminolevulinic acid) photodynamic therapy - Dose level 3
Part 1: Photosensitizer Uptake and Conversion to Protoporphyrin IX, The average fluorescence value for PpIX positive tumor areas in excised, sectioned tumors, as determined by fluorescence microscopy. PpIX signals were detected with excitation at 405 nm and emission with a 600 nm long pass filter. PpIX positive areas were determined to be those exhibiting fluorescence above background levels., 24 hours|Part 2: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of 633 nm Red Light, MTD was determined by testing increasing doses up to 200 J/cm\^2 on dose escalation cohorts 1 to 3 with 3 to 6 participants each. MTD reflects the highest dose of red light that did not cause a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) in \> 33% of participants. DLT was defined as pain during irradiation requiring cessation of the light treatment, or any serious cutaneous adverse events., 48 hours
Part 1: Optimal Occlusion Time, An optimal occlusion time may be apparent from the results of the three time points. If no optimal occlusion time is seen, any occlusion time from 3-24 hours may be chosen for part 2. This secondary outcome measure is not critical to continuing the study, but may be useful in guiding treatment protocols, 24 hours|Part 2: Efficacy - Lesion Area Growth Rate, Average lesion growth rates observed in ALA-treated lesions compared to vehicle-treated lesions within the same subjects., 12 weeks|Part 2: Cosmetic Improvement, Potential cosmetic improvement using subject satisfaction scale., 1 year|Part 2: Pain Reduction, Potential pain reduction, as measured by standard visual analog 1-10 scale., 1 year
STUDY DESIGN This protocol is a Phase I light dose escalation pilot study to determine the safety and, secondarily, the efficacy of PDT using Levulan and 633 nm light in the treatment of benign dermal neurofibromas. This protocol represents the first two parts of a planned three part study including both pediatric and adult subjects. Part 1 will consist of studying the penetration and uptake of the PS in neurofibromas that are scheduled for excision. These tumors will be excised for therapeutic reasons unrelated to this study, and so this study will place no further burden on the subject other than a 3-24 hr incubation of the Levulan on the tumor prior to excision. The primary hypothesis to be tested is whether Levulan will accumulate, and be converted to PpIX, by the tumor tissue more than by the surrounding normal tissue. Secondary hypotheses are that tumors incubated with Levulan will show greater fluorescence than untreated tumors and tumors incubated with vehicle only (placebo application).

As the Institutional Review Boards involved generally desire pilot data on adult populations first, we will with then proceed with the adult clinical trial portion of this protocol as part 2. Part 2 will use the optimum incubation time, if one has been identified in part 1, and add a dose escalation study of the amount of red light used to activate the Levulan. Part 3, with pediatric subjects, will commence at a future date, pending review of the initial adult study results.