Safety and Efficacy of APRIL-BAFF-Bicephali CAR-T in Relapsed, Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This is a Single-center, open, single-arm clinical study, the goal of which was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of APRIL-BAFF-Bicephali CAR-T in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.The study consisted of four processes: patient enrollment screening; pre-CAR T cell therapy (including leukocyte apheresis, CAR T cell preparation and chemotherapy); inpatient monitoring phase for CAR T cell transfusion; and long-term follow-up phase
Multiple Myeloma
OTHER: APRIL-BAFF-Bicephali CAR-T cells
Adverse events, Adverse events assessed according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0, :Baseline up to 28 days after CAR-T cells infusion]
overall response rate (ORR), Assessment of ORR at Month 6, 12, 18 and 24, Month 6, 12, 18 and 24|complete response (CR), Assessment of CR at Month 6, 12, 18 and 24, Month 6, 12, 18 and 24|Overall survival (OS), Assessment of OS at Month 6, 12, 18 and 24, Month 6, 12, 18 and 24|Event-free survival (EFS), Assessment of EFS at Month 6, 12, 18 and 24, Month 6, 12, 18 and 24
This trial is a single-center, open, single-arm trial with a non-blinded design.

The study consisted of four processes: patient enrollment screening; pre-CAR T cell therapy (including leukocyte apheresis, CAR T cell preparation and chemotherapy); inpatient monitoring phase for CAR T cell transfusion; and long-term follow-up phase. The specific execution process is as follows:

1. Pre-enrollment assessment;
2. Patient enrollment and basic data collection;
3. Leukocyte apheresis and CAR-T cell production 3.1 Patients receive apheresis of about 12-15 liters to provide peripheral blood mononuclear cells for the preparation of CAR-T. In addition to the use of appropriate amounts of lymphocytes for CAR-T preparation, excess cells should be cryopreserved for subsequent studies and regulatory inquiries.

   3.2 APRIL-BAFF Bicephali CAR-T cell preparation. 4 cells were pretreated before transfusion Pretreatment was started-5 days before CAR-T cell revertant, and CAR-T cell treatment was performed 2 days after completion of chemotherapy. The purpose of chemotherapy is to reduce the tumor load on the one hand and to reduce the number of endogenous lymphocytes to facilitate the proliferation of reinfused CAR T cells. All patients were pretreated with FC regimen, fludarabine 30mg / m2 3days, cyclophosphamide 750mg / m2 1days. Antiemetic and symptomatic treatment could be given during chemotherapy, and generally treated with other chemotherapy.
4. Post-treatment assessment Subjects were assessed for toxicity as planned (weekly for 1 month, monthly for 6 months, and every 3 months thereafter); efficacy for every 4 weeks and every 3 months after 6 months. CAR-T cells were tested for in vivo expansion evaluation, including CD3 +, CD4 +, CD8 + T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes in peripheral blood.
5. purpose of research

1. Primary objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of APRIL-BAFF-Bicephali CAR-T in the treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma 2. Secondary objective: To evaluate its safety 3. Study design type, principles, and test procedures