A Study of V503 Vaccine Given Concomitantly With REPEVAX™ in 11 to 15 Year Olds (V503-007)
This study will evaluate whether co-administration of the first dose of V503 and REPEVAX™ is well tolerated and causes a non-inferior immune response when compared to administration of REPEVAX™ one month following the first dose of V503.
Papillomavirus Infections
BIOLOGICAL: V503 Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: REPEVAX™ (Concomitant)|BIOLOGICAL: REPEVAX™ (Non-concomitant)
Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) of the Antibody Response to Each of the Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Types Contained in V503, Serum antibody titers for HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 were measured using a competitive Luminex immunoassay. Titers are reported in milli Merck Units/mL., 4 weeks following Month 6 vaccination|Percentage of Participants With a V503 Injection-site Adverse Experience, An adverse experience (AE) is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the vaccine. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the vaccine is also an AE. Only injection-site AEs in the arm that received V503 vaccination were reported for this endpoint., Day 1 through Day 5 following Day 1 vaccination|Percentage of Participants With a Repevax™ Injection-site Adverse Experience, For the Concomitant Vaccination group, injection-site AEs are reported following Day 1 vaccination; for the Non-concomitant Vaccination group, injection-site AEs are reported following Month 1 vaccination. An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the vaccine. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the vaccine is also an AE. Only injection-site AEs in the arm that received Repevax™ vaccination were reported for this endpoint., Day 1 through Day 5 following Day 1 (Concomitant) or Month 1 (Non-concomitant) vaccination|Percentage of Participants With Maximum Temperature >=37.8 °C (>=100.0 °F) (Oral or Oral Equivalent), For the Concomitant Vaccination group, temperatures were collected after the Day 1 vaccination and the Month 1 visit; for the Non-concomitant Vaccination group, temperatures were collected after the Day 1 vaccination and the Month 1 vaccination., Up to 5 days following the Day 1 and Month 1 vaccination / visit|Percentage of Participants With a Systemic Adverse Experience, For the Concomitant Vaccination group, systemic AEs were collected after the Day 1 vaccination and the Month 1 visit; for the Non-concomitant Vaccination group, systemic AEs were collected after the Day 1 vaccination and the Month 1 vaccination. An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body that is temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the vaccine. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the vaccine is also an adverse experience. A systemic AE was an AE that was not associated with the injection site., Up to 15 days following the Day 1 and Month 1 vaccination / visit|Percentage of Participants Who Achieve Acceptable Titers of Anti-Diphtheria and Anti-Tetanus Antibody, For the Concomitant Vaccination group, serum samples were collected 4 weeks after the Day 1 vaccination; for the Non-concomitant Vaccination group, serum samples were collected 4 weeks after the Month 1 vaccination. Titers of neutralizing antibody to diphtheria toxin were measured using a cell-based Diphtheria Micrometabolic Inhibition assay. Serum titers of neutralizing antibody to tetanus toxin were measured using an enzyme immunoassay. The lower limits of quantitation of the assays was 0.01 International Units (IU)/mL and 0.04 IU/mL, respectively. Acceptable titers refer to the World Health Organization-defined protective titer of \>=0.1 IU/mL., 4 weeks following Day 1 (Concomitant) or Month 1 (Non-concomitant) vaccination|Geometric Mean Titers of Pertussis Antibody Responses, For the Concomitant Vaccination group, serum samples were collected 4 weeks after the Day 1 vaccination; for the Non-concomitant Vaccination group, serum samples were collected 4 weeks after the Month 1 vaccination. Titers of anti-pertussis toxin (PT), anti-filamentous hemagglutinin (FHA), anti-pertactin (PRN), and anti-fimbriae 2/3 (FM 2/3) antibodies were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Titers are expressed as enzyme-linked immunoassay units/mL (ELU/mL)., 4 weeks following Day 1 (Concomitant) or Month 1 (Non-concomitant) vaccination|Percentage of Participants Who Achieve Acceptable Titers of Anti-Poliovirus Antibody, For the Concomitant Vaccination group, serum samples were collected 4 weeks after the Day 1 vaccination; for the Non-concomitant Vaccination group, serum samples were collected 4 weeks after the Month 1 vaccination. Titers of neutralizing antibody to poliovirus type 1, 2, and 3 were measured using a microneutralization assay. Serial dilutions of sera were incubated with type-specific standard poliovirus and sensitive cells. Neutralization of the virus was measured by cell staining. Acceptable titers were defined as neutralization at \>=1:8 dilution of serum., 4 weeks following Day 1 (Concomitant) or Month 1 (Non-concomitant) vaccination
Percentage of Participants Who Seroconvert for Each of the HPV Types, Blood was drawn at Month 7 and assayed to determine whether or not a participant had achieved seroconversion for the HPV types. The lower limit of the titer (milli Merck U/mL) considered seropositive was as follows: HPV Type 6: \>=30, HPV Type 11: \>=16; HPV Type 16: \>=20, HPV Type 18: \>=24, HPV Type 31: \>=10, HPV Type 33: \>=8, HPV Type 45: \>=8, HPV Type 52: \>=8, and HPV Type 58: \>=8., Month 7
This study will evaluate whether co-administration of the first dose of V503 and REPEVAX™ is well tolerated and causes a non-inferior immune response when compared to administration of REPEVAX™ one month following the first dose of V503.