Stereotactic Radiosurgery and Immunotherapy (Pembrolizumab) for the Treatment of Recurrent Meningioma
This phase II trial studies the effect of stereotactic radiosurgery and pembrolizumab in treating patients with meningioma that has come back (recurrent). Stereotactic radiosurgery is a type of external radiation therapy that uses special equipment to position the patient and precisely give a single large dose of radiation to a tumor. It is used to treat brain tumors and other brain disorders that cannot be treated by regular surgery. Pembrolizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody. An antibody is a common type of protein made in the body in response to a foreign substance. Antibodies attack foreign substances and protect against infection. Antibodies can also be produced in the laboratory for use in treating patients; an antibody that is made in the lab is also known as a humanized monoclonal antibody. Pembrolizumab is a highly selective humanized monoclonal antibody that is designed to block the action of the receptor PD-1. It has been studied in lab experiments and in other types of cancer. The PD-1 receptor works to keep the immune system from noticing tumor cells. The addition of pembrolizumab to stereotactic radiosurgery may improve the progression free survival of patients with meningioma.
Grade I Meningioma, Adult|Grade II Meningioma, Adult|Grade III Meningioma, Adult|Recurrent Meningioma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Percentage of participants with Progression Free Survival at 12 months (PFS12), Percentage of patients who are progression-free at the landmark of 12 months from start of treatment based on the target lesion(s) that are receiving radiation treatment will be reported. Tumor progression will be assessed using Immunotherapy Radiologic Assessment in Neuro-oncology Criteria (iRANO) and defined as \> 25% increase in sum of the products of perpendicular diameters of enhancing lesions (over baseline if no decrease) on stable or increasing doses of corticosteroids and/or a significant increase in T2/FLAIR non-enhancing lesion on stable or increasing doses of corticosteroids compared to baseline scan or best response following initiation of therapy, not due to co-morbid events., Up to 12 months
Median overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of death estimated from the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years|Median progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression using Immunotherapy Radiologic Assessment in Neuro-oncology Criteria (iRANO) or death estimated from the Kaplan-Meier method, and two-sided 95% confidence intervals (CI) will be computed based on the Greenwood's formula., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of stereotactic radiation and pembrolizumab for treatment of recurrent meningioma compared to historical control based on progression free survival at 12 months (PFS12).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess overall survival and further assess progression free survival of stereotactic radiation and pembrolizumab for treatment of recurrent meningioma.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess immune-related tumor effects pembrolizumab treatment in meningioma using magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in conjunction with assessment by Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Criteria (RANO) and Immunotherapy (i)RANO criteria.

II. To assess neurocognitive function and quality of life with pembrolizumab and radiation using the Neurologic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (NANO) Scale, and European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire brain tumour module (QLQ-BN20).

III. To assess safety of the combined treatment modalities in meningioma, through evaluation of grade III adverse events (AEs) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

OUTLINE:

Within -3 to 0 days from the start of stereotactic radiation therapy, patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 22. Cycles repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo stereotactic radiosurgery on day 1 or days 1-5 of cycle 1 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All participants who have completed the first course, or stopped for complete response, may be eligible for up to an additional 17 cycles of pembrolizumab if there is investigator-determined progressive disease by iRANO after initial treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 12 weeks for 2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter for up to 5 years.