Trial of XL092 in Combination With Immunotherapy in Patients Who Progress on Adjuvant Therapy in Clear Cell RCC
The study population for this Phase 2 study will include men and women ≥ 18 with confirmed renal cell carcinoma who have progressed on adjuvant anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy, the current standard of care. Subjects will be randomized to Arm A or Arm B. Study treatment will be given in 28-day (4 week) cycles. Arm A treatment will consist of XL092 alone and will be taken once daily continuously (Day 1-Day 28). Arm B treatment will consist of XL092 plus nivolumab. XL092 will be taken once daily continuously (Day 1-Day 28) and nivolumab will be administered every 4 weeks (Day 1). Treatment will continue until progression by RECIST 1.1, toxicity, or other reasons as appropriate.
Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: XL092|DRUG: Nivolumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with partial response and complete response per RECIST version 1.1 criteria at any time prior to 6 months, 6 months
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Safety and tolerability will be assessed based on the severity and frequency of treatment related Grade 3 or higher adverse events graded by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0)., 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression per RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause (Arm B)., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause (Arm B), 2 years|Duration of Response (DoR), DoR is defined as the time of response (PR or CR) until the time of progression per RECIST or death due to any cause., 2 years
The study population for this Phase 2 study will include men and women ≥ 18 with confirmed renal cell carcinoma who have progressed on adjuvant anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy, the current standard of care. Subjects will be randomized to Arm A or Arm B. Study treatment will be given in 28-day (4 week) cycles. Arm A treatment will consist of XL092 alone and will be taken once daily continuously (Day 1-Day 28). Arm B treatment will consist of XL092 plus nivolumab. XL092 will be taken once daily continuously (Day 1-Day 28) and nivolumab will be administered every 4 weeks (Day 1). Treatment will continue until progression by RECIST 1.1, toxicity, or other reasons as appropriate.