SARC024: A Blanket Protocol to Study Oral Regorafenib in Patients With Selected Sarcoma Subtypes
Although regorafenib was approved for use in patients who had progressive GIST despite imatinib and/or sunitinib on the basis of phase II and phase III data, it has not been examined in a systematic fashion in patients with other forms of sarcoma.

Given the activity of sorafenib, sunitinib and pazopanib in soft tissue sarcomas, and evidence of activity of sorafenib in osteogenic sarcoma and possibly Ewing/Ewing-like sarcoma, there is precedent to examine SMOKIs (small molecule oral kinase inhibitors) such as regorafenib in sarcomas other than GIST. It is also recognized that SMOKIs (small molecule oral kinase inhibitors)such as regorafenib, sorafenib, pazopanib, and sunitinib have overlapping panels of kinases that are inhibited simultaneously. While not equivalent, most of these SMOKIs (small molecule oral kinase inhibitors) block vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet derived growth factors receptors (VEGFRs and PDGFRs), speaking to a common mechanism of action of several of these agents.
Liposarcoma|Osteogenic Sarcoma|Ewing/Ewing-like Sarcoma|Rhabdomyosarcoma|Mesenchymal Chondrosarcoma
DRUG: Regorafenib|DRUG: Placebo
Progression-free Survival (PFS). Cohort A and Cohort B, The progression-free survival is the length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse. Cohort A (liposarcoma) and Cohort B (osteosarcoma). PFS will be evaluated according to RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) 1.1, where a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS). Cohort C, Cohort D, and Cohort E, The progression-free survival is the length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse. Cohort C (Ewing/Ewing-like sarcoma). PFS will be evaluated according to RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) 1.1., up to 16 weeks
The Number of Participants With Reported CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 4.03 Adverse Events. All Cohorts., Common Toxicity Criteria, also referred to as the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), is a standardized classification of side effects used in assessing drugs for cancer therapy. Cohorts A, B, C, and D., up to 3 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR). All Cohorts., The overall response rate (ORR) is the percentage of patients whose cancer shrinks or disappears after treatment. ORR will be evaluated according to RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) 1.1, up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Cohorts A and B, After Crossover., The progression-free survival is the length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse., up to 3 years|Response Rate (RR), Cohorts A and B, After Crossover., The response rate (RR) is the percentage of patients whose cancer shrinks or disappears after treatment., up to 3 years|Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), Cohorts A and B, After Crossover., Time to tumor progression (TTP) is the length of time from the date of diagnosis or the start of treatment for a disease until the disease starts to get worse or spread to other parts of the body., up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS). Cohorts A and B, After Crossover., Overall survival (OS) is the length of time from either the date of diagnosis or the start of treatment for a disease, such as cancer, that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive., up to 3 years|Disease Specific Survival (DSS). Cohorts A and B, After Crossover., Disease-specific survival refers to the percentage of people in a study or treatment group who have not died from a specific disease in a defined period of time., up to 3 years
Although regorafenib was approved for use in patients who had progressive GIST despite imatinib and/or sunitinib on the basis of phase II and phase III data, it has not been examined in a systematic fashion in patients with other forms of sarcoma.

Given the activity of sorafenib, sunitinib and pazopanib in soft tissue sarcomas, and evidence of activity of sorafenib in osteogenic sarcoma and possibly Ewing/Ewing-like sarcoma, there is precedent to examine SMOKIs (small molecule oral kinase inhibitors) such as regorafenib in sarcomas other than GIST. It is also recognized that SMOKIs (small molecule oral kinase inhibitors)such as regorafenib, sorafenib, pazopanib, and sunitinib have overlapping panels of kinases that are inhibited simultaneously. While not equivalent, most of these SMOKIs (small molecule oral kinase inhibitors) block vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet derived growth factors receptors (VEGFRs and PDGFRs), speaking to a common mechanism of action of several of these agents