Efficacy and Safety of Kinesiology Tape Wrapping for Paronychia Induced by Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitors
Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors(EGFRIs) have been applied in several common malignancies including advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Paronychia is one of the most common cutaneous side effects, characterized by inflamed granulation tissue around the nails leading to pain and reduced quality of life. Despite available conventional therapies such as topical beta-blockers or chemical cauterization, some patients still do not respond well. Our previous pilot study suggested that adding Kinesiology tape wrapping to the conventional treatment may effectively improve pain and granulomas in patients with treatment-resistant EGFRI-related paronychia, with good safety. This study aims to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of using Kinesiology tape wrapping as an adjunct to conventional therapy for patients with EGFRI-related paronychia.
Paronychia|Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitor
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Kinesiology tape wrapping|DRUG: Conventional treatment including silver nitrate cauterization
Change in the severity of pain by Numerical Rating Scale, Patients rate the severity of pain over the tender point of the affected big toe on a scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain at all and 10 being the worst pain imaginable., Evaluated at week 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 after the initiation of intervention|Change in the severity of paronychia by the scoring system for paronychia related to oncologic treatments (SPOT), The SPOT evaluates the severity of the affected big toe based on four parameters, including redness, edema, discharge and granulation tissue, each measured on a 4-point scale from 0 to 3 with 0 for no presence of signs and 3 for most severe of lesions. The total score ranges from 0 to 12., Evaluated at week 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 after the initiation of intervention
In this study, eligible patients with paronychia affecting their big toes will be included and randomized to receive a combination of Kinesiology tape wrapping and conventional treatment, or conventional treatment alone for 3 months. Patients are evaluated at baseline, at 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks after the initiation of the treatment. These evaluations will occur at the outpatient department or through phone contact and photos taken by patients if they cannot visit in person. Efficacy endpoints include pain numerical rating scale (NRS) and scoring system for paronychia related to oncologic treatments (SPOT). Besides, any side effects will be recorded at each visit.