Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy Applied After Lymphovenous Anastomosis Surgery
Type of this study: Prospective randomized controlled study. The aim of our study is to compare patients with lymphedema who have undergone lymphovenous anastomosis surgery receiving Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy (CDP), patients with lymphedema who have not undergone surgery who receive Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy, in terms of Extremity Volume, Quality of Life and Patient Satisfaction.

26 volunteers will be included in the study as patients with lymphedema who have undergone lymphovenous anastomosis surgery and KBF (n=13), only KBF (n=13), application groups. How effective is lymphovenous anastomosis surgery and KBF or only CDP acutely in the treatment of lymhedema?
Lymphedema|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy
Tape Measure, Extremity Volume; In calculating the circumference measurements of the lower and upper extremities, the circumference of the healthy and diseased extremities is measured at 4 cm intervals with the help of a tape measure. These circumference measurements (thickest and thinnest circumference measurement values) are then converted to volumetric measurements using the Frustum Formula., 5 months
Lymphedema Function, Disability and Health Questionnaire-Lower Extremity (LYMPH ICF-LL) Scale, Evaluates patients' quality of life related to lymphedema., 5 months|Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), VAS: A 10 cm visual analogue scale was used to evaluate the patients' satisfaction levels with the physiotherapy they received. The same evaluation was repeated before and after treatment. The patient will be asked to mark a field between the highest value of satisfaction level, 10, and the lowest value, "0"., 5 months
Lymphedema (LE) is a chronic and progressive condition that occurs as a result of abnormal accumulation of protein-rich fluid in the interstitial space due to inadequate lymphatic drainage. The gold standard treatment program among physiotherapy applications is the Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy application. It consists of four basic components; Manual Lymph Drainage, Skin Care, Compression Therapy, Therapeutic Exercise. All patients will receive the treatment phase of KBF for 20 sessions, 5 days a week: Treatment; The 45-minute MLD consists of skin care, compression therapy with a short-draft bandage that they will then use for 23 hours a day, decongestive exercises and suggestions to facilitate venous and lymphatic flow. The effect of CDP will be compared in patients who have had lymphovenous anastomosis surgery and those who have not. Quality of life of patients related to lymphedema; Lymphedema Function, Disability and Health Questionnaire-Lower Extremity (LYMPH ICF-LL), satisfaction levels will be evaluated with the Visual analog scale, and the amount of edema will be evaluated with circumference measurement.