Paclitaxel and Carboplatin With Or Without Sorafenib In The First-Line Treatment Of Patients With Ovarian Cancer
This trial will compare the efficacy and toxicity of standard first-line chemotherapy alone vs. standard chemotherapy plus sorafenib in patients with stage III/IV ovarian cancer following cytoreductive surgery. Patients with residual large volume disease and/or bowel involvement will be excluded, to minimize the risk of bowel perforation.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
2-year Progression-free Survival, The proportion of patients with progression-free survival at 2 years. Progression-free survival is measured from Day 1 of study drug administration to disease progression as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, or death on study. Progression is defined in RECIST v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, 2 years
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Number of patients with either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as defined in Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (for patients with measurable disease) or determined by CA-125 levels (for patients without measurable disease). Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions, disappearance of all non-target lesions, and normalization of CA-125 for at least 4 weeks. In patients who have only elevated CA-125, the CA-125 must normalize (\< 23U/mL) for more than 4 weeks. Partial Response: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of longest diameters. For patients with elevated CA-125 only, partial response will be defined as a \> 50% decrease in the serum CA-125 level., 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was measured from the date of study entry until the date of death, 18 months|Toxicity of Paclitaxel/Carboplatin vs. Paclitaxel/Carboplatin/Sorafenib, Number of patients experiencing treatment-related adverse events, 18 months
All patients must be at least 4 weeks from cytoreductive surgery before starting treatment. Patients will be randomized to receive treatment with either paclitaxel/carboplatin + sorafenib or paclitaxel/carboplatin. Paclitaxel/carboplatin will be repeated every 21 days for a maximum of 6 cycles. Patients with objective response/stable disease after completing 6 courses of chemotherapy will continue sorafenib until disease progression or for a total of 12 months.

- Regimen A:

Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 1-3 hour IV infusion, Day 1

Carboplatin AUC 6 infused over 20 minutes IV, Day 1

Sorafenib 400mg PO bid

- Regimen B:

Paclitaxel 175mg/m2, 1-3 hour IV infusion, Day 1

Carboplatin AUC 6.0, 20 minute IV infusion, Day 1