Natural History Study of Cutaneous Neurofibromas in People With NF1
People diagnosed with NF1 may develop cutaneous neurofibromas, also known as cNFs. These benign tumors can cause discomfort and affect a person's quality of life. Researchers at Johns Hopkins are studying how cNF tumors form, grow and change over time. This information may help doctors in the future, provide early interventions and improve quality of life for NF1 patients. Researchers will also explore a new way of monitoring cNF with 3D camera technology. People of all ages with NF1, living in the United States, are invited to participate in this important research study.
Neurofibromatosis Type 1|Neurofibromatosis 1|Neurofibromatosis (Nonmalignant)|Cutaneous Neurofibroma
OTHER: Evaluation of the natural history of cutaneous neurofibromas
Tumor burden of cutaneous neurofibromas in people with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1)., To characterize the baseline tumor burden of cNFs, Baseline|Change in number of cNFs, Change in number of cNFs once per year over five years., Once per year over 5 years
To characterize the genetic variations in the NF1 gene and evaluate potential relations between genotype and phenotype., Using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) to evaluate pathogenic variants in the NF1 gene and their relation to cNF tumor burden, 2 years
The majority of people diagnosed with Neurofibromatosis Type 1 are likely to develop at least one cutaneous neurofibroma-also known as cNF. While benign, these tumors can cause pain, itchiness, disfigurement, and dramatically affect a person's quality of life; and little is known about how it forms and grows. A team of researchers at Johns Hopkins is studying the natural history of cNF to better understand how cNF tumors develop and change over time. This research may help doctors provide early intervention to people at risk of developing cNF, or prevent cNF altogether. And, it will help prioritize future research focused on improving the quality of life for people who have NF1

People of all ages diagnosed with NF1 are invited to participate in this research study. Participants under the age of 18 with parental consent are welcome. Participants will need to provide a saliva sample for genetic testing and NF1 gene identification. Once a year for the next five years, participants will undergo whole-body, 3D imaging. This imaging technology will generate a three-dimensional, digital image with which researchers will monitor changes in cNF over time. It does not use radiation and has no expected side effects.

Participants will need to answer annual health surveys to monitor quality of life, NF1 and cNF symptoms. Participants may also choose to donate blood and tissue samples for future NF research initiatives.

The study is open to anyone with NF1 living in the United States. Annual visits for this study will take place at the Johns Hopkins Outpatient Center in Baltimore, Maryland. There is no cost to the participants, and eligible travel and parking expenses may be reimbursed up to a specified amount. In fact, participants will receive a gift card at the first visit for participating in the study.