Effects of Mobile Medicine on Cancer Patients
With the existing medical system and insufficient medical resources in China, we developed a mini program. a pain management mini app can be useful and appreciated by patients and health care professionals, making it a good choice for the management of cancer pain in our country . our study want to develop and test the mini program for pain management among Chinese cancer patients in or discharged from hospital treatment.
Cancer Pain
BEHAVIORAL: mini program|BEHAVIORAL: conventional pharmaceutical care
Change in pain score, Comparison of pain score of cancer pain patients with or without mini program. Pain score will be assessed by using numeric rating scale (NRS). An NRS allows a person to describe the intensity of his/her pain as a number usually ranging from 0 to 10, where "0" means "no pain" and "10" means pain as "bad as it could be.", Change from baseline at four weeks after discharge
Change in medication adherence, The investigators will measure the change in medication adherence via Morisky Scale. Morisky Scale contains 4 questions, and the total score ranges from 0 to 4 with lower scores indicating higher adherence., Change from baseline at four weeks after discharge|Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be assessed throughout the study according the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (CTCAE) Version 4.0. Number of subjects who experienced an adverse event in this study is presented., Up to four weeks after discharge|Change in quality of life, Comparison of quality of life of cancer pain patients with or without mini program. Quality of life is assessed using EuroQol- 5 Dimension (EQ-5D)., Change from baseline at four weeks after discharge
Healthcare interventions delivered via personal mobile device have been shown to be acceptable to users, who have identified benefits such as convenience, access to personalized information, greater awareness of own health. Integrating mini program into the cancer pain care may be an effective strategy to improve cancer pain patients self-management.

To design, construct, and test the mini program in patients managing cancer pain, evaluate the total remission rate of pain and the improvement in medicine compliance to improve pain management for cancer pain patients, and assess patient acceptance of the mini program.