FMT+Immunotherapy+Chemotherapy As First-line Treatment for Driver-gene Negative Advanced NSCLC
This study plans to reconstruct intestinal microecology through fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), and combine with standard first-line therapy to enhance the anti-tumor immune effect at the same time, thereby extending the progression-free survival of patients and improving the prognosis of patients.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Fecal Microbiota Transplantation (FMT)+chemotherapy+immunotherapy
12-Months Progression-Free Survival Rate (12month-PFS), The proportion of patients whose disease did not progress 12 months after treatment, up to 12 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate will be assessed by investigators., up to 12 months|Median Progression-Free Survival (mPFS), Observation for mPFS will be recorded until the end of follow-up after the start of 1st cycle of treatment., up to 12 months|Incidence of Adverse events (AEs), Therapy-related adverse events will be recorded and assessed according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, Version 5.0)., up to 12 months|Duration of Response (DOR), The time between the first assessment of a tumor as CR or PR and the first assessment as progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause., up to 12 months|The Diversity of Fecal Microbiota, This will be detected by 16s rRNA sequencing or metagenomes., up to 12 months|Quality of Life (QoL), QoL will be evaluated by EORTC-QLQ-C30., up to 12 months
This is a prospective, single-arm, multi-center, exploratory clinical study. That is, eligible patients with driver-gene negative, ECOG PS 0-1, PD-L1\<50% advanced non-small cell lung cancer who have not received prior treatment will be screened after signing informed consent and receive FMT combined with tislelizumab + pemetrexed + platinum-based treatment (lung adenocarcinoma) / albumin-bound paclitaxel + platinum-based treatment (lung squamous cell carcinoma) for 4-6 cycles. If there is no progression of the disease after 4-6 cycles of the first-line treatment, then patients will enter the maintenance treatment stage. Patients will receive tislelizumab maintenance treatment (lung squamous cell carcinoma), or tislelizumab + pemetrexed maintenance treatment (lung adenocarcinoma). RECIST v1.1 was used for tumor evaluation every 6 weeks during treatment. NCI-CTCAE 5.0 was used for safety assessment every 3 weeks. Adverse events were recorded throughout the study to 30 days after the end of treatment. Treatment continues until disease progression, subject withdraws informed consent, loss of follow-up, or death. Patients should provide 10ml whole blood samples and fecal samples at baseline, after two cycles of treatment, before maintenance treatment, and after two cycles of maintenance treatment for the detection of efficacy prediction markers (each cycle is 21 days).