A Study of Mitomycin C, Irinotecan, and Cetuximab
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the more common cancers in the United States with over 145,000 new cases expected in 2005. Surgery is the main treatment for CRC. However for some who relapse after surgery, or are unable to have surgery, chemotherapy is the primary treatment for this more advanced CRC. Some chemotherapy drugs are given to the patient by themselves, but many are given in combination with other chemotherapy treatment drugs and they seem to work better together than by themselves. This study will investigate the effectiveness of the combination of three chemotherapy drugs in patients who have been previously treated for their CRC and it has returned. This study will also evaluate any rash that is associated with the drug Cetuximab. The three therapy drugs are Mitomycin C, Irinotecan, and Cetuximab.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Mitomycin C|DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Irinotecan.
Percentage of Patients With an Objective Response, The primary objective of this single-arm phase II study is to determine the response rate (Percentage patients with Complete Response (CR) + Percentage of patients with Partial Response (PR)) for the combination of mitomycin C, irinotecan, and cetuximab in metastatic colorectal cancer with wild type K-Ras. Complete response will be defined as the disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease for at least 4 weeks without the appearance of new lesions. Partial response will be defined as a decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions by at least 30% for at least 4 weeks without the appearance of any new lesions., 2 months
Proportion of Patients Experiencing Hematologic and Non-hematologic Adverse Events, The proportion of patients experiencing hematological and non-hematological toxicities will be summarized., 2 months
We propose a phase II trial which combines mitomycin C, irinotecan and cetuximab in patients with previously treated metastatic colorectal cancer with wild type non mutated K-Ras. The goals of this investigation are to develop an effective systemic therapy for previously treated patients with CRC with wild type K-Ras, to further explore the relationship of mitomycin C induced topoisomerase 1 gene expression and response to irinotecan, and to define and characterize the biology of cetuximab induced skin rash.