Biomarkers in Tissue Samples From Patients With Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer Treated With Zoledronic Acid
This pilot clinical trial studies biomarkers in tissue samples from patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer treated with zoledronic acid (ZA). Studying samples of tumor tissue in the laboratory from patients receiving ZA may help doctors learn more about the effects of ZA on cells. It may also help doctors understand how well patients respond to treatment.
Estrogen Receptor-positive Breast Cancer|Invasive Ductal Breast Carcinoma|Progesterone Receptor-positive Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer
DRUG: zoledronic acid|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Mean (SE) Change From Pre-Treatment Baseline in (Log)pg/mL of Biomarker, by Time, Adjusted for Level at Baseline, After the trial's premature closure, no data were collected for the primary endpoints; however, data on 14 of 30 secondary endpoints were obtained and are summarized below. Serum level (pg/mL) per biomarker was log-transformed. Change from baseline over time was evaluated using a generalized linear mixed model where follow-up time was represented by terms for the sequence of post-baseline samples or for (log)day on study. To recognize regression to the mean across repeated samples, a term for biomarker level at baseline, with or without interaction by time, was included when it improved the model's fit to the observed data. With 14 biomarkers sampled twice after baseline, there were 28 evaluations of change in biomarker level with exposure to study drug. Therefore, to control the False Discovery Rate (FDR), only evaluations that maintained the study's FDR at no more than 5 percent were accepted as true., "48-72 hrs" and "Surgery (10-23 days)"
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate 14 tumor biomarkers of growth and metastasis (10 by microarray and 4 by RT-PCR) for change in response to ZA.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate 30 measures of immunologic function (by Luminex panel) for change in response to ZA a) after 48-72 hours and b) after 10-23 days.

II. To explore additional tumors biomarkers (approximately 20 by immunohistochemistry) for change in response to ZA.

OUTLINE: Patients receive zoledronic acid intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes on day 1. Patients then undergo planned definitive surgery (lumpectomy or mastectomy) on day 10-23. Tissue and blood samples from the initial biopsy and definitive surgery are collected to measure changes in biomarkers of tumor growth and metastasis, immunologic function, and the expression of genes important to breast cancer progression and metastasis.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 40-44 days.