Rituximab With or Without Ibrutinib for Patients With Advanced Follicular Lymphoma
Follicular lymphomas FL has been traditionally approached either by an initial watch and wait policy in the asymptomatic patient, or with single agent treatments with the purpose of maintaining a good quality of life for a prolonged time.The combination of rituximab and ibrutinib has been tested in clinical trials and appeared to be well tolerated and active. Since ibrutinib seems to achieve better results when administered for prolonged time as shown in CLL, the investigators have chosen to compare its combination with rituximab to the prolonged rituximab-only schedule that was already shown to be very active in the SAKK 35/03 trial.

The aim of the study is to investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the treatment combination of Ibrutinib and Rituximab for patients with advanced follicular lymphoma in need of therapy.
Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Rituximab
CR at 24 months determined by PET/CT scan by the IRR panel, The evaluation of CR is outlined according to Cheson Criteria.. Any assessment within a window of week 102 to week 118 (inclusive) will be considered as the 24 months response assessment for determining the CR status. In addition, the CR status will be determined as follows for these specific cases:, at 24 months
CR at 30 months determined by PET/CT scan by the IRR panel, at 30 months|MRD evaluation, MRD evaluation will be performed using real-time PCR (polymerase chain reaction) based methods in peripheral blood and bone marrow at baseline and week 106. The proportion of patients achieving MRD negativity will be calculated for each time point of interest., baseline and week 106|Overall response (OR), OR is defined as either:

* the disappearance of all evidence of disease (CR)
* the regression of measurable disease with no new sites (PR), at 24 weeks|Duration of complete response (DUR), The duration of CR will be calculated from when the criteria for CR are met, until documentation of relapse thereafter. Only patients with a CR will be included in this analysis., at 12 or 24 weeks or thereafter|Progression-free survival (PFS) (PFS), PFS will be calculated from randomization until the first event of interest:

* disease progression or relapse according to criteria of Cheson et al. 2014
* death from any cause, at 12 or 24 weeks or thereafter|Event-free survival (EFS), Event-free survival (time to treatment failure) will be calculated from randomization to premature discontinuation of trial treatment for any reason (e.g., insufficient response at first or second restaging at 12 or 24 weeks or at the third assessment at 52 weeks, disease progression, toxicity, patient preference, initiation of new treatment without documented progression, secondary malignancy or death)., 12, 24 or 52 weeks|Time to next anti-lymphoma therapy (TTNT), This will be calculated from randomization until the start of the first off-trial anti-lymphoma treatment. Patients not receiving any off-trial anti-lymphoma treatment will be censored at the last follow-up visit., at 12 or 24 weeks or thereafter|Adverse Events (AEs), AEs will be evaluated using the NCI CTCAE v4.0, record throughout treatment phase (until 30 days after last drug administration)
Follicular lymphomas FL has been traditionally approached either by an initial watch and wait policy in the asymptomatic patient, or with single agent treatments with the purpose of maintaining a good quality of life for a prolonged time.

During the last decades, treatment strategies have changed due to the continuous development and introduction of novel therapeutic approaches (including immunotherapy with interferon-alpha or monoclonal antibodies, the combination of immunotherapy with chemotherapy, and radioimmunotherapy with radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies).

For the asymptomatic patients with advanced-stage, but low tumor burden, randomized studies have confirmed that systemic treatment can be deferred until development of symptoms or organ failure (which generally occurred within 2-3 years from diagnosis) without any overall survival impairment and a watchful waiting policy has long remained a widely accepted approach.

For the symptomatic patients with more advanced tumor burden, in need of initial treatment, the combination of rituximab and chemotherapy, possibly followed by rituximab maintenance became a new standard in many countries.

In this setting of a chemotherapy-free strategy, the clinical study of rituximab combinations with other immunotherapies or with novel targeted agents is obvious relevant. Promising results have also been reported with the combination of rituximab and lenalidomide.

The combination of rituximab and ibrutinib has been tested in clinical trials and appeared to be well tolerated and active. Since ibrutinib seems to achieve better results when administered for prolonged time as shown in CLL, the investigators have chosen to compare its combination with rituximab to the prolonged rituximab-only schedule that was already shown to be very active in the SAKK 35/03 trial.

SAKK has a long tradition in treatment of FL patients with chemotherapy-free treatment based on rituximab. This is a worldwide special situation, which creates cooperation between important partners for clinical trials in this area.

The aim of the study is to investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the treatment combination of Ibrutinib and Rituximab for patients with advanced follicular lymphoma in need of therapy.