Study To Establish Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Cyberknife in Patients With Un-Resectable Pancreas Cancer (TL002)
This study is looking at determining the maximum safe dose of CyberKnife when given with chemotherapy for unresectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.
Pancreas Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Pancreas Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|RADIATION: CyberKnife
Maximum tolerable dose, This study is to evaluate the MTD for Cyberknife when given in conjunction with Gemcitabine and Abraxane., 4-7 months
overall survival, 6 months, 1 year, 5 years|Tumor response per RECIST 1.1, 4 months, 6 months, 1 year|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 2 months, 6 months, 1 year|quality of life, 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, 1 year
The purpose of this study is to determine the MTD for radiosurgery in the treatment of unresectable pancreas cancer, this MTD can then be used in future phase II or III studies. In terms of starting dose for the phase I study, based on the low toxicity seen in the Moffitt study we feel that 30 Gy in five fractions will be a successful starting dose.

Most of the data in unresectable is derived from patients in the metastatic setting in terms of chemotherapy agents. There have been two major studies that looked at various chemotherapy regimens versus the previous standard of care Gemzar. One study found improved survival with FOLFIRINOX and a second found that the combination of nab-paclitaxel and gemzar were superior to gemzar alone. Thus, the current standard of care for metastatic pancreas cancer (in which a local therapy like radiation has more limited role) is either FOLFIRINOX or gemzar and nab-paclitaxel. While there is some discussion of a randomized study comparing FOLFIRINOX and gemzar combined with nab-paclitaxel such a study has not started as of this time and it is unclear how much interest there would be in accruing to this study. Therefore the exact best chemotherapy regimen for metastatic disease is unclear but is either FOLFIRIONX or gemzar-nab-paclitaxel. The chemotherapy regimens for unresectable cancer are extrapolated from the metastatic setting, per NCCN guidelines any chemotherapy regimen approved for metastatic disease is reasonable to use in unresectable pancreas cancer. Thus for purpose of this study we have chosen one of the two chemotherapy regimens that have shown the best results in the metastatic setting, since there is no way to determine the exact best regimen we have chosen gemzar and nab-paclitaxel since it is felt that this is a less toxic regimen as compared to FOLFIRINOX.