Comparison of the Sensitivity and Specificity of Acoustic Angiography to the Sensitivity and Specificity of Conventional Ultrasound
Purpose: This study will evaluate a new ultrasound imaging technology called acoustic angiography. Acoustic angiography uses an ultrasound contrast agent, already FDA approved for use in cardiology, to enhance imaging of blood vessels. Since acoustic angiography uses ultrasound, and not x-rays, the patient is not exposed to ionizing radiation, unlike traditional angiography and mammography. Specific goals will be to evaluate the quality of the images provided by acoustic angiography in the human breast, and furthermore to evaluate whether or not acoustic angiography provides additional diagnostic information over traditional ultrasound which could provide an improvement in assessing breast lesions. Specifically, this additional diagnostic information will hopefully enable us to reduce false positive tests and discriminate lethal cancers from non-lethal disease.

Participants: The investigators are recruiting 60 patients from the UNC Breast Clinic who are undergoing core needle biopsy or surgical biopsy (BIRADS 4 and 5 breast lesions).

Procedures (methods): Acoustic Angiography imaging will be performed in conjunction with standard diagnostic imaging, including b-mode ultrasound . Then, a reader study will be conducted to compare these modalities. Finally, the images will be analyzed with image processing techniques to determine quantitative metrics exhibited by the blood vessel morphology in the images. These metrics will be utilized to develop a "malignancy score" equation to predict malignancy of a lesion.
Signs and Symptoms
DEVICE: Acoustic Angiography
Sensitivity and Specificity (Percentage), To compare (using a reader study) the sensitivity and specificity of acoustic angiography to the sensitivity and specificity of conventional b-mode ultrasound in evaluation of breast lesions, 1.5 years
Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Acoustic Angiography, The AUC of acoustic angiography compared to the AUC of b-mode ultrasound, 1.5 years|Radiologist Preference, To compare radiologist preference of acoustic angiography to conventional b-mode ultrasound for each lesion characteristic (shape, margins and vascularity), 1.5 years|Vessel Tortuosity (No Units), To quantify vessel tortuosity metrics for the acoustic angiograph images, and to use these metrics to develop a model for predicting malignancy (a model-based malignancy score), 1.5 years|Model-based Malignancy Score (Arbitrary Units), To compare the model-based malignancy score to the acoustic angiography reader study, 1.5 years
Increasing the sensitivity and specificity of diagnostic imaging in patients at high risk for breast cancer could provide substantial clinical benefit by improving diagnosis, preventing over-treatment, and reducing healthcare costs. Acoustic angiography is a new type of contrast enhanced ultrasound imaging which is specifically sensitive to microvascular structure and density. It evaluates tumor micro-vasculature and may provide a powerful prognostic tool for the diagnosis of breast cancer, and eventually for treatment evaluation.

Sixty patients who are to have a clinical surgical breast biopsy based on results from pre-study standard of care (SOC) imaging will be recruited from the UNC Breast Clinic for participation in the study. The primary objective of this single arm study is to compare the sensitivity and specificity of acoustic angiography with traditional b-mode ultrasound in the distinction of malignant versus benign breast lesions. Secondary objectives include a comparison of area under the curve (AUC) for acoustic angiography versus b-mode ultrasound, comparison of radiologist preference for the two imaging techniques for each of 3 lesion characteristics, and quantification of vessel tortuosity based on acoustic angiography imaging results. These metrics will be used to develop a predictive model of malignancy which will subsequently be compared to results from radiology review.