Phase 1-2 Study of Onapristone in Patients With Progesterone Receptor Expressing Cancers
This is a multi-center, open-label, randomized, parallel group two-stage phase 1 study with a phase 2 expansion component in pts with recurrent or metastatic APRpos uterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma. Stage 1: Six dose cohorts, 5 using the extended release tablet (ER) formulation (10 mg BID, 20 mg BID, 30 mg BID, 40 mg BID, 50 mg BID) and 1 using the immediate-release (IR) tablet formulation 100 mg QD will be randomized in parallel. After enrollment of 36 patients in Stage 1, a dose of 50 mg BID was determined to be the RP2D. Stage 2: An additional 10 patients with recurrent or metastatic APRpos uterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma (Stage 2a) will be enrolled at the RP2D. Based on the response in Stage 2a, the cohort will be further expanded by up to 19 more patients to a total of 29 patients to confirm the efficacy and safety profile of onapristone in this selected patient population (Stage 2b).
Progesterone Receptor Positive Tumor: Max 1 Line of Prior Chemotherapy, no Prior Hormone Therapy
DRUG: onapristone
Stage 1: RP2D of a single agent extended-release tablet formulation of oral onapristone for future clinical development., Baseline to 57 days post-first dose|Stage 2: ORR using RECIST 1.1 in 10-29 patients with recurrent or metastatic uterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma that is APRpos, and to determine the relationship between APR status and onapristone anti-tumor activity., Baseline to 30 Days after last dose
Safety and tolerability of extended-release onapristone tablets BID and of immediate-release onapristone tablets QD, Safety will be assessed by physical exam, vital signs, monitoring of adverse events, changes in ECG, and other clinical laboratory values, Baseline to 30 Days after last dose|Comparison of safety of extended-release BID vs. immediate release QD schedules, Safety will be assessed by physical exam, vital signs, monitoring of adverse events, changes in ECG, and other clinical laboratory values, Baseline to 30 Days after last dose|Anti-tumor activity based on tumor assessments (RECIST 1.1) and dates of progression, Baseline to 30 Days after last dose|PK of onapristone, mono-demethylated onapristone and other metabolites in plasma and urine, AUC, Cmax, Tmax, t1/2, Baseline to 30 Days after last dose
This is a multi-center, open-label, randomized, parallel group two-stage phase 1 study with a phase 2 expansion component in pts with recurrent or metastatic APRpos uterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma. Stage 1: Six dose cohorts, 5 using the extended release tablet (ER) formulation (10 mg BID, 20 mg BID, 30 mg BID, 40 mg BID, 50 mg BID) and 1 using the immediate-release (IR) tablet formulation 100 mg QD will be randomized in parallel. After enrollment of 36 patients in Stage 1, a dose of 50 mg BID was determined to be the RP2D. Stage 2: An additional 10 patients with recurrent or metastatic APRpos uterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma (Stage 2a) will be enrolled at the RP2D. Based on the response in Stage 2a, the cohort will be further expanded by up to 19 more patients to a total of 29 patients to confirm the efficacy and safety profile of onapristone in this selected patient population (Stage 2b).