Dasatinib in Combination With Melphalan and Prednisone to Treat Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma Patients
Clinically demonstrated efficacy of Melphalan and Prednisone in MM subjects as well as the confirmed inhibitory effect of dasatinib on several tyrosine kinase receptors and pathways implicated in the pathophysiology of MM. Additionally, as a SRC inhibitor, dasatinib plays an important role on bone metabolism through inhibition of osteoclast-mediated bone resorption in vitro. Dasatinib could, thus, be beneficial on bone density of patients on study, through blockage of osteolysis and control of bone lesions.
Myeloma
DRUG: dasatinib|DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: prednisone
Partial response rate is a primary study endpoint., Evaluation of tumor status will be conducted at screening and anti-tumor treatment efficacy will be assessed at every cycle according to the International Uniform Criteria for Response in MM.

Safety and tolerability are a co-primary endpoint: incidence of grade 3-4 toxicities will support the decision to move to stage 2, together with PR rate once all the patients accrued to the first stage are evaluable., 4 years
Secondary objectives are progression-free survival and overall survival, 4 years
Primary Objective: To determine whether the combination of dasatinib with melphalan and prednisone provides therapeutic benefits and is safe in patients with relapsed/refractory Multiple Myeloma.

Study design, dose and mode of administration, and duration of treatment: Multicenter, open-label, single arm, two-stage, Phase II study of dasatinib in combination with melphalan and prednisone (D-MP) in advanced, refractory MM patients. The three drugs will be concurrently administered through 6 cycles; each cycle will be 28 days long (1 cycle = 4 weeks), for a total of 24 weeks of treatment. The treatment schedule will be the following:

* Melphalan 0,18 mg/Kg/day from day 1 to day 4 for 6 cycles;
* Prednisone 1,5 mg/Kg/day from day 1 to day 4 for 6 cycles;
* Dasatinib 100 mg QD continuously (from day 1 to day 28). After the 6 cycles of D-MP treatment, Dasatinib will be continuously administered alone as maintenance, until occurrence of progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity or informed consent withdrawal.

This is a two-stage Phase II trial according to Simon with a bivariate endpoint design, by which treatment efficacy and safety are jointly evaluated. This design allows the trial to be early stopped after the first stage if the number of observed partial responses (PR) is inadequate and the number of observed toxicities is too high. In the first stage of the protocol 17 patients are required.