Immunevasion of Human Papillomavirus (HPV) in Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia 2/3 and Anogenital Warts and Efficiency and Mechanisms of Imiquimod Treatment
The occurance and clinical course of human papillomavirus (HPV)-induced lesions is largely determined by the nature of the cellular immune defense generated. Even tough both genital warts and vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) are HPV-associated genital lesions they differ in their risk of malignant progression. Imiquimod (IMQ) is a topically applied Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 agonist that has been approved for the treatment of superficial (pre-) carcinomas of the skin (basal cell carcinomas, actinic keratosis) and HPV-associated lesions (genital warts). It acts by activation of the immune system exerting anti-tumor and anti-viral properties. The aim of the study is to evaluate the mechanisms of IMQ treatment and to analyze the differences in HPV-affected and non affected tissue at cellular and molecular level as determined by immunofluorescence stainings and real time PCR, respectively.
HPV
DRUG: Imiquimod
Analysis of Cellular and Molecular Mechanisms of Imiquimod tretament and differences in HPV afeected and non affected tissue at cellular and molecular level, 16 weeks
Proportion of histological and clinical response to therapy after 16 weeks of IMQ therapy, 16 weeks
The occurance and clinical course of human papillomavirus (HPV)-induced lesions is largely determined by the nature of the cellular immune defense generated. Even tough both genital warts and vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) are HPV-associated genital lesions they differ in their risk of malignant progression. Imiquimod (IMQ) is a topically applied Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 agonist that has been approved for the treatment of superficial (pre-) carcinomas of the skin (basal cell carcinomas, actinic keratosis) and HPV-associated lesions (genital warts). It acts by activation of the immune system exerting anti-tumor and anti-viral properties. The aim of the study is to evaluate the mechanisms of IMQ treatment and to analyze the differences in HPV-affected and non affected tissue at cellular and molecular level as determined by immunofluorescence stainings and real time PCR, respectively.