Neoadjuvant PD-1 Antibody Alone or Combined With DC Vaccines for Recurrent Glioblastoma
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) are the most prevalent malignant tumor in central nervous system. At recurrence, no clear standard-of-care therapy is agreed for recurrent GBM (rGBM) and median overall survival is estimated to rarely exceed 6-9 months with effective therapies. Neoadjuvant therapy with anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibodies were confirmed to be helpful to extend survival in rGBM. Vaccine, dendritic cells (DCs) pulsed with glioblastoma stem-like cell (GSC) antigens (GSC-DCV), could extend survival for GBM patients in our previous clinical study (PMID: 30159779). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficiency of using the neoadjuvant therapy with PD-1 antibody (Carilizumab) plus DC vaccine (GSC-DCV) in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.
Recurrent Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Camrelizumab plus GSC-DCV|BIOLOGICAL: Camrelizumab plus Placebo
Overall survival (OS), Time from enrollment to the dates of death from any cause or last follow up reported, 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Time from enrollment to the dates of disease progression, death from any cause or last tumor assessment reported between date of first patient enrollment, 12 months
Number of treatment-related adverse events, Toxicity assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, 12 months|Treatment Responses Rate, Response rate assessed by immunotherapy Response Assessment for Neuro-Oncology (iRANO) criteria, 6 months
Exploratory biomarkers, To investigate the association between biomarkers and clinical outcomes using diverse biospecimen based on the next generation sequencing, including ctDNA, TIL (tumor infiltrating lymphocyte) density and TCR (T cell receptor) Clonality, gene expression signature, genomic mutation, microbial bacteria and so on., 24 months
This is a phase II randomized controlled clinical study. The purpose of this research is to study the safety and efficacy of Camrelizumab alone or combined with GSC-DCV vaccines in treating patients with recurrent glioblastomas. The participants will be randomly assigned into two group. Patients in group A will receive neoadjuvant Camrelizumab (PD-1 antibody), followed by surgical resection, DC vaccines and further PD-1 inhibitor treatment until toxicity or progression. Patients in group B will receive neoadjuvant Camrelizumab (PD-1 antibody), followed by surgical resection, placebo and further PD-1 inhibitor treatment until toxicity or progression. Furthermore, to evaluate the associations between exploratory biomarkers, clinical outcomes, and adverse events based on the next generation sequencing.