The Use of 18F-ALF-NOTA-PRGD2 PET/CT Scan to Predict the Efficacy and Adverse Events of Apatinib in Malignancies.
This is an open-label, single arm study to explore whether 18F-ALF-NOTA-PRGD2 PET/CT scan can predict the efficacy and adverse events of apatinib in patients with malignancies.

Integrin αvβ3 has been shown to play an important role in angiogenesis and up-regulated obviously in various types of tumor cells and activated endothelial cells. The arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) tripeptide sequence can bind to integrin αvβ3 with high affinity and specificity. The 18F-ALF-NOTA-PRGD2 will highly combine with αvβ3, and thus will monitor the antiangiogenic status.In the current study, investigators propose to evaluate the feasibility of 18F-RGD PET/CT in monitoring efficacy and adverse events of apatinib in malignancies.
Malignancies|Stomach Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Esophageal Cancer|Breast Cancer|Ovary Cancer|Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Apatinib
Tumor response defined by RECIST criteria, Tumor response will be evaluated as complete response or partial response or stable disease or PD according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria., At 1 month of the study
Days from the start of therapy to disease progression or death due to any cause, Progression free survival (evaluated by RECIST criteria), defined as the interval from start of therapy to investigator-assessed progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first or lost of follow-up., At 6 months of the study|Days from the start of therapy to death due to any cause, Overall survival is the time interval from the start of therapy to death due to any reason or lost of follow-up., Up to 12 months|Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events （CTCAE）, Through study completion, an average of 6 months
This is an open-label, single arm study to explore whether 18F-ALF-NOTA-PRGD2 positron emission tomography/computed tomography (18F-RGD PET/CT) scan can predict the efficacy and adverse events of apatinib in patients with malignancies.

Angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels, is the process of generating neovascularization from preexisting vessels. It can promote tumor growth and metastasis by providing nutrients and oxygen. Integrin αvβ3 has been shown to play an important role in angiogenesis and up-regulated obviously in various types of tumor cells and activated endothelial cells. Since the arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) tripeptide sequence can bind to integrin αvβ3 with high affinity and specificity, RGD PET/CT may be helpful to evaluate the biological and metabolic activity status during angiogenesis. However, 18F-ALF-NOTA-PRGD2 PET/CT as response biomarker for antiangiogenic therapy has not been fully proved and is still without universal understanding according to current publications. Apatinib (YN968D1) is the first orally antiangiogenic drug targeting VEGFR-2 tyrosine kinase.In the current study, investigators propose to evaluate the feasibility of 18F-RGD PET/CT in monitoring efficacy and adverse events of apatinib in malignancies. Patients confirmed malignancies histopathologically will be prospectively enrolled in the study. All patients provided written informed consent prior to enrollment. Patients will receive apatinib therapy, and undergo 18F-RGD PET/CT scans berore and after first cycle of therapy.