Pyrotinib Maleate, CDK4/6 Inhibitor and Letrozole in Combination for Stage II-III TPBC: a Phase II Trial
The emergence of CDK4/6 inhibitors has brought hope to breast cancer patients resistant to endocrine therapy. In the mouse model, pyrotinib maleate combined with CDK4/6 inhibitor exhibits higher anti-tumor activity than any anti-tumor drug alone. Moreover, the toxicity of the combined therapy does not increase compared with monotherapy. This provides a good preclinical model for the treatment of breast cancer by pyrotinib maleate combined with CDK4/6 inhibitor. Based on above, it is hypothesized that pyrotinib maleate, CDK4/6 inhibitor SHR6390 and aromatase inhibitor letrozole in combination can provide a better neoadjuvant strategy for stage II-III triple-positive breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pyrotinib maleate, SHR6390, letrozole
Total pathological complete response (tpCR), tpCR is defined as the absence of residual invasive cancer on resected breast specimen and the sampled regional lymph nodes as shown by hematoxylin-eosin staining after completion of the neoadjuvant treatment., 1 month to 5 years after surgery
Best overall response rate (BORR), The proportion of patients who respond to the treatment at any study time point, During neoadjuvant treatment (1-5 months of treatment)|Residual cancer burden (RCB), RCB score is obtained according to pathological evaluation after completion of neoadjuvant treatment and surgery, 1 month to 5 years after surgery|Change From Baseline of Functional Scales, Symptom Scales and Single Items in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30 (QLQ-C30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 included global health status, functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social), symptom scales (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, and pain) and single items (dyspnoea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most questions used a 4-point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'; 2 questions used 7-point scale \[1 'very poor' to 7 'Excellent'\]). Scores were averaged and transformed to 0 - 100 scale, whereby higher scores indicate greater functioning, greater quality of life, or a greater degree of symptoms, with changes of 5 - 10 points considered to be a minimally important difference to participants. A positive value means an increase, while a negative value means a decrease, in score at the indicated time-point(the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, and before the surgery) relative to the score at baseline ., Baseline, the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, and before the surgery|Change From Baseline of Four Functioning Scales and Four Symptom Scales in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire - Breast Cancer (QLQ-BR23), EORTC-QLQ-BR23 is a 23-item breast cancer-specific companion module to the EORTC-QLQ-C30 and consists of four functional scales (body image, sexual enjoyment, sexual functioning, future perspective \[FP\]) and four symptom scales (systemic side effects \[SE\], upset by hair loss, arm symptoms, breast symptoms). Questions used 4-point scale (1=not at all, 2=a little, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). Scores averaged and transformed to 0-100 scale. High score for functional scale indicated high/better level of functioning/healthy functioning. Higher scores for symptom scales represent higher levels of symptoms/problems. For functional scales, positive change from baseline indicated deterioration in quality of life (QOL) and negative change from baseline indicated an improvement in QOL. For symptom scales, positive change from baseline indicated an improvement in quality of life (QOL) and negative change from baseline indicated a deterioration in QOL., Baseline, the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, and before the surgery
Overall survival (OS), It refers to the length of time from the start of treatment to the death of the patient., Within 5 years after surgery|Disease-free survival (DFS), It refers to the length of time from the start of medication after enrollment to the death of the patient because of the recurrence, distant metastasis of the disease, invasive contralateral breast cancer, or any other cause., Within 5 years after surgery
This single-center, single-arm, open-label trial will include 89 patients with stage II-III triple-positive breast cancer (Simon's two-stage design). After providing written informed consent, the participants will undergo combined treatment of pyrotinib maleate, CDK4/6 inhibitor SHR6390, and letrozole. The effectiveness of the combined treatment will be evaluated by MRI every two treatment cycles. If the disease progresses, the participant will withdraw from the trial. If the combined treatment has identified effectiveness, the participant will undergo surgical treatment within 4 weeks (over 2 weeks) after termination of the neoadjuvant treatment. The patients will be followed up for 5 years.