A Comparative Study Between Regional Anesthesia in Thoracoscopes and the Conventional General Anesthesia
Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) is usually performed with general anesthesia and single lung ventilation. However, performing thoracic surgery under awake regional anesthesia has several potential advantages including avoidance of airway trauma and ventilator dependence associated with endotracheal intubation, besides promoting enhanced recovery after surgery and shorter mean hospital stay.
Pleural Effusion, Malignant|Pleural Mesothelioma|Pleural Empyema|Pulmonary Diseases or Conditions|Pleural Neoplasms|Pulmonary Atelectasis|Pleural Diseases|Pericardial Effusion|Mediastinal Lymphadenopathy|Pneumothorax and Air Leak|Hemothorax|Pyopneumothorax
PROCEDURE: Thoracic Epidural Anesthesia|PROCEDURE: General Anesthesia with One Lung Ventilation
Perioperative changes in blood gases, Ratio of arterial oxygen tension to fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO2/FiO2), arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2). Hypoxemia is defined as peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) \&lt; 92% on room air with a need for oxygen supplementation., Imediately before operation, intraoperatively per hour, and postoperatively till 24 hours
Postoperative pain, The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) consists of a 10 cm straight line with the endpoints defining extreme limits of "no pain at all" (0 cm) and "pain as bad as it could be" (10 cm). The patient is asked to mark his pain level on the line between the two endpoints. The distance between 0 and the mark then defines the subject pain score., Postoperatively at 3,12 and 24 hours|Postoperative opioid needs, Pethidine consumption, Postoperatively during the 24 hours after regaining sensation|Hospital stay, from day of operation to discharge; average, 5 days|Perioperative changes in heart rate, heart rate (HR) in beats per minute (bpm), Immediately before the operation, intraoperatively per hour, and postoperatively till 24 hours|The onset of ambulance., Rate of occurence of falling after ambulance will be recorded in each group., During the 24 hours after regaining of full motor power|Number of episodes of Post Operative Nausea and Vomiting (PONV), During the 24 hours postoperatively|Perioperative changes in mean arterial pressure, mean arterial pressure (MAP) in mmHg, Immediately before the operation, intraoperatively per hour, and postoperatively till 24 hours
The aim of this study is to investigate the feasibility and the effect of Thoracic Epidural Anaesthesia for awake thoracic surgery to speed up recovery in patients as well as avoiding the complications accompanying General Anesthesia with one lung ventilation.

Type of Study: Prospective randomized clinical study. Study Setting: This study will be conducted in Ain Shams University Hospitals..

Study Period: Expected for two years starting from 2019.

Sampling Method: Randomized sampling by a computer generated random numbers table.

Sample Size: 40 patients. Sample size was calculated using PASS 11 program for sample size calculation and according to the (Pompeo et al., 2004) study, the mean PaO2 perioperatively in the awake group = -3±1.5 mmHg and in the second group = -6.5±1.83 mmHg. Sample size of 40 cases per group (total 40) can detect this difference with power 100% and α-error 0.05.