REACTION (Radiation Enhanced Assessment of Combination Therapies in Immuno-ONcology) - Nivolumab or Nivolumab in Combination With Other Immuno-oncology (IO) Agents After Targeted Systemic Radiation in Patients With Advanced Esophagogastric Cancer
This is a Phase 1B study assessing the safety of immune checkpoint inhibition after SBRT in patients with recurrent or metastatic gastroesophageal cancer (limited metastatic disease).
Gastroesophageal Cancer|Immune Checkpoint Inhibition
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Relatlimab
Change in the infiltrating CD8+ T cell density units after systemic treatment with radiation plus nivolumab +/- Relatlimib, Change in the infiltrating CD8+ T cell density units pre- and post-systemic treatment with radiation plus nivolumab +/- Relatlimib in the non-irradiated metastatic lesion., 5 years
Safety profile of nivolumab +/- Relatlimib plus systemic radiation as determined by number of drug-related adverse events, Number of drug-related adverse events Grade 3 or higher as defined by CTCAE 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0)., 5 years|Efficacy of PD-1 inhibition +/- Relatlimib as determined by number of participants without evidence of disease progression, 3 months post targeted radiation
This is a Phase 1B study assessing the safety of immune checkpoint inhibition after SBRT in patients with recurrent or metastatic gastroesophageal cancer (limited metastatic disease). Arm A explores the safety and efficacy of nivolumab alone, and Arm B explores the safety and efficacy of nivolumab plus Relatlimib. Patients with recurrent or metastatic esophagogastric cancer are eligible for this study which will enroll patients with limited disease burden and who are Programmed death-1(PD-1) therapy naïve. This will allow for us to assess if systemic ablative radiation (SBRT to multiple metastatic sites plus PD-1/ anti-LAG3) is able to enhance the effectiveness of nivolumab +/- anti-LAG3 or to overcome treatment resistance mechanisms. Patients will be treated with targeted high dose radiation (SBRT) to metastatic lesions as outlined below. One of the lesions which is considered the easiest to biopsy and not causing symptoms will not be radiated so as to obtain tissue for correlative analysis. This lesion will then be re-biopsied approx. 4 weeks after the completion of radiation to the other metastatic sites. If a lesion is causing pain or other symptoms this site will not be chosen as the biopsiable site. The chosen metastatic lesion can then be irradiated at a later date if we do not see disease response in that region. Approximately 21 patients will be enrolled on study with 6 enrolled on Arm A, and 15 enrolled on Arm B.