Exercise As Intervention in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
PURPOSE: The purpose of the study is to determine the effects of 16-weeks of exercise training, as measured by aerobic capacity, strength and physical function, and body composition, in patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL).

DESIGN: Subjects will have confirmed treatment naïve CLL. Subjects will be assigned to either a 16-week control group (no supervised exercise) or an intervention group of Resistance Training (REx). Before and after the 16-week protocol, patients will undergo several tests including: 1) a maximal cycle ergometer test, 2) Body Composition, 3) Muscle strength, 4) physical activity levels, 5) blood measures (e.g. immune and inflammatory functions).

DATA ANALYSES \& SAFETY ISSUES: For outcomes, group change differences from baseline to 16-weeks will be compared with ANCOVA. Resistance training is a very safe exercise modality already studied in other cancer patients. The regular use of vigorous-intensity exercise has been used extensively in exercise training. It will always be respected for each subject's safety tolerance while challenging.

HYPOTHESIS: The investigators hypothesize that the protocol will be feasible exercise interventions for people with CLL and will improve health and fitness markers.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Training as Intervention
Change in VO2 peak as measured by cardiopulmonary exercise test, Cardio metabolic CPET + Stress ECG, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in muscular strength (peak torque and power) as measured by isokinetic dynamometer exercise test, BIODEX Concentric/Concentric Strength Test for Lower Body evaluation, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in muscular strength (grip force in kg) as measured by dynamometer exercise test, JAMAR Hand Grip for Upper Body Evaluation, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in muscular strength (kg of weight lifted) as measured by 1 repetition maximum exercise test, 1 Repetition Maximum For Strength Evaluation of Whole Body, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in Whole Body Composition (comprehending grams of total mass, total fat mass, total lean mass and percentage of fat mass), DEXA Test for Whole Body Composition, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in Bone Mineral Density (comprehending Total Femural and Femural Neck bone mineral density), DEXA Test for Bone Mineral Density, Baseline to 16-weeks
Change in Health Related Quality of Life as measured by FACIT-F questionnaire, Questionnaire The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F), a 40-item measure that assesses self-reported fatigue., Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in Health Related Quality of Life as measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 and CLL17 questionnaires, Questionnaire from EORTC Quality of Life Group (EORTC QLQ-C30) a 30-item instrument designed to measure quality of life in all cancer patients, with the supplement of CLL17 a 17-item instrument designed to measure quality of life in chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in Physical Activity patterns as measured by Accelerometry over a period of seven consecutive days, GT9XLink accelerometer from Actigraph to collect data of the Physical Activity patterns, over a period of seven consecutive days, with a minimum of 10 hours of daily assessment, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in Blood counts (hemoglobin (g/dL) and platelets (10^9/L)) as measured by Peripheral Blood Collection, Peripheral Blood Collection during Hospital Consultation, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in Leukocytes counts (in percentage of lymphocytes, monocytes, neutrophils) as measured by Peripheral Blood Collection, Peripheral Blood Collection during Hospital Consultation, Baseline to 16-weeks|Change in Minerals counts (comprehending iron (ug/dL), sodium (mEq/L), potassium (mEq/L) and magnesium (mEq/L)) as measured by Peripheral Blood Collection, Peripheral Blood Collection during Hospital Consultation, Baseline to 16-weeks
PURPOSE: The purpose of the study is to determine the effects of 16-weeks of exercise training, as measured by aerobic capacity, strength and physical function, and body composition, in patients with CLL and without any prior treatment.

DESIGN: Subjects will have confirmed treatment naïve CLL. Subjects will be assigned to either a 16-week control group (no supervised exercise) or an intervention group of Resistance Training (REx). Before and after the 16-week protocol, patients will undergo several tests including: 1) a Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test with Electrocardiogram (CPET+ECG) maximal cycle ergometer test, 2) a dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) Body Composition test, 3) a Muscle strength test with dynamometry, 4) a characterization of physical activity (PA) levels with accelerometry, and 5) blood measures (e.g. immune and inflammatory functions). The REx group will undertake a strength-based type of training with intensities near 80% of 1-Repetition Maximum (1-RM), with individual supervision (personal training approach).

DATA ANALYSES \& SAFETY ISSUES: For outcomes, group change differences from baseline to 16-weeks will be compared with ANCOVA. Resistance training is a very safe exercise modality already studied in other cancer patients. The regular use of vigorous-intensity exercise has been used extensively in exercise training. It will always be respected for each subject's safety tolerance while challenging.

HYPOTHESIS: The investigators hypothesize that the protocol will be feasible exercise interventions for people with CLL and will improve health and fitness markers. It is also expected to have a positive correlation between physical fitness improvement and blood and immunologic parameters.