Shared Decision Making With Breast Cancer Patients
The aim of this project is to elucidate whether the use of shared decision making will influence patient engagement in the decision making process about adjuvant radiotherapy after breast conserving surgery for local breast cancer or early stages of local breast cancer.
Shared Decision Making|Breast Neoplasms|Radiotherapy, Adjuvant
BEHAVIORAL: Shared decision making supported by an in-consultation patient decision aid
Participant engagement in the decision making process as measured by the Shared Decision Making Questionnaire 9., Minimum value: 0. Maximum value: 100. The higher the value the more patient engagement., Within one week after the consultation
The doctor's perception of patient engagement in the decision making process as measured by the Shared Decision Making Questionnaire doctor 9, Minimum value: 0. Maximum value: 100. The higher the value the more patient engagement., Within one week after the consultation|The participant's fear of cancer recurrence as measured by the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Short form Questionnaire, Minimum value: 0. Maximum value: 36. The higher the value the more fear of recurrence., Within one week after the consultation and again after six months|The participant's engagement in the decision making process as measured by the Shared Decision Making Process 4 questionnaire, Minimum score: 0. Maximum score: 4. The higher the score the more patient engagement., Within one week after the consultation|The participant's effectiveness in decision making as measured by the Decisional Conflict Scale questionnaire, Minimum value: 0. Maximum value: 100. The higher the value the more effective decision making., Before (12 items) and within one week after the consultation (all 16 items)|The participant's regret of the treatment decision as measured by the Decision Regret Scale questionnaire, Minimum value: 0. Maximum value: 100. The higher the value the more regret., Six months after the consultation|The participant's engagement in the decision making process as measured by the CollaboRATE questionnaire, Minimum score: 0. Maximum score: 9. The higher the value the more patient engagement., Within one week after the consultation|The participant's quality of life as measured by the EORCT QLQ-C30 (version 3.0) questionnaire, only question 29 + 30, Minimum value: 0. Maximum value: 100. The higher the value the more quality of life., Six months
The risk of recurrence of breast cancer is lowered by adjuvant medical treatment as well as by radiotherapy (RT). On the other hand, all adjuvant treatments involve a risk of side effects; some are acute and transient while others are long-term. Considering the well-known side effects of irradiation, it seems appropriate to involve patients in the decision on whether to receive irradiation.

In the shared decision making (SDM) process clinicians and patients work together to make appropriate health decisions based on clinical evidence and the patient's informed preferences. A patient decision aid (PtDA) is instrumental in the SDM process.

This study is a multicenter, national trial randomizing doctors to either use or not use SDM and a PtDA when informing the patients about benefits and risks of receiving adjuvant radiotherapy.

It is not expected that significantly less patients will receive radiotherapy as a consequence of SDM. The primary aim of the study is to evaluate whether patient engagement in decision making is affected by SDM and the use of an in-consultation PtDA.