A Study of Trastuzumab-Mcc-DM1 Administered Intravenously to Patients With HER2-Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
Study of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) administered to patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab emtansine [Kadcyla]
Percentage of Participants With an Objective Response as Assessed Through Independent Radiologic Review, Objective response was defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) determined on two consecutive occasions ≥ 4 weeks apart, assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST).

CR: the disappearance of all target lesions and all nontarget lesions and normalization of tumor marker level and no new lesions.

PR: disappearance of all target lesions and persistence of ≥ 1 nontarget lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits, or, at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, and no new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions.

The primary data cut-off date was 17 September 2009 (approximately 6 months after the last patient was enrolled). The final efficacy analysis was performed using a data cut-off date of 1 January 2010 (approximately 9 months after the last patient was enrolled)., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of September 2009 (6 months after last patient enrolled) and until the final efficacy analysis cut-off date of 1 January 2010 (approximately 9 months after the last patient enrolled).
Duration of Objective Response as Assessed Through Independent Radiologic Review, For participants who achieved an objective response, duration of objective response was defined as the time from the first tumor assessment that supported a participant's objective response to the time of disease progression or death on study (i.e., death from any cause within 30 days of the last dose of study drug), whichever occurred first. Response was assessed by the independent review facility.

Disease progression was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions.

For participants who experienced no disease progression and did not die while on study, data were censored at the date of the last tumor assessment. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate the duration of objective response., From randomization until 1 January 2010, approximately 9 months after the last participant was enrolled.|Progression-free Survival as Assessed Through Independent Radiologic Review, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to documented disease progression or death on study (i.e., death from any cause within 30 days of the last dose of study drug), whichever occurred first.

Disease progression was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Disease progression was assessed by the independent review facility.

For patients who experienced no disease progression and did not die while on study, data were censored at the date of the last tumor assessment. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate PFS., From randomization until 1 January 2010, approximately 9 months after the last participant was enrolled.|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit Based on Independent Radiologic Review, Clinical benefit was defined as participants who achieved an objective response (confirmed complete or partial response) between randomization and 1 January 2010, or with stable disease at 6 months. Stable disease at 6 months was defined as participants who achieved at least stable disease based on tumor assessments by the independent review facility, and remained alive and progression-free at 6 months.

Stable disease was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter since the treatment started, and no new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Response was assessed by the independent review facility., From randomization until 1 January 2010, approximately 9 months after the last participant was enrolled.|Objective Response Based on Investigator Assessment, Objective response was defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) determined on two consecutive occasions ≥ 4 weeks apart, assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Response was assessed by the study Investigator.

CR: the disappearance of all target lesions and all nontarget lesions and normalization of tumor marker level and no new lesions.

PR: disappearance of all target lesions and persistence of ≥ 1 nontarget lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits, or, at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, and no new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions., From randomization until 1 January 2010, approximately 9 months after the last participant was enrolled.|Progression-free Survival Based on Investigator Assessment, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to documented disease progression or death on study (i.e., death from any cause within 30 days of the last dose of study drug), whichever occurred first.

Disease progression was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions.

For patients who experienced no disease progression and did not die while on study, data were censored at the date of the last tumor assessment. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate PFS., From randomization until 1 January 2010, approximately 9 months after the last participant was enrolled.|Duration of Objective Response Based on Investigator Assessment, For participants who achieved an objective response, duration of objective response was defined as the time from the first tumor assessment that supported a participant's objective response to the time of disease progression or death on study (i.e., death from any cause within 30 days of the last dose of study drug), whichever occurred first. Response was determined by the Investigator's assessment.

Disease progression was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions.

For participants who experienced no disease progression and did not die while on study, data were censored at the date of the last tumor assessment. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate the duration of objective response., From randomization until 1 January 2010, approximately 9 months after the last participant was enrolled.|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit Based on Investigator Assessment, Clinical benefit was defined as participants with an objective response (confirmed complete or partial response) or stable disease at 6 months. Patients with stable disease at 6 months were defined as patients who achieved at least stable disease based on tumor assessments and remained alive and progression free at 6 months. Response was based on the Investigator's assessment., From randomization until 1 January 2010, approximately 9 months after the last participant was enrolled.
Study of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) administered to patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer.