Utilizing Advocates and Supporters to Increase Lung Cancer Screening Rates in Eligible Participants
This clinical trial assesses the use of advocates and supporters of breast and lung cancer screening to increase lung cancer screening rates amongst eligible participants. Imaging-based cancer screening is utilized with variable frequency. Breast cancer screening with mammography has been widely accepted and is commonly used among eligible women. Lung screening with computed tomography scans is poorly used, despite the potential to decrease deaths from lung cancer. There are many reasons lung screening isn't being used when compared to breast screening, such as smoking stigma and fear, along with a lack of awareness of lung screening. By conducting this trial, researchers want to assess the effectiveness of advocates and supporters of breast and lung screening, and to learn about the psychological barriers to cancer screening, identifying those that are unique to lung screening.
Breast Carcinoma|Lung Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: Health Education|OTHER: Health Promotion and Education|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigation|OTHER: Survey Administration
Increased rates of lung and breast cancer screening adherence, By following up with patients over the defined study period and assessing whether they obtained an incidence screen completed at one-year +/- 3 months from the recommended time. Will also measure the rates of survey completion by consented participants, the number of clicks and time spent reviewing educational materials, and the number of new participants who contacted the program through a referral by another participant., Up to 3 years
Success of "sphere of influence" model, Considered successful if increased lung cancer screening referrals are a direct result of women receiving screening mammograms inviting and educating friends and family about lung cancer screening., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the number of patients undergoing breast screening who are eligible to participate in lung screening.

II. Determine whether patients currently participating in cancer screening (breast OR lung) are successful as "cancer screening advocates." III. Determine whether laypersons who are aware of screening (including those who accompany friends and family members to their screening appointments) are successful as "cancer screening advocates." IV. Identify knowledge base and psychological barriers to screening through surveys of potential screening participants.

OUTLINE:

Participants access an electronic patient portal with educational materials at baseline, 1- and 2-year follow-ups, and also interact with a patient navigator on study. Patients also receive materials to share with their friends/family on benefits of breast and lung cancer screening on study.

After completion of study intervention, participants are followed up yearly for up to 3 years.