Erlotinib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This phase II trial studies how well erlotinib works in treating participants with skin squamous cell carcinoma that has spread to other places in the body or has come back. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as erlotinib, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Metastatic Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Erlotinib
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate defined as the percentage of patients who achieve an overall response of complete response or partial response in the total number of evaluable patients, assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1A Bayesian design based on predictive probability will be implemented., up to 6 years
Duration of Response, The time from initial response during therapy to progression of disease evaluated using Kaplan-Meier estimation techniques., up to 6 years|Duration of Stable Disease, The date of stable disease to the date of loss of stable disease or last follow-up., up to 6 years|Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, up to 6 years|Overall Survival, Time from date of treatment start until date of death due to any cause or last Follow-up., up to 6 years|Number of Participants With Safety and Tolerability of Erlotinib, Frequency of adverse events according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) v4.0. Standard reporting guidelines followed for adverse events., Baseline start of treatment, up to 30 days after treatment or to death, up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate with erlotinib in patients with locoregionally recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (CSCC) that is not amenable to curative treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine duration of response and duration of stable disease. II. To determine progression-free and overall survival. III. To determine safety and tolerability of erlotinib.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate baseline expression of estimated glomerular filtration rate (EGFR), expression of markers of EGFR activation (such as phosphorylated \[p\] EGFR and pAKT) and related cell-signaling pathways, and EGFR mutation status with response to erlotinib therapy.

II. To determine the effects of erlotinib on relevant biomarkers of the EGFR pathway in tumor tissue and in normal skin, and to correlate with response to therapy.

III. To determine if there is a correlation between the development of erlotinib-induced skin rash and response to therapy.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive erlotinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years.