Study of ADI-PEG 20, Venetoclax and Azacitidine in Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Pegylated arginine deiminase (ADI-PEG 20) will be combined with venetoclax and azacitidine for treatment of subjects with previously treated or untreated with high risk factor acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Venetoclax and azacitidine are front-line therapy for such patients, and ADI-PEG 20 will be added to this regimen in a phase IA/B study.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Adult
DRUG: ADI-PEG 20
Determine the RP2D of ADI-PEG 20 in combination with venetoclax and azacitidine, per the number of subjects with treatment-related adverse events by current CTCAE, 6 months
Determine preliminary evidence of tumor activity, per the revised 2017 European LeukemiaNet criteria, 2 years|Determine the peripheral blood arginine levels of ADI-PEG 20 in combination with venetoclax and azacitidine, 2 years|Determine the peripheral blood citrulline levels of ADI-PEG 20 in combination with venetoclax and azacitidine, 2 years|Determine the anti-drug antibodies of ADI-PEG 20 in combination with venetoclax and azacitidine, 2 years
This is an open label, single arm, phase 1 trial with recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) cohorts based on subject inclusion criteria.

Lead In: 6 patients will be enrolled to be treated with standard dose of azacitidine and venetoclax and the expected RP2D of ADI-PEG 20 (dose level 0). In case of DLT occurring in \>1 patient in cycle 1, 6 additional patients will be accrued at dose level -1 of ADI-PEG 20 while keeping the doses of azacitidine and venetoclax unchanged (Dose level -1). Enrollment to cohort 1 and 2 will start after ≤1 patient out of 6 encounters DLT in cycle 1 at one of these dose levels. The 6 patients enrolled at that dose level will be counted for efficacy analysis. Cohort 1: Relapsed or refractory AML: target response 25%. Historical expectation for venetoclax and azacitidine is 15%.

Cohort 2: Newly diagnosed high risk AML: Target response 55%. Historical expectation for venetoclax and azacitidine is 40%.

Treatment may be continued for a maximum of 24 cycles or 104 doses of ADI-PEG 20 (study Week 103), whichever is reached first.