A Study of ACP-196 (Acalabrutinib) in Subjects With Relapsed/Refractory CLL and Intolerant of Ibrutinib Therapy
A Phase 2 Study to evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of ACP-196 (acalabrutinib) in Subjects with Relapsed/Refractory CLL and Intolerant of Ibrutinib Therapy
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: ACP-196 (acalabrutinib)
The Overall Response Rate (ORR) of ACP-196 (Acalabrutinib), The overall response rate (ORR) of ACP-196 (acalabrutinib) in subjects with relapsed / refractory CLL who are intolerant of ibrutinib therapy.

ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects achieving a best overall response (BOR) of either complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete bone marrow recovery (CRi), nodular partial remission (nPR), or partial remission (PR) at or before initiation of subsequent anticancer therapy. ORR will be analyzed per investigator's assessment., From date of the first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to approximately 4 years and 7 months). 1 cycle = 28 days
Progression-Free Survival, The progression-free survival of ACP-196 (acalabrutinib) in subjects with relapsed / refractory CLL who are intolerant of ibrutinib therapy.

PFS is calculated as date of disease progression or death (censoring date for censored subjects) - first dose date + 1., From the date of the first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years).|Duration of Response, The duration of response of ACP-196 (acalabrutinib) in subjects with relapsed / refractory CLL who are intolerant of ibrutinib therapy.

DOR is calculated as date of disease progression or death (censoring date for censored subjects) - date of achieving the first CR, CRi, nPR, or PR + 1., From the date of the first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years)|Time-to-Next Treatment, The time to next treatment of ACP-196 (acalabrutinib) in subjects with relapsed / refractory CLL who are intolerant of ibrutinib therapy.

TTNT is defined as the time from date of first acalabrutinib treatment to date of institution of subsequent anticancer therapy for CLL or death due to any cause, whichever comes first. Subjects who do not have the above specified events prior to the data cutoff date will be censored at the date of last visit. TTNT will be calculated as follows:

(Earlier date of institution of subsequent anticancer therapy for CLL or date of death due to any cause) - date of first dose + 1. For censored subjects, date of last visit will replace earlier date of use of subsequent anticancer therapy for CLL or date of death due to any cause in the calculation., From date of the first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years)|Overall Survival, The overall survival of ACP-319 (acalabrutinib) in subjects with relapsed/refractory CLL who are intolerant of ibrutinib therapy, From date of the first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years).
A Multicenter, Open-Label, Phase 2 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of Acalabrutinib in subjects with relapsed/refractory CLL (N=60) who are intolerant of ibrutinib therapy.