An International Phase 2 Study Of SU011248 In Patients With Advanced / Metastatic Gastric Cancer Failing Chemotherapy
The study consisted of two parts. In Part 1 the study enrolled 38 patients (Step 1 Simon 2 step design) after which Step 2 was opened and the total enrollment target for the study (n=63) was exceeded due to a rapid enrollment (78 patients were entered). Part 2 of the study did not open due to the final overall insufficiency of efficacy observed in 78 patients. Sunitinib (SU011248) was administered orally daily for 4 weeks followed by a 2-week rest at a starting dose of 50 mg with provision for dose reduction based on tolerability. All patients received repeated cycles of sunitinib until disease progression, occurrence of unacceptable toxicity, or other withdrawal criteria were met. After discontinuation of treatment, patients were followed up in order to collect information on further antineoplastic therapy and survival.
Stomach Neoplasms
DRUG: Sunitinib
Best Overall Response, Number of patients with best overall response = complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Confirmed responses were those that persisted on repeat imaging study ≥4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR = the disappearance of all target lesions. PR = a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions., From start of study treatment until Day 28 of Cycle 1, Day 28 of Cycles thereafter|Objective Response (Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR)), Number of patients with Objective Response (OR): confirmed CR or confirmed PR according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). CR = the disappearance of all target lesions. PR = a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions., From start of study treatment until Day 28 of Cycle 1, Day 28 of Cycles thereafter
Clinical Benefit Response (CBR)-Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) With Duration ≥ 24 Weeks, Number of patients with Clinical Benefit Response: confirmed CR, confirmed PR or stable disease (SD) for at least 24 weeks on study according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). CR = the disappearance of all target lesions. PR = a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions. SD = neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progessive disease (PD) taking as a reference the smallest sum of the longest dimensions since the treatment started., From start of study treatment until Day 28 of Cycle 1, Day 28 of Cycles thereafter or clinical benefit response for at least 24 weeks on study|Duration of Response (CR or PR), Time from the first documentation of confirmed objective response (CR or PR) to the first documentation of disease progression or to death due to any cause. CR = the disappearance of all target lesions. PR = a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions., Day 28 of Cycle 1 and Day 28 of Cycles thereafter or death due to cancer|Progression-Free Survival, Time from start of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression, or to death due to any cause. PFS was calculated as (first event date minus the date of first dose plus 1) divided by 7., From start of study treatment until Day 28 of Cycle 1, Day 28 of Cycles thereafter or death|Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), Time from the start of study treatment to the first documentation of objective tumor progression. TTP was calculated as (first event date minus the date of first dose plus 1) divided by 7., From start of study treatment until Day 28 of Cycle 1, Day 28 of Cycles thereafter|Overall Survival, Time from the date of first dose of study medication to the date of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (date of death minus the date of first dose date plus 1) divided by 7., From start of study treatment until death
The study consisted of two parts. In Part 1 the study enrolled 38 patients (Step 1 Simon 2 step design) after which Step 2 was opened and the total enrollment target for the study (n=63) was exceeded due to a rapid enrollment (78 patients were entered). Part 2 of the study did not open due to the final overall insufficiency of efficacy observed in 78 patients. Sunitinib (SU011248) was administered orally daily for 4 weeks followed by a 2-week rest at a starting dose of 50 mg with provision for dose reduction based on tolerability. All patients received repeated cycles of sunitinib until disease progression, occurrence of unacceptable toxicity, or other withdrawal criteria were met. After discontinuation of treatment, patients were followed up in order to collect information on further antineoplastic therapy and survival.