A Study to Assess the Relative Bioavailability, Effect of Food, and Gastric Potential Hydrogen (pH) Modification on the Pharmacokinetics (PK) of TAK-931 in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors
The purpose of this study is to estimate the relative bioavailability of TAK-931 tablets in reference to powder-in capsule (PIC) and to assess the effect of food and esomeprazole on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of TAK-931 as a tablet.
Neoplasms, Advanced Solid
DRUG: TAK-931 PIC|DRUG: TAK-931 Tablet|DRUG: Esomeprazole
Part 1, Cmax: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration for TAK-931 Tablets in Reference to PIC, Cycle 0 Days 1 and 3 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose (Cycle 0 length is equal to [=] 16 days)|Part 1, AUClast: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 to the Time of the Last Quantifiable Concentration for TAK-931 Tablets in Reference to PIC, Cycle 0 Days 1 and 3 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose (Cycle 0 length = 16 days)|Part 1, AUC∞: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 to Infinity for TAK-931 Tablets in Reference to PIC, Cycle 0 Days 1 and 3 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose (Cycle 0 length = 16 days)
Part 1, Tmax: Time to Reach the Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) for TAK-931 as PIC and Tablets, Cycle 0 Days 1 and 3 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose (Cycle 0 length = 16 days)|Part 1, CL/F: Oral Clearance for TAK-931, Cycle 0 Days 1 and 3 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose (Cycle 0 length = 16 days)|Part 1, T1/2z: Terminal Disposition Phase Half-life for TAK-931, Cycle 0 Days 1 and 3 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose (Cycle 0 length = 16 days)|Part 1: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions, PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline up to 8 months|Part 1: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of PD or death due to any cause, whichever occured first. Per RECIST V1.1, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SoD (Sum of Diameters) of target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since (and including) baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the SoD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeter (mm)., From the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to 8 months)|Part 1: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with CR, PR plus stable disease (SD) greater than or equal to (\>=) 1 post baseline computed tomography (CT) scan evaluation from treatment initiation to qualify for DCR. Per RECIST v 1.1, CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SoD of target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since (and including) baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the SoD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Baseline up to 8 months|Part 1: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a response to the date of first documentation of PD. Per RECIST v1.1, CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions, PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SoD of target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since (and including) baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the SoD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From the date of first documentation of a response to the date of first documentation of PD ( up to 8 months)|Part 1: Percentage of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), and TEAEs Leading to Discontinuation or Dose Modification, From the start of the study drug up to Day 30 after the last dose of study drug (up to 8 months)|Part 1: Percentage of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher TEAEs, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who has enrolled in a study; it does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) was defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug. A severity grade was defined by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 5.0. As per NCI-CTCAE, Grade 1 scales as Mild; Grade 2 scales as Moderate; Grade 3 scales as severe or medically significant but not immediately life threatening; Grade 4 scales as life-threatening consequences; and Grade 5 scales as death related to AE., From the start of the study drug up to Day 30 after the last dose of study drug (up to 8 months)|Part 1: Percentage of Participants With Shift From Baseline Values to Post-baseline Values in Laboratory Parameters, From the start of the study drug up to Day 30 after the last dose of study drug (up to 8 months)
The drug being tested in this study is called TAK-931. TAK 931 is being tested to treat participants who have advanced solid tumors. This study will look at relative bioavailability, effect of food and gastric pH modification on the PK of TAK-931.

The study will enroll approximately 44 participants. The study will be conducted in 2 parts: Part 1 and Part 2. In Part 1 and Part 2, participants will be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) in a crossover design. In Part 1, participants will be assigned to 1 of the 2 following treatment sequences:

* TAK-931 80 mg PIC + TAK-931 80 mg Tablet
* TAK-931 80 mg Tablet + TAK-931 80 mg PIC

Part 2 of the study will be initiated, once the preliminary PK data from Part 1 is available to determine the relative bioavailability of the tablet formulation in reference to PIC and to calculate the single dose of TAK-931 tablet to be used in Part 2.In Part 2, participants will be assigned to 1 of the 2 following treatment sequences:

* TAK-931 TBD Fed + TAK-931 TBD Fasted
* TAK-931 TBD Fasted + TAK-931 TBD Fed

This multi-center trial will be conducted in the Netherlands. The overall time to participate in this study is approximately 2 years. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic and will be contacted for approximately 30 days after receiving their last dose of study drug or until the start of subsequent anticancer therapy, whichever occurs first for a follow up assessment.