Safety and Feasibility of Electrochemotherapy in Unresectable Colorectal Adenocarninoma Liver Metastases
Electrochemotherapy (ECT) is a non-thermal tumour ablation modality. It consists of the local potentiation, by means of local reversible electroporation of tumour tissues, of the antitumor activity of non-permeant or poorly permeant anticancer drugs already possessing intrinsic cytotoxicity. ECT has proved to be effective in the treatment of various cutaneous tumour nodules of any origin. Mostly ECT is offered to patients in case of multiple cutaneous metastases, when they cannot be excised, due to their number or localization. This study investigate the application of ECT in the treatment of liver metastases from colorectal adenocarcinoma, for which other thermal cytoreductive methods would be risky compared to the supposed expected clinical benefits.
Colorectal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Electrochemotherapy
Safety and feasibility evaluation of Electrochemotherapy treatment of liver metastasesSafety and feasibility evaluation of Electrochemotherapy treatment of liver metastases as meaured by unexpected intraoperative adverse events, Safety and feasibility evaluation of Electrochemotherapy treatment of liver metastases as meaured by unexpected intraoperative adverse events and related postoperative complications., 24 hours from Electrochemotherapy treatment
Overall survival, 6 months from Electrochemotherapy treatment|Disease free survival, 6 months from Electrochemotherapy treatment|Quality of Life (Karnofsky performance status), 30 days and 6 months from ECT treatment|Objective response evaluation of treated liver metastases following RECIST criteria, 30 days and 6 months from Electrochemotherapy treatment|Toxicity of Electrochemotherapy treatment of liver metastases as meaured by unexpected postoperative complications related to treatment, 7 days
Electrochemotherapy (ECT) is a non-thermal tumour ablation modality. It consists of the local potentiation, by means of local reversible electroporation of tumour tissues, of the antitumor activity of non-permeant or poorly permeant anticancer drugs already possessing intrinsic cytotoxicity. ECT has proved to be effective in the treatment of various cutaneous tumour nodules of any origin. Mostly ECT is offered to patients in case of multiple cutaneous metastases, when they cannot be excised, due to their number or localization. This study investigate the application of ECT in the treatment of liver metastases from colorectal adenocarcinoma, for which other thermal cytoreductive methods would be risky compared to the supposed expected clinical benefits.