Preoperative Preradiotherapy TTFields
PreOperative PreRAdIotherapy Tumour Treating Fields (PORTRAIT) is a Phase I study that will test the safety and feasibility of Optune administered preoperatively and preradiotherapy in patients with a new radiological diagnosis of glioblastoma (GBM). Participants will be required to undergo additional MRI sequencing scans and provide blood, tear fluid and tissue samples over a maximum of 6 months. After the study patients will follow their standard treatment pathway.
Glioblastoma
DEVICE: TTFields
To determine the incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability] of Pre-Operative and Pre-Radiotherapy TTFields additional to the standard treatment of care (SoC) including adjuvant TTFields., This endpoint will be tested by skin toxicity / wound complications.

Toxicity is defined using CTCAE v5.0 and study related complications are defined as;

* Skin toxicity grade 3 or higher
* Wound closure or wound healing problems grade 2 or higher that are possibly related to TTFields treatment, 18 months|To determine the incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability] of Pre-Operative and Pre-Radiotherapy TTFields additional to the standard treatment of care (SoC) including adjuvant TTFields., This endpoint will be tested by alterations to the original date of surgery and the start of the postoperative radiotherapy;

Study related complications will be defined as;

* Change of surgery date due to symptoms related to the tumour that are possibly related to the TTFields treatment
* Delay of start of the postoperative RT possibly related to the TTFields treatment (later than 6 weeks postoperative), 18 months
Concordance between MRI based diagnosis of glioblastoma and definitive histological diagnosis, Evaluate the use of MRI to select glioblastoma patients for PORTRAIT without pathological confirmation., 18 months|REP: tumour volume difference between the post-operative MRI and pre-radiotherapy MRI., Evaluate the effect of TTFields on REP - tumour growth between surgery and postoperative chemoradiotherapy, in patients with a new diagnosis of glioblastoma. A lower value represents a better outcome., 18 months|Registration of postoperative surgical complications, Postoperative surgical complications (e.g. haemorrhage, wound infection, delayed wound healing, seizures). Lower registrations represents a better outcome., 18 months|Registration of radiotherapy related complications, Radiotherapy related complications (e.g. radiation necrosis). Lower registrations represents a better outcome., 18 months|Steroid dose after TTFields, Steroid dose recorded after TTFields until the start of the postoperative RT. Lower (or absence of) dose represents a better outcome., 18 months|Progression free survival, Time period from the date of surgery to the date of the MRI scan demonstrating first progression as determined by the neuro-oncology MDT. A longer time period represents a better outcome., 18 months|Overall survival, Time period from the date of surgery to the date of death. A longer time period represents a better outcome., 18 months|Collection of liquid biopsies, Collection of blood and tear fluid samples at matched imaging timepoints., 18 months|Skin reactions, Skin reactions defined by CTCAE V5.0 - a rating scale of 1 to 5. 1 indicates minimal toxicity (skin irritation etc), 5 indicates death - or life threatening complications., 18 month
Glioblastoma is the most common primary malignant brain tumour in adults. Its outcomes are poor due to local disease progression in most patients. Current treatment includes surgery followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy 4-6 weeks after surgery. In this time interval, some tumour cells do not receive any treatment. Furthermore, studies show that around half of all glioblastoma patients experience rapid early progression (REP) i.e. growth of the tumour in the time interval between surgery and postoperative chemotherapy/radiotherapy. REP is associated with a shorter survival and there are currently no effective treatments or preventative measures to address it.

Tumour Treating Fields (TTFields), also known as Optune, is a locally applied treatment modality that has contributed to a better survival outcome for glioblastoma patients when used after surgery and chemo-radiotherapy. We hypothesize that earlier treatment using the Optune device before the surgery and between the surgery and postoperative radiotherapy can prevent REP and improve patient outcome. In this phase 1 trial, PORTRAIT (PreOpeRaTive pRerAdIotherapy Ttfields), we will test the safety and feasibility of Optune treatment before surgery and before post-operative radiotherapy in a maximum of 14 patients. Participants will be required to undergo additional MRI sequencing scans and provide blood, tear fluid and tissue samples over a maximum of 6 months.

To maximise PORTRAIT's translational and clinically relevant components, a non-experimental arm (Non-EA) of 28 patients will allow comparisons of data collected from PORTRAIT patients with comparable Standard of Care (SoC) treated patients from the same time frame.

Participants will be invited to the research study if they are over the age of 35 and have a new radiological diagnosis of glioblastoma. All recruitment and treatment will be conducted at the Christie NHS Foundation Trust and Northern Care Alliance NHS Foundation Trust.

The study is funded by a research grant from Novocure.