Intratumoral PV701 in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Unresectable Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of intratumoral (in the tumor) PV701 in treating patients who have advanced or recurrent unresectable squamous cell carcinoma (cancer) of the head and neck. Vaccines made from a specially-modified virus such as PV701 may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells while leaving normal cells undamaged. Injecting PV701 directly into the tumor may cause a stronger immune response and kill more tumor cells
Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Salivary Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IV Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity
BIOLOGICAL: PV701
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of PV701 based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) as assessed by NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, 3 weeks
Toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Up to 12 weeks|Response (complete and partial) rate according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee, Descriptive statistics will be generated for each group., Up to 12 weeks|Time to progression according to RECIST, From the time of study entry until tumor growth is determined by physical exam or by radiographic imaging, assessed up to 12 weeks
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of PV701 administered by direct intratumoral injection in patients with advanced or recurrent unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

II. Determine the toxicity of intratumoral PV701 in these patients. III. Determine response rate and time to progression at the injection site in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients receive intratumoral PV701 once weekly for 3 weeks. Courses repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of PV701 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, at least 6 evaluable patients are treated at that dose.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 30 patients will be accrued for this study within 6-10 months.