Zoledronic Acid - Letrozole Adjuvant Synergy Trial (ZFAST) - Cancer Treatment Related Bone Loss in Postmenopausal Women With Estrogen Receptor Positive and/or Progesterone Receptor Positive Breast Cancer Receiving Adjuvant Hormonal Therapy
This protocol is designed to compare the effect on bone of Zoledronic Acid 4 mg every 6 months when given upfront versus delayed start (based on a post-baseline BMD T- Score below -2.0 SD at either the lumbar spine or total hip, or any clinical fracture unrelated to trauma, or an asymptomatic fracture discovered at the month 36 scheduled visit) in stage I-IIIb postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive breast cancer who will receive Letrozole 2.5 mg daily as an adjuvant therapy.
Breast Neoplasms|Osteoporosis
DRUG: Zoledronic Acid|DRUG: Letrozole
Percent Change From Baseline in Lumbar Spine (L1-L4) Bone Mineral Density (BMD), Bone mineral density (BMD) measurements were assessed by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The DXA devices of participating sites were cross-calibrated and the DXA results were compiled and analyzed by a central reader. Percent change = 100\*((BMD at Month 12 - Baseline BMD)/Baseline BMD)). Missing data at month 12 were imputed by using the last observation carried forward (LOCF) method. Post-baseline non-missing data from month 6 were carried forward to month 12. Data prior to month 6 were not carried forward., Baseline, 12 months
Percent Change From Baseline in Lumbar Spine (L1-L4) BMD, Bone mineral density (BMD) measurements were assessed by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The DXA devices of participating sites were cross-calibrated and the DXA results were compiled and analyzed by a central reader.

Percent change = 100\*((BMD at Time Frame - Baseline BMD)/Baseline BMD)). Missing data beyond month 12 were not imputed by LOCF., Baseline, 2 years, 3 years, 5 years|Percent Change From Baseline in Total Hip BMD, Bone mineral density (BMD) measurements were assessed by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The DXA devices of participating sites were cross-calibrated and the DXA results were compiled and analyzed by a central reader.

Percent change = 100\*((BMD at Time Frame - Baseline BMD)/Baseline BMD)). Missing data at month 12 were imputed by using the LOCF method. Post-baseline non-missing data from month 6 were carried forward to month 12. Data prior to month 6 were not carried forward., Baseline, 12 months, 2 years, 3 years, 5 years|Percent Change From Baseline in Biochemical Markers of Bone Turnover, Serum N-Telopeptide (sNTX) and Bone-specific Alkaline Phosphatase (BSAP), Blood samples from a subset of participants (231 participants in total) were collected to measure the sNTX and BSAP. Missing data at month 12 were imputed by using the LOCF method. Post-baseline non-missing data from months 6 and 9 were carried forward to month 12. Data prior to month 6 were not carried forward. Missing data beyond month 12 were not imputed by LOCF., Baseline, 12 months, 2 years, 3 years, 5 years|Incidence Rate of All Clinical Fractures, The number of participants who experienced a clinical fracture at month 36 was assessed. Initial x-ray (both AP and lateral views) of the lumbar and thoracic spine were performed at baseline to exclude participants with evidence of fracture. In addition, repeated bone scan and/or x-ray were performed at the Principal Investigator's discretion during the course of the study to confirm evidence of clinical fracture, or at month 36 if there was no evidence of clinical fracture (lumbar and thoracic spine - lateral view). X-ray films were sent to a central reader., 3 years|Time to Disease Recurrence/Relapse, The median time to disease progression was assessed by Kaplan-Meier analysis. The Principal Investigator assessed each participant for disease recurrence at each visit. Further testing was performed at the discretion of the Principal Investigator and as clinically indicated. Disease progression was defined as chest wall and/or regional recurrence confirmed by positive cytology or biopsy, and/or distance recurrence of the 1) skin, subcutaneous tissue, and lymph nodes (other than local or regional), 2) bone marrow, 3) lung, 4) skeleton 5) liver and 6) central nervous system confirmed by positive cytology, biopsy, aspirate or radiology as appropriate., over 5 years|Rate of Change From Baseline in Lumbar Spine (L1-L4) BMD, The rate of change from baseline in BMD was assessed., Baseline, 5 years|Rate of Change From Baseline in Total Hip BMD, The rate of change from baseline in BMD was assessed., Baseline, 5 years
This protocol is designed to compare the effect on bone of Zoledronic Acid 4 mg every 6 months when given upfront versus delayed start (based on a post-baseline BMD T- Score below -2.0 SD at either the lumbar spine or total hip, or any clinical fracture unrelated to trauma, or an asymptomatic fracture discovered at the month 36 scheduled visit) in stage I-IIIb postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive breast cancer who will receive Letrozole 2.5 mg daily as an adjuvant therapy.