Comparison of the Clinical Response of Total Neoadjuvant Treatment of Two Methods of Long-term or Short-term Chemoradiotherapy in Rectal Cancer
Rectal cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies in the world, and its prevalence is rising. In more advanced cases neoadjuvant therapy is advised before to surgery, and radiotherapy is one of its cornerstones. For the treatment of rectal cancer, there are primarily two radiation techniques. Long-term radiotherapy is 50.4 Gy delivered in 28 fractions, while short-term radiotherapy is 25 Gy delivered in 5 parts. In earlier studies, these two radiation techniques were combined with various chemotherapy drugs, and a relative comparison was established. Total neoadjuvant treatment, or TNT, has been linked to a better outcome because of the significance of organ preservation. The aim of this research is to compare two TNT radiation techniques with the same regimen of treatment.
Locally Advanced Rectal Carcinoma
RADIATION: Short course radiotherapy with concurrent capecitabine(825mg/m2)|RADIATION: Long course radiotherapy with concurrent capecitabine(825mg/m2)
Clinical complete response, At the 18th week following the start of the treatment, the patient will be assessed. The evaluation consist of an MRI and a colonoscopy, with a PET scan being optional., Week
Rectal cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies in the world, and its prevalence is rising. In more advanced cases neoadjuvant therapy is advised before to surgery, and radiotherapy is one of its cornerstones. For the treatment of rectal cancer, there are primarily two radiation techniques. Long-term radiotherapy is 50.4 Gy delivered in 28 fractions, while short-term radiotherapy is 25 Gy delivered in 5 parts. In earlier studies, these two radiation techniques were combined with various chemotherapy drugs, and a relative comparison was established. Total neoadjuvant treatment, or TNT, has been linked to a better outcome because of the significance of organ preservation. The aim of this research is to compare two TNT radiation techniques with the same regimen of treatment.