ABT-888 and Temozolomide for Liver Cancer
This study is for people with liver cancer (also called hepatocellular carcinoma, or HCC in abbreviation).

The purpose of this study is to test the efficacy (effectiveness) of a new combination of drugs, ABT-888 and temozolomide for patients with liver cancer. Temozolomide acts by damaging deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in rapidly dividing cells, in other words, cancer cells. ABT-888 inhibits an enzyme called "PARP" which helps to fix damaged DNA. By inhibiting this enzyme, ABT-888 prevents cancer cells from repairing the damage caused by the temozolomide and will hopefully increase the killing of cancer cells, and decrease the tumors in the body.

ABT-888 is an investigational or experimental anti-cancer agent that has not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in liver cancer.

This study will help find out what effects (good and bad) the combination of drugs, temozolomide and ABT-888, has on liver cancer.

This research is being done because it is not known if ABT-888 will increase the effectiveness of temozolomide in liver cancer.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: ABT-888
Clinical Benefit Rate, complete response at any time + partial response at any time + stable disease after 8 weeks of treatment based on RECIST Criteria, 8 weeks
Overall Survival, the number of months between a patient's enrollment and his/her date of death, 2 years|Progression Free Survival, The number of months between a patient's enrollment and his/her disease progression, 2 years|Number of Participants Who Had Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events, Record of all toxicities graded according to the NCI CTCAE version 3.0, 6 months|Biomarker Analysis, To evaluate biological correlation with response to ABT-888 and temozolomide, including evaluation of loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of 13q, decreased expression of or mutations in BRCA-1 or -2, and a select assortment of DNA repair genes., 6 months
Patients with hepatocellular carcinoma seen at Lombardi Cancer Center were evaluated for the eligibility of this study.

The Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center was responsible for the data and safety monitoring of this trial. As this study is an investigator initiated study Phase II study utilizing a non-FDA approved drug for which the PI held the IND it was considered a high risk study which had real-time monitoring by the PI and study team and quarterly reviews by the LCCC Data and Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC).