Ibrutinib, Bortezomib and Rituximab-CHOP for the Treatment of Elderly Patients With CD20+ DLBCL, IPI ≥ 2
The ImbruVeRCHOP-Trials is an Investigator-initiated, single-arm, multi-center, prospective, open phase I/II trial to evaluate the efficacy and feasibility of Ibrutinib and Bortezomib in the therapy of higher-risk DLBCL patients of different molecular subtypes and to correlate outcome with clinical, molecular and imaging-guided response parameters. The protocol includes a safety run-in phase, i.e. the phase I part of the study, to uncover unexpected toxicities that may arise in the context of Ibrutinib and Bortezomib co-administered with the R-CHOP backbone. The safety run-in phase is followed by the phase II part of the trial. About 34 patients will be included. Additional 8-11 German university centers and 1-5 in Austria will participate in this trial. The study treatment includes a pre-phase therapy with Prednisone and 6 cycles of a combined immuno-chemotherapy with the anti-CD20 antibody Rituximab together with 6 cycles of a chemotherapy consisting of Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine and Prednisone plus Bortezomib and Ibrutinib followed by two additional 3-week cycles of Rituximab. Secondary endpoints are the predictive power of subtypes (such as GCB/ABC-"cell-of-origin"), markers of minimal residual disease over time and during-the-study-determined markers (e.g. gene signatures) to identify patients who benefit from this treatment addition.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib and Bortezomib + R-CHOP
2-year progression-free survival, progression-free survival after 2 years after end of treatment, 2 years after completion of treatment
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, through study completion, an average of 3 years|1y- and 2y-PFS for patients based on cell-of-origin (COO, i.e. GCB vs. ABC subtype), 1 and 2 years after end of treatment|number of patients with complete remission in all patients and based on cell-of-origin, 2 years after end of treatment|Predictive power of markers for Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) over time, 2 years after end of treatment|Objective Response Rate (ORR) in all patients and based on cell-of-origin, Proportion of patients with reduction in tumor burden in all patients and based on cell-of-origin, 2 years after end of treatment|Disease-Free Survival in all patients and based on cell-of-origin, number of patients with disease-free survival in all patients and based on cell-of-origin, 2 years after end of treatment|Overall survival in all patients and based on cell-of-origin, 2 years after end of treatment
Cycle 1 (C1): At C1/day d2, there will be a CT- or ultrasound-guided re-biopsy of a lymphoma lesion that is accessible for biopsy without considerable risk for the patient.

Cycle 2 (C2): After C2, a post-Interim CT will be performed (eventually FDG and FLT PET-CT imaging added to the protocol by amendment).

Cycle 3 (C3): At C3/d0 (prior to therapy), there will also be another bone marrow aspirate for MRD follow-up. At C3/d2, there will be a re-biopsy of a lymphoma site in case of a residual lesion by CT that is accessible for biopsy without considerable risk for the patient. Biopsies can be obtained CT- or ultrasound-guided.

End of treatment/post-therapy: The end-of-treatment visit is required for all subjects, irrespective of a completion of all 8 cycles of therapy or exit of the study protocol. It has to be scheduled approximately 4 to 6 weeks after the last cycle. A total of 7 Follow up visits is planned over 30 months of follow up.