Study of Erlotinib in Combination With Dasatinib
The goal of this clinical research study is to find the highest tolerable dose of Tarceva (erlotinib hydrochloride) that can be given in combination with Sprycel (dasatinib). The safety of this drug combination will also be studied.
Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Dasatinib
Response Rate, Tumor response defined as one or more of the following: (1) stable disease for more than or equal to 4 months, (2) decrease in measurable tumor (sentinel lesions) by more than or equal to 20% by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, (3) decrease in tumor markers by more than or equal to 25% (for example, a \>/= 25% decrease in cancer antigen 125 (CA125) for patients with ovarian cancer), or (4) a partial response according to the Choi criteria, i.e. decrease in size by 10% or more, or a decrease in the tumor density, as measured in Hounsfield units (HU), by more than or equal to 15%., Response Evaluation after two 28-day cycles.
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), MTD defined as highest dose studied in which incidence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) was less than 33%. DLT defined as any Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity defined in the NCI CTC v3.0, even if expected and believed related to study medications (except nausea and vomiting responsive to appropriate regimens or alopecia), any Grade 4 hematologic toxicity lasting 2 weeks or longer (as defined by the NCI-CTCAE), despite supportive care; any Grade 4 nausea or vomiting \> 5 days despite maximum anti-nausea regimens, and any other Grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity, including symptoms/signs of vascular leak or cytokine release syndrome; or any severe or life-threatening complication or abnormality not defined in NCI-CTCAE that is attributable to the therapy., 28 days
The Study Drugs:

Erlotinib hydrochloride and dasatinib are both designed to block proteins that are thought to cause cancer cells to grow. These drugs may help slow the growth of tumors.

Study Drug Dose Level:

If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose level of erlotinib hydrochloride and dasatinib based on when you joined the study. Up to 4 dose levels of this study drug combination will be tested. There will be 3-6 participants enrolled at each dose level of the study drug combination.

The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level of erlotinib hydrochloride (Group 1). If all of Group 1 tolerate that dose level, the next group (Group 2) will receive a higher dose. Each new group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen (Groups 2-4). This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of the study drug combination is found. However, if Group 1 did not tolerate the first dose level, the next group will receive a lower dose (called Dose Level -1). If that dose level is still intolerable, the third group will receive an even lower dose (called Dose Level -2).

The dose of dasatinib will be based in which group you in. Groups 1 and 3 will receive a lower dose and Groups 2 and 4 will receive a higher dose.

After the highest tolerable dose is found, up to an additional 10 participants, called the "expansion group," will receive the study drug combination at that dose.

Study Drug Administration:

Erlotinib hydrochloride will be taken by mouth 1 time a day every day. You should take erlotinib hydrochloride on an empty stomach either 1 hour before eating or 2 hours after eating.

Depending on which dose level you are assigned to, you will also take dasatinib by mouth 1 or 2 times a day every day.

Each cycle is 28 days.

Study Visits:

You will have a single study visit before each cycle. At these visits, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

* Your performance status will be recorded.
* You will be asked to list any drugs you may be taking, including over-the-counter drugs.
* You will be asked about any symptoms you may have.
* You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.
* Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.
* Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for pharmacodynamic (PD) testing. PD testing is used to look at how the level of study drug in your body may affect the disease.

After the first 2 cycles and then every 2 to 3 cycles, you will have a CT or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.

Length of Study:

You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

Follow-up Visit:

About 30 days after the last dose of study drugs, you will have a follow-up visit. You will be asked to return any unused study drug. At this visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

* Your performance status will be recorded.
* You will be asked to list any drugs you may be taking, including over-the-counter drugs.
* You will be asked about any symptoms you may have.
* You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.
* Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

This is an investigational study. Dasatinib and erlotinib hydrochloride are both FDA approved and commercially available. Dasatinib is FDA approved for the treatment of acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Erlotinib hydrochloride is FDA approved for the treatment of lung cancer and pancreatic cancer. The use of these drugs together is investigational.

Up to 48 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.