Targeted Treatment for Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer That Has a MET Exon 14 Skipping Gene Change (An Expanded Lung-MAP Treatment Trial)
This phase II Expanded Lung-MAP treatment trial tests tepotinib with or without ramucirumab for the treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (stage IV) or that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent). Tepotinib is used in patients whose cancer has a mutated (changed) form of a gene called MET. It is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of the abnormal MET protein that signals tumor cells to multiply. This helps slow or stop the spread of tumor cells. Ramucirumab is a monoclonal antibody that may prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow. Giving tepotinib with ramucirumab may lower the chance of the cancer from growing or spreading in patients with stage IV or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Lymphoscintigraphy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab|DRUG: Tepotinib
Response rate, Rates will be compared using a chi-squared test at the 1-sided 10% level and also presented as the difference in response rates with the associated 80% confidence interval for the difference, Further, response rates and associated 80% confidence interval will be estimated for each arm., Up to 3 years from date of sub-study randomization
Frequency of treatment-related peripheral edema, The frequency of peripheral edema will be compared using a 2-sided 10% level test of proportions. All-grade peripheral edema will be estimated along with 90% confidence intervals. Data from lymphoscintigraphy imaging will be summarized for baseline and among those with peripheral edema., Up to 3 years from date of sub-study randomization|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, The number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 within each treatment arm will be evaluated., Up to 3 years from date of sub-study randomization|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Will be compared between the arms using a 1-sided 10% level log-rank test. Medians and associated 80% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., From date of sub-study randomization to date of first documentation of progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Medians and associated 80% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to 3 years from date of sub-study randomization|Duration of response, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Medians and associated 80% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., From date of first documentation of response (complete response [CR] or partial response [PR]) to date of first documentation of progression or death due to any cause among participants who achieve a response (CR or PR), assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the response rate (confirmed or unconfirmed, complete or impartial) between participants with MET exon 14 skipping positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) randomized to tepotinib with or without ramucirumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the frequency of all-grade treatment- related peripheral edema as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) between the arms.

II. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities within each arm. III. To compare progression-free survival between the arms. IV. To compare overall survival between the arms. V. To estimate the duration of response (DoR) among responders within each arm.

TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVE:

I. To establish a tissue/blood repository for participants with MET exon 14 skipping non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive ramucirumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and tepotinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive tepotinib PO QD on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo lymphoscintigraphy scan and computed tomography (CT) scan and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial. Patients also undergo blood sample collection while on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed-up every 12 weeks or more often as clinically indicated until progression and then every 6 months for 2 years and at the end of 3 years from date of sub-study randomization.