Care Planning Framework in Advanced Cancer (ABC123)
Pilot study assessing the feasibility and acceptability of the ABC123 framework, as well as goal concordance between patient and clinician stated goals. Patients \>60 years old with recently diagnosed advanced, incurable cancer in for a first consultation at a participating medical oncology clinic. The team will pilot test the ABC123 framework delivery by an advanced practice provider working with a medical oncologist to inform the overall care planning process. This framework will routinely incorporate and implement existing resources from these 3 transdisciplinary tenets (geriatric, oncology, and palliative medicine) into initial care planning in a patient-centered manner. The team will follow patients from initial care planning to 6 months post-intervention and assess additional stakeholder feedback on barriers and facilitators to implementation.
Advanced Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: ABC123 Framework
Feasibility measured through recruitment, Recruitment (proportion of those approached who actually enroll), 3 years|Feasibility measured through retention in sessions, Retention number of those completing both clinic sessions, baseline to visit 2|Feasibility measured through retention in follow up, Retention number of those completing both sessions, and follow up, baseline to 6 month follow up
The ABC123 care planning framework is aimed at increasing care alignment delivered to older patients with advanced cancer by combining existing tools that represent the principles of geriatrics, oncology, and palliative care. In this pilot study, our primary goals are to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the ABC123 care planning framework and evaluate the framework's impact on the provision of care that aligns with the goals and values of patients. Participants will participate in a series of visits and follow-ups meant to implement and evaluate the ABC123 care planning framework that will take place over the course of six months. The first two visits will consist of 1) a short physical performance battery (SPPB) and estimation of potential for grade 3 chemotherapy toxicity using the Cancer and Aging Research Group chemotherapy toxicity calculator and 2) guided goals of care discussion with an Advanced Practice Provider based on the findings from visit 1. During 1, 3, and 6-month follow-up sessions, participants will complete a survey consisting of several commonly used questionnaires and an interview about experiences and goals. Care providers and institutional stakeholders will also be interviewed at 1, 2, and 3 years after initial implementation to understand experiences and assess the feasibility if the ABC123 framework.