Cancer Vaccine Study for Unresectable Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (START)
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the cancer vaccine tecemotide (L-BLP25) in addition to best supportive care is effective in prolonging the lives of subjects with unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer, compared to best supportive care alone.

A local ancillary (sub) study in European centers will evaluate the immune response in peripheral blood after tecemotide (L-BLP25) or placebo vaccination.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Tecemotide (L-BLP25)|DRUG: Single low dose cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Placebo
Overall Survival, Overall survival time was defined as the time from randomization to death. Participants without events were censored at the last date they were known to be alive or the clinical cut-off date, whatever was earlier., Up to 66 months
Time To Symptom Progression (TTSP) as Measured by the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS), Time to symptom progression (TTSP) was measured by LCSS. Symptomatic progression was defined as an increase (worsening) of the Average Symptomatic Burden Index (ASBI that is, the mean of the six major lung cancer specific symptom scores of the LCSS patient scale - ranging from 0 to 100 where higher score indicates worst outcome). Worsening was defined as a 10% increase in the scale breadth from the baseline score. TTSP is defined as the time from randomization to worsening in ASBI. Participants without event are censored at the date of the last LCSS assessment., Up to 66 months|Time To Progression (TTP), Time from randomization to disease progression. Disease progression was defined based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.0 \[RECIST v1.0\]) as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions from nadir, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to 66 months|One-, Two- and Three-year Survival Rate, The percentages of participants who were alive at 1, 2, and 3 years were calculated as a cumulative percentage by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis approach., Years 1, 2, and 3|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events and Injection Site Reactions, Treatment -emergent adverse events were defined as those with onset or worsening occurring at or after the first dosing day of study medication and up to 42 days after the last administration of any study drug or the clinical cut-off date. Injection site reactions were reported as assessed by the Investigator., From first dose up to 42 days after the last dose of the trial treatment
Ancillary Trial: An exploratory investigation of immune response in peripheral blood after tecemotide (L-BLP25) or placebo vaccination.

The ancillary study is a sub-study within START. This is an exploratory investigation of the immune response in peripheral blood after tecemotide (L-BLP25) or placebo vaccination. The main objective is to evaluate whether administration of single-shot, low-dose cyclophosphamide followed by tecemotide (L-BLP25) vaccinations induces specific immune response in peripheral blood to BLP25 (the mucinous glycoprotein 1 \[MUC1\] antigen) as well as a modulation of cellular and soluble components of the immune response in subjects with unresectable stage III NSCLC.

Twenty-five of the European START sites will participate in the ancillary study.

Sample size: up to 60 to 80 subjects

All inclusion criteria specified in the START clinical trial protocol except for hemoglobin \>= 100 gram/Liter (g/L)

All exclusion criteria are the same as specified in the START clinical trial protocol

Schedule of events: Blood samples will be taken at baseline, visit week 4, 8 13 and 25 (80 milliliter (mL) whole blood each)