Mindfulness-Based Intervention for Latino Cancer Patients and Their Caregivers
This clinical trial develops effective and appropriate mindfulness-based interventions that help meet the needs of Latino cancer patients and their family caregivers. Mindfulness-based interventions focus on building awareness of thoughts, emotions/feelings, and the sensations. This study may help improve mental well-being and reduce stress and anxiety associated with having cancer or with a family member's cancer diagnosis.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Relaxation|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Group II (mindfulness waitlist)
Overall accrual, Will calculate means, frequencies, and 90% confidence intervals (CIs), as applicable., Up to 12 weeks|Attrition, Will calculate means, frequencies, and 90% CIs, as applicable., Up to 12 weeks|Adherence, Will calculate means, frequencies, and 90% CIs, as applicable., Up to 12 weeks|Acceptability, Will calculate means, frequencies, and 90% CIs, as applicable., Up to 12 weeks
Patient and caregiver psychological distress, Will examine means, standard deviations (SDs), and distributions of survey measures for ceiling/floor effects and restrictions in range and examine change over time., At 6 and 12 weeks|Quality of life questionnaire, Will examine means, SDs, and distributions of survey measures for ceiling/floor effects and restrictions in range and examine change over time., At 6 and 12 weeks|Patient cancer symptoms, Will examine means, SDs, and distributions of survey measures for ceiling/floor effects and restrictions in range and examine change over time., At 6 and 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Systematically and culturally adapt a mindfulness-based intervention to improve psychological wellbeing in Latino patients with advanced cancer and their family caregivers.

II. Evaluate the feasibility of the adapted mindfulness-based intervention and overall study procedures in Latino patient-family caregiver dyads.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the effects of the adapted mindfulness-based intervention on the secondary outcomes of patient and caregiver psychological distress, quality of life (QOL), and patient cancer symptoms, compared to a waitlist control.

OUTLINE: Patients and their partners are randomized to 1 of 32 groups.

GROUP I: Patients and their partners participate in mindfulness program together over 60 minutes consisting of meeting with a mindfulness coach to build awareness of thoughts, emotions, feelings, and sensations 1 time per week (QW) for 4 weeks.

GROUP II: Patients and their partners participate in mindfulness program separately over 60 minutes consisting of meeting with a mindfulness coach to build awareness of thoughts, emotions, feelings, and sensations 1 time per week (QW) for 4 weeks.

GROUP III: Patients and their partners participate in mindfulness program either separately or together, depending on participants' preferences, as in Group I beginning 12 weeks after starting the study and completing the third study visit.