Meaning-Centered Counseling for Chinese Patients Who Are Being Treated for Advanced Cancer
The purpose of the study is to modify a type of counseling called "Individual Meaning Centered Psychotherapy" to meet the needs of Chinese cancer patients. Many cancer patients use counseling or other resources to help cope with the emotional burden of their illnesses. Counseling often helps them cope with cancer by giving them a place to express their feelings. "Meaning-Centered" counseling aims to teach cancer patients how to maintain or even increase a sense of meaning and purpose in their lives, despite cancer.
Advanced Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: In-depth Patient Interviews|BEHAVIORAL: Adaptation of IMCP for Chinese Immigrant Cancer Patients|BEHAVIORAL: Individual Meaning-Centered Psychotherapy for Chinese (IMCP-Ch) (For Phase 3 and Phase 4)
adapt the Individual Meaning-Centered Psychotherapy (IMCP), through formative research, including in-depth interviews, to be culturally and linguistically tailored for Chinese immigrant cancer patients (IMCP-Ch), using the Ecological Validity Model (EVM) of Bernal et al. (3) and the Cultural Adaptation Process (CAP) model of Domenech-Rodriquez and Weiling (1). This addresses existential issues using didactics and experiential exercises and has demonstrated efficacy in reducing existential suffering and improving psychosocial functioning among advanced cancer patients., 2 years
Phases 1 and 2: Formative Research and Adaptation This is a study to adapt the IMCP intervention to be culturally and linguistically tailored for Chinese cancer patients. This study will be carried out in two phases: 1) formative research and 2) adaptation. Preliminary formative research has begun in our study exploring community needs and priorities through exemption application X13-034. For this application we will continue the formative research (phase 1) by conducting 12 in-depth interviews with Chinese immigrants with advanced cancer to inform the adaptation of the intervention. Results of the patient in-depth interviews will inform how to adapt the IMCP process and session themes to reflect the needs of the community. In the adaptation phase (phase 2) the Breitbart IMCP research team (including Drs. Breitbart, Lichtenthal, and Applebaum), Drs. Leng, Gany, and Ms. Huang will discuss a priori adaptations to the intervention. Potential changes to the process and content will be discussed. Adaptations will be incorporated in a modified IMCP-Ch treatment manual, therapist checklist/outline and Treatment Integrity Coding Manual.

Phase 3: Proof-of-concept" single-arm pilot trial of IMCP-Ch This phase will feature an open feasibility study using a pretest vs. posttest design, with the intervention to be delivered via telehealth in Mandarin Chinese by a bilingual interventionist or by an English-speaking therapist in English (for bilingual Chinese and English-speaking patients who prefer English) or through English-to-Mandarin Remote Simultaneous Medical Interpretation (RSMI), depending on participants' preference

Added a new phase (Phase 4), to examine the effects of using remote interpreting modalities to deliver IMCP-CH to Mandarin-speaking patients with advanced cancer; and (2) to add a minimum distress level for eligibility in order to align trial eligibility criteria with those employed in prior MCP trials, which used a DistressThermometer (DT) cutoff of \>4 to identify patients with clinically significant distress (participants who do not meet this criteria will be enrolled in Phase 3). Phase 4 will employ a three-arm pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) design to test the feasibility and acceptability of using (1) Remote Consecutive Medical Interpretation (RCMI), (2) Remote Simultaneous Medical Interpretation (RSMI) and (3) bilingual provider (control/gold standard) in delivering IMCP-Ch.