Characterizing Breast Cancer With 68Ga-FAPI PET/CT (PFB-01)
Fibroblast activation protein (FAP) is overexpressed in cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which constitute a major proportion of cells within the tumor microenvironment, especially in breast cancer. 68Ga-FAPI has been developed as a tumor-targeting agent. This prospective study is going to investigate the performance and value of 68Ga-FAPI PET/CT in patients with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 68Ga-FAPI PET/CT scan
Diagnostic Performance (1), Diagnostic performance including sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of 68Ga-FAPI PET/CT in the detection of ALN metastasis according to the pathological reference standard on a per-patient basis, compared with 18F-FDG PET/CT and ultrasound., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Clinical Stage, Clinical stage changed by 68Ga-FAPI PET/CT compared to 18F-FDG PET/CT., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Diagnostic Performance (2), Diagnostic performance of ALN metastasis of 68Ga-FAPI PET/CT with or without previous biopsy on breast lesion., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Safety, Short-term adverse effects (AEs) after 68Ga-FAPI injection., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Breast cancer is a complex, heterogeneous disease comprising numerous distinct biological subtypes characterized by variant pathobiological features and clinical behaviors. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) PET/CT, an essential imaging modality in the characterization of metabolism within the tumor, has successfully evolved in the diagnosis, staging, and assessment of treatment response in patients with breast cancer. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are a crucial component of the tumor stroma with diverse functions. Fibroblast activation protein (FAP), a type II membrane-bound glycoprotein from the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 family, is highly expressed in the CAFs of several epithelial carcinomas, including breast cancer, coupled with relatively low expression in normal tissue. Gallium-68 (68Ga)-conjugated FAP inhibitor (FAPI), a new radiotracer targeting FAP, has been developed for targeting FAP and tumor-stromal visualization. With its fast renal clearance and high tumor-to-background ratio, 68Ga-FAPI has been successfully validated in multi-types of tumors. This study aims to evaluate the performance and value of 68Ga- FAPI PET/CT in patients with breast cancer.