Sterotactic Operation Integrating With Thrombolysis in Basal Ganglion Hemorrhage Evacuation
Spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage is one of the main causes of death and disability all over the world, accounting for 20%-30% of all cerebrovascular diseases. Minimally invasive surgery of cerebral hemorrhage, especially puncture aspiration, can improve early and long-term neurological recovery in patients with cerebral hemorrhage. Until now, no standardized practice for minimally invasive surgery of spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage has been established. Hematoma puncture and drainage based on CT scans without precise localization and personalized approach design, which may lead to poor efficacy and high risk of complications. Our hospital has much experience in treating cerebral hemorrhage with stereotactic puncture and aspiration. So we conduct a prospective multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial to determine the therapeutic effects of puncture aspiration plus thrombolysis treatment for the perioperative and long-term recovery of patients with small to moderate hematoma in deep basal ganglia via computerized precision coordinates and personalized approach design.
Basal Ganglia Haematoma
PROCEDURE: stereotactic surgery plus thrombolysis
The change of ADL score, ADL: Activities of Daily Living, ranges from 0-100, a higher ADL score means a better situation., 6 months|improvement of muscle strength of the hemiplegic limb or aphasia, 6 months|Changes in GOS score, GOS: Glasgow Outcome Scale, ranges from 1-5, a higher GOS score means a better situation., 6 months
Mortality rate, 6 months|Hematoma clearance rate, 1 day and one month|Change in GCS score, GCS: Glasgow Coma Scale, ranges from 3-15, a higher GCS score means a better situation., one month
Spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage is one of the main causes of death and disability all over the world, accounting for 20%-30% of all cerebrovascular diseases. Minimally invasive surgery of cerebral hemorrhage, especially puncture aspiration, can improve early and long-term neurological recovery in patients with cerebral hemorrhage. Until now, no standardized practice for minimally invasive surgery of spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage has been established. Hematoma puncture and drainage based on CT scans without precise localization and personalized approach design, which may lead to poor efficacy and high risk of complications. Our hospital has much experience in treating cerebral hemorrhage with stereotactic puncture and aspiration. So we conduct a prospective multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial to determine the therapeutic effects of puncture aspiration plus thrombolysis treatment for the perioperative and long-term recovery of patients with small to moderate hematoma in deep basal ganglia via computerized precision coordinates and personalized approach design.