Neoadjuvant Hormone and Radiation Therapy Followed by Radical Prostatectomy in Patients With High-Risk Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Androgens can stimulate the growth of prostate cancer cells. Hormone therapy can fight prostate cancer by androgen deprivation. It is not yet known if neoadjuvant radiation therapy is a more effective therapy for high-risk prostate cancer.

PURPOSE: Two-stage randomized trial to compare the effectiveness and safety of neoadjuvant radiotherapy and hormone therapy followed by radical prostatectomy in men with high-risk locally advanced prostate cancer
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: radiation therapy|DRUG: Goserelin 3.6 MG|PROCEDURE: radical prostatectomy
Pathologic outcome, pathologic complete response (pCR) or pathologic near complete response (minimal residual disease, MRD) rate, From date of randomization to the date of radical prostatectomy, up to 100 weeks
PSA decline percentage, PSA decline is defined as nadir PSA value/baseline PSA value × 100, From date of randomization to 10 years|PSA complete response rate, Complete response is defined as a drop in PSA on protocol treatment to less than 0.2 ng/ml., From date of randomization to 10 years|PSA Recurrence, Biochemical recurrence is defined as a rise in PSA to 0.2 ng/mL and a confirmatory value of 0.2 ng/mL or greater following radical prostatectomy, From date of randomization to 10 years|Distant Failure, Distant failure rate is estimated by the cumulative incidence method, with failure defined as the first occurrence of distant failure., From date of randomization to 10 years|Prostate Cancer Death, Prostate cancer death rate us estimated by the cumulative incidence method, with failure defined as death due to prostate cancer or complications of trial., From date of randomization to 10 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, with failure defined as death by any cause., From date of randomization to 10 years|Progression-free Survival, Progress-free survival is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, with failure defined as the first occurrence of PSA failure, local, regional or distant failure, or death from any cause., From date of randomization to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Success rate of salvage radiation therapy (SRT) measured as pathologic complete response (pCR) or pathologic near complete response (minimal residual disease, MRD) rate.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. PSA decline rate after neoadjuvant treatment, rate of undetectable PSA after RP, rate of positive surgical margin, and rate of pathologic down-staging (≤ ypT2N0) II. Biochemical recurrence-free survival rate (from date of randomization). III. Metastasis free survival. IV. Prostate Cancer Death. V. Overall Survival

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants receive neoadjuvant hormone and radiation therapy, and then radical prostatectomy

ARM II: Participants receive neoadjuvant hormone therapy, and then radical prostatectomy.

After intervention, participants are followed up periodically for up to 20 years.