Real-time Cancer Pain Assessment and Intervention
This study aim at the advanced malignant tumor patients who suffer from cancer pain, investigate the current status of cancer pain treatment, and study the effects in pain control and quality of life improvement using the method of real-time monitoring and treatment instruction of cancer pain. This study is a randomized, controlled, single center clinical study. After recruitment, the subjects will randomly assign to standard cancer pain treatment group and standard cancer pain treatment plus real-time dynamic monitoring and treatment intervention of cancer pain using the cloud computing concept system. And then, assess the alleviation of cancer pain and quality of live. The assumption is the system will alleviate the cancer pain efficiently.
Malignancy|Pain
PROCEDURE: real-time monitoring and instruction of cancer pain|PROCEDURE: standard cancer pain care
pain intensity, the numeric rating scale and visual analogue scale of pain during the chemotherapy. using brief pain inventory scales.

in this case, once 2 days in intervention group; once a weeks in control group; and a comprehensive cancer pain assessment according to national comprehensive cancer network adult pain guidance every cycle. within 3 weeks after withdraw, all of the statistics will be analyzed., up to 9 weeks|duration of pain, the numeric rating scale and visual analogue scale of pain during the chemotherapy. using brief pain inventory scales.

in this case, once 2 days in intervention group; once a weeks in control group; and a comprehensive cancer pain assessment according to national comprehensive cancer network adult pain guidance every cycle. within 3 weeks after withdraw, all of the statistics will be analyzed., up to 9 weeks
quality of life, the quality of life assessment will be conducted before the chemotherapy, after 1st cycle chemotherapy, and after 2nd cycle of chemotherapy., change from baseline of quality of life at 6 weeks
1. Cancer pain is a common symptom exists in malignant tumor patients, which bother the patients and decrease the quality of life.
2. The goal of the study is that using the real-time monitoring and intervention system will alleviate cancer pain better than the standard cancer pain treatment.
3. The cloud computing concept is developed by Sun Yat-sen University cancer center, and accord with clinical practice.
4. The subjects receive the real-time monitoring and intervention system will install the software and report in the contents of cancer pain in the software correspondingly to the doctors, and advices will be given by the software as well.
5. The quality of life and overall survival follow-up is also required.