Metastasis-directed Therapy in Oligoprogressive Castration-refractory Prostate Cancer
Evaluation of the impact of metastasis-directed therapy in patients with castration-refractory prostate cancer and a maximum of 5 progressive lesions.
Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer|Oligoprogressive
RADIATION: Radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: metastasectomy
Overall Survival, Overall Survival, will be calculated from the day of randomisation until death from any cause, wichever came first, assessed up to 5 years.
Quality of life scoring EORTC QLQ-C30, Quality of life scoring using the EORTC QLQ-C30, Assessments are planned at baseline and during follow-up consultation at month 1, month 3, month 6, month 12 and month 24|Quality of life scoring EORTC QLQ-PR25, Quality of life scoring using the EORTC QLQ-PR25, Assessments are planned at baseline and during follow-up consultation at month 1, month 3, month 6, month 12 and month 24|Quality of life scoring EQ-5D-5L, Quality of life scoring using the EQ-5D-5L., Assessments are planned at baseline and during follow-up consultation at month 1, month 3, month 6, month 12 and month 24|Cancer Specific Survival, Cancer Specific Survival, will be calculated from the day of randomisation until prostate cancer death, assessed up to 5 years.|Radiographic progression free survival, Radiographic progression free survival, will be calculated from the day of randomisation until the first day of progression (local, nodal or metastatic). Imaging is performed every 6 months during follow-up or at any time in case of PSA progression or symptoms, assessed up to 5 years.|Progression-directed therapy induced acute or late toxicity scoring, Acute and late toxicity as a result of radiotherapy will be scored using the Common Toxicity Criteria Version 5.0 and metastasectomy related toxicity will be scored using Clavien Dindo scoring system., Toxicity will be scored every follow-up visit, assessed up to 5 years after progression-directed therapy.
MEDCARE phase 3 trial is approved by the central Ethics committee. It is a multicentric, randomized, prospective, open-label, two-arm, phase III trial. The aim is to evaluate the impact of progression-directed therapy (PDT) in patients presenting with oligoprogressive mCRPC on overall survival (OS). The study will employ a 1:1 randomization between arm A and arm B. Patients will be stratified according to number of metastases (1 versus \> 1), initial localization (local recurrence, N or M1a vs. M1b or M1c) and systemic therapy (patient type 1 vs. type 2, see below) (Fig 1). Randomization will be carried out after approval in the multidisciplinary tumour board were the standard-of-care treatment and kind of PDT (metastasectomy or SBRT) will be decided before randomization.