A Study of Bevacizumab (Avastin) in Combination With Dacarbazine in Participants With Unresectable/Metastatic Melanoma
This study will assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity and safety profile of a combination of bevacizumab and dacarbazine in participants with unresectable/metastatic melanoma not previously treated with chemotherapy for metastatic disease.
Malignant Melanoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Tumor assessments were performed using RECIST. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions with normalization of tumor markers. PR was defined as greater than or equal to (≥) 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions in reference to sum of LD at Baseline. Both were to be confirmed at a follow-up visit at least 4 weeks from the initial assessment of CR or PR. The percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR or PR during the study was reported., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)
Percentage of Participants With Death or Disease Progression Following a Previous Assessment of CR or PR According to RECIST, Tumor assessments were performed using RECIST. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to smallest sum on study or the appearance of new lesion(s). CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions with normalization of tumor markers. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to sum of LD at Baseline. The percentage of participants who died or demonstrated disease progression among those with a previous assessment of CR or PR was reported., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) With CR or PR According to RECIST, Tumor assessments were performed using RECIST. DOR was defined as the time from first assessment of CR or PR to the time of death or disease progression, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to smallest sum on study or the appearance of new lesion(s). CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions with normalization of tumor markers. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to sum of LD at Baseline. DOR was estimated by Kaplan-Meier methodology and expressed in months., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|Percentage of Participants With Death or Disease Progression Following a Previous Assessment of CR, PR, or Stable Disease (SD) According to RECIST, Tumor assessments were performed using RECIST. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to smallest sum on study or the appearance of new lesion(s). CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions with normalization of tumor markers. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to sum of LD at Baseline. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to quality for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for disease progression, using smallest sum of LD on study as reference. The percentage of participants who died or demonstrated disease progression among those with a previous assessment of CR, PR, or SD was reported., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|DOR With CR, PR, or SD According to RECIST, Tumor assessments were performed using RECIST. DOR was defined as the time from first assessment of CR, PR, or SD to the time of death or disease progression, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to smallest sum on study or the appearance of new lesion(s). CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions with normalization of tumor markers. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to sum of LD at Baseline. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to quality for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for disease progression, using smallest sum of LD on study as reference. DOR was estimated by Kaplan-Meier methodology and expressed in months., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|Percentage of Participants With Death or Disease Progression According to RECIST, Tumor assessments were performed using RECIST. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to smallest sum on study or the appearance of new lesion(s). The percentage of participants who died or demonstrated disease progression was reported., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|Time to Progression (TTP) According to RECIST, Tumor assessments were performed using RECIST. TTP was defined as the time from Baseline visit to time of death or disease progression, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to smallest sum on study or the appearance of new lesion(s). TTP was estimated by Kaplan-Meier methodology and expressed in months., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Discontinued Treatment, The percentage of participants who discontinued treatment as a result of death, adverse event, disease progression, loss to follow-up, non-compliance, or consent withdrawal was reported. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to smallest sum on study or the appearance of new lesion(s)., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), TTF was defined as the time from start of treatment to the time of treatment discontinuation as a result of death, adverse event, disease progression, loss to follow-up, non-compliance, or consent withdrawal was reported. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to smallest sum on study or the appearance of new lesion(s). TTF was estimated by Kaplan-Meier methodology and expressed in months., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Died, The percentage of participants who died from any cause was reported., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from Baseline visit to the time of death from any cause. OS was estimated by Kaplan-Meier methodology and expressed in months., Baseline up to approximately 6 years (assessed at Baseline, every 12 weeks on treatment, thereafter every 3 months)
This study will assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity and safety profile of a combination of bevacizumab and dacarbazine in participants with unresectable/metastatic melanoma not previously treated with chemotherapy for metastatic disease.