A Study of rSIFN-co in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a multicenter, open-label, phase I study of rSIFN-co (3 times a week via subcutaneous injection for 21 days, with 1 week of washout per cycle).
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Carcinoma, Renal Cell|Melanoma|Carcinoma, Hepatocellular|Colon Cancer
DRUG: rSIFN-co
Adverse Events of rSIFN-co of recombinant interferon-α administered in solid Tumor, Safety and tolerability will be determined after each cycle of treatment with SIFN-co of recombinant interferon-α, to patients via subcutaneous injection for 21 days (up to 6 cycles), Up to 12 weeks after the last treatment|Recommended dose (RD) of rSIFN-co, 3+3 design for determination of RD. 4 doses (21µg, 24µg, 27µg and 30µg) are planned for determination of RD, dose escalation will be allowed till grade 3/4 toxicity is encountered in 2 or more of the 3 or 6 subjects in first cycle of treatment cycle, Cycle 1 of treatment
Antitumor efficacy (Disease Control Rate), i.e. the percentage of patients, on the RD of rSIFN-co, Antitumor response will be evaluated based on RECIST and irRC guidelines, Up to 28 days after the last treatment|Objective response rate (ORR), i.e. the percentage of patients, on rSIFN-co, Subjects will be re-evaluated at end of cycle 1, completion of every even cycle treatment, Discontinuation Visit and Follow-up Visit. Confirmatory scans will be obtained within 4 to 8 weeks following initial documentation of an objective response. Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) \[Eur J Ca 45:228-247, 2009\].

Antitumor response based on total measurable tumor burden irRC, index and measurable new lesions are taken into account. Each subsequent tumor assessment, the SPD of the index lesions and of new, measurable lesions (≥5 × 5 mm; up to 5 new lesions per organ: 5 new cutaneous lesions and 10 visceral lesions) are added together to provide the total tumor burden, the objective is to determine response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS),and time to progression (TTP) status on rSIFN-co., Up to 28 days after the last treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS) time (days) on rSIFN-co, Subjects will be re-evaluated at end of cycle 1, completion of every even cycle treatment, Discontinuation Visit and Follow-up Visit. Confirmatory scans will be obtained within 4 to 8 weeks following initial documentation of an objective response. Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) \[Eur J Ca 45:228-247, 2009\].

Antitumor response based on total measurable tumor burden irRC, index and measurable new lesions are taken into account. Each subsequent tumor assessment, the SPD of the index lesions and of new, measurable lesions (≥5 × 5 mm; up to 5 new lesions per organ: 5 new cutaneous lesions and 10 visceral lesions) are added together to provide the total tumor burden, the objective is to determine response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS),and time to progression (TTP) status on rSIFN-co., Up to 28 days after the last treatment|Time to progression (TTP) status (days) on rSIFN-co, Subjects will be re-evaluated at end of cycle 1, completion of every even cycle treatment, Discontinuation Visit and Follow-up Visit. Confirmatory scans will be obtained within 4 to 8 weeks following initial documentation of an objective response. Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) \[Eur J Ca 45:228-247, 2009\].

Antitumor response based on total measurable tumor burden irRC, index and measurable new lesions are taken into account. Each subsequent tumor assessment, the SPD of the index lesions and of new, measurable lesions (≥5 × 5 mm; up to 5 new lesions per organ: 5 new cutaneous lesions and 10 visceral lesions) are added together to provide the total tumor burden, the objective is to determine response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS),and time to progression (TTP) status on rSIFN-co., Up to 28 days after the last treatment|FDG-PET response (lesion size) before and after administration of rSIFN-co, CT and SUV values used to determine lesion size will be evaluated and studied to understand the change of CT value\& SUV value before and after treatment., Up to 28 days after the last treatment|FDG-PET response (lesion volume) before and after administration of rSIFN-co, CT and SUV values used to determine lesion volume will be evaluated and studied to understand the change of CT value\& SUV value before and after treatment., Up to 28 days after the last treatment
Changes in subject cytokine profiles (pg/ml) before and after treatment, The cytokine data is an experimental observation and not used for therapeutic effect evaluation. if possible, to evaluate the correlation between these cytokine changes and study drugs., Up to 28 days after the last treatment|Evaluation of elected tumor repressive and enhancing genes (counts of genes such as microRNA-92a, microRNA-92b) before and after administration of rSIFN-co, Pre- and post-dose samples will be collected for additional cell signaling assays to evaluate selected tumor repressive and enhancing genes (such as microRNA-92a, microRNA-92b) as well as levels of 2'5'-oligoadenylate synthetase., Up to 28 days after the last treatment|Evaluation of levels (counts) of 2'5'-oligoadenylate synthetase, before and after administration of rSIFN-co, Pre- and post-dose samples will be collected for additional cell signaling assays to evaluate selected tumor repressive and enhancing genes (such as microRNA-92a, microRNA-92b) as well as levels of 2'5'-oligoadenylate synthetase., Up to 28 days after the last treatment
The Dose-Escalation Cohort will consist of the Pretreatment Phase, the Treatment Phase, the Extension Phase, Discontinuation and Follow-up. The Pretreatment Phase will include a Consent and Screening Period. The Treatment Phase will consist of the Lead in Period and first 21-day cycle of treatment during which subjects will be monitored for the development of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) following 1 week of washout. The Extension Phase will start from the start of Cycle 2 with intra-subject dose-escalation performed until discontinuation of study treatment. Upon discontinuation of study treatment, discontinuation visit assessments should occur within 7 days of treatment discontinuation or confirmation of discontinuation criteria. End of treatment information will also be collected for all subjects who discontinue treatment after completion of cycle 1 treatment. Follow-up visit/final visit evaluations will be performed 28 (±5 days) days after the last rSIFN-co administration. The decision to undergo dose-escalation to the next dose level will be based on the safety information obtained during Cycle 1.

Dose escalation in solid tumors utilizing a "3+3" design with intra-subject dose escalation. 4 dose levels of rSIFN-co are planned for determining the RD. 3-6 subjects will be assigned to each dose level and followed up for 4 weeks after starting administration in Cycle 1. Each cohort will be started after the tolerability of that dose level has been confirmed in subjects with advanced solid tumors. For subjects starting in the lower dose cohorts, intra-subject dose escalation will be allowed till grade 3/4 toxicity is encountered or highest dose level (after safety and tolerability are confirmed) TIW is reached. In order to minimize the risk of allergic reactions, the sponsor has advised a lead-in period starting from 15μg. When the tolerability of each dose level has been confirmed by the observation of no DLT among 3 subjects, escalation to the next dose level will occur.

The Expansion Cohort will be initiated at the RD. Depending on the RD, the lead in period will occur accordingly. After the lead in period, a period from Cycle 1 to the final administration will be performed as the Treatment Phase during which subjects will undergo a standardized evaluation for the safety and efficacy of rSIFN-co at the RD. If subjects are discontinued from the study treatment, discontinuation visit assessments should occur within 7 days of last rSIFN-co administration or confirmation of discontinuation criteria. End of treatment information will also be collected for all subjects who discontinue treatment after completion of cycle 1 treatment. Follow-up evaluations will be performed 28 days (±5 days) after the last rSIFN-co administration.