Testing the Addition of the Pill Chemotherapy, Cabozantinib, to the Standard Immune Therapy Nivolumab Compared to Standard Chemotherapy for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial compares cabozantinib alone and the combination of cabozantinib and nivolumab to standard chemotherapy in the treatment of patients with non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Ramucirumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as docetaxel, gemcitabine hydrochloride, paclitaxel, and nab-paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving cabozantinib alone or in combination with nivolumab may be more effective than standard chemotherapy in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Metastatic Lung Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Docetaxel|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab
Progression-free survival (PFS) for patient population with non-squamous no-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), The final analysis of PFS will be performed when the full information of PFS is reached (i.e., 58 events for each of the two primary comparisons). The two primary comparisons of PFS will each use a logrank test stratified on the randomization stratification factors with a one-sided type I error rate of 10%. Estimates of PFS including medians and confidence intervals, will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox proportional hazards models, stratified, on the same factors, will be used to estimate the treatment hazard ratios. At the final analyses, in the event that both primary PFS comparisons of the combination of nivolumab with cabozantinib and cabozantinib alone versus the standard chemotherapy are statistically significant, PFS will be compared between the two experimental arms (combination of nivolumab with cabozantinib versus \[vs.\] cabozantinib alone), using a stratified log rank test with a one-sided type I error rate of 10%., After 58 events (From time of randomization to documented disease progression [site review of imaging] or death from any cause, whichever occurs first)
Overall survival (OS) for each arm, The final analysis of OS will be performed when the full information of PFS is reached (i.e., 58 events for each of the two primary comparisons). OS will be tested in a hierarchical fashion if the primary comparison of PFS between treatment arms is statistically significant, using a log rank test stratified on the randomization stratification factors with a one-sided type I error rate of 10%. Estimates of OS, including medians and confidence intervals, will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox proportional hazards models, stratified, on the same factors, will be used to estimate the treatment hazard ratios. OS will be further tested in a hierarchical fashion if the comparison of PFS between the two experimental arms is statistically significant. Point estimates of all endpoints will be accompanied by the corresponding two-sided 80% confidence intervals. Subset analyses of PFS and OS by treatment arm will be estimated and compared within subsets., From time of randomization to documented disease progression (site review of imaging) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years|Best objective response for each arm, Will be evaluated via Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Response rates (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) and toxicity will be compared using Fisher's exact tests with a one-sided type I error rate of 10%; multivariable logistic regression modeling will be used to adjust for the effect of any covariates that are associated with these categorical outcomes. Modeling procedures will implement backward selection; variables significant at the 0.10 level in the univariate setting will be chosen for inclusion in an initial full model, and at each step the least significant variable will be removed from the model. Only those covariates with p \< 0.05 will remain in any final models, unless there are factors identified by the study team as crucial to model interpretation. Point estimates of all endpoints will be accompanied by the corresponding two-sided 80% confidence intervals., Every 6 weeks for the first year on study, and then every 12 weeks after year one|Toxicity profile of monotherapy with cabozantinib, and the combination of nivolumab and cabozantinib, Will be determined using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) criteria. Response rates (complete response \[CR\] + pathologic response \[PR\]) and toxicity will be compared using Fisher's exact tests with a one-sided type I error rate of 10%; multivariable logistic regression modeling will be used to adjust for the effect of any covariates that are associated with these categorical outcomes. Modeling procedures will implement backward selection; variables significant at the 0.10 level in the univariate setting will be chosen for inclusion in an initial full model, and at each step the least significant variable will be removed from the model. Only those covariates with p \< 0.05 will remain in any final models, unless there are factors identified by the study team as crucial to model interpretation. Point estimates of all endpoints will be accompanied by the corresponding two-sided 80% confidence intervals., Up to 3 years after completion of study treatment
The RECIST1.1 response at each time point, The measurement of each time point will be performed using the revised CHOI criteria will be only applied to arms A and B, which will include anti-angiogenic therapy. Both the RECIST1.1 and revised CHOI criteria will assess the overall best response as CR, partial PR, stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD). Their concordance will be assessed using the weighted Cohen's kappa coefficient (k) with quadratic weights. As a rule of thumb, the level of concordance between the two criteria will be considered poor (k \<0), slight (k 0-0.20), fair (k 0.21-0.40), moderate (k 0.41-0.60), substantial (k 0.61-0.80), and almost perfect (k 0.81 - 1)., Every 6 weeks for the first year on study, and then every 12 weeks after year one|Agreement between central view and site review in terms of progression-free survival, The progression status and the progression time will be assessed in agreement. The progression status is a binary measurement and the agreement will be assessed using the Cohen's kappa coefficient. For progression time, will assess the temporal agreement using the method developed by Zeng et al., After the completion of study treatment|Correlative biomarker research, Correlative biomarker research will be performed on tissue and blood specimens collected within this trial., After the completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether cabozantinib alone, or the combination of nivolumab and cabozantinib, as compared to standard chemotherapy alone, extends progression-free survival (PFS) for this patient population with non squamous NSCLC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall survival for each arm of the trial. II. To evaluate the best overall radiographic response rate for each arm of the trial.

III. To evaluate and describe the toxicity profile of monotherapy with cabozantinib, and the combination of nivolumab and cabozantinib in this patient population with non-squamous NSCLC.

EXPLORATORY IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe time point tumor response assessment, overall best response, progression-free survival and overall survival using the conventional Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and the exploratory revised CHOI criteria with all measurements performed by the central review.

II. To compare the progression-free survival using the RECIST1.1 imaging response assessment measurements by site study personnel to those performed by central review.

EXPLORATORY CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

I. To perform correlative biomarker research on tissue and blood biospecimens collected within this trial.

OUTLINE:

STEP 1: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD). Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue to receive therapy after investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1 defined progression, including stable clinical and performance status and have potential for continued clinical benefit.

ARM B: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate PO QD and nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue to receive therapy after investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1 defined progression, including stable clinical and performance status and have potential for continued clinical benefit.

ARM C: Patients receive ramucirumab IV over 30-60 minutes and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1, or docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 8, or gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 8, or paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1, or nab-paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity and at the discretion of the treating physician.

STEP 2: Patients in Arm C experiencing disease progression are assigned to Arm Z.

ARM Z: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate PO QD and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue to receive therapy after investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1 defined progression, including stable clinical and performance status and have potential for continued clinical benefit.

Patients in all arms undergo echocardiogram (ECHO) as clinically indicated, computed tomography (CT) throughout the trial, and collection of blood on study.

After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.