The Role of Brain Radiotherapy in Patients With Asymptomatic Brain Metastasis in the Era of Targeted Therapy for NSCLC
Brain metastasis is the most common neurological complication in tumor patients, and lung cancer is the most common tumor with brain metastasis. The prognosis of patients with non-small cell lung cancer with brain metastasis is poor. If not treated, the median survival time was about 1 month, the median survival time for steroid therapy was about 2 to 3 months, and the median survival time for patients receiving whole brain radiotherapy was about 3 to 6 months. Studies have shown that the incidence of brain metastasis is not only related to tumor size, N stage and tumor cell type, but also more likely to occur in NSCLC patients with sensitive gene mutation. With the rapid development of NSCLC molecular targeted therapy and precise radiotherapy, the new main therapeutic methods for NSCLC brain metastasis in recent years include stereotactic radiotherapy for (SRT),. Based on intensity modulated technique, simultaneous modulated accelerated radiation therapy for Brain(SMART-Brain) and molecular targeted therapy were carried out. However, at present, the best treatment choice for NSCLC brain metastasis, especially for asymptomatic brain metastasis patients, is still controversial. The choice and combined application mode of individualized treatment for different patients is still a problem to be explored. Based on the synergistic effect of radiotherapy and molecular targeted therapy on the basis of cell and molecule, The purpose of this study was to prospectively compare the efficacy of radiotherapy combined with targeted therapy and targeted therapy alone in patients with asymptomatic NSCLC brain metastasis with gene sensitive mutations, and subgroup analysis of different molecular targets and mutation sites. It is expected that this study will provide a basis for optimizing the curative effect of patients with NSCLC brain metastasis.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Brain Metastases
DRUG: molecular targeted therapies|RADIATION: Brain Radiotherapy
Intracranial progression-free survival,iPFS-LM, Time from BM diagnosis to the first documentation of intracranial lesion progression or death with documented intracranial progression, Every 6 weeks up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate,ORR, ORR, proportion of patients with a best overall response of complete response or partial response (CR+PR), 1 month after treatment
Progress Free Survival rate,PFS, The period from the start of treatment to the progression or death of a patient, Every 6 weeks up to 2 years|Median Survival Time,MST, the cumulative survival rate is 0.5, the corresponding survival time means that only 50% of the individuals can live through this time., Every 6 weeks up to 2 years|adverse events, Number of patients with adverse events (AEs) as a measure of safety and tolerability, Every 6 weeks up to 2 years
Overall Survival rate, OS, time from the beginning of study to death due to any cause or last follow-up, Every 6 weeks up to 2 years, and then every 3 months up to 5 years
This is a randomized phase II clinical trial. The objective of the study is to assess efficacy and safety of brain radiotherapy combined with targeted therapy and simple targeted therapy in patients with asymptomatic NSCLC brain metastasis with gene sensitive mutation. Patients were randomized with equal allocation to Molecular targeted therapy alone or with brain radiotherapy. Study therapy continued until disease progression, unacceptable adverse event, or withdrawal of consent