Effect of Patient Education on Reported Bone Pain in Breast Cancer Patients Receiving Chemotherapy and Pegfilgrastim
The purpose of this study is to determine if patient education can affect patient reported bone pain in breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy and pegfilgrastim.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: General Education DVD|OTHER: Bone Pain Education DVD
Maximum Patient-reported Bone Pain in Cycle 1, Participants completed a brief bone pain survey once per day for 5 days beginning the day they received their pegfilgrastim injection. The bone pain survey collected the severity of pain using a 0 to 10 scale, where 0 = no pain and 10 indicates worst pain., Days 1 to 5 during cycle 1.
Maximum Patient-reported Bone Pain by Cycle and Across All Cycles, Participants completed a brief bone pain survey once per day for 5 days beginning the day they received their pegfilgrastim injection. The bone pain survey collected the severity of pain using a 0 to 10 scale, where 0 = no pain and 10 indicates worst pain., Days 1-5 for each treatment cycle|Mean Patient-reported Bone Pain by Cycle and Across All Cycles, Participants completed a brief bone pain survey once per day for 5 days beginning the day they received their pegfilgrastim injection. The bone pain survey collected the severity of pain using a 0 to 10 scale, where 0 = no pain and 10 indicates worst pain., Days 1-5 for 4 treatment cycles|Patient-reported Bone Pain Area Under the Curve (AUC) by Cycle and Across All Cycles, Patient-reported bone pain AUC was calculated using the trapezoidal rule with bone pain scores from Day 1-5 for each cycle. AUC may range from 0 to 40 per cycle., Days 1-5 for 4 treatment cycles|Percentage of Participants With Any Grade Bone Pain as Captured in Standard Adverse Event Reporting, Participants with any grade of bone pain as captured during standard adverse event (AE) reporting. A pre-defined list of Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) version 17.1 preferred terms was used to determine if a participant experienced bone pain: Arthralgia, Arthritis, Back pain, Bone pain, Chest discomfort, Groin discomfort, Limb discomfort, Musculoskeletal chest pain, Musculoskeletal discomfort, Musculoskeletal pain, Neck pain, Non-cardiac chest pain, Osteochondritis Pain, Pain in extremity, Pain in jaw, Pelvic pain, Pubic pain, Sacroiliitis, Spinal pain, Spondylitis., From randomization until 30 days after the last dose of pegfilgrastim, up to approximately 20 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Grade 3 or 4 Bone Pain Captured in Standard Adverse Event Reporting, Participants with grade 3 or 4 bone pain as captured during standard adverse event reporting. A pre-defined list of Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) version 17.1 preferred terms was used to determine if a participant experienced bone pain: Arthralgia, Arthritis, Back pain, Bone pain, Chest discomfort, Groin discomfort, Limb discomfort, Musculoskeletal chest pain, Musculoskeletal discomfort, Musculoskeletal pain, Neck pain, Non-cardiac chest pain, Osteochondritis Pain, Pain in extremity, Pain in jaw, Pelvic pain, Pubic pain, Sacroiliitis, Spinal pain, Spondylitis. The severity of each AE was graded using the Common Terminology criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3 and are based on the following:

Grade 1 = Mild AE; Grade 2 = Moderate AE; Grade 3 = Severe AE; Grade 4 = Life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5 = Death related to AE., From randomization until 30 days after the last dose of pegfilgrastim, up to approximatley 20 weeks.|Percentage of Participants Who Used Analgesics for the Treatment of Bone Pain by Cycle and Across Cycles, Analgesic use includes both analgesic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs., From Day 1 of Cycle 2 until 30 days after the last dose of pegfilgrastim, up to approximately 16 weeks.
In this study, the effect of patient education on reported bone pain in breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy and pegfilgrastim will be investigated.

Each patient will receive adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy with pegfilgrastim prophylaxis, beginning in the first cycle and continuing throughout the study period. The study period for this study is the first 4 cycles of chemotherapy. participants can be planning to receive regimens with \> 4 cycles, but data will only be collected for the first 4 cycles. The choice of chemotherapy regimen (agent, dose, and schedule) is at the discretion of the treating physician. Commercially available pegfilgrastim will be administered according to US Prescribing Information and is considered background therapy.