Psychological Interventions for Gynecologic Cancer
Subjects that have received medical treatment for ovarian cancer can be both physically and emotionally demanding for patients. The purpose of this study is to determine whether two common pyschological interventions (Communication Skills Intervention and Supportive Counseling) may improve the well-being of ovarian cancer patients compared to usual care.
Gynecologic Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Psychotherapy
Do the two psychological interventions, CCI and SC, result in greater improvements in global psychological adaptation, Global Psychological distress:

Depressive symptoms - The BDI is a 21-item scale which has been widely used in studies incorporating cognitive-behavioral interventions.The MHI-18 has subscales for Psychological Distress and Well-being., 7 years|Do the two psychological interventions, CCI and SC, result in greater improvements in cancer-specific psychological adaptation, Cancer-Specific Distress:

Traumatic Stress. The Impact of Events Scale (IES) is a 15-item self-report measure focusing on intrusive and avoidant ideation related to gynecologic cancer and its treatment. Using a 4-point Likert scale, participants rated how true each statement has been for them during the past week (scale range = 0-75).

Fear of Recurrence/Progression. The Concerns about Recurrence Scale (CARS) is a 26 item assessment of the nature of women's fears about cancer recurrence., 7 years|Do the two psychological interventions, CCI and SC, result in greater improvements in quality of life, Quality of Life-General. The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G) is a widely used measure of QOL. The FACT-G is comprised of 27 questions that assess well-being in four domains: physical, functional, social/family, and emotional.

Spiritual well-being. The FACIT Spiritual well-being scale assesses a sense of meaning in life, harmony, peacefulness, sense of strength, and comfort from one's faith. The 12 item scale has two factors: Meaning/Peace and Faith., 7 years
Very little is known in the psycho-oncology literature about why psychological interventions are effective or for how long these interventions exert an impact. Given many cancer patients experience recurrence and/or progression, it is important to know whether our relatively brief interventions facilitate how patients cope with this most-feared medical event. From a theoretical perspective, the study will advance our understanding of the mechanisms for change for two common treatment approaches, supportive and cognitive behavioral therapies.

Subjects will be enrolled and upon completion of a baseline survey, randomized to into one of three arms - Communication Skills Intervention, Supportive Counseling, and Usual Care. Subjects will complete surveys during the course of the interventions.