Study of alloCART-19 Cell Therapy in Pediatric Patients With Relapsed/Refractory B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of CD19-Directed Allogeneic Chimeric Antigen Receptor T- cell (alloCART-19)therapy in pediatric patients with relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia（ALL）.
ALL, Childhood B-Cell
GENETIC: alloCART-19|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine
Dose Limiting Toxicity, Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as patients with the adverse event (AE) or laboratory abnormality per Lee DW and Locke FL standards and management guideline, and should be possibly related to alloCART-19 cell therapy, and should be unrelated to the disease itself, disease progression, concomitant diseases or concomitant medication. DLT will be analyzed as categorical variable，coded as 1 for DLT occur, 0 for no DLT., Day 28 after the first alloCART-19 infusion
The occurrence of adverse events, The adverse events (AE) is a composite variable including liver and kidney function damage, nausea, vomiting, arrhythmia and dyspnea. The variable would be coded as 1 if any of these events occurs after the first alloCART-19 infusion while 0 for none . These adverse events would be measured by assessment scale method according to NCI CTC AE v5.0 classification standard., After the first alloCART-19 infusion for 2 year|Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate（ORR）is defined as the proportion of patients whose tumor volume shrank to a predetermined value and the minimum time limit required.

ORR = complete remission (CR) + incomplete complete remission (CRi), Day 28 and 3 months after the first alloCART-19 infusion|Best Overall Response, Best Overall Response（BOR）at 28 days and 3 months after drug infusion was evaluated to preliminarily evaluate the optimal efficacy of alloCART-19 infusion in patients., Day 28 and 3 months after the first alloCART-19 infusion
AlloCART-19 cells, AlloCART-19 cells would be detected in peripheral blood, bone marrow, and/or CSF.

The variable would be coded as 1 if any alloCART-19 cell was founded in the tissues metioned above while 0 for none., After the first alloCART-19 infusion for 2 years|T cell subsets, T cell subsets is a composite varible including CD3, CD4 and CD8 ratio observed in blood and bone marrow. The variable would be coded as 1 if any of these observations were not in normal range while 0 for all normal., After the first alloCART-19 infusion for 2 years
This is a single center, open label, single arm, dose escalation study to explore the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic profile of CD19-Directed Allogeneic Chimeric Antigen Receptor T- cell (alloCART-19) in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The study will also assess the preliminary efficacy of CD19-Directed Allogeneic Chimeric Antigen Receptor T- cell (alloCART-19). For this exploratory clinical trial, approximately 3-6 patients will be enrolled. During dose escalation, at least one evaluable patient will be enrolled at each dose level. Once DLT is reached, 1 to 3 additional patients will be enrolled at the dose level below DLT, which has been tested and determined to be safe in the trial, to evaluate the optimal safe and therapeutic dose to be approved by the investigator and sponsor.