Efficacy Evaluation of Focused HIFU (High Intensity Focused Ultrasound) Therapy in Patients With Localized Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer
The aim of the focal treatment HIFU is to destroy the cancer without causing side effects in contrast to radical treatments. Radical treatments (surgery or radiation therapy) are the standard therapies for patient with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer and good life expectancy (prostatectomy if life expectancy10 years) By destroying only the part of the gland that harbors cancer, it may indeed be possible to provide efficient cure of the disease while minimizing treatment-induced morbidity (incontinence and loss of potency). Around 20% of patients presented with a unilateral tumor: this patients are currently treated radically. No study published papers reported outcomes of a large population (\>100) with intermediate risk cancers treated with Focal-HIFU (conducted with the Focal One® device). Focal therapy must be only offer within clinical trial setting (EAU (European Association of Urology) Guidelines ). The aim of this cohort will be to determine the success rate of Focal-HIFU in this intermediate risk population. The result the study will be used for calculation the arms of a future random study
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: treatment with focal HIFU|BIOLOGICAL: PSA dosage|DEVICE: MRI|OTHER: Questionnaires|PROCEDURE: Prostatic biopsies|BIOLOGICAL: blood test|BIOLOGICAL: urine test
patient proportion with controlled disease (Control of the pathology), The main objective is the estimation of FOCAL HIFU treatment efficacy defined as the percentage of positive biopsies in the treated lobe at 12 months after inclusion., 12 months
proportion of patients needing additional treatment, The objective is to determine the proportion of patients needing additional treatment (focal or radical) at 12 months. This includes patients who wish or require radical treatment (prostatectomy, radiotherapy), total focal treatment, or additional focal treatment., 12 months|proportion of patients needing additional treatment, The objective is to determine the proportion of patients needing additional treatment (focal or radical) at 48 months. This includes patients who wish or require radical treatment (prostatectomy, radiotherapy), total focal treatment, or additional focal treatment., 48 months|proportion of patients needing additional radical treatment, The objective is to determine the proportion of patients needing additional radical treatment at 12 months. This includes patients who wish or require prostatectomy or radiotherapy total focal treatment., 12 months|proportion of patients needing additional radical treatment, The objective is to determine the proportion of patients needing additional radical treatment at 48 months. This includes patients who wish or require prostatectomy or radiotherapy total focal treatment., 48 months|rate of positive biopsies, The rate of positive biopsies in the untreated lobe and treated lobe evaluated and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 12 months., 12 months|rate of positive biopsies, The rate of positive biopsies in the untreated lobe and treated lobe evaluated and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 24 months., 24 months|rate of positive biopsies, The rate of positive biopsies in the untreated lobe and treated lobe evaluated and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 48 months., 48 months|clinically significant cancer rate, The clinically significant cancer rate (Gleason 7 or invasion of more than 3 biopsies or invasion\> 3 mm regardless of Gleason) in the untreated lobe and the treated lobe will be measured and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 48 months., 48 months|Gleason score, Evolution of the Gleason score (appearance of Gleason ≥7) will be measured and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 12 month.

The Gleason score is a prognosis factor for prostate cancer. It is based prostate cancer cells architecture from biopsies. The more the architectures of prostate cancer cell is destroyed, the worse is the prognosis. The score grades from 3 to 5, 5 being the more destroyed, the score 1 and 2 being normal cells. When there is more than one tumor cells population in the prostate, the score is composed of the sum of the most 2 frequents grade. For example a Gleason 7 tumor could be 3+4 or 4+3, the 4+3 being more aggressive., 12 months|Gleason score, Evolution of the Gleason score (appearance of Gleason ≥7) will be measured and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 24 month.

The Gleason score is a prognosis factor for prostate cancer. It is based prostate cancer cells architecture from biopsies. The more the architectures of prostate cancer cell is destroyed, the worse is the prognosis. The score grades from 3 to 5, 5 being the more destroyed, the score 1 and 2 being normal cells. When there is more than one tumor cells population in the prostate, the score is composed of the sum of the most 2 frequents grade. For example a Gleason 7 tumor could be 3+4 or 4+3, the 4+3 being more aggressive., 24 months|Gleason score, Evolution of the Gleason score (appearance of Gleason ≥7) will be measured and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 48 month.

The Gleason score is a prognosis factor for prostate cancer. It is based prostate cancer cells architecture from biopsies. The more the architectures of prostate cancer cell is destroyed, the worse is the prognosis. The score grades from 3 to 5, 5 being the more destroyed, the score 1 and 2 being normal cells. When there is more than one tumor cells population in the prostate, the score is composed of the sum of the most 2 frequents grade. For example a Gleason 7 tumor could be 3+4 or 4+3, the 4+3 being more aggressive., 48 months|Appearance of another cancerous focus in the other half of the prostate, Appearance of another cancerous focus in the other half of the prostate will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 12 months., 12 months|Appearance of another cancerous focus in the other half of the prostate, Appearance of another cancerous focus in the other half of the prostate will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 24 months., 24 months|Appearance of another cancerous focus in the other half of the prostate, Appearance of another cancerous focus in the other half of the prostate will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 48 months., 48 months|Appearance of metastases, Appearance of metastases (lymph node or bone) will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 12 months., 12 months|Appearance of metastases, Appearance of metastases (lymph node or bone) will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 24 months., 24 months|Appearance of metastases, Appearance of metastases (lymph node or bone) will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 48 months., 48 months|Appearance of an extra capsular extension, Appearance of an extra capsular extension will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 12 months., 12 months|Appearance of an extra capsular extension, Appearance of an extra capsular extension will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 24 months., 24 months|Appearance of an extra capsular extension, Appearance of an extra capsular extension will be supervised and will be used to evaluate the carcinologic evolution at 48 months., 48 months|Overall survival, Overall survival at 48 months will be measured from the date of inclusion to the date of death, all causes of death combined or the date of last new or point date to 48 months., 48 months|Prostate cancer specific survival, Prostate cancer specific survival at 48 months will be measured from the date of inclusion to the date of death related to prostate cancer or the date of last new or point date to 48 months, 48 months|Recurrence free survival, Prostate cancer specific survival at 48 months will be measured from the date of inclusion to the date of first metastasis , or the date of last new or point date to 48 months., 48 months|Proportion of serious adverse effect, comparison of the proposition of serious adverse effect at 48 months, 48 months|Quality of life score, quality of life will be assessed using the QLQC30 (Quality of Life questionnaire) questionnaire.

It is a specific questionnaire to determine the quality of life a patient with cancer. It is composed of 30 questions with 4 potential answers going from: not at all, a little, enough or a lot, within 28 questions and with a visual scale going from 1 to 7 (7 being excellent and 1 being very bad) for the last 2 questions. The raw score is established by adding the score of each question and a linear transformation range it from 0 to 100. The higher the score, the better the quality of life., over the 48 months|EPIC-26 score, urinary function will be assessed using the EPIC-26 (The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite) questionnaire.

The EPIC-26 is a self-reported scale health-related quality of life questionnaire for prostate cancer patients . It is composed of 26 items in 4 different domains: urinary incontinence, urinary irritation/obstruction, bowel, sexual, and vitality/hormonal.

Response options for each EPIC item form a Likert scale, and multi-item scale scores are transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale. Each items as a standardized value from 0 to 100. Then the average of the standardized value is determined in each domain to crate the summary score. The higher the score, the better the quality of life., over the 48 months|IPSS score, urinary function will be assessed using the IPSS (International Prostate Score Symptom) questionnaire.

The IPSS questionnaire is based on the answers to seven questions concerning urinary symptoms and one question concerning quality of life. Each question concerning urinary symptoms allows the patient to choose one out of six answers indicating increasing severity of the particular symptom. The answers are assigned points from 0 to 5. The total score can therefore range from 0 to 35. The score is then categorized as follow: Mild (symptoms score less than or equal to 7), Moderate (symptom score range 8-19), Severe (symptom score range 20-35). The higher the score, the worse the symptoms., over the 48 months|IIEF-5 score, Sexual function will be assessed using the IIEF-5 (The International Index of Erectile Function) questionnaire.

The IIEF-5 Questionnaire is composed of 5 items with 5 possible answers rating from 1 to 5 (very low, low, moderate, high, very high).

The score is the sum of the ordinal responses to the 56 items. It is then categorized as follow: 22-25: No erectile dysfunction, 17-21: Mild erectile dysfunction, 12-16: Mild to moderate erectile dysfunction, 8-11: Moderate erectile dysfunction, 5-7: Severe erectile dysfunction. The higher the score, the better the sexual function., over the 48 months|patient proportion with controlled disease (Control of the pathology), The main objective is the estimation of FOCAL HIFU treatment efficacy defined as the percentage of positive biopsies in the treated lobe at 48 months after inclusion., 48 months|Ancillary study: Measure of anti-tumoral immunity induction, The consequences of HIFU treatment over immune anti-tumoral induction will be estimated by the description of Programmed death-ligand 1/ligand 2 (PDL1/L2) overexpression on immune cells and overexpression of Programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) on T lymphocytes (T-cells)., over the 48 months|Ancillary study: Measure of Circulating Tumor Cells (CTC) number reduction, The consequences of HIFU treatment over Messenger RNA (mRNA) will be estimated by measure of CTC number reduction., over the 48 months|Ancillary study: Measure of ncRNA (non-coding RNA) PCA3 (Prostate cancer gene 3) level reduction., The consequences of HIFU treatment over PCA3 will be estimated by measure of ncRNA PCA3 level reduction., over the 48 months
The aim of the focal treatment HIFU is to destroy the cancer without causing side effects in contrast to radical treatments. Radical treatments (surgery or radiation therapy) are the standard therapies for patient with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer and good life expectancy (prostatectomy if life expectancy10 years) By destroying only the part of the gland that harbors cancer, it may indeed be possible to provide efficient cure of the disease while minimizing treatment-induced morbidity (incontinence and loss of potency). Around 20% of patients presented with a unilateral tumor: this patients are currently treated radically. No study published papers reported outcomes of a large population (\>100) with intermediate risk cancers treated with Focal-HIFU (conducted with the Focal One® device). Focal therapy must be only offer within clinical trial setting (EAU (European Association of Urology) Guidelines ). The aim of this cohort will be to determine the success rate of Focal-HIFU in this intermediate risk population. The result the study will be used for calculation the arms of a future random study