Long-Term Effect of Adolescent Diet on Hormones and Breast Cancer Risk in Women Previously Enrolled in the Dietary Intervention Study in Children
RATIONALE: The amount and type of fat in the diet may affect hormone levels, bone mineral density, and breast density later in life. This may affect the risk of developing breast cancer. Learning about the long-term effects of diet on hormone levels, bone mineral density, and breast density may help the study of breast cancer in the future.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying the long-term effect of adolescent diet on hormones and breast cancer risk in women previously enrolled in the Dietary Intervention Study in Children.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: physiologic testing|OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: breast imaging study|PROCEDURE: dual x-ray absorptometry|PROCEDURE: evaluation of cancer risk factors|PROCEDURE: magnetic resonance imaging
Mean serum progesterone level in women not using hormonal contraceptives, Day 1 of treatment
Luteal phase serum estradiol level in women not using hormonal contraceptives, Day 1 of treatment|Bone mineral density of women who are not pregnant, Day 1 of treatment|Breast density of women who are not pregnant, Day 1 of treatment|Prevalence of metabolic syndrome, Day 1 of treatment
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the long-term effect of the Dietary Intervention Study in Children (DISC) to lower total fat and saturated fat intake during adolescence on serum progesterone levels in young women previously enrolled in the DISC study.

Secondary

* Determine the long-term effect of the DISC intervention on serum estradiol levels in these women.
* Determine the long-term effect of the DISC intervention on bone mineral density in these women.
* Determine the long-term effect of the DISC intervention on breast density in these women.
* Determine the long-term effect of the DISC intervention on the prevalence of metabolic syndrome in these women.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo fasting blood collection on day 1 for assessment of serum hormones (progesterone, estradiol), lipids, lipoproteins, and fasting glucose. Patients also undergo blood pressure, height, weight, and waist circumference measurements. Patient then receive a snack and complete the Modifiable Activity questionnaire, Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale short form, Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, and Dietary Intervention Study in Children Medical History questionnaire (including demographics, medical history, menstrual history, medications, reproductive history, dietary supplements, alcohol and tobacco use, and family history of cancer). Patients also undergo dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) and MRI to measure bone and breast density. Patients complete an in-person 24-hour dietary recall using the Nutrition Data System for Research on day 1 and via telephone once in weeks 2 and 3.

Day 1 is scheduled during the patient's luteal phase of menstrual cycle. After completion of study, patients contact the clinic to report start of next menses.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 301 patients will be accrued for this study.