Tafasitamab and Lenalidomide Followed by Tafasitamab and ICE As Salvage Therapy for Transplant Eligible Patients with Relapsed/ Refractory Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This phase II clinical trial evaluates tafasitamab and lenalidomide followed by tafasitamab and the carboplatin, etoposide and ifosfamide (ICE) regimen as salvage therapy for transplant eligible patients with large B-cell lymphoma that has come back (relapsed) or has not responded to treatment (refractory). Tafasitamab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Lenalidomide may have antineoplastic activity which may help block the formation of growths that may become cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, etoposide and ifosfamide work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving tafasitamab and lenalidomide followed by ICE may be a better treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphomas.
Recurrent B-Cell Lymphoma, Unclassifiable, with Features Intermediate Between Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma and Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma with MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma with MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent Primary Cutaneous Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Leg Type|Recurrent Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Transformed Marginal Zone Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory B-Cell Lymphoma, Unclassifiable, with Features Intermediate Between Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma and Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma with MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma with MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory Primary Cutaneous Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Leg Type|Refractory Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Marginal Zone Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ifosfamide|DRUG: Lenalidomide|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Tafasitamab
Complete remission (CR) rate, Will be defined as patients who have achieved CR after two cycles (tafasitamab and lenalidomide) or four cycles as assessed by positron emission tomography (PET) imaging., At the end of Cycle (each cycle is 28 days)
Overall response rate (ORR), Will be calculated with patients who achieve CR or partial remission (PR) at end of induction therapy as the numerator and all eligible patients who start treatment as the denominator, with a 95% binomial confidence interval provided., Up to 5 years|Progression free survival, Will be estimated by the method of Kaplan-Meier., From start of treatment to progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be conducted through the review of toxicity data. All adverse events will be summarized by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5 criteria, and tabulated across all patients who received any treatment with a focus on severe (grade 3+) adverse events and toxicities that are deemed at least possibly related to study treatment. The proportion of patients who go off treatment due to adverse events or those who refuse to continue treated for lesser toxicities will also be captured., Up to 5 years|Tolerability of treatment, Will be assessed through assessing the number of patients who required dose modifications and/or dose delays., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the anti-tumor activity of tafasitamab and lenalidomide followed by tafasitamab and ICE as first salvage therapy for relapsed/ refractory large B cell lymphoma as assessed by the cumulative complete response rate after completion of 2 or 4 cycles of study treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the overall response rate to tafasitamab and lenalidomide followed by tafasitamab and ICE in transplant eligible patients with relapsed/ refractory large B cell lymphoma after 2-4 total cycles of treatment.

II. Evaluate the overall and complete response rate to tafasitamab and lenalidomide after two cycles of treatment in transplant eligible patients with relapsed/ refractory large B cell lymphoma.

III. Evaluate the rate of successful stem cell mobilization following study treatment.

IV. Evaluate the rate of successful completion of autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) following study treatment, including patients treated with a total of 2 or 4 cycles of treatment.

V. Evaluate the incidence of toxicities according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.

VI. Evaluate the progression free and overall survival in the study population. VII. Compare progression free survival (PFS)/ overall survival (OS) (i.e. long-term outcomes) in patients who proceed to transplant after completing only 2 cycles of tafasitamab/lenalidomide (tafa/len) versus those completing 4 cycles of tafa/len followed by tafa+ICE.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the response rate to subsequent anti-CD19 CAR-T treatment in patients who go on to receive further therapy including for relapsed/ refractory disease.

II. Assess CD19 expression in patients with subsequent relapse or refractory disease following study treatment by immunohistochemistry.

III. Examine the association between clinical outcomes including complete response (CR) rate and pathological tumor characteristics (e.g. in activated B-cell \[ABC\]-type subgroup by gene expression profiling \[GEP\], non-germinal center \[GC\] subtype by Hans, "double/triple hit" phenotype by fluorescence in situ hybridization \[FISH\] and/or GEP).

IV. Examine the association between circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) clearance and clinical outcomes including CR rate and PFS.

V. Evaluate association between clinical outcomes and duration of response to first-line therapy \< 12 months vs \> 12 months.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tafasitamab intravenously (IV), lenalidomide orally (PO), etoposide IV, ifosfamide IV and carboplatin IV on study. Patients undergo positron emission tomography (PET) or computed tomography (CT), and undergo blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may undergo tissue biopsy on study.