Anti-CD22 CAR-T Therapy for CD19-refractory or Resistant Lymphoma Patients
The goal of this clinical trial is to study the feasibility and efficacy of anti-CD22:TCRz:4-1BB chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T (CAR-T) cells in treating recurrent patients with refractory or resistant lymphoma to anti-CD19:TCRz:CD28 CAR-T cells. Recently, cancer immunotherapy, treatments aiming to arm patients with immunity specifically against cancer cells, has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy. Among the many emerging immunotherapeutic approaches, clinical trials utilizing CARs against B cell malignancies have demonstrated remarkable potential. CARs combine the variable region of an antibody with T-cell signaling moieties to confer T-cell activation with the targeting specificity of an antibody. Thus, CARs are not MHC-restricted so they are not vulnerable to MHC down regulation by tumors. However, defined by the recession of evaluable lesions, the persistence and efficacy of CAR-T cells are still restricted by the "target" selection. Previous clinical studies largely utilized CD19 for the in vivo targeting of CAR-T cells, which preferentially become refractory or resistant due to the heterogeneity of lymphoma. This clinical investigation is to test a hypothesis whether anti-CD22 CAR-T cells work more effective in lymphoma patients refractory or resistent to anti-CD19:TCRz:CD28 CAR-T cells.
Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage III/IV Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Stage III/IV Follicular Lymphoma|Stage III/IV Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Retroviral vector-transduced autologous T cells to express CD22-specific CARs
Safety measured by occurrence of study related adverse effects defined by NCI CTCAE 4.0, 4 Weeks
Overall complete remission rate defined by the standard response criteria for malignant lymphoma for each arm, 8 Weeks|Duration of CAR-positive T cells in circulation, 6 months|Total number of CAR-positive T cells infiltrated into lymphoma tissue, 6 months
Primary Objectives

1. To determine the safety of CD22.CAR-T cells in lymphoma patients refractory or resistent to anti-CD19:TCRz:CD28 CAR-T cells
2. To determine in vivo dynamics and persistency of CD22.CAR-T cells.

Secondary Objectives

1. To determine the feasibility of CD22.CAR-T cells in lymphoma patients refractory or resistent to anti-CD19:TCRz:CD28 CAR-T cells
2. To determine in vivo dynamics and persistency of CD22.CAR-T cells.
3. To assess the intratumoral infiltration of CD22.CAR-T cells.
4. To correlate the subsets and differentiation of CD22.CAR-T cells to observed anti-tumor efficacy