Pembrolizumab and Trametinib in Treating Patients With Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer and KRAS Gene Mutations
This phase Ib trial studies the side effects of pembrolizumab and trametinib in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer and KRAS gene mutations that has spread to other places in the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving pembrolizumab and trametinib may work better in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
KRAS Gene Mutation|Metastatic Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Recurrent Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Trametinib
Incidence of Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT) of Pembrolizumab and Trametinib Per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, The occurrence of toxicities during the first two cycles (i.e. after completion of the lead in cycle and the first cycle where both pembrolizumab and trametinib are administered) will be considered a DLT, if judged by the Investigator to be possibly, probably or definitely related to study drug administration. Adverse events will be summarized descriptively by type and by severity, with number and relative frequency calculated for all non-zero occurrences., Up to 6 weeks
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Association with response rate will be summarized descriptively by presenting the mean, standard deviation (SD), and other characteristics of molecular and immune measures, stratified by response status. Will assess whether one arm has superior ORR, using logistic regression analysis to control for clinical covariates., Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Associations of molecular and immune measures with PFS will be summarized descriptively by stratified Kaplan-Meier curves and, if numbers permit, by proportional hazards models with molecular and immune responses as predictors. Will assess whether one arm has superior PFS, using proportional hazards models to control for clinical covariates., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) when given in combination with trametinib in the proposed sequencing schemes in patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with KRAS mutations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

To assess in a preliminary manner the clinical efficacy of these combinations with the proposed sequencing schemes including overall response rate and progression free survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

To determine in an exploratory manner changes in PD-L1 expression as well as other immune correlates induced by mitogen-activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK) inhibition.