Phase III Palbociclib With Endocrine Therapy vs. Capecitabine in HR+/HER2- MBC With Resistance to Aromatase Inhibitors
This is an international (4 countries) randomized phase III study with 2 cohorts, patients will be randomized 1:1 to endocrine therapy (cohort 1: exemestane 25 mg daily, cohort 2: fulvestrant 500mg days 1 and 15 cycle 1 and then day 1 every 4 weeks) plus palbociclib (125 mg daily x3 weeks every 4 weeks) vs. capecitabine (1,250 mg/m2 twice daily x2 weeks every 3 weeks). Postmenopausal patients with HR+/HER2 MBC are eligible if resistant to previous nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitors (NSAI) (letrozole or anastrozole) in cohort 1 or previous aromatase inhibitors (AI) (letrozole, anastrozole or exemestane) in cohort 2 defined as: recurrence while on or within 12 months after the end of adjuvant treatment with NSAI/AI or progression while on or within 1 month after the end of treatment with NSAI/AI for MBC. Previous chemotherapy is permitted either in the (neo)adjuvant setting and/or as first line for MBC. Patients must have measurable disease according to RECIST 1.1 or bone lesions, lytic or mixed, in the absence of measurable disease.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The primary efficacy variable is PFS based on the investigator's assessment. PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease based on the investigator's assessment, using RECIST version 1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.

Estrogen Receptor 1 (ESR1) mutational status will be determined in circulating free DNA (cDNA) obtained from.

Disease assessments will be performed at baseline and every 8 weeks (± 7 days) from the start of treatment and every 12 weeks (±7 days) after 120 weeks of treatment baseline plasma samples and will be prospectively determined before the interims or final analyses. ESR1 mutational status will be blinded to the patients, investigators and study team., Through study treatment, and average of 8 months
PFS Estrogen Receptor 1 (ESR1) Wild Type, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease based on the investigator's assessment, using RECIST version 1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS data will be censored on the date of the last tumor assessment on study for patients who do not have objective tumor progression and who do not die while on study. Patients lacking an evaluation of tumor response after randomization will have their PFS time censored on the date of randomization with 1 day duration. Additionally, patients who start a new anti-cancer therapy prior to documented PD will be censored at the date of the last tumor assessment prior to the start of the new therapy., From randomization date to date of first documentation of progression or death (an average of 8 months)|Overall Survival (OS) ESR1 Wild Type, OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause., From randomization until death (up to approximately 34 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR) ESR1 Wild Type, Complete Response (CR) plus Partial Response (PR) based on the investigator's assessment according to the RECIST version 1.1 in patients randomized with measurable disease.

Tumor assessment will be performed at baseline, the same method of measurement used at baseline will be used for further evaluations, that will be conducted every 8 weeks (±7days). The best response across treatment will be recorded. OR is defined as the complete plus partial responses out of the patients who had measurable disease at baseline., Through study treatment, and average of 8 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) ESR1 Wild Type, CB is defined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) based on the investigator´s assessment lasting more than 24 weeks according to the RECIST version 1.1 in all randomized patients (ITT population). Per RECIST, CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as an \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; SD is defined as a failure to meet criteria for CR or PR in the absence of progressive disease. Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Through study treatment, and average of 8 months|Response Duration (RD) ESR1 Wild Type, Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1) criteria. RD was defined as the time from the first documentation of objective tumor response (complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)) to the first documented progressive disease (PD), or to death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST, CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as an \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; PD is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Through study treatment, and average of 8 months|The Number of Participants Who Experienced Adverse Events (AE), Safety will be assessed by standard clinical and laboratory tests (hematology, serum chemistry). Adverse events grade will be defined by the NCI CTCAE v4.0.

Safety assessments were performed at baseline and during the study: Vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, temperature), Laboratory (hemoglobin, White Blood Cell, Absolute Neutrophils, platelet count, fasting glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total bilirubin, serum creatinine, sodium, potassium, magnesium, total calcium.

AEs were graded according to NCI-CTCAE (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) version 4.03., Through study treatment, and average of 8 months|Overall Change From Baseline Between Treatment Comparison in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Functional Scale Scores, The EORTC QLQ C30 is a 30 item questionnaire composed of functional scales, a global health/quality of life and cancer related symptoms.

All of the scales and single-item measures range are scored from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a high / healthy level of functioning.

Change from baseline has been calculated as each visit score minus baseline score.

The change from baseline of EORTC QLQ-C30 subscales have been analyzed using linear mixed models, including treatment group, visit, the interaction between treatment group and visit, baseline score and stratification factors as covariates. Overall mean of change and CI 95% has been retrieved from this analysis., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment, an average of 8 months.|Overall Change From Baseline Between Treatment Comparison in EORTC QLQ-C30 Symptom Scale Scores, The EORTC QLQ C30 is a 30 item questionnaire composed of functional scales, a global health/quality of life and cancer related symptoms.

All of the scales and single-item measures range are scored from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a high level of symptomatology / problems.

Change from baseline has been calculated as each visit score minus baseline score.

The change from baseline of EORTC QLQ-C30 subscales have been analyzed using linear mixed models, including treatment group, visit, the interaction between treatment group and visit, baseline score and stratification factors as covariates. Overall mean of change and CI 95% has been retrieved from this analysis., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment, an average of 8 months.|Overall Change From Baseline Between Treatment Comparison in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Breast Cancer Module (EORTC QLQ BR23) Functional Scale Scores, The EORTC QLQ BR23 is a 23 item breast cancer specific companion module to the EORTC QLQ C30 and consists of functional scales and symptom subscales.

All of the scales and single-item measures range are scored from 0 to 100. A high score for the functional scales represents a high/healthy level of functioning.

Change from baseline has been calculated as each visit score minus baseline score.

The change from baseline of EORTC QLQ-BR23 subscales have been analyzed using linear mixed models, including treatment group, visit, the interaction between treatment group and visit, baseline score and stratification factors as covariates. Overall mean of change and CI 95% has been retrieved from this analysis., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment, an average of 8 months.|Overall Change From Baseline Between Treatment Comparison in EORTC QLQ BR23 Symptom Scale Scores, The EORTC QLQ BR23 is a 23 item breast cancer specific companion module to the EORTC QLQ C30 and consists of functional scales and symptom subscales.

All of the scales and single-item measures range are scored from 0 to 100. A high score for the functional scales represents a high level of symptomatology / problems.

Change from baseline has been calculated as each visit score minus baseline score.

The change from baseline of EORTC QLQ-BR23 subscales have been analyzed using linear mixed models, including treatment group, visit, the interaction between treatment group and visit, baseline score and stratification factors as covariates. Overall mean of change and CI 95% has been retrieved from this analysis., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment, an average of 8 months.|Overall Change From Baseline Between Treatment Comparison in EuroQoL 5D (EQ-5D) Health Index Scores, EQ 5D is a 6 item instrument which assess health status in terms of a single index value. Consists of 5 descriptors of current health state (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression); patient is asked to rate each state on 3 level scale (1=no problem, 2=some problem, 3=extreme problem). Higher levels indicating greater severity/impairment. It includes a visual analogue scale (EQ VAS) which records patient's self-rated health on a scale from 0 (worst imaginable) to 100 (best imaginable). Published weights allows for the creation of a single summary score. Overall scores range from 0 to 1 (low score=higher level of dysfunction, 1=perfect health).

The change from baseline of EQ-5D subscales have been analyzed using linear mixed models, including treatment group, visit, the interaction between treatment group and visit, baseline score and stratification factors as covariates. Overall mean of change and CI 95% has been retrieved from this analysis., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment. An average of 8 months, an average of 1 year, and an average of 2 years.|Overall Change From Baseline Between Treatment Comparison in EQ-5D Visual Analog Scale (VAS) Scores Scale, The EuroQol-5D (version 3L) is a brief self-administered, validated instrument consisting of 2 parts. The second part consists of the EQ-5D general health status as measured by a visual analog scale (EQ-5D VAS). EQ-5D VAS measures the participant's self-rated health status on a scale from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state).

The change from baseline of EQ-5D subscales have been analyzed using linear mixed models, including treatment group, visit, the interaction between treatment group and visit, baseline score and stratification factors as covariates. Overall mean of change and CI 95% has been retrieved from this analysis., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment. An average of 8 months, an average of 1 year, and an average of 2 years.|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 Functional Scale, Time to deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first detection of deterioration. Deterioration is defined as a change from baseline ≥ minimally important difference (MID) as a change from baseline ≤ -MID for EORTC QLQ-C30 functional scales, global health status/QOL score. Patients without deterioration have been censored at their last quality of life assessment. For patients with no post-baseline assessment time to deterioration have been censored at Day 1., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment, an average of 8 months.|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 Symptom Scale, Time to deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first detection of deterioration. Deterioration is defined as a change from baseline ≥ minimally important difference (MID) for EORTC QLQ-C30 symptom scores. Patients without deterioration have been censored at their last quality of life assessment. For patients with no post-baseline assessment time to deterioration have been censored at Day 1.

999 means value not estimated., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment, an average of 8 months.|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-BR23 Functional Scale, Time to deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first detection of deterioration for QLQ-BR23 score \[(date of first detection of deterioration - date of randomization + 1). Deterioration is defined as a change from baseline ≥ minimally important difference (MID) for QLQ-BR23 score. Patients without deterioration have been censored at their last quality of life assessment. For patients with no post-baseline assessment time to deterioration have been censored at Day 1.

Sexual functioning and Sexual enjoyment could not be estimated due to lack of response.

999 means value not estimated., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment, an average of 8 months.|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-BR23 Symptom Scale, Time to deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first detection of deterioration for QLQ-BR23 score \[(date of first detection of deterioration - date of randomization + 1). Deterioration is defined as a change from baseline ≥ minimally important difference (MID) for QLQ-BR23 score. Patients without deterioration have been censored at their last quality of life assessment. For patients with no post-baseline assessment time to deterioration have been censored at Day 1.

Upset by hair loss could not be estimated due to lack of response., Assessed at Baseline, cycles 3, 5, 7, and then at every 3 cycles until the end of treatment, and at the visit after treatment, an average of 8 months.
296 patients have been randomized 1:1 between the experimental arm (Arm A: approximately 125 patients treated with palbociclib plus exemestane) and the control arm (Arm B: approximately 125 patients treated with capecitabine) before the approval of this protocol version (Cohort 1).

Approximately 300 patients will be randomized 1:1 between the experimental arm (Arm A: approximately 150 patients treated with palbociclib plus fulvestrant) and the control arm (Arm B: approximately 150 patients treated with capecitabine) from the approval of this protocol version (Cohort 2).