Phase III Trial Of Docetaxel Versus Docetaxel Plus ZD1839 In Head And Neck Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Gefitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth. Combining docetaxel with gefitinib may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known whether docetaxel is more effective with or without gefitinib in treating head and neck cancer. This randomized phase III trial is studying docetaxel and gefitinib to see how well they work compared to docetaxel alone in treating patients with metastatic or locally recurrent head and neck cancer.
Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer|Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: docetaxel|OTHER: placebo|DRUG: gefitinib
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as time from registration to death from any cause. All eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry then every 6 months if patient is 2-5 years from study entry. No specific requirements if patient is more than 5 years from study entry.
Time to Progression, Time to progression is defined as time from registration to disease progression. Disease progression was assessed via Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0, and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s), and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions .

Tumor measurements may be made using physical examination, CT scans or MRI scans. While on protocol treatment, tumor measurement by physical examination to be done every 4 weeks, and tumor measurement by CT/MRI scans to be done every 8 weeks (every 2 treatment cycles).

All eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry then every 6 months if patient is 2-5 years from study entry. No specific requirements if patient is more than 5 years from study entry.|Overall Response Rate, Tumor response was assessed via Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0. Complete response (CR) was defined disappearance of all tumor lesions. Partial response (PR) was defined as as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter. Overall response rate= CR+PR.

Tumor measurements may be made using physical examination, CT scans or MRI scans. While on protocol treatment, tumor measurement by physical examination to be done every 4 weeks, and tumor measurement by CT/MRI scans to be done every 8 weeks (every 2 treatment cycles).

All eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry then every 6 months if patient is 2-5 years from study entry. No specific requirements if patient is more than 5 years from study entry.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the survival of poor prognosis patients with recurrent/metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with docetaxel with or without ZD1839 (Iressa, gefitinib).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the time to progression and response rate in poor prognosis patients with recurrent/metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with docetaxel with or without ZD1839 (Iressa, gefitinib).

II. To correlate the expression and activation status of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling pathway with clinical outcome in the above patient population. The following specific biomarkers will be measured by immunohistochemistry on paraffin-embedded tumor tissue: EGFR, p-EGFR, AKT, p-AKT, Transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, Ki-67, extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p-ERK, p70s6, p- p70s6 , and p27.

III. To evaluate the frequency of common polymorphisms of Cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) and EGFR in this study population and the impact of these polymorphisms on survival, time to progression, response rate, and toxicities.

IV. To analyze docetaxel and ZD1839 (Iressa, gefitinib) pharmacokinetics and to correlate polymorphisms with pharmacokinetic variability, response, toxicity, and other endpoints.

V. To evaluate disease-related symptoms and overall quality of life among patients receiving docetaxel only to those receiving docetaxel and ZD1839 (Iressa, gefitinib).

VI. To evaluate whether additional clinical benefit associated with ZD1839 (Iressa, gefitinib) can be detected as an improvement in patient-reported symptoms on the FACT Head and Neck Symptom Index (FHNSI)-10 and GP5.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to treatment with prior chemotherapy (pretreated vs untreated), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (0 vs 1 vs 2), weight loss within the past 6 months (\< 5% vs ≥ 5%), and prior cetuximab treatment (yes or no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and oral placebo once daily on days 1-28.

Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel as in arm I and oral gefitinib once daily on days 1-28.

In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients in arm I who have disease progression may receive single-agent oral gefitinib once daily until further disease progression (which is called step 2 in the study).

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on days 15 and 28 of course 1, on day 28 of all subsequent courses, and at 2-4 weeks after completion of study treatment.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 330 patients (165 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study within 31.5 months.