A Study of Apatinib Treatment in for Advanced Ovarian Cancer
The study is evaluated the effacy and safety of apatinib combined with chemotherapy in the advanced ovarian cancer
Ovarian Cancer|Chemotherapeutic Toxicity
DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: Taxus + platinum
PFS(Progress free survival), he length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse., 24 month|carcinoma antigen 125 (CA125), Cancer antigen 125 (CA-125) is a protein found on the surface of many ovarian cancer cells. It also can be found in other cancers and in small amounts in normal tissue. A CA-125 test measures the amount of this protein in the blood., 24month
Ovarian cancer and fallopian tube cancer are common gynecological malignancies in our country. Ovarian cancer ranks the second in the incidence of gynecologic malignancies. The mortality rate is the highest. The following three major characteristics exist: First, 70% of the patients are advanced patients; 70% of the patients Easy to relapse after treatment; Third, 5-year survival rate of about 30%, a serious threat to women's health. Our hospital ovarian cancer, tubal cancer patients because of regional constraints, the economy is poor, the more the past, the use of simple chemotherapy, relapse rate and mortality were higher.

In the latest National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines, bevacizumab plus CP is recommended for patients with stage II, III, and IV ovarian cancer and fallopian tube cancer, and clinical trials of new drugs are recommended for recurrent / metastatic ovarian cancer. Apatinib mesylate is a small molecule VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor authored by Jiangsu Hengrui Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., whose chemical name is N- \[4- (Cyanocyclopentyl) phenylmethane sulfonate \] \[2 - \[(4-picolyl) amino\] (3-pyridyl)\] carboxamide of the formula C25H27N5O3S with a molecular weight of 493.58 (mesylate salt).Apatinib can effectively inhibit VEGFR-2 at a very low concentration, while higher concentrations can inhibit the action of apatinib, such as platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), c-Kit and c- The site is the intracellular ATP binding site of the protein tyrosine receptor. Pharmacodynamic studies show that apatinib can inhibit the VEGFR-2 tyrosine kinase activity, blocking VEGF signaling after binding, resulting in inhibition of tumor angiogenesis. Preclinical studies have shown that apatinib has a strong inhibitory effect on the growth of many human nude mice xenografts such as sarcoma, colorectal cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, gastric cancer and liver cancer and is a broad-spectrum anti-tumor drug.