Tipifarnib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well tipifarnib works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Tipifarnib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Tipifarnib may be an effective treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Tipifarnib
Proportion of Participants With Confirmed Response (Complete Response, Unconfirmed Complete Response, or Partial Response) During the First 6 Courses of Treatment, Confirmed response is at least a 50% decrease in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters (SPD) of the six largest dominant nodes or nodal masses and no increase in the size of other nodes, liver, or spleen and splenic and hepatic nodules must regress by at least 50% in the SPD and no new sites of disease., During the first 6 cycles of treatment
Overall Survival, Overall survival time was defined as the time from registration to the date of death or last follow-up., Up to 2 years|Time to Progression, Time to progression was defined as the number of months from registration to the date of disease progression with patients being progression-free being censored on the date of their last evaluation. Progression is defined as ≥50 % increase from nadir in the SPD of any previously identified abnormal node for partial responders or nonresponders or appearance of any new lesion during or at the end of therapy., up to 2 years|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients that have achieved an objective response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to the date progression (PD) is documented. CR:Complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms if present before therapy PR:≥50% decrease in SPD of the six largest dominant nodes or nodal masses. PD:≥50 % increase from nadir in the SPD of any previously identified abnormal node for PRs or nonresponders or appearance of any new lesion during or at the end of therapy., up to 2 years|Number of Patients Who Experienced Grade 3 or 4 Toxicities, Number of patients that experienced a grade 3 or 4 toxicity (adverse events considered at least possibly related to Tipifarnib) as measured by NCI (National Cancer Institute) CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) v3.0.

Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL(Self care ADL refer to bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden.).

Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated., Up to 56 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess tumor response to R115777 (tipifarnib) in patients with relapsed aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. (Permanently closed to accrual 6/28/06) II. To assess tumor response to R115777 in patients with relapsed indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. (Permanently closed to accrual 9/26/07) III. To assess tumor response to R115777 in patients with uncommon non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.

IV. To evaluate toxicity associated with this regimen in patients with relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate known and unknown molecular markers that may predict for response to R115777 in lymphoma tissue.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tipifarnib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years.