Effectiveness of Group and Individual Training in EFT for Patients in Remission From Melanoma
Serious medical diagnosis frequently induce fear focused on specific anticipations or generalized anxiety, along with uncertainty, insecurity, and disorientation. Other emotions such as anger, depression, hopelessness, shame, or grief may also become involved following a serious diagnosis. The adverse impact of stress on health and immune function is well-established, as well as its link to depression and anxiety. Emotional Freedom Techniques (EFT) has demonstrated efficacy in treating anxiety, depression, and PTSD. This study tests its effectiveness in reducing negative emotional symptoms in general, and fear of recurrence in particular, among individuals previously diagnosed with melanoma and currently in remission.
Melanoma (Skin)
BEHAVIORAL: Emotional Freedom Techniques (EFT)
Illness perception, Change in score on Revised Illness Perception Questionnaire (IPQ-R), Pre intervention, post 4 week intervention, and 3 month follow-up|Perception of recurrence, Change of perceived recurrence risk on a Likert scale, Pre intervention, post 4 week intervention, and 3 month follow-up
Other physical symptoms, Change in patient's self-report of somatization, pain, and other symptoms on a Likert scale, Pre intervention, post 4 week intervention, and 3 month follow-up|Depression, Change in depressive symptoms on the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), Pre intervention, post 4 week intervention, and 3 month follow-up|Anxiety, Change in anxiety symptoms on the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), Pre intervention, post 4 week intervention, and 3 month follow-up|Patient's self-report of quality of life, Change in quality of life scores on the Quality of Life Scale (QOLS), Pre intervention, post 4 week intervention, and 3 month follow-up|Wellbeing, Change in score on The Well-being Numerical Rating Scales (WB-NRSs)., Pre intervention, post 4 week intervention, and 3 month follow-up
Serious medical diagnosis frequently induce fear focused on specific anticipations or generalized anxiety, along with uncertainty, insecurity, and disorientation. Other emotions such as anger, depression, hopelessness, shame, or grief may also become involved following a serious diagnosis. The adverse impact of stress on health and immune function is well-established, as well as its link to depression and anxiety. Emotional Freedom Techniques (EFT) has demonstrated efficacy in treating anxiety, depression, and PTSD. This study tests its effectiveness in reducing negative emotional symptoms in general, and fear of recurrence in particular, among individuals previously diagnosed with melanoma and currently in remission.

Specifically, the study aims:

1. To assess the effect of instruction and practice of EFT on illness perception, fear of cancer recurrence, and wellbeing.
2. To assess whether the social support provided by EFT instruction in a group setting makes this efficient mode of implementation non-inferior or even beneficial in comparison to personal instruction.
3. To describe the emotions related to life events reported by patients in connection with the appearance and location of melanoma.