SIRT With Tremelimumab and Durvalumab for Resectable HCC
The goal of this research study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of tremelimumab and durvalumab with or without Selective Internal Yttrium-90 Radioembolization (SIRT) in participants with resectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who will undergo liver surgery.

The names of the interventions involved in this study are:

* Durvalumab (a type of immunotherapy)
* Tremelimumab (a type of immunotherapy)
* Selective Internal Yttrium-90 Radioembolization (SIRT) (a type of radiation microsphere bead)
Resectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Hepatocellular Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab|DEVICE: SIRT
Number of Participants with Adverse Events, Defined as All grade 3-5 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 as reported on case report forms were counted. Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3-5 AE of any type during the time of observation., up to 18 months
Best Radiologic Response, Defined as best radiologic response on treatment and evaluated per RECIST 1.1 criteria., up to 15 months|Best Pathological Response, Defined as the best pathological response based on evaluation of the surgical sample defined per protocol for gross and microscopic evaluation., up to 65 days|Median Overall Survival (OS), Calculated via the Kaplan-Meier method and defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., up to 3 years|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Calculated via the Kaplan-Meier method and defined as the duration between randomization and documented disease progression or death, or is censored at time of last disease assessment., up to 3 years|CD8+/CD4+T Cells Level, Comparison between pre-treatment and post-treatment via paired t-test and Wilcoxon signed rank test and Fisher's exact test., up to 3 years|Dendritic Cells Level, Comparison between pre-treatment and post-treatment via paired t-test and Wilcoxon signed rank test and Fisher's exact test., up to 3 years|Cytokines Level, Comparison between pre-treatment and post-treatment via paired t-test and Wilcoxon signed rank test and Fisher's exact test. IL-1b, IL-2, IL-6, TNFa, IFNg, CCL2, IL-8, IL-18, CXCL9, CXCL10 will be measured by cytokine bead array and reported as picrograms per mL (pg/mL)., up to 3 years|Number of Participants with Surgical Complications, Surgical complications will be defined by postoperative occurrences and defined according National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) criteria., up to 30 days
This is a Phase 1, open-label, randomized research study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of tremelimumab and durvalumab with or without Selective Internal Yttrium-90 Radioembolization (SIRT) in participants with resectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who will undergo liver surgery.

Participants will be randomized into one of two treatment groups: Durvalumab + Tremelimumab versus Durvalumab + Tremelimumab + SIRT. Randomization means that a participant is put into a group by chance. Radioembolization is a combination of radiation therapy and a procedure called embolization to treat cancer. SIRT blocks tumor blood supply by injecting radioactive particles into the hepatic artery and delivers internal radiotherapy on the tumor.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Durvalumab as treatment for HCC but it has been approved for other uses.

The U.S. FDA has not approved tremelimumab as a treatment option for HCC.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment including evaluations, radiology scans of the liver, blood tests, electrocardiograms, and follow up visits.

Participation in this study is expected to last about 18 months with long-term follow up for a maximum of 3 years.

It is expected that about 20 people will take part in this research study.

AstraZeneca, a pharmaceutical company, is supplying the study drugs, tremelimumab and durvalumab. Sirtex Medical Inc., a medical device company, is supplying the Yttrium-90 resin Microsphere beads.