Alpelisib in Treating Participants With Transorally Resectable HPV-Associated Stage I-IVA Oropharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well alpelisib works in treating participants with human papillomavirus(HPV)-associated stage I-IVA head and neck cancer that can be removed by surgery. Alpelisib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
CDKN2A-p16 Positive|HPV Positive Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC V7|Stage II Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC V7|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Alpelisib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacodynamic Study|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Quantitative Change in the Sum of Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) -, Measurable index lesions on paired, pre-and post-treatment computed tomography scans (delta change in T) with size treated as a continuous variable. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive disease (PD) is the sum of target lesions have increased by \>=20% and \>=5 mm from nadir; Stable disease (SD) neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR not sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Baseline up to 28 days|Percent Change in Tumor Size (Change in T) in Patients With Genomic PIK3CA Pathway Alteration (PIK3CA Mutation, Amplification, and Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization [FISH] for PTEN Loss), Will compare percent change in tumor size (change in T) in patients with genomic PIK3CA pathway alteration (PIK3CA mutation, amplification, and fluorescence in situ hybridization \[FISH\] for PTEN loss) versus no genomic activation., Baseline up to 28 days
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, Will be reported descriptively, including tabulation of toxicities according to National Cancer Institut (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4., Baseline up to 28 days|Surgical Complications, The safety of this window intervention will be reported descriptively, including tabulation of toxicities according to NCI CTCAE v.4.03, surgical complications, and length of hospital stay., Baseline up to 28 days|Length of Hospital Stay, The safety of this window intervention will be reported descriptively, including tabulation of toxicities according to NCI CTCAE v.4.03, surgical complications, and length of hospital stay., Baseline up to 28 days|Changes in Pre- and Post-treatment Tumor Levels of Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Messenger Ribonucleic Acid (mRNA) (Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction [qPCR]), We hypothesize that BYL719 will reduce HPV mRNA, and this will correlate with decrease in tumor size., Baseline up to 28 days|Changes in Pre- and Post-treatment Tumor Levels of E6 and E7 Oncoproteins, We hypothesize that BYL719 will decrease tumoral E6 and E7 oncoprotein levels, and this will correlate with decrease in tumor size, Baseline up to 28 days|Changes in Pre- and Post-treatment Tumor Levels of Phospho - Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 3 (HER3), We hypothesize that pHER3 is a resistance mechanism for BYL719, and that pHER3 will be upregulated in non-responders., Baseline up to 28 days|Changes in Pre- and Post-treatment Tumor Levels of HER3/PI3K Dimers (Monogram), We hypothesize that HER3/PI3K dimerization is a resistance mechanism for BYL719, and that dimers will be upregulated in non-responders., Baseline up to 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the preliminary efficacy of neoadjuvant Alpelisib (BYL719) in patients with transorally-resectable, HPV+ head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), as measured by quantitative change in tumor size (change in T) following 14-21 days of treatment.

II. To evaluate the relationship between genomic PIK3CA activation to change in T.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the tolerability of brief neoadjuvant exposure to BYL719. II. To assess the effect of BYL719 on the tumoral Ki-67 proliferation index. III. To evaluate viral and molecular mediators of response and resistance to BYL719, including viral messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA), E6 and E7 oncoproteins, and phosphorylated (p)HER3.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive Alpelisib orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 14-21 days in the absence of disease progression of unacceptable toxicity and then undergo surgery. Participants may receive Alpelisib for up to 28 days if surgery is delayed.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for up to 12 weeks.