A Study of Tivozanib (AV-951), an Oral VEGF Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor, in the Treatment of Renal Cell Carcinoma
This phase 2 trial is evaluating the antineoplastic activity of tivozanib (AV-951) in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic renal cell cancer. Tivozanib (AV-951) is a VEGF-receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, and may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Tivozanib (AV-951)|DRUG: Placebo comparator
Number of Subjects With Adverse Events (AEs)/Serious AEs (SAEs), To determine the safety and tolerability of tivozanib (AV-951) with the protocol-specified dose schedule, 28 weeks after study entry|Objective Response [Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR)] Rate at 16 Week Open-Label Period (All Treated Population), The ORR is defined as the rate of (CR+PR). Objective response rates following the 16-week, open-label period (investigator assessment and IRR assessment) were estimated per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and was assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; and Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 16 weeks after study entry|Percentage of Randomly Assigned Subjects Remaining Progression Free at 12 Weeks Following Random Assignment to Tivozanib (AV-951) or Placebo, Percentages of subjects remaining progression-free at 12 weeks post-randomization were compared across the 2 treatment arms in the ITT population. A Cochran-Mantel- Haenszel (CMH) test of general association was used, stratifying by country to evaluate the null hypothesis that treatment arm is not associated with subjects remaining progression-free. Non-completers were treated as failures. Progression is defined using RECIST v1.0, as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 28 weeks after study entry
Number of Subjects With Progression Free-survival (PFS) After Random Assignment (Randomized Sub-set Only) (at 12 Weeks Post Randomization ), PFS after randomization in the ITT population was described using the Kaplan-Meier methodology. PFS was compared across treatment arms using the log-rank test., 28 weeks from study entry|Overall Progression-free Survival (From Start of Treatment), Number of subjects with Overall PFS (from start of treatment) was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier methodology. Subjects randomized to receive placebo were censored at randomization. Withdrawals are also censored. An alternative analysis was conducted in which PFS for subjects randomized to receive tivozanib was weighted more heavily to compensate for the information loss from randomization of other subjects to receive placebo. Additional analyses in which withdrawal was considered a PFS event were also conducted., 12 months from study entry|Time to Peak Plasma Concentration (Tmax) of Tivozanib in a Subset of Subjects, Tivozanib concentrations in human serum were determined. The PK population included all subjects who had taken at least 1 dose of tivozanib and whose PK profile(s) were evaluable. All subjects received 1.5 mg tivozanib (1.3397 mg free base) in Cycle 1., Cycle 1, Day 1: Pre-dose and 2, 4 and 24 hours post dose; Cycle 1, Day 8: Pre-dose; Cycle 1, Day 21: Pre-dose and 2, 4, 24, 48, and 96 hours post dose; Cycle 2 (Day 1): Pre-dose|Maximum Observed Serum Concentration During a Dosing Interval at Steady State (Cmax), Tivozanib concentrations in human serum were determined. The PK population included all subjects who had taken at least 1 dose of tivozanib and whose PK profile(s) were evaluable. All subjects received 1.5 mg tivozanib (1.3397 mg free base) in Cycle 1., Cycle 1, Day 1: Pre-dose and 2, 4 and 24 hours post dose; Cycle 1, Day 8: Pre-dose; Cycle 1, Day 21: Pre-dose and 2, 4, 24, 48, and 96 hours post dose; Cycle 2 (Day 1): Pre-dose|Area Under the Serum Concentration Versus Time Curve From Zero to the Last Quantifiable Sampling Point [AUC(0→24)], Tivozanib concentrations in human serum were determined. The PK population included all subjects who had taken at least 1 dose of tivozanib and whose PK profile(s) were evaluable. All subjects received 1.5 mg tivozanib (1.3397 mg free base) in Cycle 1., 28 weeks from study entry
Approximately 200 patients will be enroled into the initial, 16 week, open-label period using 1.5 mg/day dosing. Patients will receive tivozanib (AV-951) continuously for 3 weeks followed by 1 week off study drug. Patients will undergo disease assessment at baseline and after Cycles 2 and 4 and response will be determined by RESIST criteria.

After the initial, 16 week open-label period, disease status will be assessed and compared to baseline using modified RECIST criteria:

* Patients with greater than or equal to 25% tumor shrinkage will continue on their current dose of tivozanib (AV-951)
* Patients with less than 25% tumor change (growth or shrinkage) will be randomly assigned to double-blind tivozanib (AV-951) or matching placebo for 12 weeks
* Patients with greater than or equal to 25% tumor growth will be discontinued