Erlotinib and Chemotherapy for Patients With Stage IB-IIIA NSCLC With EGFR Mutations (ECON)
The purpose of this study is to try to improve the odds that your cancer may be cured. Pemetrexed and cisplatin are traditional chemotherapy drugs that have been shown to help some patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Many different types of cancer cells, including your type of lung cancer, have a protein on their surface called the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Stimulation of these receptors can result in growth of cancer cells and progression of cancer. In addition, your cancer has an EGFR mutation (a specific abnormality in the genetic code for EGFR). Erlotinib (TarcevaTM) is a newer drug which has shown benefit for patients with lung cancers that contain an EGFR mutation. Erlotinib works by blocking this receptor and depriving the cancer cells of this message to grow and multiply. In this research study, we plan to combine erlotinib with traditional chemotherapy drugs to see if the combination works better than chemotherapy alone.

The main purpose of this research is to find out the good and bad effects that the combination of these 3 drugs (pemetrexed, cisplatin and erlotinib) has when given to patients with early stage non-small cell lung cancer before surgery. A secondary purpose is to find out the good and bad effects that occur when erlotinib is given to patients after surgery for 2 years.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Lung Cancer
DRUG: erlotinib|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Resection
Number of Patients With Pathologic Complete Response Rate, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all clinical evidence of tumor. Partial Response (PR): A 50% or greater decrease in the sum of the products of measured lesions. No simultaneous increase in the size of any lesion or the appearance of new lesions may occur. Non-measurable lesions must remain stable or regress for this category. Minor Response (MR): A \> 25% and \< 50% decrease in the sum of the products of measured lesions. No simultaneous increase in the size of any lesion or the appearance of new lesions may occur. Non-measurable lesions must remain stable or regress for this category. Stable Disease (SD): A less than 25% decrease. This includes a decrease of less than 25% in the sum of the products of the measured lesions, and any increase of less than 25% in the sum of the products of the measured lesions. There may be no appearance of new disease sites for this category. Progressive Disease (PD): A ≥25% increase in one or more lesions, or appearance of new lesions., Patients will undergo a CT scan of chest every 3 months for year 1 and every 4 months for year 2. In years 3 and 4, a chest CT or chest x-ray every 6 months.
Number of Participants With Response After 21 Days of Single Agent Erlotinib for Stage IB-IIIA NSCLC With a Known EGFR Mutation, calculate the response rate after 21 days of single agent erlotinib|Number of Patients With a Response Rate, 3-year Overall Survival and Median Survival of Patients With a Known EGFR Mutation Receiving Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy and Erlotinib (and Adjuvant Erlotinib)., 3 years
Chemotherapy and surgery in combination represents the standard of care for patients with resectable stage IB-IIIA NSCLC. However, the 5-year survival continues to be disappointing despite this standard of care. This study incorporates targeted therapy with an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) as part of a multimodality strategy for stage IB-IIIA resectable NSCLC tumors with a known EGFR activating mutation. The rationale for including only patients with EGFR mutations is based on recent data that reported that patients with advanced NSCLC whose tumor harbor EGFR activating mutations had an objective response rate of 71% with gefitinib compared with a 1% objective response rate in patients with EGFR wild-type tumors.