A Study of HS-10342 in Chinese Patients With HR+/HER2- Advanced and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer
HS-10342 is a selective CDK4/6 kinase inhibitor. This study is conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of HS-10342 at repeated doses.
HR+/HER2- Advanced and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: HS-10342
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR)（Objective response rate [ORR]）, ORR was the percentage of participants achieving a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. CR defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of new lesions. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum LD), no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions., Up to approximately 12 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from first dose date to the date of death due to any cause. For each participant who is not known to have died as of the data-inclusion cutoff date for overall survival analysis, OS time was censored on the last date the participant is known to be alive., From Date of the First Dose until Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 24 Months)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was the time from the date of first evidence of CR or PR to the date of objective progression or the date of death due to any cause, whichever is earlier., From Date of CR, PR until Disease Progression or Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 12 Months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from the first day of therapy to the first evidence of disease progression as defined by RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions. If a participant does not have a complete baseline disease assessment, then the PFS time was censored at the date of first dose, regardless of whether or not objectively determined disease progression or death has been observed for the participant. If a participant was not known to have died or have objective progression as of the data inclusion cutoff date for the analysis, the PFS time was censored at the last adequate tumor assessment date., From Date of First Dose until Disease Progression or Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 24 Months)|Percentage of Participants With CR, PR or SD, Disease Control Rate (DCR) was the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR, PR, or Stable Disease (SD) as per Response using RECIST v1.1 criteria. SD was neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD for target lesions, no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions., Disease Control Rate [DCR]) [ Time Frame: From Date of First Dose until Disease Progression or Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 12 Months)
HS-10342-201 is a single- arm, open- label, multicenter, phase 2 study in patients with hormone receptor positive (HR positive), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative (HER2 negative) advanced and/or metastatic breast cancer who have had disease progression after endocrine therapy. The efficacy is evaluated as monotherapy, and the primary endpoint is ORR.