HCV-RNA Kinetics During Sorafenib for Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
This research study is a Phase IV clinical trial. Phase IV trials are used to further test and monitor the safety of a drug approved by the FDA and to see if the drug has any other indications that can be used to treat different diseases.

Sorafenib is a new drug, which is approved under the brand name Nexavar for the treatment of liver cancer. It is also currently being tested in various other cancers. Sorafenib works by slowing down and/or stopping the development of new cancer cells and new blood vessels. By slowing down and/or stopping the growth of new blood vessels around a tumor, it is believed that sorafenib prevents or slows down the growth of tumors.

The researchers of this study would like to study the effects of sorafenib on hepatitis C by drawing additional research blood samples from people infected with hepatitis C who are receiving sorafenib treatment for liver cancer. These tests will measure certain proteins in the blood (HCV-RNA) which may indicate if sorafenib has any effect on the hepatitis C virus.
Hepatocellular Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib
Decline in HCV-RNA Level, Successful decline in HCV (hepatitis C virus)-RNA level, with success defined as a decrease of at least two logs of HCV-RNA between baseline and any subsequent measurement., up to 2 years
Time to Radiological Tumor Progression, Time to radiological tumor progression is defined as the time period between enrollment and the earlier of tumor progression and death. Participants who are alive and progression-free at the date of last contact will be censored at this date., 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time period between enrollment and the date of death. Participants who are still alive at last contact will be censored at this date., 2 years
Decrease Alpha-fetoprotein(AFP) Level > 20% From the Baseline, The proportion of participants with a decrease of greater than 20% in AFP (alpha-fetoprotein) level between baseline and any subsequent measurement following treatment with sorafenib will be reported., 2 years
This is a prospective, open-label, non-interventional trial to evaluate HCV-RNA levels during treatment with Sorafenib in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.

Participants will receive Sorafenib 400mg orally twice daily. HCV-RNA (Hepatitis C Virus - Ribonucleic Acid) levels will be measured at baseline, week 2 of sorafenib, week 4 of sorafenib, week 6 of sorafenib, week 8 of sorafenib, week 12 of sorafenib, and 2 weeks after discontinuing sorafenib. HCV-RNA levels will be measured by drawing about 2 tablespoons of blood

During the study period, tumor assessments will be done by MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) or CT (computed tomography) scans at baseline and every 8 weeks.