Vitamin D3 with Chemotherapy and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients with Advanced or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase III trial studies how well vitamin D3 given with standard chemotherapy and bevacizumab works in treating patients with colorectal cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Vitamin D3 helps the body use calcium and phosphorus to make strong bones and teeth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving vitamin D3 with chemotherapy and bevacizumab may work better in shrinking or stabilizing colorectal cancer. It is not yet known whether giving high-dose vitamin D3 in addition to chemotherapy and bevacizumab would extend patients' time without disease compared to the usual approach (chemotherapy and bevacizumab).
Colorectal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Irinotecan|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Cholecalciferol|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression-free survival (PFS), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. Progression-free survival (PFS) will be compared between treatment arms using the un-stratified log-rank test at one-sided level of 0.05 and the p-value will be used for decision making. The hazard ratio (HR) for PFS will be estimated using a Cox proportional hazards model and the 95% confidence interval (CI) for the HR will be provided. Results from a stratified analysis will also be provided. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the median PFS for each treatment arm, and Kaplan-Meier curves will be produced. Brookmeyer-Crowley methodology will be used to construct the 95% CI for the median PFS for each treatment arm. All randomized patients regardless of any treatment received will be included in the analysis. Patients will be assigned to the treatment group they were randomized to regardless of actual treatment received., From randomization to the first documentation of disease progression or death, assessed up to 5 years
Objective response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Will be estimated using objective response rate (ORR) where ORR is defined as the number of evaluable patients achieving a response (partial response or complete response per RECIST v1.1) during treatment with study therapy divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Rates of response will be compared across arms using a Chi-Square test for proportion. Point estimates will be generated for objective response rates within each arm along with 95% binomial confidence intervals. All randomized patients regardless of any treatment received will be included in the analysis. Patients will be assigned to the treatment group they were randomized to regardless of actual treatment received., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Overall survival (OS) will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test. OS medians, survival rates at 3 years, and hazard ratio (HR) will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals., From randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, As per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Toxicity is defined as adverse events that are classified as possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment. Toxicities will be evaluated via the ordinal CTCAE standard toxicity grading. Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by treatment arm will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques, and other descriptive measures will form the basis of the analysis., Up to 5 years|Physical activity (PA) and progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) of patients receiving high-dose vitamin D3 versus (vs.) patients receiving standard-dose vitamin D3 will be compared in subgroups of physical activity (PA) levels. The levels will be defined as low PA (\< 9 metabolic-equivalent task \[MET\]-hours/week) vs. high PA (\>= 9 MET-hours/week). The distribution of PFS time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier within each subgroup and arm combination. PFS will be compared between treatment arms using the non-stratified log-rank test in each subgroup of PA levels. PFS medians, survival rates at 3 years, and hazard ratio (HR) will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals within each subgroup and arm combination. Interaction between PA subgroups and treatment arms will be tested using likelihood ratio test., Up to 5 years|Incidence of vitamin D3 deficiency, The baseline incidence of vitamin D3 deficiency will be defined as the number of evaluable vitamin D3 deficient patients divided by the total number of evaluable patients. The population of evaluable patients for this analysis will be all patients whose calcifediol (25(OH)D) level was successfully measured at baseline. Vitamin D3 deficiency is defined as 25(OH)D level \< 20 ng/mL. Incidence rates of vitamin D3 deficiency will be compared across arms using a Chi-Square test for proportion. Point estimates will be generated for vitamin D3 deficiency rates within each arm along with 95% confidence intervals., At baseline|25(OH)D levels, Progression-free survival (PFS) of patients receiving high-dose vitamin D3 vs. patients receiving standard-dose vitamin D3 will be compared in subgroups of baseline 25(OH)D levels. The levels will be defined as deficient (\< 20 ng/mL) vs. other (\>= 20 ng/mL). The distribution of PFS time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier within each subgroup and arm combination. PFS will be compared between treatment arms using the non-stratified log-rank test in each subgroup of baseline 25(OH)D levels. PFS medians, survival rates at 3 years, and hazard ratio (HR) will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals within each subgroup and arm combination. Interaction between baseline 25(OH)D level subgroups and treatment arms will be tested using likelihood ratio test., At baseline|Prognostic effect of highest achieved 25(OH)D, Progression-free survival (PFS) of patients will be compared in subgroups of highest achieved 25(OH)D levels. The levels will be defined by quartile of highest-achieved level among patients who have both baseline and at least one on-treatment 25(OH)D sample result. The distribution of PFS time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier within each subgroup. PFS will be compared across quartiles using the non-stratified log-rank test. PFS medians, survival rates at 3 years, and hazard ratio (HR) will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals. Baseline 25(OH)D will be entered into the Cox model as a covariate., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients receiving high-dose cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) in combination with standard chemotherapy (leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin \[FOLFOX\] or leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and irinotecan hydrochloride \[FOLFIRI\]) and bevacizumab versus those receiving standard-dose vitamin D3 in combination with standard chemotherapy and bevacizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the objective response rate (ORR) of patients receiving high-dose vitamin D3 in combination with standard chemotherapy + bevacizumab versus those receiving standard-dose vitamin D3 in combination with standard chemotherapy + bevacizumab.

II. To compare the overall survival (OS) of patients receiving high-dose vitamin D3 in combination with standard chemotherapy + bevacizumab versus those receiving standard-dose vitamin D3 in combination with standard chemotherapy + bevacizumab.

III. To evaluate and compare the toxicity of adding high-dose vitamin D3 versus standard-dose vitamin D3 to chemotherapy + bevacizumab.

IV. To assess the influence of diet, body mass index, physical activity, and other lifestyle habits on PFS among patients with locally advanced/metastatic colorectal cancer.

V. To evaluate the incidence of vitamin D3 deficiency in participants with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer.

VI. To compare the efficacy of high-dose vitamin D3 versus standard-dose vitamin D3 in subgroups of patients defined by baseline plasma calcifediol (25\[OH\]D) levels.

VII. To evaluate the prognostic effect of highest-achieved 25(OH)D levels with PFS.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV on days 1-3 or irinotecan hydrochloride IV on day 1, leucovorin calcium IV over 90 minutes on day 1, and fluorouracil IV on days 1-3. Patients also receive high-dose cholecalciferol orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Cycles repeat every 14 days for 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab and chemotherapy as in Arm I. Patients also receive standard-dose cholecalciferol PO QD on days 1-14. Cycles repeat every 14 days for 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years.