Evaluation of CAR19 T-cells as an Optimal Bridge to Allogeneic Transplantation
The purpose of this study is to administer novel cluster of differentiation antigen 19 (CD19) specific Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cells (CAR19 T-cells) to patients with relapsed or resistant Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) to assess the safety and efficacy of this strategy as a bridge to allogeneic transplantation.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Leukapheresis|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: CAR19 T-Cells
Feasibility of adequate leucapheresis collection and generation of CAR19 T cells., The number of CAR19 T cells successfully manufactured as a fraction of the number of patients undergoing leukapheresis (all patients registered)., 1 month|Toxicity evaluation following CAR19 T-cell administration., Toxicity will be examined for each patient receiving CAR19 T cells, using the maximum grade for each toxicity type, all summarized as number of patients with adverse events., 1 year|Efficacy of CAR19 T-cells., Efficacy will be defined as the number of patients that meet the clinical complete responders criteria., 1 year
CAR19 T-cell engraftment, 1. Engraftment, expansion and persistence of CAR19 T-cells. Detection of any level of CAR19 expression in circulating T cells (ie PBMC) by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and flow cytometry following infusion., 1 year|B cell compartment, 2. Depletion of B cell compartment. The percentage reduction from baseline. Absolute B cell numbers measured by flow of PBMC (cells/ul) ., 1 year|Cytokine profile, 3. Timing and magnitude of cytokine release. Data on timing (kinetic of change) as the mean (or median) amount of cytokine (pg/ml) over a number of days post-infusion. Using the individual patient data, the mean (or median) time to peak value can be obtained.

Magnitude - kinetic and peak of cytokine levels, notably Tumour Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-a), Interleukin- 6 (IL-6) and Interferon-gamma (IFN-g) (pg/ml), can be plotted for each patient, as means (or medians)., 1 year|Clinical complete response, 4. Clinical response evaluated using standard PET-CT criteria at day 28 compared to baseline scan. Proportion of patients with complete response will be calculated., 1 month|Eligibility to allogeneic transplantation, 5. Number of patients proceeding to allogeneic transplantation out of all patients registered to the trial, and also only for those who received CAR19 T cells., 1-3 years
Patients with Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) resistant to or relapsing following rituximab-containing chemotherapy regimens have a poor prognosis. Patients may receive salvage chemotherapy and possibly an autologous stem cell transplant (auto-SCT). A proportion of these patients, however, will not respond to the chemotherapy or may relapse after the auto-SCT and therefore require novel treatment options. Such patients may benefit from an allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-STC).

In this study the investigators aim to administer CAR19 T-cells to act as a bridge to the transplant strategy. Specifically, (1) the feasibility of generating CD19 specific Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cells called CAR19 T-cells, (2) the safety of administering the CD19 CAR T-cells in this setting, (3) how well the CAR19 T-cells engraft and (4) to evaluate how effective these cells are as a bridge to allogeneic transplantation.

Following informed consent and registration to the trial, patients will undergo an unstimulated leucapheresis for generation of the CAR19 T cells. Whilst the cells are being generated, patients will proceed with a further cycle of standard salvage (recommended ifosfamide, epirubicin and etoposide (i.e. the IVE regime), and should not receive rituximab. Patients will receive pre-conditioning with intravenous fludarabine and cyclophosphamide prior to infusion of a single dose of CAR-modified T-cells. An escalating dose protocol will be employed to identify a minimum effective dose of CAR19 T-cells.