A Translational Study Investigating PD-L1 Expression After Radiotherapy for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Participants with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), Performance Status (PS) 0-2, not suitable for concurrent Chemo-Radiotherapy (CTRT), will be treated with standard radiotherapy (radical or palliative). Archival tumour biopsies will be analysed for baseline Programmed Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression. Some participants will have a biopsy before radiotherapy if the archive biopsy is not suitable. Participants will be required to undergo an additional mandatory biopsy of the irradiated site during the second week of radiotherapy.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: Biopsy and blood samples
Achieving paired biopsies for PD-L1 assessment in 21 of the 30 evaluable participants, Up to 6.5 weeks from start of radiotherapy
Suitability of pre and during radiotherapy biopsy for PD-L1 testing, Up to 6.5 weeks from start of radiotherapy
Change in PD-L1 expression level during treatment, Up to 6.5 weeks from start of radiotherapy|Difference in PD-L1 expression level in 'out of radiotherapy field' sites compared with irradiated sites, Up to 6.5 weeks from start of radiotherapy|Immune monitoring of primary tumour and peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Up to 6.5 weeks from start of radiotherapy
The purpose of this prospective, multicentre, non-randomised translational study is to provide proof of feasibility of achieving paired biopsies for PD-L1 assessment in patients with NSCLC treated with palliative or radical radiotherapy. This is a non-CTIMP study.

All participants will have a minimum of 1 mandatory biopsy (during radiotherapy \[irradiated site\]) and the potential to have a pre-treatment biopsy if archival biopsy does not meet the suitability criteria.

Participants will have up to a maximum of 2 additional optional biopsies (during radiotherapy \[within the RT field e.g supraclavicular fossa node\], \[outside RT field e.g. skin met\]).

Blood samples will also be taken on study at specified time points for immune monitoring (exploratory endpoints).

The study will be carried out in two stages as follows:

Stage 1:

Following the enrolment of the first 15 evaluable participants, an interim analysis will take place by the Trial Steering Committee (TSC). The TSC will make a recommendation on whether recruitment should continue to the Trial Management Group (TMG).

Stage 2:

A further 15 evaluable participants will be recruited onto the study to achieve a total of 30 evaluable participants.