Comparison of the Effects of Morton's Neuroma on Foot Pressure Distribution and Gait Parameters in Pes Planus and Pes Cavus Patients
The aim of our study is to compare the effect of Morton's neuroma in feet with pes planus and pes cavus on foot pressure and temporal and spatial gait parameters.
Morton Neuroma|Pes Planus|Pes Cavus
OTHER: Comparison of gait and foot pressure
Foot rotation, Foot rotation (degree), will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical Limited - Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Aim of the system to assessment the angle between the longitudinal axis of the foot and the running direction. Negative value = inward rotation, positive value = outward rotation.Subtalar joint supination describes angulation in the negative direction and pronation describes the angulation in the positive direction.Unit of measure is degrees., 4 weeks|Step length, Step length (cm) will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Aim of the system analyzes gait of the patients. Step length describes the distance between the heel contact of one side of the body and the heel contact of the contralateral side. Unit of measure is centimeter., 4 weeks|Stance phase percentage, Stance phase percentage (%) will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Stance phase percentage describes the phase of a gait cycle in which the foot has contact with the ground.The unit is expressed as a percentage., 4 weeks|Swing phase percentage, Swing phase percentage (%) will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Swing phase describes the phase of a gait cycle during which the foot has no contact with the ground. The unit is expressed as a percentage., 4 weeks|Cadance, Cadence (steps/min) will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical -Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Cadence is steps/minute. It is defined as the step frequency., 4weeks|Velocity, Velocity will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical -Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. The system measures average gait speed during the analyzed measuring interval. The unit is expressed as km/hr., 4 weeks|Foot pressure distiribution, Foot pressure distiribution will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical -Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. The system evaluate the average maximum values reached in N/cm² for the three zones: toes, mid-foot and heel., 4 weeks
Demographic data/patient age, The ages of the patients will be recorded in the evaluation form., 4 weeks|Demographic data/patient weight, The weight of the patients will be recorded in the evaluation form in kilograms., 4 weeks|Demographic data/patient height, The height of the patients will be recorded in the evaluation form in meters., 4 weeks|Demographic data/patient body mass index BMI, The BMI of the patients will be recorded in the evaluation form in kg/m\^2, 4 weeks
The aim of our study is to compare the effect of Morton's neuroma in feet with pes planus and pes cavus on foot pressure and temporal and spatial gait parameters.