CPX-351 Versus Immediate Stem Cell Transplantation for the Treatment of High-Grade Myeloid Cancers With Measurable Residual Disease
This phase II trial studies the effect of CPX-351 followed by donor stem cell transplantation versus immediate donor stem cell transplantation in treating patients with high-grade myeloid cancers with measurable residual disease. Chemotherapy drugs, such as CPX-351, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy before donor stem cell transplantation may help kill cancer cells in the body and make room in the patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells) to grow.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Excess Blasts-2|Myeloid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Liposome-encapsulated Daunorubicin-Cytarabine
Overall Survival, The survival (in days) of subjects in the two arms will be compared using the log-rank test., Up to 730 days post-randomization.
Relapse-free Survival, The following comparisons will be made: (1) number of days elapsing between the date of minimal residual disease (MRD) identification and the date of death or relapse, (2) among transplanted patients, the number of days elapsing between the date of transplantation and the date of death or relapse., From the time of randomization up to 2 years post-randomization. For descriptive purposes, we shall also report survival and relapse-free survival from time of transplant up to 2 years post-transplant among patients who receive a transplant.|Rate of Transplantation, This outcome will be assessed among patients who have begun transplantation conditioning 60 days and 180 days following enrollment will be compared using the chi-squared test. The time to transplantation among the two arms will be compared by comparing the number of days elapsed between enrollment and the initiation of transplantation conditions by the log-rank test., Up to 2 years post-randomization|Frequencies of the Types of Transplantation Received, Among the patients receiving transplantation, the proportion of patients in each arm receiving myeloablative transplantation conditioning will be compared using the chi-squared or Fisher's exact test. Among patients receiving transplantation, the proportion of patients in each arm receiving donor stem cells from a haploidentical donor, an unrelated donor, or from cord blood unit will each be compared using the chi-squared or Fisher's exact test., Up to 2 years post-randomization
OUTLINE:

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

Arm A: Patients undergo alloHCT.

Arm B: Patients receive CPX-351 intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment may repeat for an additional cycle for a total of 2 cycles (on days 1 and 3 only of cycle 2) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 60 days after completion of CPX-351, patients undergo alloHCT.

After completion of study enrollment, patients will be followed for up to 2 years.