Sacituzumab Tirumotecan (MK-2870) Versus Chemotherapy in Previously Treated Advanced or Metastatic Nonsquamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) With EGFR Mutations or Other Genomic Alterations (MK-2870-004)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate sacituzumab tirumotecan versus chemotherapy (docetaxel or pemetrexed) for the treatment of previously-treated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with exon 19del or exon 21 L858R EGFR mutations (hereafter referred to as EGFR mutations or EGFR-mutated) or any of the follow genomic alterations: ALK gene rearrangements, ROS1 rearrangements, BRAF V600E mutations, NTRK gene fusions, MET exon 14 skipping mutations, RET rearrangements, or less common EGFR point mutations of exon 20 S768I, exon 21 L861Q, or exon 18 G719X mutations. The primary hypotheses are that sacituzumab tirumotecan is: (1) superior to chemotherapy with respect to progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR in NSCLC with EGFR mutations; and (2) superior to chemotherapy with respect to overall survival (OS) in NSCLC with EGFR mutations.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab tirumotecan|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Progression-free Survival (PFS) of Participants with NSCLC with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutations, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 based on blinded independent central review (BICR) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 35 months|Overall Survival (OS) of Participants with NSCLC with EGFR mutations, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 41 months
PFS of All Participants with NSCLC, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 based on BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 35 months|OS of All Participants with NSCLC, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 41 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) of Participants with NSCLC with EGFR Mutations, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) as assessed using RECIST 1.1. based on BICR in NSCLC with EGFR mutations., Up to approximately 35 months|ORR of All Participants with NSCLC, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) as assessed using RECIST 1.1. based on BICR in all participants with NSCLC., Up to approximately 35 months|Duration of Response (DOR) of All Participants with NSCLC, For participants who demonstrate confirmed CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR in all participants with NSCLC, DOR is defined as the time from the first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 6 years|Change in Score from Baseline in Global Health Status/QoL Score (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC] Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 [QLQ-C30] Items 29 and 30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall health status and quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall health status and quality of life. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 48 weeks|Change in Score from Baseline in Dyspnea Score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Were you short of breath?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of dyspnea. The change from baseline in the dyspnea (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8) score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 48 weeks|Change in Score from Baseline in Cough (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Lung Cancer 13 [QLQ-LC13] Item 31), The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. The change from baseline in cough (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31) score will be presented. A lower score indicates a better outcome., Baseline and up to approximately 48 weeks|Change in Score from Baseline in Chest Pain (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40), The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question "Have you had pain in your chest?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. The change from baseline in chest pain (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40) score will be presented. A lower score indicates a better outcome., Baseline and up to approximately 48 weeks|Time to Deterioration (TTD) from Baseline in Global Health Status/QoL Score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall health status and quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall health status and quality of life. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline. TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 will be presented., Up to approximately 48 weeks|TTD from Baseline in Dyspnea Score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question "Were you short of breath?" will be scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores will be standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicates a worse level of dyspnea. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline. TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8 will be presented., Up to approximately 48 weeks|TTD from Baseline in Cough (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Lung Cancer 13 [QLQ-LC13] Item 31), The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question "How much did you cough?" will be scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate more frequent coughing and a worse outcome. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline. TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31 will be presented., Up to approximately 48 weeks|Time to Deterioration from Baseline in Chest Pain (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40), The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question "Have you had pain in your chest?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate worse level of chest pain. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline. TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40 will be presented., Up to approximately 48 weeks|Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to approximately 6 years|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to approximately 4 years
The purpose of this study is to evaluate sacituzumab tirumotecan versus chemotherapy (docetaxel or pemetrexed) for the treatment of previously-treated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with exon 19del or exon 21 L858R EGFR mutations (hereafter referred to as EGFR mutations or EGFR-mutated) or any of the follow genomic alterations: ALK gene rearrangements, ROS1 rearrangements, BRAF V600E mutations, NTRK gene fusions, MET exon 14 skipping mutations, RET rearrangements, or less common EGFR point mutations of exon 20 S768I, exon 21 L861Q, or exon 18 G719X mutations. The primary hypotheses are that sacituzumab tirumotecan is: (1) superior to chemotherapy with respect to progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR in NSCLC with EGFR mutations; and (2) superior to chemotherapy with respect to overall survival (OS) in NSCLC with EGFR mutations.