Cryotherapy for Barrett's Esophagus and Early Esophageal Cancers
This is a single center study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a new ablation technique involving the spray of liquid nitrogen through a catheter (cryotherapy) via an upper endoscopy (EGD) to ablate Barrett's esophagus with changes of high-grade dysplasia (HGD) or intramucosal cancer (IMCA) and patients with esophageal cancer limited to the esophageal wall, in whom there are no standard treatment options available.
Barretts Esophagus|Esophageal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Cryospray Ablation
Number of patients that achieved successful ablation of dysplasia and neoplasia Barrett's Esophagus., Determined by the end of protocol biopsies: incremental (absence of HGD and IMCA in all specimens); partial (residual IMCA with absence of any dysplasia); complete (absence of any intestinal metaplasia or dysplasia), at 12 months from start of treatment|Number of patients that experience toxicity with cryotherapy, Toxicity is defined as death or esophageal perforation, at 12 months from start of therapy
Assess the degree of tumor ablation of inoperable early esophageal cancer, Number of patient with each response determined by the end of protocol biopsies: incremental (absence of HGD and IMCA in all specimens); partial (residual IMCA with absence of any dysplasia); complete (absence of any intestinal metaplasia or dysplasia); no response, at 12 months from start of therapy
The Cryo-Ablator System is a cryosurgical unit with a liquid nitrogen cooled cryocatheter and accessories to destroy tissue during surgical procedures by applying extreme cold.

Patients will prepare for esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) in the standard fashion using an overnight fast with only clear liquids and required medications allowed up to 2 hours before the procedure. The EGD will be performed using a therapeutic Olympus endoscope. The cryocatheter is passed into the therapeutic channel of the endoscope. Liquid nitrogen is sprayed through the cryocatheter for a duration of 10 seconds as measured by the device integrated timer. This process will be repeated four times in piecemeal fashion such that for any given area treated it will be maintained in a frozen state for a total of 40 seconds. Following circumferential treatment, the process will be repeated again applying the spray to the same section of mucosa for a duration of 20 seconds. Patients will be contacted the following day to assess for any immediate complications.

Patients will repeat treatment every 6 weeks if no evidence of esophageal mucosal injury, until complete ablation of the Barrett's mucosa has been achieved. Follow up period of five years to monitor healing and progression.