Lenalidomide After Allo-Hematopoietic Cell Transplant (HCT) in Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) and Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) Subjects With Minimal Residual Disease
The purpose of this study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose, dose limiting side effects, and the safety of increasing doses of lenalidomide in patients with AML and MDS who have a small amount of detectable disease after allogeneic stem cell transplant.
Leukemia, Myeloid|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Lenalidomide
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Lenalidomide, To determine safety and the maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide after allo-HCT in AML and MDS subjects with MRD detected by the CD34+ mixed chimerism analysis., Up to 72 days
CD34+ Mixed Chimerism, To monitor changes in the CD34+ mixed chimerism after allo-HCT in AML and MDS subjects with detectable MRD in response to escalating doses of lenalidomide., Up to 120 days
All subjects entering the screening phase will receive a unique subject number. This number will be used to identify the subject throughout the study. Additional test to include: physical examinations, blood tests, and if applicable pregnancy test will be performed as part of participation in this research study.

Lenalidomide will be administered for a total of 42 days. The starting dose will be 2.5 mg given orally every other day on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle for 2 cycles. Dose escalations and de-escalations will be made until the maximum tolerated dose is reached.

The dose levels of lenalidomide will be as follows:

Dose Level 1: 2.5 mg

Dose Level 2: 2.5 mg

Dose Level 3: 5 mg

Dose Level 4: 7.5 mg

Doses should be taken at approximately the same time each day.

Subjects must be instructed to swallow lenalidomide capsules whole with water at the same time each day. Do not break, chew or open the capsules.

Each subject will keep an accurate record of lenalidomide dosing on the Subject Dosing Diary. This diary will be kept in the research record as source documentation of lenalidomide dosing. Study personnel will review the dosing instructions with each subject at each study visit. Subjects will be asked to bring any unused drug and empty drug containers to the study site at the next visit for reconciliation with the Subject Dosing Diary.