Study of the Effectiveness of Supervised vs. Non-Supervised Therapeutic Exercise in Cancer Patients
AIM:To evaluate the effectiveness of a therapeutic exercise program (PET) in cancer patients in improving the quality of life and the need for supervision by health professionals during the performance of same after 6 weeks of intervention. DESIGN: Randomized and controlled clinical trial, parallel groups with active control group. With masking of randomization, patient evaluation and analysis of the data. SUBJETS OF STUDY: 58 patients diagnosed with breast and colon cancer and treated up to 2 years later, both with surgery, chemotherapy and hormonal treatments (inhibitors of aromatase, tamoxifen). INTERVENTION: both groups the treatment will be a common work-based therapeutic exercise program aerobic, strength-resistance and self-stretching, in addition to a reinforcement in recommendations usual self-care. The study includes two phases, phase of supervised work and phase of tracing. One of the groups will be supervised in the realization of PET for a period of 6weeks and the other group will do it autonomously and without supervision. The patients will be followed for 1 year, with five blind evaluations: at the beginning of the study, after 6 weeks of intervention, 3, 6 and 12 months after the start of the study.MEASUREMENTS: Principal: Quality of life assessed with the questionnaire measured with the European questionnaire Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C-30 (EORTC QLQ-30). Pre-post intervention measure, 3, 6 and 12 months. Secondary: Cancer-related fatigue evaluated with the Functional Assessment of scale Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F). Pre-post Measurement intervention, 3, 6 and 12 months. Functional capacity measured with the Test 6 minutes walking test. Pre-post Measurement intervention, 3, 6 and 12 months. Valuation of the measured force with manual hydraulic dynamometer and 5- test repetition sit-to-stand. Pre-post intervention measure, 3, 6 and 12 months.COST: effectiveness and cost / incremental utility associated to the program wil be estimated.
Breast Cancer|Colon Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Education program on healthy habits
Changes in Health Related Quality of Life: EORTC QLQ-30, Quality of life assessed with the questionnaire measured with the European questionnaire Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C-30.

(EORTC QLQ-30). The QLQ-C30 questionnaire is a specific questionnaire for cancer, it is composed of 30 questions or items that assess the quality of life in relation to physical, emotional, social aspects and in general the level of functionality of patients diagnosed with cancer. The QLQ-C30 questionnaire is assigned values between 1 and 4 (1: not at all, 2: a little, 3: a lot, 4: a lot) according to the patient's responses to the item, only in items 29 and 30 are assessed with score from 1 to 7 (1: bad, 7: excellent). The scores obtained are standardized and a score between 0 and 100 is obtained, 0 being the worst possible and 100 the best., Basal, 1.5, 3, 6, 12 months follow up
Fatigue, Fatigue measurement with FACIT-F (Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue) questionaire.

The FACIT-F 13-item scale is designed on a 5-point Likert scale (0 = nothing; 1 = little; 2 = something; 3 = a lot; 4 = very much). The FACIT-F scale is designed so that a high score is good, the possible score is 0 to 52, 0 being the worst possible and 52 the best., Basal, 1.5, 3, 6, 12 months follow up|Funtional capacity, The 6-minute walk test consists of measuring the maximum distance that the patient is able to walk in 6 minutes, on a tour short in a hallway, simultaneously assessing heart rate, oxygen saturation and degree of dyspnea. Usually healthy people can walk between 400 and 700 meters in 6 minutes, depending on age, height and sex, Basal, 1.5, 3, 6, 12 months follow up|Valuation of the measured force, Valuation of the measured force with manual hydraulic dynamometer and 5- test repetition sit-to-stand. The test assesses the act of sitting and standing for five repetitions as quickly as possible, in a chair without arms with a seat height of 43 cm. The participant crosses his arms over his chest and sits with his back against the vertical back of the chair. The performance of the test is based on its duration; Consequently, the shorter the time it takes for the patient to perform the test, the better it will be., Basal, 1.5, 3, 6, 12 months follow up
AIM:To evaluate the effectiveness of a therapeutic exercise program (PET) in cancer patients in improving the quality of life and the need for supervision by health professionals during the performance of same after 6 weeks of intervention. DESIGN: Randomized and controlled clinical trial, parallel groups with active control group. With masking of randomization, patient evaluation and analysis of the data. SUBJETS OF STUDY: 58 patients diagnosed with breast and colon cancer and treated up to 2 years later, both with surgery, chemotherapy and hormonal treatments (inhibitors of aromatase, tamoxifen). INTERVENTION: both groups the treatment will be a common work-based therapeutic exercise program aerobic, strength-resistance and self-stretching, in addition to a reinforcement in recommendations usual self-care. The study includes two phases, phase of supervised work and phase of tracing. One of the groups will be supervised in the realization of PET for a period of 6weeks and the other group will do it autonomously and without supervision. The patients will be followed for 1 year, with five blind evaluations: at the beginning of the study, after 6 weeks of intervention, 3, 6 and 12 months after the start of the study.MEASUREMENTS: Principal: Quality of life assessed with the questionnaire measured with the European questionnaire Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C-30 (EORTC QLQ-30). Pre-post intervention measure, 3, 6 and 12 months. Secondary: Cancer-related fatigue evaluated with the Functional Assessment of scale Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F). Pre-post Measurement intervention, 3, 6 and 12 months. Functional capacity measured with the Test 6 minutes walking test. Pre-post Measurement intervention, 3, 6 and 12 months. Valuation of the measured force with manual hydraulic dynamometer and 5- test repetition sit-to-stand. Pre-post intervention measure, 3, 6 and 12 months.COST: effectiveness and cost / incremental utility associated to the program wil be estimated.