ERAS in Elderly Colorectal Cancer Surgery
Enhanced recovery protocol consisted of a series of elements aiming to optimize and standardize perioperative care. This study aims to evaluate the safety and feasibility of a modified ERAS protocol following colorectal surgery in the elderly population, aged 65 years or older. This is a retrospective study based on prospectively collected data. Patient privacy has been carefully protected throughout the research process, and no aspect of this study interfered with or altered the patients' treatment or clinical care.
ERAS|Colo-rectal Cancer|Elderly (people Aged 65 or More)|Minimally Invasive Surgery
Short-term postoperative complications rate., Measurement outcomes included the rate of short-term postoperative complications, overall morbidity, early morbidity, reoperation rate, 30-day readmission rates and 30-day mortality rates. Postoperative complications were carefully recorded and classified using the Clavien-Dindo classification system for a standardised severity evaluation. These complications are critical for assessing surgical outcomes and ensuring patient safety. Early complications were defined as those occurring during the initial hospitalisation or within 30 days of surgery, while late complications were defined as those arising after the patient's discharge from the hospital., 3 months
Days of Hospital Stay and Time to First Passage of Flatus, Measurement outcomes are the rate of post-operative recovery times, including postoperative stay(days) and first passage of flatus(days)., 3 months
Enhanced recovery protocol consisted of a series of elements aiming to optimize and standardize perioperative care. This study aims to evaluate the safety and feasibility of a modified ERAS protocol following colorectal surgery in the elderly population, aged 65 years or older. This is a retrospective study based on prospectively collected data. Patient privacy has been carefully protected throughout the research process, and no aspect of this study interfered with or altered the patients' treatment or clinical care.