A Fluorescent Tumor Marking Agent, Tozuleristide, for Imaging Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Cancer and High-Grade Oral Cavity Dysplasia During Surgery
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of tozuleristide in imaging oral cavity squamous cell cancer and high-grade oral cavity dysplasia during surgery. Tozuleristide is an imaging agent that specifically binds to tumor cells. When exposed to near-infrared light, tozuleristide causes tumor cells to fluoresce (light up), so that surgeons may better distinguish tumor cells from healthy cells during surgery.
Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Near Infrared Imaging|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|DRUG: Tozuleristide
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Adverse events will be summarized as the number and percentage of patients with each type of adverse event, per Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., 7-21 days after drug administration
Number of subjects without tumor fluorescence after receiving tozuleristide, Up to 12 months|Sensitivity of tozuleristide fluorescence to detect tumor in tissue biopsies, Will be estimated by a repeated measure logistic regression modeling the probability of positive tumor. The model includes an exchangeable working correlation structure to account for potential correlations of biopsies within subject for the tumor-positive tissue biopsies. A general estimating equation (GEE) method will be used to estimate the regression parameters., Up to 12 months|Specificity of tozuleristide fluorescence to detect tumor in tissue biopsies, Will be estimated by a repeated measure logistic regression modeling the probability of negative tumor. The model includes an exchangeable working correlation structure to account for potential correlations of biopsies within subject for the tumor-positive tissue biopsies. A GEE method will be used to estimate the regression parameters. The repeated measures logistic regression will model the probability of tumor-negative biopsies., Up to 12 months|Positive predictive value of tozuleristide fluorescence to detect tumor in tissue biopsies, Up to 12 months|Negative predictive value of tozuleristide fluorescence to detect tumor in tissue biopsies, Up to 12 months|Achievement of negative margins in tozuleristide-guided oral cavity tumor excision, To investigate the accuracy of tozuleristide fluorescent imaging in identifying tumor and achieving negative margins during excision of oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma and high-grade dysplasia., Up to 12 months
OUTLINE:

Beginning 1 hour before surgery, patients receive tozuleristide intravenously (IV) over 1-5 minutes. Patients then surgical resection per standard of care and undergo near infrared (NIR) imaging with standard of care device.