Robotic Seed Implantation for Prostate Cancer Brachytherapy
A robotic brachytherapy device will be used to assist physicians in performing seed implantation to the prostate. EUCLIDIAN is the first robotic system designed to allow automatic placement of radioactive seeds by robot and thus reduce operator dependence. The clinical study is designed to evaluate the dosimetric quality, accuracy and patient self-reported quality of life scores after robotic brachytherapy.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: EUCLIDIAN Robot
Coverage of the prostate by the prescribed radiation dose at V100, The principal endpoint is the dose-volume histogram (DVH) measured at V100 (percent volume of the target receiving the intended dose). These values will also be compared retrospectively to those in the conventional group. Improved quality will be demonstrated by increased V100 in the protocol patients., Day 0 and Day 30 post-implant
Coverage of the prostate by the prescribed radiation dose at D90, The secondary endpoint is the dose-volume histogram (DVH) measured at D90 (dose to 90% of the target volume). These values will also be compared retrospectively to those in the conventional group., 12 months post-treatment|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P), Patient self-reported, health-related, quality of life measures using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) self-report questionnaire. FACT-P instruments prior to treatment (T0), 1 month (T1), 3 months (T3), 6 months (T6) and 12 months (T12) following treatment with robot-assisted brachytherapy., 12 months|International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), Patient self-reported, health-related, quality of life measures using the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) self-report questionnaire. IPSS instruments prior to treatment (T0), 1 month (T1), 3 months (T3), 6 months (T6) and 12 months (T12) following treatment with robot-assisted brachytherapy., 12 months
EUCLIDIAN (Endo-Uro Computed Lattice for Intratumoral Delivery, Implantation, Ablation with Nanosensing)

The dose-volume histogram parameters of robotic brachytherapy will be compared to historical controls of the study institution. Short-term (\<1 yr) health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and changes will be assessed using FACT-P and IPSS self-report questionnaires.