To Evaluate the Characteristics of a Breast Cancer
The purpose of this pilot study is to determine the prevalence of markers of chronic and cycling hypoxia and reactive species stress (oxidative and nitrosative) in the breast cancer tumor microenvironment. The study is based around four cornerstone features of the pathologic microenvironment - Hypoxia, Reactive Species (reactive oxygen and nitrogen species), HIF-1 and VEGF, which we term the HRHV axis. Fifty breast cancer patients with planned surgical excision will be administered the hypoxia marker drug, EF5, 24-36 hr prior to surgical excision. EF5 is a non-therapeutic drug and provides no direct benefit to those patients enrolled in this pilot study. Tissues obtained intra-operatively will be snap frozen and subsequently analyzed for EF5 binding. Immunohistochemical analysis of a cohort of immunohistochemical and urine markers that depict the HRHV axis will be examined. The association of the markers with the presence of hypoxia, as determined by EF5 positivity, will be determined. Data from this pilot study will be used to establish the prevalence of markers of the HRHV axis in breast cancer. This information will be crucial for future human trials in which the HRHV axis is therapeutically targeted.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: EF5|PROCEDURE: Partial or Total Mastectomy
To evaluate tumor characteristics, 2 years
Intra and Interpatient correlations with tumor hypoxia, 3 years
The purpose of this pilot study is to determine the prevalence of markers of chronic and cycling hypoxia and reactive species stress (oxidative and nitrosative) in the breast cancer tumor microenvironment. The study is based around four cornerstone features of the pathologic microenvironment - Hypoxia, Reactive Species (reactive oxygen and nitrogen species), HIF-1 and VEGF, which we term the HRHV axis. Fifty breast cancer patients with planned surgical excision will be administered the hypoxia marker drug, EF5, 24-36 hr prior to surgical excision. EF5 is a non-therapeutic drug and provides no direct benefit to those patients enrolled in this pilot study. Tissues obtained intra-operatively will be snap frozen and subsequently analyzed for EF5 binding. Immunohistochemical analysis of a cohort of immunohistochemical and urine markers that depict the HRHV axis will be examined. The association of the markers with the presence of hypoxia, as determined by EF5 positivity, will be determined. Data from this pilot study will be used to establish the prevalence of markers of the HRHV axis in breast cancer. This information will be crucial for future human trials in which the HRHV axis is therapeutically targeted.