Interleukin-2 and Bryostatin 1 in Treating Patients With Advanced Kidney Cancer
Interleukin-2 may stimulate a person's white blood cells to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining bryostatin 1 with interleukin-2 may cause a stronger immune response and kill more tumor cells. Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining interleukin-2 and bryostatin 1 in treating patients who have advanced kidney cancer
Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: aldesleukin|DRUG: bryostatin 1|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Overall response (CR and PR), Will be comparing using Fisher's exact test., Up to 1 year|Time to disease progression, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be generated., From the date of registration to the date of progressive disease or death|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be generated., Up to 1 year|Disease-free survival, Will be compared using the logrank test., Up to 1 year
All observed toxicities assessed using CTC version 2.0, A chi-square test and one-way ANOVA will be used for categorical and continuous toxicity endpoints, respectively., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma treated with interleukin-2 (IL-2) and bryostatin 1.

II. Compare the toxicity of 3 different doses of bryostatin 1 given in combination with a fixed dose of IL-2 in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one of three dose levels of bryostatin 1.

ARM I: Patients receive interleukin-2 (IL-2) subcutaneously on days 1-4, 8-11, and 15-18. For the second and subsequent courses of IL-2, patients also receive lowest dose bryostatin 1 IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive IL-2 as in arm I and middle dose bryostatin 1 IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Patients receive IL-2 as in arm I and highest dose bryostatin 1 IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients with stable or responding disease may receive 3 additional courses of therapy. An additional cohort of patients receives treatment as above at a higher dose to evaluate toxicity.

Patients are followed for 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24-65 patients (8-16 per bryostatin 1 dose level) will be accrued for this study within 14-27 months.