Melatonin as Adjuvant Therapy in Breast Cancer Patients
The study evaluate the effect of melatonin in improving quality of life and reducing post operative pain and chemotherapy-induced toxicity in breast cancer patients. This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trial conducted in stage II or III breast cancer patients. Mixed-block randomization, stratified by center and treatment scheme is used to divide eligible patients into two groups: melatonin 20 mg or matched placebo. The patients are required to take the studied drugs at night (after 21.00 pm) on the first night prior to surgery and continue for 24 months. Standard treatment is surgery followed by chemotherapy according to each center's standard protocol. Study endpoints are QOL (FACT-B), pain (VAS 0-10), adverse event frequency, sleep quality (VAS 0-10), recurrence rate and progression-free survival.
Stage II and III Breast Cancer
DRUG: Melatonin|DRUG: match placebo
Quality of Life (FACT-B Version 4), Self-reported questionnaire. FACT-B Thai Version 4 has been previously validated. Change from baseline will be evaluated at months 2,4,6,12,18,24., Change from baseline in TOI scores at 6 months
Pain and amount of pain medication used, Self-reported VAS scale (0-10), Before and up to 72 hours after surgery.|Number of participants with adverse events, CTCAE Version 4.3, Baseline and months 2,3,4,5,6,12,18,24|Sleep quality, Self reported VAS scale (0-10), Baseline, up to 72 hours after surgery and months 2,3,4,5,6,12,18,24|Cancer recurrence incidence, participant will be followed for the duration of study, an expected average of 2 years|Progression-free survival, participant will be followed for the duration of study, an expected average of 2 years
The study evaluate the effect of melatonin in improving quality of life and reducing post operative pain and chemotherapy-induced toxicity in breast cancer patients. This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trial conducted in stage II or III breast cancer patients. Mixed-block randomization, stratified by center and treatment scheme is used to divide eligible patients into two groups: melatonin 20 mg or matched placebo. The patients are required to take the studied drugs at night (after 21.00 pm) on the first night prior to surgery and continue for 24 months. Standard treatment is surgery followed by chemotherapy according to each center's standard protocol. Study endpoints are QOL (FACT-B), pain (VAS 0-10), adverse event frequency, sleep quality (VAS 0-10), recurrence rate and progression-free survival.