Once-weekly Versus Twice-weekly Carfilzomib in Combination With Dexamethasone in Adults With Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of the study is to compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of once-weekly carfilzomib dosing in combination with dexamethasone to twice-weekly carfilzomib dosing in combination with dexamethasone in adults with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, previously treated with bortezomib and an immunomodulatory agent (IMiD).
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from randomization to the earlier of disease progression or death due to any cause.

Disease status was assessed at a central laboratory with serum and urine protein electrophoresis, immunofixation, serum-free light chain (SFLC) assay, bone marrow sample evaluation, serum calcium, plasmacytoma evaluation, and skeletal survey. Response and disease progression were determined using a validated computer algorithm based on the International Myeloma Working Group-Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC).

Median PFS was derived using the Kaplan-Meier method; participants still alive with no disease progression were censored at the time of their last disease assessment., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 15 June 2017; median (minimum, maximum) follow-up time for PFS was 12.0 (0, 20) and 12.6 (0, 19) months in each treatment group respectively.
Overall Response Rate, Disease response was evaluated according to the IMWG-URC using a validated computer algorithm. Overall response rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR).

sCR: As for CR, normal serum free light chain (SFLC) ratio and no clonal cells in bone marrow (BM).

CR: No immunofixation on serum and urine, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and \< 5% plasma cells in BM biopsy; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein with urine M-protein \<100 mg/24 hours. A ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas if present at baseline.

PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in urine M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24 hours. A ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas if present at baseline., Disease response was assessed every 28 days until progressive disease, up to the data cut-off date of 15 June 2017; median time on follow-up was 12.0 and 12.6 months in each treatment group respectively.|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause.

Median overall survival was derived using the Kaplan-Meier method; participants still alive were censored at the date last known to be alive., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 15 June 2017; median (minimum, maximum) follow-up time for OS was 12.6 (0, 20) and 13.2 (0, 19) months in each treatment group respectively.|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), The severity of adverse events was graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03, where where Grade 1 = Mild; Grade 2 = Moderate; Grade 3 = Severe; Grade 4 = Life-threatening; Grade 5 = Fatal.

Treatment-related adverse events are adverse events considered related to at least 1 investigational product by the investigator, including those with unknown relationship., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after last dose, up to the end of study; median (minimum, maximum) duration of treatment was 29.1 (0.1, 156.3) weeks and 38.0 (0.1, 158.3) weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Plasma Carfilzomib Concentration During Cycle 2, Concentrations of carfilzomib in plasma were measured using a validated assay method. The lower limit of quantification was 0.100 ng/mL., Cycle 2 day 1 predose, 15 minutes after the start of infusion (once-weekly carfilzomib only), end of infusion, and 30 minutes after the end of infusion
The purpose of the study is to compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of once-weekly carfilzomib dosing in combination with dexamethasone to twice-weekly carfilzomib dosing in combination with dexamethasone in adults with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, previously treated with bortezomib and an immunomodulatory agent (IMiD).