Placebo-controlled Evaluation of Cocculine® Efficacy in the Management of Nausea After Chemotherapy in Breast Cancer.
The purpose of the study is to determine whether a homeopathic remedy (Cocculine®) is effective in the prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea in non metastatic breast cancer.

Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to one of 2-arms: Cocculine® or placebo.

The number of patients required to demonstrate a 0.5-point reduction in nausea on a visual analogue scale, assuming an alpha risk of 5% in a two-sided test and 85% power, is 396 (198 per arm). It has been estimated that the enrollment period should be 18 months.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Cocculine®|DRUG: placebo
Score of "nausea" calculated using the FLIE questionnaire (Functional Living index for Emesis with 5-day recall)at the time of the 1rst adjuvant CT course, The nausea items of FLIE questionnaire are completed by patients on the 6th day of the 1st course.
Score of "vomiting" and global score of "nausea + vomiting" calculated using the FLIE questionnaire at the time of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd adjuvant CT courses, Nausea and vomiting items of FLIE questionnaire are completed by patients on the 6th day of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd adjuvant CT courses|Score of "nausea" calculated using the FLIE questionnaire at the time of the 2nd and 3rd adjuvant CT courses, Nausea items of FLIE questionnaire are completed by patients on the 6th day of the 2nd and 3rd adjuvant CT courses|Patient autoevaluation (D1-D5) of nausea severity using a visual analogue scale and of the frequency of vomiting during the 1st, 2nd and 3rd adjuvant CT courses, Visual analogue scale are completed by patients the 1st five days of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd adjuvant CT courses|Rate of toxic effects (nausea and vomiting) recorded by investigators at the end of each of the 6 CT courses, Recorded by investigators at the end of each of the 6 CT courses|Evaluation of compliance: patient autoevaluation and counting of remaining tablets, Patients register date and hour of tablets taking on a diary. Box remaining tablets will be count at the end of the 6 CT courses.
The proportion of women with breast cancer treated by chemotherapy (CT) is increasing. CT-induced nausea and vomiting negatively impact patient quality of life.

The primary objective of the trial is to evaluate against a placebo the efficacy of Cocculine® administered as an adjunct to conventional treatments (corticosteroids and 5-HT3 receptor antagonists) for the management of nausea induced by a 1st course of adjuvant CT with FAC50, FEC100 or TAC in patients with non-metastatic breast cancer.

Secondary objectives are to test:

* the persistence of Cocculine® efficacy over the 2nd and 3rd CT courses
* the contribution of Cocculine® to the global management of nausea and vomiting during adjuvant CT
* patient compliance with Cocculine® dose.

Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to one of 2 arms: Cocculine® or placebo.