Prognostic Value of Tissue Factor (TF) in Blood t in Colorectal Cancer in Adults
Severity of colorectal cancer (CRC) is evaluated by its local staging, locoregional and general ( presence of metastases , usually liver ). This is the most common cancer in France and, despite surgical treatment of the primary tumor, it is still subject to a high mortality rate due to metastatic evolution, mainly hepatic .

There is currently no specific marker for predicting cancer, the same hardly changed , which would modulate the aggressive therapeutic strategy . antigen (CEA) is used in the monitoring of JRC made.Tissue factor (TF) is the VII tissue factor receptor. it initiates the coagulation cascade. it was noted as a true cell marker tumorale1 aggressiveness. Corroborating evidence that the way the TF plays an important role in the invasive and metastatic potential of CRC. First, various human cancer cell lines express the FT colic. Furthermore, there is a relationship between the importance of monocyte TF expression and the evolutionary potential of human CRC.

The investigators hypothesize that these interest intra-platelet and plasma markers are a reflection of tumor angiogenic potential. And the investigators will verify the superiority of their preoperative levels in the CRC group compared with the control group, normalization of postoperative after surgical resection rates and their possible re-ascent in case of tumor recurrence in the CRC group.

The levy to one month in controls allow us to verify the absence of secondary modification to laparotomy, the colectomy and general anesthesia.

The investigators assume that the rate of soluble TF in peripheral blood of the holders of CRC patients may be a marker of invasion and aggression (i.e. prognosis).
Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Group CRC|BIOLOGICAL: Group control
TNM primary colorectal tumor stage, soluble blood TNM value will be determined before surgery, and compared between groups., Before surgery
TF (blood levels of soluble TF), Comparing the pre - operative and post -operative blood levels of soluble TF and TF intratumoral, 1 , 6 , 12, 18 and 24 months .5 years|TF intratumoral (blood levels of TF intratumoral), Comparing the pre - operative and post -operative blood levels of soluble TF and TF intratumoral, 1 , 6 , 12, 18 and 24 months .5 years|E- selectin and CRP, Comparison - soluble TF with blood levels of other circulating proteins: E- selectin and CRP at different times of follow-up., 1 , 6 , 12, 18 and 24 months. 5 years|ACE, Evaluation of the prognostic value of blood levels of soluble TF and that of ACE blood on the incidence of Metastases Hepatic in patients undergoing CRC and / or hepatic, 1 , 6 , 12, 18 and 24 months .5 years|Interaction plate / tumor cell, Quantifying the interaction plate / tumor cell by measuring intraplatelet regulatory proteins and angiogenesis markers of platelet activation and plasma compare the, 1 , 6 , 12, 18 and 24 months .5 years
The study is to measure the TF in the blood, as well as ACE, C reactive protein and E-selectin. The TF will also be measured in the tissue removed during surgery.