Olaparib and Ramucirumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Locally Recurrent Gastric or Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of olaparib when given together with ramucirumab and how well they work in treating patients with gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic), has come back (recurrent), or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Olaparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ramucirumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving olaparib and ramucirumab may work better in treating patients with gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer compared to ramucirumab and paclitaxel (a chemotherapy drug) or ramucirumab alone.
Metastatic Esophageal Carcinoma|Metastatic Gastric Carcinoma|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Esophageal Carcinoma|Recurrent Gastric Carcinoma|Recurrent Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Esophageal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Esophageal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v7|Unresectable Esophageal Carcinoma|Unresectable Gastric Carcinoma|Unresectable Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Olaparib|BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab
Dose Limiting Toxicity and Maximum Tolerated Dose of Olaparib (Phase I), Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria (CTCAE) for Adverse Events version 5.0. The safety profile and adverse event reporting were collected in an intent to treat analysis so data from all patients were included in the overall analysis and there was never any plan nor intent to evaluate or report the safety profile separately. These are not two different arms of the same study, the phase 1 part of this was a lead in to the phase 2., Up to 28 days|Objective Response Rate (Phase II), Will be defined as complete or partial response assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. Presented are the count of those that were considered to have responded while in treatment., Up to 2 years
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is reported as the number of days where participants did not progress while in treatment., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is the overall number of days a participant was on study., Up to 2 years|BROCA-HR Status, Will be compared for duration of response survival with Kaplan-Meier estimates and log-rank tests. The Rothman CI will be reported. In addition, the possible risk factors will be compared for survival with log-rank test. The adjusted p-values of the hazard ratios and the adjusted 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 6 years|Count of Participants With Adverse Events, The outcome was updated at the time or results entry. Presented are the count of the participants that experienced at least 1 adverse event., Up to 2 years
BROCA HR Assay, The association of BROCA HR assay with Signature 3 will be assessed using a series of contingency table analyses. The association of the presence of an individual mutation from the BROCA HR panel with the signature 3 (yes/no) using Fisher's exact test. Using a Cochran Mantel Haenzel test the relationship across all three measures will be examined. Finally, the relationship of each of these measures with response will be examined. To do this multiple logistic regression models can be fit with the response (complete response/partial response vs stable disease/partial disease) considered as the outcome variable and the assay measures can be used predictors., Up to 6 years|Tumor Cells for PDX Model, and Biobanked Tumor Tissue and Peripheral Blood, Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safe dose of olaparib with ramucirumab, but not to exceed olaparib dose of 300 mg twice daily (tablet formulation). (Phase I) II. To determine the efficacy of olaparib plus ramucirumab as measured by the objective response rates (ORR) stratified by BROCA-HR biomarker status. (Phase II).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate median progression-free survival (PFS) stratified by BROCA-HR biomarker status.

II. To estimate median overall survival (OS) stratified by BROCA-HR biomarker status.

III. To measure the prevalence of the BROCA-HR biomarker in our study population.

IV. To determine toxicity of olaparib and ramucirumab combination.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the correlation between the signature 3 status, and mutations in BROCA-HR panel.

II. To evaluate the association between findings from BROCA-HR panel with response to therapy.

III. To evaluate the association between findings from BROCA-HR panel and signature 3 results with response to therapy.

IV. To determine results of immunoassay for poly-ADP-ribosylated (PAR) substrates in tumor tissue.

V. To create a PDX model to study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair in gastric tumors treated with PARP inhibitors (PARPi) from both pre-treatment biopsy and repeat biopsy after 16 weeks of treatment.

VI. Development of a novel genomic assay for BRCAness. VII. Defining T cell receptor diversity of gastric cancer patients +/- BRCAness.

VIII. Biobank additional tumor tissue for future genomic analysis. IX. Biobank peripheral blood for future genomic analysis and assessment of circulating tumor DNA.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of olaparib followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 of each cycle and ramucirumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 6 weeks if the patient has not had disease progression and every 3 months if the patient has had disease progression.