Focal Radiotherapy for Previously Treated Prostate Cancer Patients
To examine the feasibility, safety and toxicity of focal stereotactic radiation treatment (SBRT) for locally recurrent prostate cancer.
Locally Recurrent Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy
feasibility of SBRT dose escalation. This will be assessed by the number of participants with grade 3 acute toxicity according to CTCAE version 4.3, acute toxicity will be assessed weekly during treatment period to check whether dose escalation can be achieved, at weekly review through completion of each radiothrapy dose level, approximately one year|safety of SBRT dose escalation. This will be assessed by the number of participants with grade 3 acute toxicity according to CTCAE version 4.3, outcome will be assessed by reviewing toxicity weekly during the treatment period and at the end of each dose escalation, at weekly review through completion of each radiothrapy dose level, approximately one year|Toxicity. This will be assessed by the number of participants with grade 3 acute toxicity according to CTCAE version 4.3 and RTOG toxicity score., outcome will be assessed by reviewing toxicity weekly and at the end of each dose escalation, at weekly review through completion of each radiothrapy dose level, approximately one year
Tolerability of conservation dose escalation in this cohort of patients, outcome will be assessed by reviewing toxicity weekly or secondly weekly and at the end of each dose escalation, After each group of patients have completed radiotherapy and at 12 and 24 months follow-up. Patients will have routine follow-up 6 monthly for 1 year and then yearly for 10 years post treatment. But study outcomes will only be collected for 2 years.
Participants must have biopsy proven locally recurrent prostate cancer. Biopsy will be performed by a Urologist. Participants will have PSMA-PET (prostate-specific membrane antigen and positron emission tomography) scan and MRI in Radiology and Nuclear Medicine by experienced Radiologists in the Royal North Shore Hospital. before starting stereotactic radiotherapy. Participants will require fiducial markers inserted in the prostate and may require hydrogel insertion depending on the location of the recurrence. If these are required, it will be done by experienced radiation oncologists. Fiducial markers insertion involves inserting three gold markers into the prostate. It will be used to locate the prostate accurately during radiation treatment. Hydrogel is a temporary gel being injected into the space between the prostate and rectum to reduce the dose of radiation received by the rectum to minimise side effects from the treatment, Focal Stereotactic Body treatment (SBRT) will be used in the study. There are three groups of participants. Each group will receive different level of radiation dose to test the safety of increasing radiation dose. Group 1 will receive 36 grays (radiation dose unit, Gy)) in 6 treatments. Group 2 will receive 38 grays in 6 treatments and Group 3 will receive 40 grays in 6 treatments. The incremental dose escalation will cease if any excess acute toxicity or late grade 3 toxicity. SBRT will be delivered two to three times per week, every second day. The number of treatments per week will depend on the day of the week participants start their treatment. Participants will be reviewed weekly or second weekly. Toxicity will be recorded. A Safety Committee will be formed containing multi-disciplinary team members. All serious adverse events will be reported to the Principal Investigator and Human Research Ethics Committee within 24 hours.