(Cost)-Effectiveness of Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) in Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC)
A multi-centre randomized non-inferiority trial investigating the (cost-)effectiveness of Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) versus regular punch biopsy in the diagnosis and subtyping of Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC).
Basal Cell Carcinoma|Optical Coherence Tomography
DEVICE: Optical Coherence Tomography
Proportion of patients with treatment failure, The main endpoint for the non-inferiority trial is the proportion of patients with treatment failure after 12 months follow-up, where treatment failure is defined as inadequate treatment or recurrence of malignant or premalignant lesions., 12 months|Cost-effectiveness of OCT, The main endpoint for the cost-effectiveness analysis is the Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) defined as extra cost per gained Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY)., 12 months
The proportion of patients with avoided biopsies, What percentage of biopsies can be avoided in patients when using optical coherence tomography compared to regular care., 12 months|Diagnostic performance of OCT, The design of the study also enables evaluation of the ability of OCT to discriminate between BCC and non-BCC and between BCC subtypes (superficial, nodular and infiltrative BCC) using punch biopsy as reference standard. Diagnostic performance will be expressed as sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve with area under the curve (AUC) will also be calculated., 12 months|Discrete Choice Experiment to determine patient preferences, Patient preferences will be assessed by designing and conducting a discrete choice experiment., 2 months|Quality of life measured with EQ-5D-5L, Quality of life will be evaluated using the 5-level EQ-5D version (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire., Baseline, 12 months
Skin cancer incidence rises worldwide due to high sun exposure and ageing. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most prevalent form, with a lifetime risk of 16-20% in the Netherlands. Currently, the gold standard for diagnosing and subtyping BCC is a punch biopsy. Since this technique is invasive, new non-invasive diagnostic methods have been developed, including optical coherence tomography (OCT). In patients with clinical and dermoscopic suspicion of BCC, OCT makes it possible to confirm and subtype BCC with high confidence, thereby obviating the need for a punch biopsy in a substantial part of patients. Hence, BCC diagnosis and treatment can be accomplished in one day. As a result, patients experience less distress and costs can be saved. By discussing diagnosis and treatment with the patient directly, care can be provided more efficiently, preventing treatment delay and saving extra hospital visits. The investigators hypothesize that the use of OCT is a cost-effective strategy when compared to regular care (always punch biopsy). However, it is important to evaluate whether an alternative OCT guided diagnostic approach does not lead to an unacceptable increase in risk of recurrent BCC.