A Study of TAK-102 in Adult With Previously-Treated Solid Tumors
Some solid tumors make a lot of a protein called glypican 3(GPC3), which helps it to grow. Healthy cells and tissues do not make GPC3. TAK-102 is a medicine that sticks to GCP3 and stops it from working. It is hoped that TAK-102 will eventually treat people with solid tumors with the GPC3 protein. TAK-102 will be added to each person's white blood cells so is custom-made for each person.

In this study, people with solid tumors with GPC3 will receive TAK-102 with their white blood cells. The main aims of this study are to check if the participants get any side effects from treatment with TAK-102 and to check how much TAK-102 they can receive without getting side effects from it. Researchers can then work out the best dose of TAK-102 to give to participants in future studies.

At the first visit, the study doctor will check who can take part. For those who can take part, the study doctors will collect white blood cells from each participant. These cells are sent to the laboratory where TAK-102 is added to each participant's cells. This can take up to 4 weeks. Participants will receive specific treatments while they are waiting for TAK-102. Then, participants will receive TAK-102 with their cells slowly through a vein (infusion). 3 different small groups of participants will receive lower to higher doses of TAK-102. Each participant will just receive 1 dose. The study doctors will check for side effects after each different dose of TAK 102. In this way, researchers can work out the best dose of TAK-102 to give to participants in future studies.

Participants will stay in hospital for 28 days or longer for their treatment. Then, they will visit the clinic for regular check-ups for up to 36 months.
Solid Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: TAK-102
Number of Participants with First Cycle Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Toxicity will be evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE), Version 5.0. DLT will be defined as any of the events specified in the protocol that are considered by the investigator to be at least possibly related to therapy with study medications., Up to 28 days|Number of Participants With One or More Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), An adverse event (AE) means any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product; the untoward medical occurrence does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal (investigational) product whether or not it is related to the medicinal product. This includes any newly occurring event, or a previous condition that has increased in severity or frequency since the administration of study drug., Up to 3 year|Number of Participants With Adverse Events of Clinical Interest, Adverse events of clinical interest include severe immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS), cytokine release syndrome (CRS), hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), macrophage activation syndrome (MAS), tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), and liver function abnormality., Up to 3 year
Objective response based on the investigator's assessment using study-specific modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (ssmRECIST 1.1), Objective Response will be assessed by the investigators with ssmRECIST 1.1 and disease response criteria are following; Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Up to 3 year|Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by the Investigator, DOR is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a PR or better (determined by the investigator) to the date of first documentation of progressive disease (PD) for responders (PR or better) per RECIST version 1.1, after the initiation of study treatment. Responders without documentation of PD will be censored at the date of last response assessment that is SD or better. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Up to 3 year|Disease Control Rate (DCR) as Assessed by the Investigator, DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve SD or better (determined by the investigator) ≥6 weeks during the study in response-evaluable population per RECIST version 1.1, after the initiation of study treatment. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Up to 3 year|Time to Progression as Assessed by the Investigator, TTP is defined as the time from the date of study drug administration to the date of first documented disease progression by the investigator., Up to 3 year|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the Investigator, PFS is defined as the time from the TAK-102 infusion date to the date of disease progression or death from any cause., Up to 3 year|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the TAK-102 infusion to the date of death from any cause., Up to 3 year|Maximum (Peak) Observed in Peripheral Blood Product Concentration after Single Dose Administration (Cmax) Evaluated by CAR Copy Number, Up to 3 year; Before-infusion and multiple time points (Day 1,2,5,7,9,11,14,17,21.28, Month 2 to 6 and Month 7-12, 18, 24, 30 and 36) post-dose after the intravenous infusion|Time of First Occurrence of Maximum Observed in Peripheral Blood Concentration (Tmax) Evaluated by CAR Copy Number, Up to 3 year; Before-infusion and multiple time points (Day 1,2,5,7,9,11,14,17,21.28, Month 2 to 6 and Month 7-12, 18, 24, 30 and 36) post-dose after the intravenous infusion|Last Observed Quantifiable Concentration in Peripheral Blood (Clast) Evaluated by CAR Copy Number, Up to 3 year; Before-infusion and multiple time points (Day 1,2,5,7,9,11,14,17,21.28, Month 2 to 6 and Month 7-12, 18, 24, 30 and 36) post-dose after the intravenous infusion|Time of Last Observed Quantifiable Concentration in Peripheral Blood (Tlast) Evaluated by CAR Copy Number, Up to 3 year; Before-infusion and multiple time points (Day 1,2,5,7,9,11,14,17,21.28, Month 2 to 6 and Month 7-12, 18, 24, 30 and 36) post-dose after the intravenous infusion|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curves (AUCs) Evaluated by CAR Copy Number, Up to 3 year; Before-infusion and multiple time points (Day 1,2,5,7,9,11,14,17,21.28, Month 2 to 6 and Month 7-12, 18, 24, 30 and 36) post-dose after the intravenous infusion|Number of Cases with Replication Competent Retrovirus (RCR)-Positive Test Results, Up to 3 year
The drug being tested in this study is called TAK-102. TAK-102 is being tested to treat people who have GPC3-expressing previously treated solid tumors. This study will look at the safety and tolerability of TAK-102 and will determine the RP2D of TAK-102.

The study will enroll approximately 14 participants, with a maximum of 18 participants. Participants will be assigned to 1 of the 3 treatment groups (dose cohorts) and dose escalation will be conducted in this study:

* Cohort 1: 1 × 10\^7 CAR (+) cells/body \[starting dose\].
* Cohort 2: 1 × 10\^8 CAR (+) cells/body.
* Cohort 3: 1 × 10\^9 CAR (+) cells/body.

In case Cohort 1 is not tolerable, the dose level will be de-escalated to Cohort -1: 3 × 10\^6 CAR (+) cells/body. Dose level(s) between planned cohorts and/or other dosing schedules may also be tested.

This study consists of the Screening, Pretreatment, and Treatment and Primary Follow-up phases. In Treatment and Primary Follow-up phases, all participants will be asked to receive a single intravenous infusion of TAK-102 and administration of TAK-102 will continue up to Month 12.

This multi-center trial will be conducted in Japan. The overall time to participate in this study is up to 15 years (In general, the 12-month Treatment and Primary Follow-up, 2-year Secondary Follow-up and then 12-year Long Term Follow-up phases in another study). Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic and be hospitalized for at least 28 days to receive treatment with TAK-102 followed by a recovery period.