A Phase II Study Of Imtox-25 In Adults With Refractory/Relapsed Cd25 Positive Adult T Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma
This clinical trial will be a multicenter phase II fixed-dose trial in which a minimum of 10 patients with immunophenotypically confirmed ATL with at least 50% of the blasts expressing CD25 as measured by flow cytometry at relapse, will receive Imtox-25. Patients are eligible for repeat courses of treatment every two weeks if they do not experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) as defined in Section 5.2 and do not have a HAMA/HARA level \> 1 μg/ml. The treatment will be administered in the in-patient setting. If no response is observed among the initial 9 patients, the study would be terminated early and declared negative; if at least one response is observed, accrual would continue to a total of 17 evaluable patients (total study size=19 to account for 10% of the patients being unevaluable for any reason).
Adult T Cell Leukemia|Adult T Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: IMTOX-25
Overall Response of Imtox-25, To determine any anti-tumor activity of Imtox-25 in relapsed/refractory ATL patients within the confines of a Phase II study as defined by overall response, 28 days
Toxicity and Affect of Treatment, To determine the toxicity of Imtox-25 in ATL patients To measure levels of human anti-mouse (HAMA) and human anti-dgA (HARA) antibodies.

To determine whether the expression of the CD25 cell surface antigens is affected by treatment with Imtox-25 using flow cytometric analysis of lymphoblasts in peripheral blood and bone marrow, 28 days +
Adult T Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma (ATL) is a lymphoproliferative disease associated with HTLV-1 infection, characterized by circulating malignant cells expressing the IL-2 receptor (CD25). Prognosis for patients with ATL remains poor despite advances in chemotherapy, with survival in leukemic patients ranging from six months to less than one year. Novel agents that are potent and specific for the tumor cells are urgently needed to improve overall survival and decrease toxicity in this dismal disease. One therapeutic approach would be to use immunotoxins (ITs). ITs utilize a potent toxin linked to a targeting moiety designed to maximize drug delivery to the tumor cells, thus avoiding the nonspecific toxicity of conventional chemotherapeutic agents. Imtox-25 is constructed using the RFT5 murine monoclonal antibody (Mab) coupled to deglycosylated ricin-A chain (dgA) via the heterobifunctional, thiol-containing crosslinker, 4\[(succinimidyloxy) carbonyl\]-ƒÑ-methyl-ƒÑ-(2 pyridyldithio) toluene (SMPT). Phase I and II clinical studies with Imtox-25 (RFT5.dGA) have been shown safety and efficacy in adult patients with Hodgkin¡¦s disease and a recommended Phase II dose has been established.. In vitro experiments using ATL cell lines and in vivo studies in a murine xenograft model have demonstrated significant activity of Imtox-25 in this disease. Based on these results, the investigators propose to conduct a phase II trial utilizing Imtox-25 in adults with relapsed or refractory ATL.