SBRT for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients With Partial Response to TACE
This is a pilot study where patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) that have failed Transarterial Chemoembolization (TACE) will be treated with Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT). The focus of the study will be to evaluate safety and efficacy in our population of patients.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
RADIATION: SBRT
Local Progression Free Survival, Local Progression Free Survival will be measured on triphasic Computerized Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) when clinically indicated.

The exam will be performed every 3 months after the end of treatment. The tumor response will be measured according to the modified RECIST (mRECIST) directed to the HCC study.

Local Progression Free Survival will be defined as increase of 20% in the sum of all diameters of the treated lesions.

Time-to-event will be counted from the initiation of SBRT, 5 years
Distant Progression Free Survival, Distant Progression Free Survival will be measured on triphasic Computerized Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) when clinically indicated.

The exam will be performed every 3 months after the end of treatment. The tumor response will be measured according to the modified RECIST (mRECIST) directed to the HCC study.

Distant Progression Free Survival will be defined as the appearance of a new hepatic lesion, tumoral thrombus or distant metastases.

Time-to-event will be counted from the initiation of SBRT, 5 years|Toxicity, Toxicity will be evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v.4.0). Toxicity will be evaluated weekly during treatment, monthly in the first 3 months after treatment and every 3 months after.

Acute Toxicity will be defined as toxicity that develops within the first 3 months after initiation treatment.

Chronic Toxicity will be defined as toxicity that develops after 3 months of initiation of treatment., 5 years|Overall Survival, Time-to-event will be counted from the initiation of SBRT, 5 years
This is a pilot study where patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) that have failed Transarterial Chemoembolization (TACE) will be treated with Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT). The focus of the study will be to evaluate safety and efficacy in our population of patients.