Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Metastatic Thyroid Cancer That Did Not Respond to Radioactive Iodine Therapy
This phase II trial is studying how well bortezomib works in treating patients with metastatic thyroid cancer that did not respond to radioactive iodine therapy. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth
Insular Thyroid Cancer|Recurrent Thyroid Cancer|Stage II Follicular Thyroid Cancer|Stage II Papillary Thyroid Cancer|Stage IV Follicular Thyroid Cancer|Stage IV Papillary Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: Bortezomib
Objective Tumor Response Rate Assessed by RECIST, Response Rate calculated as number of participants with Complete or Partial Response divided by total participants. Baseline scan and confirmatory scans obtained 6 weeks following initial documentation of objective response using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): \>30% decrease in sum longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Baseline to 12 weeks|Participant Tumor Response Assessed by RECIST, Baseline scan and confirmatory scans obtained 6 weeks following initial documentation of objective response using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): \>30% decrease in sum longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Baseline to 12 weeks (minimum of 4 treatment cycles (or 12 weeks))
Progression-free Survival Assessed by RECIST, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, At 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the efficacy of bortezomib, in terms of tumor response rate, in patients with metastatic papillary or follicular thyroid cancer unresponsive to prior radioiodine therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the clinical activity of this drug, in terms of progression-free survival, in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study. Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.