Preferences of Patients Treated With Oral Cancer Drugs and Informal Caregivers for Pharmaceutical Consultation in Hospital
To ensure the safe use of oral anticancer drugs, oncology pharmacy consultations (OPCs) have been established in France. Their goal is to provide the patient with the means to identify, prevent and limit adverse effects and to know who to refer to in case of a serious adverse effect, perform a pharmaceutical analysis of the prescription, and participate in the improvement and evaluation of overall compliance. OPCs are conditioned by the needs, expectations, and involvement of the patients in their care. In healthcare, patients are increasingly encouraged to play an active role in the knowledge and management of their health, express their concerns and preferences, and participate in medical decisions. Thus, it is essential to elicit their preferences. The discrete-choice experiment (DCE) is the validated and recommended method of the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research for such a task.
Preference, Patient|Pharmacist-Patient Relations|Caregiver|Cancer
Preferences of patients, utility associated with each attribute, 12 months
Preferences of cargivers and healthcare profesionnals, utility associated with each attribute, 12 months
To ensure the safe use of oral anticancer drugs, oncology pharmacy consultations (OPCs) have been established in France. Their goal is to provide the patient with the means to identify, prevent and limit adverse effects and to know who to refer to in case of a serious adverse effect, perform a pharmaceutical analysis of the prescription, and participate in the improvement and evaluation of overall compliance. OPCs are conditioned by the needs, expectations, and involvement of the patients in their care. In healthcare, patients are increasingly encouraged to play an active role in the knowledge and management of their health, express their concerns and preferences, and participate in medical decisions. Thus, it is essential to elicit their preferences. The discrete-choice experiment (DCE) is the validated and recommended method of the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research for such a task.