Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale: Self-Completion vs. Assisted-Completion
The goal of this research study is to learn how easy participants think it is to complete a symptom questionnaire.
Advanced Cancers
BEHAVIORAL: Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale|BEHAVIORAL: Interview
Time Duration of Self-Completion of Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS) by Advanced Cancer Participants (ACP) vs. Assisted-Completion with a Health Care Professional (HCP), Two group t-test used with significance level of 5%, a total of 128 patients (64 patients/group) will give 80% power to detect the difference of 1.5 minutes (4 minutes in Group A vs 5.5 minutes in Group B) in overall time, given a common standard deviation of 3, which corresponds to an effect size of 0.5., 1 day
If participant agrees to take part in the study, basic information about them will be collected from their medical record (such as their age, gender, ethnicity, religion, diagnosis, marital status, educational level, performance status, and any drugs they may have taken in the past or are currently taking).

Participant will also be given a list of words and asked to read them out loud. The research nurse or assistant will write down if participant pronounced the words correctly. This should take up to 7 minutes.

Participant will then be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study group is better, the same, or worse than the other group.

* If participant is enrolled in Group 1, they will complete the symptom questionnaire alone and then a research nurse or assistant will go over their answers with them.
* If participant is enrolled in Group 2, they will complete the symptom questionnaire with the help of the research nurse or assistant.

After participant has completed the symptom questionnaire, they will be asked if they preferred completing the questionnaire alone or if they preferred to have a nurse help them answer the questions. This should take about 1 minute to answer.

Length of Study:

It should take about 15 minutes total to complete the study. Patient's participation on this study will end after they have completed the symptom questionnaire.

Additional Information:

Participant is taking part in this study alone. Participant's family members will not be in the room with them.

This is an investigational study.

Up to 128 participants will be enrolled in the study. All will take part at MD Anderson.