D2C7 for Adult Patients With Recurrent Malignant Glioma
This is a Phase I study to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase II dose of D2C7-IT (D2C7 Immunotoxin) when delivered intratumorally by convection-enhanced delivery (CED) to recurrent World Health Organization (WHO) grade III and IV malignant glioma patients, and/or to determine what dose will be considered in a Phase II trial. Patients with recurrent WHO grade III and IV malignant glioma who meet eligibility criteria will be enrolled into the study. Immediately following the stereotactically-guided tumor biopsy conducted as standard of care, up to three additional core biopsies will be obtained for molecular genetic testing. After these biopsies are obtained, subjects will have up to 2 catheters inserted. If the biopsy indicates a proven diagnosis of recurrent malignant glioma (diagnosis results are typically received within 24-48 hours following biopsy), the investigators will proceed with the D2C7-IT infusion. If no tumor is identified, the catheters will be removed. A continuous intratumoral infusion of D2C7-IT will be administered over 72 hours while in the hospital.
Malignant Glioma|Brain Tumor, Recurrent
DRUG: D2C7-IT
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase II dose of D2C7-IT, The MTD is the dose that results in an estimated DLT rate based upon the CRM model that is nearest to the target DLT rate of 0.25. DLTs include any ≥ Gr.3 non-hematologic toxicities, any ≥ Gr.3 neurological toxicities, and any ≥ Gr.3 hematologic toxicities that do not resolve to pre-treatment baseline or ≤ Gr.1 within 2 weeks or any toxicity that resolves within the 2 week period, but then recurs during that same 2 week period. Adverse events will be collected using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., 2 weeks after D2C7 administration
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined at the time between administration of D2C7-IT and death. For patients alive, OS will be censored at the time of last follow-up. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate median OS and PFS., 3 years|Association between EGFRvIII and EGFRwt expression and PFS and OS., Cox proportional hazards models will explore the relationship between EGFRvIII and EGFRwt expression as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC), polymerase chain reactions (PCR), and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and PFS and OS., 3 years
This is a Phase I study to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of D2C7-IT, when delivered intratumorally by convection-enhanced delivery (CED) following confirmatory diagnostic biopsy in recurrent World Health Organization (WHO) grade III and IV malignant glioma patients, and/or to determine what dose will be considered in a phase II trial. The patient will remain in the hospital during the entire infusion. At the completion of the infusion, the catheters will be removed within 6 hours and a CT scan will be obtained after the catheters are pulled. The patient will be observed in hospital for a minimum of another 6 hours.

A two-stage continual reassessment method (CRM) design will be used to determine the MTD of D2C7-IT where the first stage involves dose escalation in successive patients until an initial dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is observed. Cohorts of 2 patients will be accrued to this study within both stages of the trial. The first patient of each cohort will be observed through the completion of the D2C7-IT infusion, before additional patients in that cohort are treated. Once the optimal dose level of D2C7-IT is determined (dose escalation completed), a total of 27 recurrent patients with WHO grade IV malignant glioma patients will be treated at that dose level as a dose expansion cohort.

Following D2C7-IT infusion, subjects will be evaluated in clinic at 2 weeks for adverse events and followed at 4 and 8 weeks and every 8 weeks thereafter until 48 weeks.