Cetuximab Plus Biweekly Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin in KRAS Wild Type Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is a Phase II, open label, non-randomized study in subjects with histologically confirmed diagnosis of advanced KRAS wild type adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum, who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease.
Colorectal Cancer|Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine
Response Rate for the Combination Treatment, The tumor response rate (RR) will be defined as the total number of subjects whose best response is partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) during the first six months of treatment, divided by the number of subjects., 6 months since the start of treatment
Toxicity Rates, # of subjects who experienced \>= grade 1 adverse event that is positively related to treatment., 1 year since the first treatment and every year after for up to 10 years|Time to Progression, Time to Treatment Failure (progression or death) will be defined as the time from the first day of treatment until the date Progressive Disease (PD) or death is first reported. Subjects who die without a reported prior progression will be considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Subjects who did not progress will be censored at the day of their last tumor assessment., 6 months since the start of treatment and every 3 months after treatment for up to 10 years|Survival, Survival will be defined as the number of days from the first day of therapy to the date of death. If the subject is lost to follow-up, survival will be censored on the last date the subject was known to be alive., 6 months since the start of treatment and every 3 months after treatment for up to 10 years
The current treatment options for metastatic colon cancer are in need of further improvement. The three-drug combination of oxaliplatin with 5-FU/LV (fluorouracil/leucovorin) in the second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer have shown a significant increase in response rate compared to 5-FU/LV alone. Oxaliplatin has recently been FDA-approved for this indication and is now a standard first-line agent in combination with a fluoropyrimidine. Cetuximab, a chimeric monoclonal antibody against the growth factor receptor, has shown activity with and without irinotecan in subjects with colorectal cancer refractory to irinotecan alone. Cetuximab has also been shown to be safe and effective when administered with infusional 5-FU/folinic acid plus irinotecan. These results suggest that the addition of cetuximab to fluoropyrimidine/oxaliplatin-based regimen in the 1st line setting should be explored. The use of the oral fluoropyrimidine, capecitabine, to replace infusional 5FU has been widely used for improved convenience and possible safety. We have chosen a modified biweekly CapeOx (capecitabine plus oxaliplatin) regimen due to its improved tolerance and response rate with a fixed dose of capecitabine given its widespread practice and ease of use.