A Phase II Study of Allo-HCT for B-Cell NHL Using Zevalin, Fludarabine and Melphalan
RATIONALE: Giving monoclonal antibody therapy, radioimmunotherapy, and chemotherapy before a donor stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells and helps stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. When the stem cells from a related donor that do not exactly match the patient's blood, are infused into the patient, they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can also make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving tacrolimus and sirolimus before and after transplant may stop this from happening.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well giving indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan and yttrium y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan together with rituximab, fludarabine, melphalan, and donor stem cell transplant works in treating patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Graft Versus Host Disease|Leukemia|Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: sirolimus|DRUG: tacrolimus|PROCEDURE: allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|RADIATION: indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan|RADIATION: yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Relapse/Progression Rate at Two Years, The primary endpoint was 2-year cumulative incidence of relapse/progression (RP), defined as time from alloHCT to disease recurrence or progression. Cumulative incidences for RP was generated in a competing-risk setting, given that death events were competing events., From the initial treatment to the last disease assessment, up to two years
Overall Survival at Two Years, Overall survival (OS) was measured from initial treatment to death from any cause. It was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method; the 95% confidence interval was calculated using Greenwood's formula., From the initial treatment to the last disease assessment, up to two years|Progression-free Survival at Two Years, Progression-free survival (PFS) was measured from initial treatment to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever came first. It was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method; the 95% confidence interval was calculated using Greenwood's formula., From the initial treatment to the last disease assessment, up to two years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of a preparative regimen of Yttrium-90 (90\^Y)- labeled anti-cluster of differentiation (CD)20 monoclonal antibody (MAb) (yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan) in combination with fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate) and melphalan followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (APBSCT) for treatment of patients with B-cell low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (LG NHL), intermediate-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (IG NHL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). II. To evaluate the short- and long-term complications of this new preparative regimen, including rates of engraftment, acute and chronic graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) and infectious complications. III. To estimate the disease response rate, disease relapse (progression) rate, and non-relapse mortality rate. IV. To perform exploratory studies that seek to measure/characterize the expression of costimulatory molecules and impact of these molecules on the natural killer (NK) and T cells of a subset of lymphoma patients pre- post- allogeneic stem cell transplant (ASCT) and the stem cell product from a portion of sibling donors.

OUTLINE: REDUCED-INTENSITY CONDITIONING: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) followed by indium In-111 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day -21 and rituximab IV followed by yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day -14. Patients also receive fludarabine phosphate IV on days -9 to -5 and melphalan IV on day -4.

STEM CELL TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo APBSCT on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus IV or orally (PO) and sirolimus PO beginning on day -3 and continuing for up to 6 months with taper.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.