Radiation Therapy With or Without Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Recurrent Endometrial Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies radiation therapy and cisplatin to see how well they work compared with radiation therapy alone in treating patients with endometrial cancer that has come back. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays and other types of radiation to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether giving radiation therapy together with cisplatin is more effective than radiation therapy alone in treating patients with endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma, Variant With Squamous Differentiation|Endometrial Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Cancer
RADIATION: 3-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Internal Radiation Therapy
Number of Participants With Disease Progression or Death., The number of participants with disease progression or death from study entry to progression or death. Participants who experienced progression or death were reported by treatment arm., Median follow-up for progression-free survival was 62 months with a maximum of 128 months. Patients were followed from study entry until disease progression, death, or date of last contact
Number of Participants That Experienced Death on Study, Overall survival is the period from study entry until death or date of last contact. The treatment regimens were compared with regard to overall survival., Participants were followed from study entry until death or date of last contact. Median follow-up for overall survival was 62 months with a maximum of 128 months.|Number of Participants in Select Prognostic Groups Who Experienced Progression or Death on Study., Participants were put in prognostic groups including baseline factors of tumor location (vagina only vs. all others) and histology (serious and clear cell vs. all others). They were assessed for prognostic associations with progression-free survival. Participant factors were collected at baseline. Participants were followed from study entry until disease progression, death, or date of last contact for progression-free survival., Median follow-up for progression-free survival was 62 months with a maximum of 128 months.|Number of Participants That Experienced Adverse Effects Grade 3 or Higher, Number of treated participants with adverse events of grade 3 or higher. Graded by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0. Treated patients were evaluated for adverse events during the treatment period, every month for the first three months after completion of therapy up to 2 years, and then every six months for the next 3 years., Maximum follow-up for adverse events was 61 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether pelvic radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin is more promising with respect to progression-free survival than pelvic radiation therapy alone in the treatment of recurrent uterine carcinoma limited to the pelvis and vagina.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To capture the sites of recurrence subsequent to treatment with pelvic radiation with or without concurrent weekly cisplatin in women with recurrent uterine carcinoma.

II. To estimate overall survival of patients with recurrent uterine carcinoma treated with pelvic radiation therapy with or without concurrent weekly cisplatin.

III. To estimate the prognostic significance of the location (central pelvis versus vagina) and size of the recurrence, in addition to the prognostic significance in the salvage setting of the histological subtype, grade, patient age, race, performance status, and the presence of lymph-vascular space involvement of the original tumor at the time of initial hysterectomy.

IV. To evaluate toxicity derived from the combined cisplatin and radiation compared with radiation alone in this patient population.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo external-beam radiotherapy (EBRT) to the pelvis daily on days 1-5 for 5 weeks. After completion of EBRT, patients undergo intracavitary low-dose rate or high-dose rate brachytherapy\* or low-dose rate interstitial brachytherapy\*.

ARM II: Patients undergo EBRT as in Arm I and receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29. Patients then undergo brachytherapy\* as in Arm I.

NOTE: \*IMRT boost is allowed for patients who are not candidates for brachytherapy. IMRT may also be used for the entire course of therapy for the treatment of the whole pelvis and/or the boost in patients not undergoing brachytherapy. In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every month for 3 months, 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.