Investigating Mechanisms to Explain Age Associated Differences in Quality of Life Among Breast Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to look at how breast cancer treatment affects quality of life in women of different ages. The U.S. Army Breast Cancer Research Program funds this study. In this research project, we wish to study a woman's quality of life after breast cancer treatment as related to her health. We want to know how you feel about your quality of life.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: questionnaires
The study measurements are quality of life questionnaires, 7 years 2 months
This multi-center study will include self-referred. This project is a prospective cohort study of 800 women aged 18 and over who are newly diagnosed with breast cancer. Women will be recruited into the study within 6 months after diagnosis and followed for 18 months. The primary purpose of the proposed study is to examine mechanisms that may explain age differences in the health-related quality of life of women who have been diagnosed with a first-time breast cancer. The studies will examine psychosocial factors such as social support, coping strategies, resiliency, and the impact of cancer on life responsibilities as explanations of age-associated factors affecting HRQL. This project is an observational, longitudinal study of women aged 18 and over who are newly diagnosed with breast cancer. In order to examine both the short- and longer-term impact of breast cancer on HRQL, the study will survey women post diagnosis and follow them at 3, 6, 12, and 18 months. A secondary purpose is to have this large cohort of breast cancer patients serve as a comparison group for other studies in the Behavioral Center of Excellence award given to Wake Forest Medical Center by the Department of Defense. Extensive baseline data will be collected by an in-depth chart review and interview for additional data. Information will be gathered on demographics, clinical and treatment variables. The study intervention consists of collecting data on health-related quality of life through specific questionnaires.

Data collection instruments will be mailed to participants at regularly scheduled intervals accompanied by a stamped,addressed envelope. If the participant does not return study forms within three weeks, the participant will be called.