Tobacco Treatment Optimization and Preferences During Concurrent Cancer Treatment
Smoking cessation has been shown to improve the effectiveness and reduce the morbidity of tobacco-related cancer treatments. We will identify effective smoking cessation strategies for patients who are receiving treatment for tobacco-related cancer. In this trial, patients' preferences in smoking cessation therapy will be the principal determinant by providers in developing a three component regimen of pharmaceutical therapy, counseling, and nicotine replacement therapy. This study will identify this cohort's preferences for smoking cessation strategies. We will then examine the impact of utilizing patient preferences upon cessation efficacy by directly comparing cessation success in this study with our recently completed study of the same population using the same tobacco treatments which were randomly assigned.
Smoking Cessation|Cancer, Treatment-Related
DRUG: Varenicline|DRUG: Bupropion|DRUG: Long-acting nicotine replacement therapy|BEHAVIORAL: Low-intensity counseling|BEHAVIORAL: High-intensity counseling|OTHER: No nicotine replacement therapy|DRUG: Nicotine Replacement Products
Proportion of participants that quit smoking., Proportion of participants that quit smoking at the 8 week assessment, at week 8|Prevalence of cigarette use, Seven day point prevalence of cigarette use will be determined from participant reports and CO testing., at week 8
Prevalence of cigarette use, Seven day point prevalence of cigarette use will be determined from participant reports and CO testing., 6 months|Preferred treatment, Proportion of participants preferring the treatment plan., at baseline|Change in Cigarette Use, Cigarette use will be recorded at weeks one, four, eight and at 6 months., 6 months|Drug Compliance, Subjects who complete 75% of the planned dosages of therapy will be considered compliant., 6 months|Counselling Compliance, Subjects who complete 60% of planned therapy sessions will be considered compliant., 6 months
Number of patients requiring financial assistance with medication., Number of patients requiring financial assistance with medication., 6 months|Number of patients with alteration in therapy, Number of patients with alteration in therapy due to ongoing cancer treatment., 6 months|Insurance coverage, Proportion of treatments covered by insurance/third party., 6 months
Background Cigarette smoking is associated with decreased survival and decreased efficacy of cancer therapy in those with smoking related malignancies. There is limited of study of smoking cessation for cancer patients being treated in regions with high tobacco use such as Kentucky. There is little study of cessation implementation in the community cancer treatment setting where the majority of cancer patients receive their cancer therapy. Most smokers have significant exposure to information and personal experience with tobacco treatments which, in some cases, leads to profound preferences. The effect of incorporating these patient preferences into tobacco treatment planning has not been studied or quantified.

Study Design Phase II therapeutic clinical trial.

Setting University of Kentucky Markey Cancer Center (MCC) and its affiliate research network of Community Cancer Centers (MCCRN)

Methods Ninety-three subjects will be selected. All subjects will be active smoking oncology patients with a diagnosis of smoking related malignancy who are beginning a new course of therapy. In conjunction with their treating clinician, all subjects will be counseled and then select one of 12 cessation strategies. This will include a choice of continuous pharmacologic agent (veranicline, bupropion or transdermal nicotine patch), counseling strategy (11 session high intensity motivational based counseling or single session low intensity counseling), and whether or not to use as needed nicotine (gum, lozenges or spray).

Data Analysis All subjects will be followed for six months. The primary endpoint will be a carbon monoxide monitoring confirmed negative seven-day point prevalence report of cessation at eight weeks. Data will then be analyzed and compared with a completed randomized clinical trial of the same treatment strategies in the same population of subjects where the cessation strategy was assigned (historical control). The proportion of subjects that have quit at week eight will be compared to the historical control proportion (namely, whether Ho:p=po vs Ha: p\>po). This will be assessed using a z-score for a binomial proportion which will test whether the underlying proportion quitting at eight weeks (p) differs from the control proportion (po ranging from 0.215 to 0.26) estimated from our recently completed randomized trial of these same 12 cessation strategies.

Revised Enrollment Number: Effective with Amendment 2, Expand targeted enrollment from 96 to 126 due to higher than expected drop-out/censoring rate in order to evaluate the primary endpoint