A Study to Investigate the Efficacy and Safety of Two Doses of GSK2857916 in Participants With Multiple Myeloma Who Have Failed Prior Treatment With an Anti-CD38 Antibody
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable malignancy and accounts for 1 percentage (%) of all cancers and for 10% of all hematologic malignancies. Participants with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) will be included in this study, to evaluate the efficacy and safety of belantamab mafodotin (GSK2857916) monotherapy. Participants will be treated with belantamab mafodotin monotherapy until disease progression (PD) or unacceptable toxicity and will be followed for Progression Free Survival and Overall survival. The participants will be randomized to receive either frozen belantamab mafodotin at the dose of 2.5 milligram per kilogram (mg/kg) or 3.4 mg/kg administered Intravenously (IV). There will be an independent cohort of participants who will receive a lyophilized configuration of belantamab mafodotin. For participants who discontinued from the study other than Progressive disease (PD), disease evaluation will continue to be performed at 3-week intervals until confirmed PD, death, start of a new anticancer treatment, withdrawal of consent, or end of the study whichever occurs first.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Belantamab mafodotin frozen liquid|DRUG: Belantamab mafodotin lyophilized powder
Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Independent Review Committee (IRC) (Full Analysis Population), ORR was determined according to the 2016 international myeloma working group (IMWG) response criteria by IRC. ORR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed partial response (PR) or better (that is \[i.e.\], PR, very good partial response \[VGPR\], complete response \[CR\] and stringent complete response \[sCR\]). Confidence intervals were based on the exact method., Up to 48 weeks|Overall Response Rate by Independent Review Committee (Efficacy Population), ORR was determined according to the 2016 IMWG response criteria by IRC. ORR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed PR or better (i.e., PR, VGPR, CR and sCR). Confidence intervals were based on the exact method. Efficacy Population comprised of first 130 intent-to-treat participants whether or not randomized treatment (frozen solution) was administered. Intent-to-treat Population comprised of all randomized participants whether or not randomized treatment was administered., Up to 48 weeks
Overall Response Rate by Investigator Assessment (IA) (Full Analysis Population), ORR was determined by the investigator according to the 2016 IMWG response criteria. ORR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed PR or better (i.e., PR, VGPR, CR and sCR). Confidence intervals were based on the exact method. Percentage values are rounded off., Up to 186 weeks|Overall Response Rate by Investigator Assessment (Efficacy Population), ORR was determined by the investigator according to the 2016 IMWG response criteria. ORR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed PR or better (i.e., PR, VGPR, CR and sCR). Confidence intervals were based on the exact method. Percentage values are rounded off., Up to 186 weeks|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) by Investigator Assessment (Full Analysis Population), CBR was determined by the investigator according to the 2016 IMWG response criteria. CBR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed minimal response (MR) or better (i.e., MR, PR, VGPR, CR and sCR). Confidence intervals were based on the exact method. Percentage values are rounded off., Up to 186 weeks|Clinical Benefit Rate by Investigator Assessment (Efficacy Population), CBR was determined by the investigator according to the 2016 IMWG response criteria. CBR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed MR or better (i.e., MR, PR, VGPR, CR and sCR). Confidence intervals were based on the exact method. Percentage values are rounded off., Up to 186 weeks|Clinical Benefit Rate by Independent Review Committee (Full Analysis Population), CBR was determined according to the 2016 IMWG response criteria by IRC. CBR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed MR or better (i.e., MR, PR, VGPR, CR and sCR). Confidence intervals were based on the exact method. Percentage values are rounded off., Up to 186 weeks|Clinical Benefit Rate by Independent Review Committee (Efficacy Population), CBR was determined according to the 2016 IMWG response criteria by IRC. CBR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed MR or better (i.e., MR, PR, VGPR, CR and sCR). Confidence intervals were based on the exact method. Percentage values are rounded off., Up to 186 weeks|Duration of Response (DoR) by Investigator Assessment (Full Analysis Population), DoR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of PR or better until the earliest date of documented disease progression (PD) per IMWG response criteria; or death due to PD among participants who achieved an overall response, i.e., confirmed PR or better. DOR based on responses assessed by investigator is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of DOR are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Duration of Response by Investigator Assessment (Efficacy Population), DoR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of PR or better until the earliest date of documented PD per IMWG response criteria; or death due to PD among participants who achieved an overall response, i.e., confirmed PR or better. DOR based on responses assessed by investigator is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of DOR are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Duration of Response by Independent Review Committee (Full Analysis Population), DoR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of PR or better until the earliest date of documented PD per IMWG response criteria; or death due to PD among participants who achieved an overall response, i.e., confirmed PR or better. DOR based on responses assessed by IRC is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of DOR are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Duration of Response by Independent Review Committee (Efficacy Population), DoR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of PR or better until the earliest date of documented PD per IMWG response criteria; or death due to PD among participants who achieved an overall response, i.e., confirmed PR or better. DOR based on responses assessed by IRC is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of DOR are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Time to Response by Investigator Assessment (Full Analysis Population), Time to response is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the first documented evidence of response (PR or better), among participants who achieve a response (i.e., confirmed PR or better). Time to response based on responses assessed by investigator is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of time to response are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Time to Response by Investigator Assessment (Efficacy Population), Time to response is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the first documented evidence of response (PR or better), among participants who achieve a response (i.e., confirmed PR or better). Time to response based on responses assessed by investigator is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of time to response are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Time to Response by Independent Review Committee (Full Analysis Population), Time to response is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the first documented evidence of response (PR or better), among participants who achieve a response (i.e., confirmed PR or better). Time to response based on responses assessed by IRC is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of time to response are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Time to Response by Independent Review Committee (Efficacy Population), Time to response is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the first documented evidence of response (PR or better), among participants who achieve a response (i.e., confirmed PR or better). Time to response based on responses assessed by IRC is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of time to response are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Progression Free Survival by Investigator Assessment, Progression free survival is defined as the time from randomization until the earliest date of documented PD per IMWG, or death due to any cause. Progressive Disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Progression free survival based on responses assessed by investigator is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of progression free survival are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Progression Free Survival by Independent Review Committee, Progression free survival is defined as the time from randomization until the earliest date of documented PD per IMWG, or death due to any cause. Progressive Disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Progression free survival based on responses assessed by IRC is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of progression free survival are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Time to Progression by Investigator Assessment, Time to progression is defined as the time from randomization until the earliest date of documented PD per IMWG, or death due to PD. Time to Progression based on responses assessed by investigator is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of time to progression are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Time to Progression by Independent Review Committee, Time to progression is defined as the time from randomization until the earliest date of documented PD per IMWG, or death due to PD. Time to Progression based on responses assessed by IRC is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of time to progression are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization until death due to any cause. Overall survival was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method by dose level. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) of overall survival are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Change From Baseline in Hematology Parameters With Respect to the Normal Range, Following parameters were assessed:basophils,eosinophils,hematocrit,mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH),MCH concentration,MC volume,monocyte,erythrocytes, reticulocytes.Baseline is latest pre-dose assessment(Day1)with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits.Data was categorized as decrease to low(value below lower limit of normal range\[LNR\]),increase to high(value above upper LNR),change to normal/no change(NC).If values were unchanged(eg.high to high) or whose value became normal,were recorded in change to normal/NC category.Participants were counted twice if participant had both decreased to low/increased to high during post-Baseline(PB).Data for worst case PB is presented.Full Safety Population(FSP) comprised of all participants who received at least 1dose of study drug(frozen liquid or lyophilized powder). 3 out of 221 participants did not receive any study treatment and thus, were excluded from the Full Safety Population., Baseline (Day 1) and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Grade Change From Baseline in Hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of following hematology parameters: hemoglobin (Hb), lymphocyte count (Lymph), neutrophil count (Neutro), platelet count (PC), and leukocyte count (leuko). The laboratory parameters were graded according to National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.03. Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. An increase is defined as an increase in CTCAE grade relative to Baseline grade. Data for worst-case post Baseline is presented. Only those participants with increase to grade 3 and increase to grade 4 have been presented., Baseline (Day 1) and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters With Respect to the Normal Range, Blood samples were collected for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters: bicarbonate, direct bilirubin(D.Bil), calcium, chloride, lactate dehydrogenase(LDH), total protein,Urea enzymatic colorimetry.Baseline is latest pre-dose assessment(Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Number of participants with worst case clinical chemistry change from Baseline with respect to normal range are presented. Data was categorized as decrease to low (value below the lower LNR), increase to high (value above the upper LNR) and change to normal or NC. If values were unchanged (example: high to high), or whose value became normal, were recorded in the change to normal or NC category. Participants were counted twice if the participant had both decreased to low and increased to high during post Baseline. 3 out of 221participants did not receive any study treatment, were excluded from FSP., Baseline (Day 1) and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Grade Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of:glucose(Gl), albumin, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase(ALT), aspartate aminotransferase(AST), total bilirubin(T.Bil),creatinine kinase (CK),creatinine, gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT),potassium (Pot), magnesium (Mg),sodium (Sod), phosphate (Ph) urate \& estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Values (Hyper and hypo) for Gl, Pot, Mg and Sod is presented. Grading was according to NCI-CTCAE version 4.03. Grade1: mild; Grade2: moderate; Grade3: severe or medically significant; Grade4: life-threatening consequences.Baseline is latest pre-dose assessment(Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. An increase is defined as an increase in CTCAE grade relative to Baseline grade. Data for worst-case PB is presented.Only those participants with increase to grade3 and increase to grade4 have been presented. 3 out of 221participants did not receive any study treatment, were excluded from FSP., Baseline (Day 1) and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Abnormal Findings During Physical Examination, Physical examination included assessment of the head, eyes, ears, nose, throat, skin, thyroid, lungs, cardiovascular, abdomen (liver and spleen), lymph nodes, and extremities. This analysis was planned, but data was not collected and captured in the database., Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Change From Baseline in Pulse Rate, Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Number of participants with worst case change from Baseline in pulse rate is presented. Data is categorized as: pulse rate 'decrease to \<60 beats per minute \[bpm\]', 'increase to \>100 bpm' and 'change to normal or no change'. If values were unchanged (example: increase to \>100 bpm to increase to \>100 bpm), or whose value became normal, were recorded in the 'change to normal or no change' category. Participants were counted twice if the participant had both 'decreased to \<60 bpm' and 'increased to \>100 bpm' during post Baseline. Data for worst-case post Baseline is presented., Baseline (Day 1) and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Change From Baseline in Body Temperature, Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Number of participants with worst case change from Baseline in body temperature are presented. Data is categorized as: body temperature 'decrease to \<=35 degrees celsius', 'increase to \>=38 degrees celsius' and 'change to normal or no change'. If values were unchanged (example: increase to \>=38 to increase to \>=38 degrees celsius), or whose value became normal, were recorded in the 'change to normal or no change' category. Participants were counted twice if the participant had both 'decreased to \<=35' and 'increased to \>=38 degrees celsius' during post Baseline. Data for worst-case post Baseline is presented., Baseline (Day 1) and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Grade Change From Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) and Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP), SBP and DBP were graded using NCI CTCAE version 4.03. For SBP: Grade 0: \<120 millimeter mercury (mmHg); Grade 1: 120-139 mmHg; Grade 2: 140-159 mmHg; Grade 3: \>=160 mmHg. For DBP: Grade 0: \<80 mmHg; Grade 1: 80-89 mmHg; Grade 2: 90-99 mmHg; Grade 3: \>=100 mmHg. Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. An increase is defined as an increase in CTCAE grade relative to Baseline grade. Data for worst-case post Baseline is presented. Only those participants with increase to grade 2 and increase to grade 3 have been presented., Baseline (Day 1) and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Common (>=5%) Non-serious Adverse Events and Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that; results in death, is life-threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, other situations judged by physician, is associated with liver injury and impaired liver function. Adverse events which were not Serious were considered as non-serious adverse events. Number of participants who had SAEs and common (\>=5%) non-SAEs are presented. Number of participants with AESI (keratopathy, dry eye events, blurred vision, thrombocytopenia, infusion-related reactions, corneal events and neutropenia) are also presented., Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Change From Baseline in Best Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA) Test Scores, Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. BCVA score was assessed individually for each eye. BCVA test scores were categorized as no change/improved vision, possible worsened vision and definite worsened vision. No change/improved vision was defined as a change from Baseline \<0.12 Logarithm of the Minimum Angle of Resolution (logMAR) score; a possible worsened vision was defined as a change from Baseline \>=0.12 to \<0.3 logMAR score; a definite worsened vision was defined as a change from Baseline \>=0.3 logMAR score. Data for worst-case change from Baseline is presented. 3 participants out of 221 participants did not receive any study treatment and thus, were excluded from the Full Safety Population., Baseline (Day 1) and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Intraocular Pressure (IOP) >=22 mmHg Anytime Post-Baseline, Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. IOP was assessed individually for each eye. Number of participants with IOP \>=22 mmHg anytime post-Baseline are presented. 3 participants out of 221 participants did not receive any study treatment and thus, were excluded from the Full Safety Population., Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Shift in Pupillary Examination Findings From Normal (Baseline) to Abnormal (Worst Post-Baseline), Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Number of participants with shift in pupillary examination findings from normal (Baseline) to abnormal (worst post-Baseline) are presented., Baseline and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Shift in Extraocular Muscle Movement From Yes (Baseline) to no (Worst Post-Baseline), Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Extraocular muscle movement was assessed individually for each eye. Number of participants with shift in extraocular muscle movement from yes (Baseline) to no (worst post-Baseline) are presented. 3 participants out of 221 participants did not receive any study treatment and thus, were excluded from the Full Safety Population., Baseline and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Shift in Corneal Epithelium Findings From Normal (Baseline) to Abnormal (Worst Post-Baseline) for Corneal Epithelium (CE) and Corneal Stroma (CS), Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Corneal epithelium findings for CE and CS were assessed individually for each eye. Number of participants with shift in corneal epithelium findings from normal (Baseline) to abnormal (worst post-Baseline) for CE and CS are presented. 3 participants out of 221 participants did not receive any study treatment and thus, were excluded from the Full Safety Population., Baseline and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Shift in Corneal Epithelium Findings From no (Baseline) to Yes (Worst Post-Baseline), Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Corneal epithelium findings like active edema, active opacity, corneal neovascularization (CN), corneal ulcer, epithelial microcystic edema (EME) and subepithelial were performed using a slit lamp. Number of participants with shift in corneal epithelium findings from no (Baseline) to yes (worst post-Baseline) are presented. 3 participants out of 221 participants did not receive any study treatment and thus, were excluded from the Full Safety Population., Baseline and Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Shift in Tear Break-up Time From >10 Seconds (Baseline) to <=5 Seconds (Worst Post-Baseline), Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Number of participants with shift in tear break-up time from \>10 seconds (Baseline) to \<=5 seconds (worst post-Baseline) are presented. 3 participants out of 221 participants did not receive any study treatment and thus, were excluded from the Full Safety Population., Baseline and Up to 186 weeks|Area Under the Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero Extrapolated to Infinite Time (AUC[0-infinity]) of GSK2857916 Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of GSK2857916 were calculated using non-compartmental methods. Full Pharmacokinetic (PK) Population comprised of all participants in the Full Safety Population who had atleast 1 non-missing PK assessment., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, end of infusion (EOI), 2 hours and 24 hours post start of infusion (SOI) on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Area Under the Concentration-time Curve Over the Dosing Interval (AUC[0-tau]) of GSK2857916 Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Area Under the Concentration-time Curve From Zero to Time of Last Quantifiable Concentration (AUC[0-tlast]) of GSK2857916 Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) of GSK2857916 Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Time to Reach Maximum Observed Concentration (Tmax) of GSK2857916 Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Terminal Half-life (t1/2) of GSK2857916 Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|AUC(0-infinity) of GSK2857916 Total Antibody Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 total antibody were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|AUC(0-tau) of GSK2857916 Total Antibody Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 total antibody were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|AUC(0-tlast) of GSK2857916 Total Antibody Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 total antibody were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Cmax of GSK2857916 Total Antibody Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 total antibody were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Tmax of GSK2857916 Total Antibody Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 total antibody were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|t1/2 of GSK2857916 Total Antibody Following IV Dose in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of GSK2857916 total antibody were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|AUC(0-infinity) of Cysteine-maleimidocaproyl Monomethyl Auristatin F (Cys-mcMMAF) Following IV Dose of GSK2857916 in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of Cys-mcMMAF were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|AUC(0-tau) of Cys-mcMMAF Following IV Dose of GSK2857916 in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of Cys-mcMMAF were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|AUC(0-tlast) of Cysteine-maleimidocaproyl Monomethyl Auristatin F (Cys-mcMMAF) Following IV Dose of GSK2857916 in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of Cys-mcMMAF were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Cmax of Cys-mcMMAF Following IV Dose of GSK2857916 in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of Cys-mcMMAF were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Tmax of Cys-mcMMAF Following IV Dose of GSK2857916 in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of Cys-mcMMAF were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|t1/2 of Cys-mcMMAF Following IV Dose of GSK2857916 in Participants With RRMM, Blood samples were collected at designated timepoints. PK parameters of Cys-mcMMAF were calculated using non-compartmental methods., Cycle 1 and Cycle 3: Pre-dose, EOI, 2 hours and 24 hours post SOI on Day 1, anytime on Day 4, and anytime on Day 8 to Day 15 (each cycle of 21 days)|Number of Participants With at Least One Confirmed Positive Post-Baseline Anti-drug Antibody (ADA) Result, Serum samples were collected for the determination of anti-GSK2857916 antibodies (ADA) using a validated electrochemiluminescent (ECL) immunoassay. The assay involved screening, confirmation and titration steps. If serum samples tested positive in the screening assay, they were considered 'potentially positive' and were further analyzed for the specificity using the confirmation assay. Samples that confirmed positive in the confirmation assay were reported as 'positive'. Confirmed positive ADA samples were further characterized in the titration assay to quasi-quantitate the amount of ADA in the sample. Additionally, confirmed positive ADA samples were also tested in a validated neutralizing antibody assay to determine the potential neutralizing activity of the ADA., Up to 186 weeks|Titers of Anti-drug Antibodies Against GSK2857916, Serum samples were collected for the determination of ADA using a validated ECL immunoassay. The assay involved screening, confirmation and titration steps. If serum samples contained ADA, they were further analyzed for the specificity of antibodies by a confirmation assay. Confirmed positive samples were titrated to obtain the titers of antibodies. Titers of anti-drug antibodies against GSK2857916 is presented. No participant was found with positive results for ADA test in arm GSK2857916 3.4 mg/kg (Lyophilized). Hence, titer values was not presented for the arm., Up to 186 weeks|Number of Participants With Symptomatic AEs Measured by Patient-reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), The PRO-CTCAE is a patient-reported outcome measure developed to evaluate symptomatic toxicity in participants on cancer clinical trials. It included symptomatic toxicities drawn from the CTCAE like blurred vision, chills, constipation, decreased appetite, fatigue, general pain, heart palpitations, mouth/throat sores, nausea, nosebleed, shortness of breath, vomiting and watery eyes. Items were scored individually on a 0 to 4 scale for severity, frequency and interference. Number of participants with symptomatic AEs (those who had a maximum post-Baseline rating greater than 0, example; 1, 2, 3, or 4) measured by PRO-CTCAE are presented., Up to 186 weeks|Worst Change From Baseline in National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-25 (NEI-VFQ-25) Overall Composite Score, The NEI-VFQ-25 consisted of a base set of 25 vision-targeted questions representing 11 vision-related constructs, plus an additional single-item general health rating question to assess the impact of ocular toxicity on visual function. Items were coded to a 0 to 100 scale and averaged to calculate domains. Domain scores ranged from 0 to 100; higher scores are better. Therefore, increase in score means improvement. Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Data for worst-case post Baseline is presented., Baseline (Day 1) and up to Week 186|Worst Change From Baseline in Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI) Total Score, The OSDI is a 12-item questionnaire designed to assess both the frequency of dry eye symptoms and their impact on vision-related functioning. The total OSDI score was calculated as (sum of scores for all questions answered\*100) divided by (total number of questions answered\*4). Domain scores ranged from 0 to 100; lower scores are better. Therefore, decrease in score from Baseline means improvement. Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Data for worst-case post Baseline is presented., Baseline (Day 1) and up to Week 186|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire 30-item Core Module (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes 30-items with single and multi-item scales. These included five functional scales (physical functioning \[PF\], role functioning \[RF\], cognitive functioning \[CF\], emotional functioning \[EF\] and social functioning \[SF\]), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea/vomiting \[N/V\]), a global health status (GHS)/ Quality-of-Life (QoL) scale, and six single items (constipation, diarrhoea, insomnia, dyspnoea, appetite loss \[AL\] and financial difficulties \[FD\]). Response options are 1 to 4. Scores were averaged and transformed to 0 to 100, a high score for functional scales/ GHS/QoL represent better functioning ability or health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL), whereas a high score for symptom scales/ single items represent significant symptomatology. Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value., Baseline (Day 1) and Week 07, Week 13, Week 19, Week 25, Week 31, Week 37, Week 43, Week 61, Week 79, Week 97, Week 115, Week 133, Week 151, Week 169, and Week 186|Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ 20-item Multiple Myeloma Module (MY20) Score, The EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a supplement to the QLQ-C30 instrument used in participants with multiple myeloma. The module comprised of 20 questions that addressed four myeloma-specific HRQoL domains: disease symptoms (DS), side effects of treatment (SET), future perspective (FP) and body image (BI). Responses are 1 to 4. Scores were averaged and scales were transformed to 0 to 100 scale. A high score for disease symptoms and side effects of treatment represented a high level of symptomatology or problems, whereas a high score for future perspective and body image represented better outcomes. Baseline was defined as latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1) with a non-missing value, including unscheduled visits. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value., Baseline (Day 1) and Week 07, Week 13, Week 19, Week 25, Week 31, Week 37, Week 43, Week 61, Week 79, Week 97, Week 115, Week 133, Week 151, Week 169, and Week 186
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable malignancy and accounts for 1 percentage (%) of all cancers and for 10% of all hematologic malignancies. Participants with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) will be included in this study, to evaluate the efficacy and safety of belantamab mafodotin (GSK2857916) monotherapy. Participants will be treated with belantamab mafodotin monotherapy until disease progression (PD) or unacceptable toxicity and will be followed for Progression Free Survival and Overall survival. The participants will be randomized to receive either frozen belantamab mafodotin at the dose of 2.5 milligram per kilogram (mg/kg) or 3.4 mg/kg administered Intravenously (IV). There will be an independent cohort of participants who will receive a lyophilized configuration of belantamab mafodotin. For participants who discontinued from the study other than Progressive disease (PD), disease evaluation will continue to be performed at 3-week intervals until confirmed PD, death, start of a new anticancer treatment, withdrawal of consent, or end of the study whichever occurs first.