Trial of Anti-Tim-3 in Combination With Anti-PD-1 and SRS in Recurrent GBM
This phase I trial studies the side effects of stereotactic radiosurgery with MBG453 and spartalizumab in treating patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Stereotactic radiosurgery is a specialized radiation therapy that delivers a single, high dose of radiation directly to the tumor to more precisely target the cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as MBG453 and spartalizumab may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving stereotactic radiosurgery together with immunotherapy may be a better treatment for GBM.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: MBG453
Number of participants with serious adverse events (SAE) graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) version 5.0, Number of participants experiencing SAEs, as defined by NCI CTC v5.0, Up to 12 weeks after first dose of study treatment
Proportion of participants who experience grade 3 or higher toxicity, graded according to the NCI CTC v5.0, Proportion of participants who experience grade 3 or higher toxicity, graded according to the NCI CTC v5.0, Up to 100 days after completion of study treatment|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Progression as defined by Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria: Complete Response (CR)= no change in size of T1-gadolinium-enhancing (T1-Gd+) disease, stable or reduced T2/FLAIR signal, no new lesion, no corticosteroid use, and stable or improved clinical status; Partial Response (PR)= ≥50% change in size of T1-Gd+ disease, stable or reduced T2/FLAIR signal, no new lesion, stable or reduced corticosteroid use, and stable or improved clinical status; Stable Disease (SD)= \<50% reduction to \<25% increase size of T1-Gd+ disease, stable or reduced T2/FLAIR signal, no new lesion, stable or reduced corticosteroid use, and stable or improved clinical status; Progressive Disease (PD)= ≥25% increase size of T1-Gd+ disease, or increased T2/FLAIR signal, or presence of new lesion, or worsening clinical status., From the date of initial diagnosis (at surgery) until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival, Overall survival as estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of initial diagnosis until the date of death from any cause assessed up to 24 months|Objective Response, Proportion of participants who have objective PR or CR during the course of treatment and a measurable disease indicated in baseline scan. Progression is defined by Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria: Complete Response (CR)= no change in size of T1-gadolinium-enhancing (T1-Gd+) disease, stable or reduced T2/FLAIR signal, no new lesion, no corticosteroid use, and stable or improved clinical status; Partial Response (PR)= ≥50% change in size of T1-Gd+ disease, stable or reduced T2/FLAIR signal, no new lesion, stable or reduced corticosteroid use, and stable or improved clinical status; Stable Disease (SD)= \<50% reduction to \<25% increase size of T1-Gd+ disease, stable or reduced T2/FLAIR signal, no new lesion, stable or reduced corticosteroid use, and stable or improved clinical status; Progressive Disease (PD)= ≥25% increase size of T1-Gd+ disease, or increased T2/FLAIR signal, or presence of new lesion, or worsening clinical status., From date of baseline scan until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months
Primary Objectives To determine safety of MBG453 given in combination with spartalizumab and SRS in patients with recurrent GBM.

Secondary Objectives

To assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity using the following measures:

1. To estimate overall survival
2. To estimate progression-free survival
3. To estimate Radiographic Response (RANO and iRANO)
4. To evaluate pain for patients undergoing the treatment of anti-TIM3 and anti-PD1 in combination with SRS

Exploratory Objectives

1. To assess the effects of MGB453, spartalizumab and their combination with SRS on immune cells in peripheral blood, including but not limited to the T cell compartments, myeloid cells, and serum proteins (cytokines and other immune modulators).
2. To assess the pharmacodynamic activity in tumor tissue and peripheral blood in treated subjects who undergo tumor biopsies as clinically indicated.
3. To explore potential associations between biomarker measures and anti-tumor activity by analyzing markers of inflammation, immune activation, host tumor growth factors, and tumor-derived proteins in the pre-treatment and on-treatment setting.
4. To explore characteristics of tumor immune microenvironment change after the treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive MBG453 and spartalizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes each on Day 1. Patients then undergo stereotactic radiosurgery on Day 8 per standard of care. Courses with MBG453 and spartalizumab repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months thereafter.