A Study of Mobocertinib in Japanese Adults With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This study is in 2 parts. Different participants will take part in the 1st and 2nd parts of the study.

The main aim of the 1st part of the study is to check how much Mobocertinib adults with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) can receive without getting side effects from it.

The main aim of the 2nd part of the study is to learn if the condition of adults with non-small cell lung cancer improves after treatment with Mobocertinib. Another aim is to continue checking for side effects from Mobocertinib.

In the 1st part of the study, at the first visit, the study doctor will check who can take part. For those that can take part, participants will take a capsule of Mobocertinib once a day for 28 days. This will count as 1 cycle. Different small groups of participants will receive lower to higher doses of Mobocertinib. The study doctors will check for side effects after each dose of TAK 788. In this way, researchers can work out the best dose of Mobocertinib to give participants in the 2nd part of the study.

Participants will visit the clinic 30 days after their treatment has finished for a final check-up.

In the 2nd part of the study, at the first visit, the study doctor will check who can take part. Participants will receive the best dose of Mobocertinib worked out from the 1st part of the study. Participants will receive Mobocertinib in the same way as those from the 1st part of the study. The study doctors will learn if the condition of these participants improves after treatment with Mobocertinib. The study doctors will also check for side effects from Mobocertinib.

After treatment has finished, participants will visit the clinic every 12 weeks until the end of the study.

In both parts of the study, participants can receive Mobocertinib for up to just over 1 year, or longer if their condition stays improved.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Mobocertinib
Phase 1 Part: Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of Orally Administered Mobocertinib, The RP2D was the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or less. The MTD was declared when at least 9 participants were evaluable in the study and 6 participants were evaluable at the current dose, and the current dose was recommended for the next cohort. The dose recommended for use in phase 2 part was analyzed on the basis of the safety and tolerability data obtained in phase 1 part of the study., Cycle 1 (Cycle length=28 days)|Phase 2 Part: Confirmed Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed by the Independent Review Committee (IRC), Confirmed ORR is defined as percentage of participants who were confirmed to had achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per IRC using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 after the initiation of study treatment. Confirmed responses were responses that persisted on repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after initial response. CR (target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 millimeter (mm) in short axis. CR (non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR (target lesions): at least 30% decrease in sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters. The SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From the first dose of the study drug until progressive disease (PD) (up to 2 years and 9 months)
Phase 1 Part: Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), From first dose of study drug until 30 days after the last dose or before initiation of new anticancer therapy (whichever comes first) (Up to 2 years and 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 1 Part: Number of Participants With First Cycle DLTs Based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.00, DLT was defined as drug-related toxicity which met one of the following criteria and occurred within the first 28 days of study treatment (Cycle 1): Non-hematologic toxicities any \>=grade (G) 3 non-hematologic toxicity, with exception of self-limiting or medically controllable toxicities(nausea, vomiting, fatigue, electrolyte disturbances, hypersensitivity reactions) lasting \<3 days, excluding alopecia. Hematologic toxicities: febrile neutropenia not related to underlying disease (fever,\>38.3 degree Celsius \[C\]); absolute neutrophil count \<0.5\*10\^9 per liter \[/L\]); prolonged G4 neutropenia (\>=7 days) (if granulocyte-colony stimulating factor \[G-CSF\] required, event considered as DLT irrespective of the duration); neutropenic infection:\>=G3 neutropenia with \>=G3 infection; thrombocytopenia \>=G3 with bleeding, \>=G3 requiring platelet transfusion or G4 without bleeding lasting \>=7 days. Missed \>=25% of planned doses of drug over 28 days due to treatment-related AEs in first cycle., Cycle 1 (Cycle length=28 days)|Phase 1 Part: Number of DLTs for Mobocertinib Based on NCI CTCAE, Version 5.00, DLT was defined as drug-related toxicity which met one of the following criteria and occurred within the first 28 days of study treatment (Cycle 1): Non-hematologic toxicities any \>=G 3 non-hematologic toxicity, with exception of self-limiting or medically controllable toxicities (nausea, vomiting, fatigue, electrolyte disturbances, hypersensitivity reactions) lasting \<3 days, excluding alopecia. Hematologic toxicities: febrile neutropenia not related to underlying disease (fever,\>38.3 degree C); absolute neutrophil count \<0.5\*10\^9/L); prolonged G4 neutropenia (\>=7 days) (if granulocyte-colony stimulating factor \[G-CSF\] required, event considered as DLT irrespective of the duration); neutropenic infection: \>=G3 neutropenia with \>=G3 infection; thrombocytopenia \>=G3 with bleeding, \>=G3 requiring platelet transfusion or G4 without bleeding lasting \>=7 days. Missed \>=25% of planned doses of drug over 28 days due to treatment-related AEs in first cycle., Cycle 1 (Cycle length=28 days)|Phase 1 Part: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Orally Administered Mobocertinib, The MTD was declared when at least 9 participants were evaluable in the study and 6 participants were evaluable at the current dose, and the current dose was recommended for the next cohort., Cycle 1 (Cycle length=28 days)|Phase 1 Part, Cmax: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration for Mobocertinib and Its Active Metabolites (AP32960 and AP32914) After a Single Oral Dose, Cycle 1 Day 1: pre-dose and at 0.5 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose (Cycle length = 28 days)|Phase 1 Part, Tmax: Time of First Occurrence of Cmax for Mobocertinib and Its Active Metabolites (AP32960 and AP32914) After a Single Oral Dose, Cycle 1 Day 1: pre-dose and at 0.5 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose (Cycle length = 28 days)|Phase 1 Part, AUC24: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to 24 Hours for Mobocertinib and Its Active Metabolites (AP32960 and AP32914) After a Single Oral Dose, Cycle 1 Day 1: pre-dose and at 0.5 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose (Cycle length = 28 days)|Phase 1 Part, Cmax, ss: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration for Mobocertinib and Its Active Metabolites (AP32960 and AP32914) at Steady State After Multiple Oral Doses, Cycle 2 Day 1: pre-dose and at 0.5 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose (Cycle length = 28 days)|Phase 1 Part, Tmax, ss: Time of First Occurrence of Cmax for Mobocertinib Its Active Metabolites (AP32960 and AP32914) at Steady State After Multiple Oral Doses, Cycle 2 Day 1: pre-dose and at 0.5 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose (Cycle length = 28 days)|Phase 1 Part, AUC24, ss: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to 24 Hours for Mobocertinib and Its Active Metabolites (AP32960 and AP32914) at Steady State After Multiple Oral Doses, Cycle 2 Day 1: pre-dose and at 0.5 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose (Cycle length = 28 days)|Phase 1 Part, Rac (AUC 24): Extent of Accumulation Ratio Based on AUC 24 on Multiple Dosing for Mobocertinib and Its Active Metabolites (AP32960 and AP32914) at Steady State After Multiple Oral Doses, Rac (AUC 24) was calculated as the ratio of drug concentrations observed during a dosing interval at steady state divided by drug concentrations seen during the dosing interval after a single (first) dose. Rac (AUC 24) = AUC(0-24) on Cycle 2 Day 1/ AUC(0-24) on Cycle 1 Day 1., Cycle 2 Day 1: pre-dose and at 0.5 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-dose (Cycle length = 28 days)|Phase 1 Part: ORR in Participants With EGFR Mutations as Assessed by Investigator, Investigator assessed ORR using RECIST version 1.1 in participants with EGFR mutations. ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR and PR per RECIST version 1.1. Confirmed responses were responses that persisted on repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after initial response. CR (target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR (non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR (target lesions): at least 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters. All participants with ORR had documentation of EGFR exon 20 insertion mutation., From the first dose of the study drug until PD (up to 2 years and 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 1 Part: ORR in Participants With HER2 Mutations as Assessed by Investigator, Investigator assessed ORR using RECIST version 1.1 in participants with HER2 mutations. ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR and PR per RECIST version 1.1. Confirmed responses were responses that persisted on repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after initial response. CR (target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR (non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR (target lesions): at least 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters., From the first dose of the study drug until PD (up to 2 years and 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: Confirmed ORR as Assessed by the Investigator, Confirmed ORR was defined as the percentage of the participants who were confirmed to have achieved CR or PR per the investigator using RECIST version 1.1. Confirmed responses were responses that persisted on repeat imaging \>=4 weeks after initial response. CR (target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR (non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR (target lesions): at least 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters., From the first dose of the study drug until PD (up to 2 years and 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by the IRC as Per RECIST V1.1, Duration of response as assessed by the IRC was defined as the time interval from first documentation of CR/PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that PD is objectively documented. CR (target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR (non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level; PR: At least a 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline SLD. PD (target lesion response): SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest); PD (non-target lesion response): Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From first documentation of CR/PR until first PD (Up to 2 years and 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: DOR as Assessed by Investigator as Per RECIST V1.1, Duration of response as assessed by the investigator was defined as the time interval from first documentation of CR/PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that PD is objectively documented. CR (target lesion response):disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR (non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level; PR: At least a 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline SLD. PD (target lesion response): SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest); PD (non-target lesion response): Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From first documentation of CR/PR until first PD (Up to 2 years and 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: Time to Response as Assessed by the IRC as Per RECIST V1.1, Time to response as assessed by the IRC was defined as the time interval from the date of the first dose of study treatment until the initial observation of CR or PR for participants with confirmed CR/PR. CR (target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR (non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the first dose of the study drug up to first confirmed CR or PR (Up to 2 years 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: Time to Response as Assessed by the Investigator Per RECIST V1.1, Time to response as assessed by the investigator was defined as the time interval from the date of the first dose of study treatment until the initial observation of CR or PR for participants with confirmed CR/PR. CR (target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR (non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the first dose of the study drug up to first confirmed CR or PR (Up to 2 years 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: Disease Control Rate (DCR) as Assessed by the IRC as Per RECIST V1.1, DCR as assessed by IRC was defined as percentage of participants achieved CR, PR, stable disease (SD) (measurements must had met SD criteria at least once after study entry at minimum interval of 42 days) after initiation of study drug.CR(target lesion): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis.CR(non-target lesion): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level.PR(target lesions): at least 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters.SD(target lesion): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD.PD(target lesion): SLD increased by at least 20% from smallest value on study, SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.PD (non-target lesion): unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., From the first dose of the study drug until PD (Up to 2 years 9 month, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: DCR as Assessed by the Investigator Per RECIST V1.1, DCR as assessed by investigator was defined as percentage of participants achieved CR, PR, SD (measurements must had met SD criteria at least once after study entry at minimum interval of 42 days) after initiation of study drug. CR (target lesion): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR (non-target lesion): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR (target lesions): at least 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters.SD (target lesion): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. PD(target lesion): SLD increased by at least 20% from smallest value on study, SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.PD (non-target lesion): unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., From the first dose of the study drug until PD (Up to 2 years 9 month, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the IRC as Per RECIST V1.1, PFS as assessed by the IRC was defined as the time interval from the start of study treatment until to the first documentation of PD or death due to any cause (whichever comes first) according to RECIST version 1.1.PD (target lesion response): SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest). The SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PD (non-target lesion response): unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., From the first dose of the study drug until PD or death due to any cause (whichever comes first) (Up to 2 years and 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021|Phase 2 Part: PFS as Assessed by the Investigator as Per RECIST V1.1, PFS as assessed by the investigator was defined as the time interval from the start of study treatment until to the first documentation of PD or death due to any cause (whichever comes first) according to RECIST version 1.1.PD (target lesion response): SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest). The SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PD (non-target lesion response): unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., From the first dose of the study drug until PD or death due to any cause (whichever comes first) (Up to 2 years and 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021|Phase 2 Part: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the interval from the date of the first dose of the study treatment until death due to any cause., From the start of the study drug up to death due to any cause (Up to 2 years 9 months, till data cut-off of 08 November 2021)|Phase 2 Part: Change From Baseline in Patient-reported Symptoms, Functioning, and Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) as Assessed by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-C30, EORTC QLQ-C30, version 3.0 was a cancer-specific questionnaire comprised of 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social functioning); 3 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea/vomiting); a global health status (GHS)/quality-of-life (QoL) scale; and a six single-item scales (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). GHS/QoL scale has 7 possible scores of responses (1=very poor to 7=excellent). All other items have 4 possible scores (1=not at all, 2=a little, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). Raw scores converted into scale scores ranging from 0 to 100. For functional and GHS/QoL scales, higher scores represent better HRQoL (positive change from Baseline=improvement), for symptom scales lower scores represent better QoL (i.e., a low level of symptomatology/problems) (negative change from Baseline=improvement), and for six-single item scale, lower scores represent better HRQoL (negative change from Baseline=improvement)., Baseline and at 30 days after last dose (at Month 19)|Phase 2 Part: Change From Baseline in Patient-reported Symptoms (Particular Core Symptoms of Lung Cancer), Functioning, and HRQoL as Assessed by the EORTC Lung Cancer Module QLQ-LC13, HRQOL scores was assessed with EORTC, it is a lung cancer module QLQ-LC13, version 3.0. QLQ-LC13 included 13 questions (4-point scale where 1=Not at all \[best\] to 4=Very much \[worst\]) assessing lung cancer-associated symptoms (cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, and site-specific pain \[chest, arm or shoulder, other parts\]), treatment-related side effects (sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, and alopecia), and use of pain medication. Subscale score range: 0 to 100. Higher symptom score = greater degree of symptom severity., Baseline and at 30 days after last dose (at Month 19)
The drug being tested in this study is called Mobocertinib. Mobocertinib is being tested to treat Japanese participants with NSCLC. This study has two parts (Phase 1 part and Phase 2 part), Phase 1 part of this study will look at the safety, efficacy, tolerability and PK of Mobocertinib orally administered once daily, and will determine a RP2D. Phase 2 study will look at the efficacy and safety of Mobocertinib in treatment naive Japanese NSCLC patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 20 insertion mutation. All participants will be assigned to Phase 1 part or Phase 2 part and will be asked to take Mobocertinib capsule as following dosage and regimen;

Phase 1 part; Mobocertinib, 40 mg as starting dose, once daily, and escalating up to 160 mg until a Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD). An expansion phase may be followed at any dose to further confirm safety observations following identification of MTD/RP2D.

Phase 2 part; Mobocertinib, 160 mg, once daily

The study will enroll approximately 58-63 participants (Phase 1 part; 28-33 and Phase 2 part; 30).

This multi-center trial will be conducted in Japan. The overall time to participate in this study of Phase 1 part is approximately 3 years and Phase 2 part is approximately 4 years. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic in the treatment period, and the post-treatment period including follow-up assessments after the last dose of the study drug.