Pembrolizumab and Recombinant Interleukin-12 in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of pembrolizumab and recombinant interleukin-12 in treating patients with solid tumors. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Recombinant interleukin-12 may kill tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor and by stimulating white blood cells to kill tumor cells. Giving pembrolizumab and recombinant interleukin-12 may work better than giving pembrolizumab alone in treating patients with solid tumors.
Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Edodekin alfa|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Up to 5 years|Recommended phase 2 dose, Up to 5 years
Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be tabulated by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade, CTCAE category, relatedness to treatment and dose level., Up to 30 days after last dose|Progression free survival, The product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) progression-free survival function, with a 95% confidence region, will be determined for all patients and for patients treated at the MTD., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever comes, first assessed up to 5 years|Overall response rate, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. The proportion of patients experiencing confirmed overall (complete or partial) response will be calculated, as will a 95% exact (Klopper-Pearson) binomial confidence interval for all patients, and patients treated at the MTD (a confirmed clinical tumor response is defined to be either a complete response or partial response noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least \>= 4 weeks apart.)., From start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started), assessed up to 5 years|CD8+ T cell infiltration, Will be assessed by immunohistochemistry. Will be compared to pre-treatment biopsy specimens by the Wilcoxon signed-rank test., Up to 2 cycles of treatment
Biomarker analysis, Will conduct exploratory translational laboratory correlative studies utilizing banked biospecimens (tumor, blood and stool) obtained at baseline and during therapy., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of edodekin alfa (recombinant human interleukin \[rhIL\]-12) in combination with pembrolizumab (MK-3475).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety of the regimen by continuously monitoring adverse events that will be documented utilizing Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v).5.0.

II. Evaluate the overall response rate (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] v.1.1) and the progression free survival of patients enrolled on the study.

III. Measure CD8+ T cell infiltration by immunohistochemistry in tumor biopsies obtained pre-treatment, after one week of rhIL-12 and after 2 cycles of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in combination with rhIL-12.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Conduct exploratory translational laboratory correlative studies utilizing banked biospecimens (tumor, blood, and stool) obtained pre-treatment and during therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of recombinant interleukin-12.

Patients receive recombinant interleukin-12 subcutaneously (SC) on days 2, 5, 9, and 12 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 8 of cycle 1 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment continues for 28 days for cycle 1 and repeats every 21 days for subsequent cycles for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patient then receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 additional cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo a computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET), and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), as well as collection of blood during screening, on study, and during follow-up. Patients also undergo a tumor biopsy during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 2 year and then every 24 weeks for up to 5 years.