Study Assessing the Potential for Reduced Rates of Implant Failure Using Multi-Beam Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy for Locally Advanced Breast Cancer Patients with Implant Reconstructions
The purpose of this study is to determine if a radiation treatment called "Multi-beam Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy"(IMRT) can reduce side effects related to your implant if they are a candidate for radiation therapy. Currently, the standard method of giving radiation is with "3D radiation", which only uses 2-5 beams of radiation. "Multi-beam" IMRT works by using 8-12 small radiation beams to give a more "tailored" or "customized" radiation dose to the implant, breast, chest wall and lymph nodes. At the same time, multi-beam IMRT may lower the radiation dose to the heart, lung and nearby tissues. The goal of the study is to reduce complications after irradiation to the implants.

The study doctors have recently completed a trial using this technique and are now specifically looking at its impact on women with implant reconstructions who are undergoing post-mastectomy radiation therapy. By delivering a more "customized" dose of radiation to the implant, the intent is to reduce side effects of radiation on the implant.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Breast MRI|BEHAVIORAL: Breast-Q© questionnaire|RADIATION: Multi-Beam IMRT
efficacy of multi-beam IMRT, The treatment would be considered efficacious if the incidence of implant failure is reduced by at least a relative 30% by the end of the study period (24 months post-IMRT for Group 1, and 30 months post-IMRT for Group 2)., 30 months
incidence of moderate to severe capsular contracture, will be examined using proportions of patients who developed Baker's grade \<2 and ≥2 capsular contracture, respectively, at 12 or 18 months and 24 or 30 months after IMRT was administered., 30 months|rates of minor revisional surgeries, Incidence of minor revisional surgeries by plastic surgeon will be evaluated by proportions too. Again, the rates (proportions) will be compared across the two groups., 2 years|evaluate cosmesis, To evaluate cosmesis, the Breast-Q© will be utilized in these assessments and will be presented descriptively, giving summary statistics for changes in the Breast-Q© scores over time., 2 years
Patients will undergo mastectomy and axillary dissection with immediate tissue expander placement. As is the current practice at MSKCC, patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy will undergo expansion during chemotherapy, with exchange for a permanent implant to be performed approximately one month after chemotherapy and radiation to begin approximately one month after exchange. Patients who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy will undergo "rapid expansion" of the expander and begin radiation at least 4 weeks following surgery, although it may be performed sooner if the patient has recovered from surgery and the treating physician deems it safe to proceed with treatment. In these patients, exchange for the permanent implant will occur at the discretion of the treating plastic surgeon (approximately 5-8 months after the end of radiation).