Optune® Plus Bevacizumab in Bevacizumab-Refractory Recurrent Glioblastoma
This phase II trial will investigate the efficacy and safety of the addition of Optune (Tumor Treating Fields \[TTFields\] Therapy) to bevacizumab for patients with bevacizumab-refractory recurrent glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma|Glioma|Gliosarcoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DEVICE: TTFields Therapy
Overall Survival at 6 Months, Number of participants alive at 6 months. Out of the planned 80 eligible patients, if 36 or more were alive at six months then the null hypothesis that the six-month survival rate is 35% or less would be rejected, concluding that the six-month survival is at least 35%. No testing was done due to the small number of participants resulting from early study closure., From registration to six months
Overall Survival (OS), Survival time is defined as time from registration the to date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored) and was to be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Given the small number of participants due to early study closure, only the number of patients last reported to be alive at time of study termination is reported., From registration to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 21.8 months.|Progression-Free Survival, Progression is defined by the Modified Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Response Criteria. (The precise definition is too long to be included here.) Progression-free survival time is defined as time from registration to the date of first progression, death, or last known follow-up. Progression-free survival rates were to be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Given the small number of participants due to early study closure, only the number of patients last reported to be alive without progression at time of study termination is reported., From registration to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 21.8 months.|Number of Participants With Partial or Complete Response, Modified Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Response Criteria was used to define response and progression. (The precise definitions are too long to be included here.) Objective response is defined as complete or partial response. The percentage of participants with objective response was to be estimated using the exact binomial method with accompanying 95% confidence intervals. Given the small number of participants due to early study closure, only the number of patients with objective response is reported., From registration to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 21.8 months.|Number of Participants With Grade 3+ Treatment-related Adverse Events, Adverse events were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0. Grade refers to the severity of the adverse event (AE). The CTCAE v4.0 assigns Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild, Grade 2 Moderate, Grade 3 Severe, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling, Grade 5 Death related to AE. The percentage of participants with grade 3 or higher treatment-related adverse events was to be estimated using the exact binomial method with accompanying 95% confidence intervals., From registration to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 21.8 months.
Patients that have recurrent glioblastoma that has progressed on bevacizumab continue to receive bevacizumab with the addition of Tumor Treating Fields Therapy. Treatment is given until disease progression or the development of adverse events that require complete discontinuation.