Efficacy and Safety of Apantamide Combined With Docetaxel and ADT vs. Apantamide Combined With ADT in Patients With High Tumor Burden mHSPC: a Multicenter and Prospective Cohort Study
This is a multicenter, prospective, cohort study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of apantamide+docetaxel+ADT versus apantamide+ADT in the treatment of patients with high tumor mHSPC.220 patients with high tumor mHSPC will be included and divided into two treatment groups according to the treatment plan:Treatment group 1: apantamide+docetaxel+ADT,Treatment group 2: apantamide+ADT treatment.The study continued treatment until the patient could not obtain clinical benefits or had intolerable toxic reactions or the patient withdrew the informed consent, whichever occurred first.
Cohort Studies
DRUG: apantamide+docetaxel+ADT|DRUG: apantamide+ADT treatment
3-year radiographic progression free survival (rPFS) rate, RPFS is defined as the time from the start of study treatment to the occurrence of imaging progress or death due to any reason, whichever occurs first.（%）, 3 years
Time to CRPC, Time to CRPC（months）, 36 months|To PSA progress time;, Time to PSA progress（months）, 36 months|Asymptomatic skeletal event (SSE) survival;, Asymptomatic skeletal event (SSE) survival.（%）, 36 months
This is a multicenter, prospective, cohort study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of apantamide+docetaxel+ADT versus apantamide+ADT in the treatment of patients with high tumor mHSPC.220 patients with high tumor mHSPC will be included and divided into two treatment groups according to the treatment plan:

Treatment group 1: apantamide+docetaxel+ADT

Patients were treated with apantamide+docetaxel+ADT after enrollment. The patient received each drug treatment according to the instructions. The dosage is adjusted according to the adverse reaction (according to the instructions).Apantamide, 240 mg (4 × 60 mg tablets), once a day, orally;ADT regimen was treated with gonadotropin releasing hormone analog (GnRHa), including GnRHa agonist or GnRHa antagonist. The type, frequency and dose of ADT to be used in each research center are determined by the investigator;The treatment of docetaxel was started within 6 weeks after the treatment of apantamide and ADT. The single dose of docetaxel was 75 mg/m2, intravenous drip for 1 hour, repeated every 3 weeks, and docetaxel lasted for 6 cycles. It is up to the researcher to decide whether to use prednisone or prednisolone. To prevent docetaxel related hypersensitivity and fluid retention, oral administration of 8 mg dexamethasone is recommended 12 hours, 3 hours and 1 hour before infusion of docetaxel.The study continued treatment until the patient could not obtain clinical benefits or had intolerable toxic reactions or the patient withdrew the informed consent, whichever occurred first.

Treatment group 2: apantamide+ADT treatment

Patients were treated with apantamide and ADT after enrollment. The patient received each drug treatment according to the instructions. The dosage is adjusted according to the adverse reaction (according to the instructions)Apantamide, 240 mg (4 × 60 mg tablets), once a day, orally;ADT regimen was treated with gonadotropin releasing hormone analog (GnRHa), including GnRHa agonist or GnRHa antagonist. The type, frequency and dose of ADT used in each research center are determined by the investigator.The study continued treatment until the patient could not obtain clinical benefits or had intolerable toxic reactions or the patient withdrew the informed consent, whichever occurred first.