Trial of RAD001 in Patients With Operable Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This is a Phase 1b pre-operative lung cancer trial wherein patients with operable lung cancer will be treated with RAD001 to evaluate the target effects of this compounds on relevant molecular pathways and on the 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake of the tumor by a positron emission tomography (PET) scan at baseline and immediately prior to surgery. The safety profile of RAD001 will also be evaluated.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: RAD001
Clinical Response as Assessed Metabolically by Changes in Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Scan Between Baseline and Immediately Prior to Surgery., All patients had baseline imaging in a fasted state with 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose (18FDG)-PET scan and a repeat scan at 3 to 4 weeks later using routine clinical protocol for patient preparation, radiotracer administration and data acquisition. The repeat imaging occurred no longer than 24 hours before surgical resection., Day 21|Effects of RAD001 on the Regulation of Key Proteins Involved With the Mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR) Axis in Tumor Specimens and Buccal Mucosa in Patients With Operable Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)., Changes in the expression of key signaling proteins in the mTOR/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway were determined by immunohistochemistry using previously published protocols and manufacturers' recommendations for antigen retrieval and antibody dilution along with positive and negative controls. Two investigators assessed protein expression jointly by light microscopy. The degree of expression was assessed by intensity (0, 1+, 2+, 3+) and percentage of cell staining in line with published algorithm. A derivative score (immunoscore) ranging between 0 and 300 was calculated as the product of intensity and percent cell staining., 6 months|Inhibition of Proliferation (Ki67) and Induction of Apoptosis (TUNEL Assay) in Tumor Specimens and Buccal Mucosa., 6 months
Safety and Tolerability of RAD001 as Pre-operative Therapy., 6 months|Duration of Hospital Stay Following Surgery., 6 months
This is a Phase 1b pre-operative lung cancer trial wherein patients with operable lung cancer will be treated with RAD001 for 3-4 weeks to study the effects of the novel agent in relevant molecular pathways. The study will also assess the FDG uptake of the tumor at baseline and upon completion of therapy (before surgery) with a PET scan. The safety profile of RAD001 will also be evaluated.

New agents and regimens are urgently needed for lung cancer treatment. With the development of novel agents and small molecules designed to curtail the aggressive aspects of this disease, some progress has been realized. However, much more effort and insight will be required for further real gains to be made. We propose that studying the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) axis, known to be abnormal in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and translating that knowledge into therapeutic adjustments can lead to meaningful advances in lung cancer treatment.

Approximately 35 patients will participate at Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia.