Oxygen Atomizing Inhalation of EGCG in the Treatment Interstitial Pneumonia in Cancer Patients
Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) is a major polyphenol of green tea that possesses a wide variety of actions, such as anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic, pro-apoptotic, anti-tumorous, and metabolic effects via modulation of a variety of intracellular signaling cascades. In addition, preclinical studies have also emphasized the antiviral activity of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), including SARS-CoV-2.

In previous studies, we found that EGCG can prevent and cure radiation-induced normal tissue damage in tumor patients. In clinical studies, we found that EGCG can prevent and treat radiation-induced acute radiation esophagitis, acute radiation skin injury, acute radiation oral mucositis with high safety. Thus, we designed this phase I-II clinical study in order to investigate the possible role of EGCG in the treatment interstitial pneumonia in tumor patients.
Interstitial Pneumonia|Neoplasms Malignant
DRUG: EGCG
Number of Participants With EGCG-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, CTCAE v4.0 is an international standard for evaluating adverse event to cancer treatment., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Changes of imaging examination (chest CT) after administration, The changes of lung before and after treatment were judged by CT chest with or without contrast., up to 2 weeks
In this phase I study, subjects were divided into four dose groups according to the improved Fibonacci method and were given different doses of EGCG to evaluate adverse events. At the same time, the researchers conducted a phase II study of EGCG in tumor patients with interstitial pneumonia. The Phase II study was conducted with a randomized, controlled, placebo dose determined by Phase I. the subjects were divided into two groups (experimental group and placebo group). To observe the effectiveness of EGCG, the researchers will use both clinician assessment and patient self-assessment.