Flavopiridol in Treating Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or Prolymphocytic Leukemia
This phase II trial is studying how well flavopiridol works in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or prolymphocytic leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as flavopiridol, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing
B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: alvocidib
Complete Response (CR) Rate, CR requires all of the following for at least two months from completion of therapy: Absence of lymphadenopathy in excess of 1 cm on physical exam; No hepatomegaly or splenomegaly on physical exam; Absence of constitutional symptoms; Normal CBC (complete blood count) as exhibited by polymorphonuclear leukocytes \> 1500/µL, platelets \> 100,000/µL, hemoglobin \> 11.0 g/dl (untransfused); lymphocyte count \< 5,000/µL; Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy must be normocellular for age with \< 30% of nucleated cells being lymphocytes. Lymphoid nodules must be absent., Up to 8 months|Overall Response Rate (CR + PR), CR requires all of the following: Absence of lymphadenopathy in excess of 1 cm on physical exam; No hepatomegaly or splenomegaly on physical exam; Absence of constitutional symptoms; Normal CBC as exhibited by polymorphonuclear leukocytes \> 1500/µL, platelets \> 100,000/µL, hemoglobin \> 11.0 g/dl (untransfused); lymphocyte count \< 5,000/µL; Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy must be normocellular for age with \< 30% of nucleated cells being lymphocytes. Lymphoid nodules must be absent. Patients with CR after induction but wih treatment-related persistent cytopenia is a PR. PR requires a \> 50% decrease in peripheral lymphocyte count from pretreatment value, \> 50% reduction in lymphadenopathy, and/or \> 50% reduction in splenomegaly/hepatomegaly. These patients must have one of the following: polymorphonuclear leukocytes \> 1,500/μL , platelets \> 100,000/μL, hemoglobin \> 11.0 g/dl (untransfused) or any with 50% improvement from pretreatment value., Up to 8 months|Response Duration, Response evaluation criteria based on the Revised National Cancer Institute-sponsored Working Group Guidelines for response. Descriptive statistics will be computed (median, range, mean, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum) on response duration., Up to 8 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) for Responding Patients as Assessed Using Standard Kaplan-Meier Methods, PFS was calculated from the date of study entry until time of disease progression or death, whichever came first, censoring patients alive and relapse free at last follow up. Patients who withdrew from study to undergo an allogeneic SCT (Stem cell transplantation) were censored at the time of transplantation., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival for All Patients as Assessed Using Standard Kaplan-Meier Methods, PFS was calculated from the date of study entry until time of disease progression or death, whichever came first, censoring patients alive and relapse free at last follow up. Patients who withdrew from study to undergo an allogeneic SCT were censored at the time of transplantation., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival data will be reported on a 3-month basis for 5 years, Up to 5 years|Toxicity, Toxicity determination based on NCI Common Toxicity Criteria version 3 and modified NCI Common toxicity guidelines for evaluating hematologic toxicity in leukemia., Measurement prior to each infusion, at end of therapy, 2 months post-completion and post-treatment follow-up every 3 months for two years.
Pharmacokinetics (PK) (AUC) as Assessed by Plasma Levels of Both Flavopiridol and Metabolites of Flavopiridol, Pharmacokinetics were performed on day 1 and day 8 of cycle 1 by plasma levels of both flavopiridol and metabolites of flavopiridol using Area Under the Curve (AUC), During treatment day 1 and day 8 of cycle 1|PK (Cmax) as Assessed by Plasma Levels of Both Flavopiridol and Metabolites of Flavopiridol, Pharmacokinetics were performed on day 1 and day 8 of cycle 1 by plasma levels of both flavopiridol and metabolites of flavopiridol, During treatment day 1 and day 8 of course 1|PK as Assessed by Levels of Both Flavopiridol and Metabolites of Flavopiridol in Urine Samples, urine samples were collected in some patients during the first 24 hours after the start of the infusion on cycle 1, day 1 to isolate metabolites of flavopiridol to be used as internal standard for plasma metabolite quantification experiments., Urine collected at 4 separate times in some patients during the first 24 hours after start of infusion on day 1 of course 1.|Serial Levels of IL-6 as Assessed by Blood Plasma, IL-6 measures were adjusted for baseline values, 4.5 hours, 8 hours, 12 hours, and 24 hours following the initiation of therapy during day 1 of course 1|Comparison of CLL Cell Samples Taken at Registration/Diagnosis to CLL Cell Samples Taken at Time of Relapse, Samples will be examined for ex vivo sensitivity to flavopiridol, expression of select anti-apoptosis proteins, BCRP mRNA and protein expression, difference in gene expression by cDNA microarray and potentially by epigenetic arrays. Comparisons will be used to evaluate mechanisms of acquired flavopiridol resistance., At baseline and at time of relapse or when patient goes off therapy due to disease progression|Correlation of Adverse Prognostic Factors With Response to Flavopiridol Treatment as Assessed by Interphase Cytogenetics, VH Mutational Status, ZAP-70 Protein Expression, CD38, and p53, overall response rates (CR+PR), up to 8 months|Levels of Mcl-1 mRNA, Mcl-1 Protein, HIF-1alpha Protein, HIF-1alpha mRNA, NF-kappaB Activation, Total IkB, IkB Phosphorylation, GSK-beta Activity, and IL-6 Target Genes (i.e., STAT3), Assessed by real time RT-PCR (mcl-1, HIF-1alpha), immunoblot analysis (mcl-1, HIF-1alpha, I-kappaB, I-kappaB phosphorylation, targets of IL-6), and electrophoretic mobility shift analysis (NF-kappaB activation), At baseline, 4.5 hours (end of continuous infusion), 8 hours, and approximately 24 hours following initiation of therapy|Comparison of Clinical Response and Tumor Lysis in Vivo With Drug-induced Apoptosis and Mitochondrial Perturbation in Vitro as Assessed by Flow Cytometry, CLL cells will be incubated with control or flavopiridol (1 or 2.8 microMolar) for 4-hours followed by a 20 hours in media with 10% heat-inactivated human serum. Assessment of apoptosis following exposure of human CLL cells will be performed using annexin/PI flow cytometry. Patient samples with greater than 50% live cells (annexin-/PI-) following exposure to 2.8 microMolar flavopiridol will be considered to have insensitive disease. Patients whose CLL cells have less than 50% live cells at 1 microMolar will be considered to have highly sensitive disease., At baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete response (CR) and overall response rate (CR + Partial Response \[PR\]) of this regimen.

II. To assess the toxicity profile of this regimen. III. To examine response duration, progression-free survival and overall survival, following this treatment.

IV. To assess the pharmacokinetics of this novel schedule of administration.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the influence of adverse prognostic factors including interphase cytogenetics, VH mutational status, ZAP-70 expression, CD38, and p53 mutational status with response to flavopiridol treatment.

II. To determine the influence of flavopiridol treatment on serial measurements of mcl-1 (mRNA and protein), HIF-1 (mRNA and protein), NF-kappaB activity, IkappaB, IkappaB phosphorylation, GSK-beta, and IL-6 down-stream targets.

III. To assess the relationship of drug induced apoptosis and mitochondrial perturbation of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) cells in vitro and subsequent relationship to clinical response and tumor lysis in vivo.

IV. To examine cytokine levels (IL-6, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha) during treatment with flavopiridol.

V. To assess pharmacokinetics (PK) to determine the variability of PK and PD analyses between treatment administrations and correlation with specific Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) potentially involved in flavopiridol disposition.

VI. To assess differences in diagnosis and relapse samples to investigate mechanisms of acquired flavopiridol resistance in primary CLL cells.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label study. Patients receive flavopiridol IV over 30 minutes followed by a 4-hour infusion on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving at least a partial remission (PR) and whose PR lasts for \> 6 months after completion of treatment may receive 6 additional courses of flavopiridol.Patients are followed at 2 months and then every 3 months for 5 years.