The Evolution of Neuroendoscopy Guided by Head-mounted Mixed Reality Technique Navigation System in Neurosurgery
The pineal region and brainstem tumors are located at the central position of the cranial cavity, surrounded by important neural structures and venous systems, leading to challenges in preoperative diagnosis, adding uncertainty and complexity to treatment. For a long time, surgical treatment of pineal region and brainstem tumors has been one of the most challenging areas in neurosurgery.

With the development of neuroendoscopy and virtual endoscopy technologies, how to convert complex three-dimensional bone, vascular, and neural images into virtual endoscopic images and how to combine virtual endoscopy with neuro-navigation for endoscopic skull base surgery to provide high-quality guidance images for surgery has become an urgent new research issue.

The project team plans to develop a neuroendoscopy combined with a wearable mixed reality glasses navigation system, integrating the advantages of wearable glasses and existing surgical navigation systems.

This study aims to evaluate the role of mixed reality navigation systems in improving total resection and reducing major complications in patients with pineal region and brainstem tumors, as well as shortening surgical times.
Pineal Tumor|Brainstem Tumor|Surgery
DEVICE: Conventinal Navigation System Group
Surgical time, From openning the dura mater to close it, immedately after surgery
Gross total resection rate, Gross total was defined as 100% of tumor resection, within 72 hours after surgery|The incidence of complications, new cranial nerve dysfunction, secondary surgery, within 1 month after surgery
The pineal region and brainstem tumors are located at the central position of the cranial cavity, surrounded by important neural structures and venous systems. They contain many crucial neural functional nuclei, making surgical exposure and resection difficult. Furthermore, the tumors in this region exhibit complex and diverse pathological types, including mixed tumors, leading to challenges in preoperative diagnosis, adding uncertainty and complexity to treatment. Pineal region tumors commonly cause obstructive hydrocephalus, resulting in severe preoperative intracranial hypertension symptoms, further complicating surgical management. For a long time, surgical treatment of pineal region and brainstem tumors has been one of the most challenging areas in neurosurgery.

With the development of neuroendoscopy and virtual endoscopy technologies, how to convert complex three-dimensional bone, vascular, and neural images into virtual endoscopic images and how to combine virtual endoscopy with neuro-navigation for endoscopic skull base surgery to provide high-quality guidance images for surgery has become an urgent new research issue.

The project team plans to develop a neuroendoscopy combined with a wearable mixed reality glasses navigation system, integrating the advantages of wearable glasses and existing surgical navigation systems. While ensuring the accuracy of the navigation system, the team aims to fundamentally change the output method of the system, enabling the surgical navigation system to go beyond mere validation of effects and truly play a role of "intuitive visual navigation." By holographically observing and tracking the relevant blood vessels and nerves in the patient's area, the team has achieved high-precision integration of virtual and real microanatomy structures, allowing for better and safer handling of deep-seated tumors under the endoscope. This study aims to evaluate the role of mixed reality navigation systems in improving total resection and reducing major complications in patients with pineal region and brainstem tumors, as well as shortening surgical times.