Long-term Risk of Second Primary Malignancies for Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia in the French Imatinib-based SPIRIT Trial
Imatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has improved the prognosis of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). CML has become a chronic disease requiring long-term administration of imatinib. Late adverse effects were initially unknown. Since 2005, imatinib has been suspected to increase the risk of second primary malignancies (SPM). Through the French "STI571 Prospective Randomized Trial" (SPIRIT), we studied the incidence of SPM after more than 20 years of exposure, and treatment strategies for CML and SPM at their occurrence.
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML)
DRUG: Imatinib (STI571)
Risk of second primary malignancies (SPM), SPM is an invasive primary cancer diagnosed at least 6 months after CML diagnosis. Non-melanoma skin cancers were excluded from the analysis., Through study completion, an average of 20 years
Treatment strategies for CML and SPM at their occurrence, For treatment strategy of CML: response, modification of treatment (temporary discontinuation, permanent interruption, replace by a new generation TKI), relapse.

For treatment strategy of SPM: intent of treatment (curative, palliative, follow without treatment), type of treatment (surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy), atypical adverses events, modification of treatment., At the occurence of SPM. Through study completion, on average 20 years
Imatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has improved the prognosis of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). CML has become a chronic disease requiring long-term administration of imatinib. Late adverse effects were initially unknown. Since 2005, imatinib has been suspected to increase the risk of second primary malignancies (SPM). Through the French "STI571 Prospective Randomized Trial" (SPIRIT), we studied the incidence of SPM after more than 20 years of exposure, and treatment strategies for CML and SPM at their occurrence.