Observational Study of Patients With Advanced Melanoma (Skin Cancer) to Assess if IOpener®-Melanoma Test Can Predict Response to Immunotherapy.
The goal of this observational study is to assess whether the IOpener® melanoma test can assist treating physicians in deciding which therapy is most suitable for patients with skin cancer (advanced cutaneous melanoma). For this purpose it is evaluated how well the IOpener-melanoma test can predict the result of cancer treatment in the treatment groups (standard of care anti-PD1 mono-therapy and standard of care anti-PD1 + anti-CTLA-4 therapy).

Participants will be asked to provide blood sample for analysis using IOpener®-melanoma test. Patients will receive regular medical care, the test results will not be used to make any treatment decisions. The patients will visit the clinic for treatment administration and clinical evaluation as part of their regular medical care.
Melanoma Metastatic|Melanoma, Skin|Melanoma Stage III or IV|Melanoma Advanced
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PBMC Kinase Activity Profile
12 months Progression Free Survival rate, Predictive value of IOpener-melanoma for 1-year Progression Free Survival (PFS), i.e., proportion of patients without progressive disease (PD) ≥ 1 year, stratified according to treatment group and IOpener-melanoma test result., From the enrollment to 12 months follow up.
Disease Control Rate at 1 year, Disease Control Rate (DCR, "clinical benefit") at 1 year, based on Best Overall Response (BOR) according to RECIST 1.1., From enrollment to 12 months follow up.|Overall Response Rate (ORR) at 1 year, Overall Response Rate (ORR) at 1 year based on Best Overall Response (BOR) according to RECIST 1.1., From enrollment to 12 months follow up.|Progression Free Survival, Progression Free Survival, From enrollment to month 24 follow up.|Overall Survival, Overall Survival, From enrollment to month 24 follow up.
Adverse events, Occurrence and type of adverse event or toxicity associated with standard of care., From enrollment to month 24 follow up.|Medical costs, Medical costs/medical care consumption associated with adverse events, From enrollment to month 24 follow up.
The goal of this observational study is to assess whether the IOpener® melanoma test can assist treating physicians in deciding which therapy is most suitable for patients with skin cancer (advanced cutaneous melanoma). For this purpose it is evaluated how well the IOpener-melanoma test can predict the result of cancer treatment in the treatment groups (standard of care anti-PD1 mono-therapy and standard of care anti-PD1 + anti-CTLA-4 therapy).

Participants will be asked to provide blood sample for analysis using IOpener®-melanoma test. Patients will receive regular medical care, the test results will not be used to make any treatment decisions. The patients will visit the clinic for treatment administration and clinical evaluation as part of their regular medical care.