A Study of Cirmtuzumab and Ibrutinib in Patients With B-Cell Lymphoid Malignancies
This is Phase 1b/2 study to investigate the safety and effectiveness of the investigational drug, cirmtuzumab, when given in combination with ibrutinib in patients with B-cell lymphoid malignancies. Cirmtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that attaches to a protein (called ROR 1) that is found on hematologic tumor cells. ROR1 has been shown to play a role in cell signaling that cause leukemia and lymphoma cells to grow and survive. ROR1 is rarely found on healthy cells.
B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: Cirmtuzumab (2-16 kg/mg) plus Ibrutinib|DRUG: Cirmtuzumab (300mg) plus Ibrutinib|DRUG: Cirmtuzumab (600 mg) plus ibrutinib|DRUG: Cirmtuzumab (RDR) plus ibrutinib|DRUG: Cirmtuzumab plus ibrutinib|DRUG: Ibrutinib alone
Overall Response, Defined as achievement of complete response (CR), complete response with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), partial response (PR), or partial response with lymphocytosis (PR-L) for those with CLL/SLL, per standardized criteria \[Hallek 2008\], as recently updated \[Hallek 2018; Cheson 2012\]; and the achievement of a CR or PR for those with MCL or MZL, per based on standardized criteria \[Cheson 2007\] as recently updated \[Cheson 2014\]., up to 5 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the interval from the start of study therapy to the earlier of the first documentation of disease progression or death from any cause. PFS was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier Survival Methods., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Defined as the interval from the start of study therapy to death from any cause. Overall Survival was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier Survival methods., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response, Defined as the amount of time (months) for achieving of complete response (CR), complete response with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), partial response (PR), or partial response with lymphocytosis (PR-L) for those with CLL/SLL; and the amount of time (months) for achieving of a CR or PR for those with MCL., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS) for Patients With TP53 Mutation Status, Defined as the interval from the start of study therapy to the earlier of the first documentation of disease progression or death from any cause, in patients with TP53 mutation status, Up to 5 years
This is a Phase 1b/2 study to investigate the safety and effectiveness of the investigational drug, cirmtuzumab (INN:zilovertamab), when given in combination with ibrutinib in patients with B-cell lymphoid malignancies. The Phase 1b will be conducted in two parts (Part 1 and Part 2). Part 1 is a dose-finding evaluation of the sequential administration of cirmtuzumab monotherapy followed by cirmtuzumab and ibrutinib combination therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia /small lymphocytic leukemia (CLL/SLL), previously treated mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) subjects that are BTKI naiive or have received a prior Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor therapy, unless they demonstrated primary or acquired resistance to BTKi. Up to 48 subjects will be enrolled in Part 1 to determine the recommended dosing regimen (RDR). In Part 2, up to 60 subjects (CLL/SLL, MCL and MZL (marginal zone lymphoma) will be enrolled to further evaluate the safety and pharmacology of the cirmtuzumab and ibrutinib combination given at the RDR determined in Part 1 of the study. MZL subjects that have been previously treated and have relapsed after or progressed during at least one prior anti-CD20 -based therapy will be evaluated. In the Phase 2 (Part 3) portion of the study, approximately 30 subjects with CLL/SLL who may have received minimal prior BTK inhibitor therapy will be randomized to either Arm 1 (cirmtuzumab and ibrutinib) at the RDR or Arm 2 (ibrutinib alone) to evaluate the clinical activity and safety of the two arms.