Pembrolizumab and Enfortumab Vedotin With Pembrolizumab Prior to and After Radical Nephroureterectomy for High-Risk Upper Tract Urothelial Cancer
This phase II clinical trial tests how well pembrolizumab plus enfortumab vedotin prior to and after radical nephroureterectomy works in treating patients with high-risk upper tract urothelial cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Enfortumab vedotin (EV) is a monoclonal antibody, enfortumab, linked to an anticancer drug called vedotin. It works by helping the immune system to slow or stop the growth of cancer cells. Enfortumab attaches to a protein called nectin-4 on cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them. It is a type of antibody-drug conjugate. Radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) is the surgical removal of a kidney and its ureter. Giving pembrolizumab plus enfortumab vedotin before surgery may make the tumor smaller and may reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed and giving pembrolizumab after surgery may kill any remaining cancer cells.
Renal Pelvis and Ureter Urothelial Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Enfortumab Vedotin|PROCEDURE: MR Urography|PROCEDURE: Nephroureterectomy|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Pathological objective response (ORR) rate, Will be assessed by the combination of partial response (PR) and complete response (CR). PR is defined as pathologic stage \<T2 disease. CR is defined as pT0 disease and assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1., from radical nephroureterectomy through study completion, an average of 1 year|Radiographic recurrence-free survival, From radical nephroureterectomy to 1 year
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 5.0., Up to 30 days post treatment|Rates of completion of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab and enfortumab vedotin, Will be assessed as completion of all infusions of both agents and successful completion of radical nephroureterectomy., Up to 3 years|Perioperative complications, Will be assessed based on the Clavien-Dindo classification., Up to 30 days post- radical nephroureterectomy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess pathologic objective response rate (ORR; complete response \[CR; pT0\] and partial response \[PR; \< pT2\] rate) at the time of radical nephroureterectomy.

II. To assess recurrence-free survival post radical nephroureterectomy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe the side effect profile, tolerability, and surgical complications in patients receiving neoadjuvant pembrolizumab (pembro)/ enfortumab vedotin (EV) prior to RNU.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Correlative studies will evaluate the predictive potential of imaging and ureteroscopic response (visualization of tumor, biopsy, and cytology), and urinary, serum, and tissue biomarkers to pathologic response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) and enfortumab vedotin IV on study. Patients undergo radical nephroureterectomy and receive pembrolizumab IV on study Patients also undergo magnetic resonance urogram (MRU) imaging and undergo blood, urine and tissue sample collection throughout the study.