Feasibility of a Youth-led NCD Risk Reduction Initiative in Selected Schools of Slums in Karachi, Pakistan: a Mixed-methods, pre-and Post-intervention Study
The study will occur in ten selected schools within Azam Basti and Mehmoodabad, organized into five sequential phases. Phase I involves identifying NCD modifiable risk factors among younger peers (Classes 5 and 6 students) using structured diaries. Phase II includes qualitative interviews with youth (Classes 9 and 10 students), parents, and stakeholders to discuss intervention material and delivery. Phase III comprises a one-day workshop to co-create an intervention. Phase IV involves three-day training for youth to understand and deliver the intervention to their peers. Finally, Phase V assesses the intervention's feasibility using a pre-and post-test design approach.
Diabetes Mellitus|Cardiovascular Diseases|Cancer|Lung Diseases
BEHAVIORAL: Youth-led NCD risk reduction intervention
The compliance of delivering the intervention in schools using a fidelity checklist, Once the intervention will be finalized, a fidelity checklist will be developed and used to assess adherence to the intervention delivery. It will be reported as if the intervention is delivered completely, partially, or incomplete based on each component of the intervention, Three months|The recruitment and attrition rates for schools and children, The recruitment and attrition rates will be assessed by reporting the frequencies and percentages of schools and children (youth and younger peer) enrolled and retained in the study., Ten months|The rate for completing the structured diaries for diet, physical activity, and tobacco use at pre-and post-intervention assessments, The frequencies and percentages of children completing the structured diaries for diet, physical activity, and tobacco use at pre-and post-intervention assessments will be reported., Ten months|The change in the frequency and percentages of risk factors, including unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, and tobacco use at post-intervention compared to the baseline using a structured diary, The change in the frequency and percentages of risk factors, including unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, and tobacco use at post-intervention compared to the baseline will be reported. The information will be collected through structured diaries at baseline and after the intervention is delivered. The students will complete the diary for four days before and after the intervention., Ten months
The study will occur in ten selected schools within Azam Basti and Mehmoodabad, organized into five sequential phases. Phase I involves identifying NCD modifiable risk factors among younger peers (Classes 5 and 6 students) using structured diaries. Phase II includes qualitative interviews with youth (Classes 9 and 10 students), parents, and stakeholders to discuss intervention material and delivery. Phase III comprises a one-day workshop to co-create an intervention. Phase IV involves three-day training for youth to understand and deliver the intervention to their peers. Finally, Phase V assesses the intervention's feasibility using a pre-and post-test design approach.