The Effect of Community-Provided Psychosocial Support Videos on Disease Attitudes and Symptoms
The effects of psychosocial support on the disease process have been studied with many different groups and diseases, and even the psychosocial support needed by the family of the child with a chronic disease has been the subject of research, but studies focusing directly on the needs of the child have been very limited. Although it is seen in the existing literature that studies such as art and play therapy or educational programs have been carried out to improve the attitudes of pediatric oncology patients towards their own diseases, no study has been found that investigated the effects of social/social support in pediatric oncology patients. In order to contribute to this limitation in the literature, this study aimed to examine the effects of community-provided psychosocial support videos on the attitudes and symptoms of pediatric oncology patients.
Cancer
OTHER: Community Supported Videos
Chıld Attıtude Toward Illness Scale, It was developed to measure the attitudes of children with chronic diseases towards their own diseases. During the evaluation, the scores obtained from 13 items are added and divided into 13 or according to the number of items.The total score range is 1 to 5. A score of 1 and 2 indicates negative attitude, 3 indicates neutral attitude, and 4 and 5 indicates positive attitude., Three week
Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale, The Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale is developed to determine the symptoms experienced in the last week of children aged 10-18 years who are followed up with the diagnosis of cancer. your scale; It has three sub-dimensions: physical, psychological and general condition index. The Turkish validity and reliability of the scale was done by Atay et al.The lowest score is 30 and the highest score is 120. A high score indicates that the symptom is high in frequency, severity, and distress for the child., Three week
Cancer can affect every individual regardless of age and gender, causing individuals to experience a situation they were not used to before. People may not be able to apply the coping mechanisms they know or they may not find enough coping strength in themselves. This situation can cause individuals to experience emotions such as fear, anxiety and stress. At the beginning of the periods when the diagnosis of cancer is particularly difficult to cope with, comes the period of adolescence and adolescence, which covers the age range of 10-18, in which we plan to conduct the research.

During this period, relationships with people other than parents gained importance; the interest is on peers and non-peer social relationships; It is a developmental period in which there are sudden fluctuations in emotions, especially due to physical changes, and in which he is more inclined to isolate himself from the social environment. They need external approval and encouragement in the changes that occur with their physical and mental developments. Even in healthy children, the lack of this approval and social support may result in a negative development; Pediatric oncology patients are more vulnerable due to the side effects of the disease and treatment process or the physical and psychological effects it causes. For children whose psychosocial development continues, being diagnosed with cancer causes an additional difficulty in their developmental processes. Because children have less or inadequate coping mechanisms than the average adult during this period; This may make it difficult to accept the disease due to the negative effects of diagnosis and treatment.

This period, which is considered more vulnerable to trauma, makes the situation more complicated and tiring for a pediatric oncology patient compared to an adult cancer patient. For this reason, it is very important to control and manage the attitudes of patients towards their own diseases. Minimizing psychosocial problems in order to get the best benefit from the treatment process will also increase the patient's efficiency from the treatment. In this study, it is aimed to evaluate the effect of the psychosocial support videos provided by the community to pediatric oncology patients aged 10-18 on the children's attitudes towards their own disease and treatment-related symptoms.