Efficacy Study of Additional Chemotherapy After Concurrent Chemoradiation in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer(NSCLC) is the leading cause of death in Korean men after stomach cancer. Surgical resection plays a main role for curative treatment. However, less than 20 % of the NSCLC patients have been found in stage I-II disease. In inoperable stage IIIA/B disease, the recommended treatment is combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Various kinds of combination of 2 modalities have been used either in sequential or concurrent setting. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy(CCRT) have been recognized to have better survival than radiation therapy alone or sequential therapy, but additional consolidation chemotherapy after CCRT is not yet to be determined for the beneficial role in survival gain. Docetaxel is an anticancer drug and has synergistic anticancer effect in various cancer with cisplatin, another anticancer drug. In the present study, randomised trial will be performed to confirm the efficacy of the consolidation chemotherapy with docetaxel and cisplatin after completing CCRT with the same chemotherapeutic agents in stage III inoperable NSCLC on progression free survival and overall survival.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: consolidation chemotherapy with Docetaxel plus cisplatin|DRUG: CCRT arm without consolidation chemotherapy
Progression free survival, The final analysis will be conducted when 381 events (progressions or deaths) are observed.
overall survival, The final analysis will be conducted when 381 events (progressions or deaths) are observed.|response rate, The final analysis will be conducted when 381 events (progressions or deaths) are observed.|patterns of failure, The final analysis will be conducted when 381 events (progressions or deaths) are observed.|safety, The final analysis will be conducted when 381 events (progressions or deaths) are observed.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer(NSCLC) is the leading cause of death in Korean men after stomach cancer. Surgical resection plays a main role for curative treatment. However, less than 20 % of the NSCLC patients have been found in stage I-II disease. In inoperable stage IIIA/B disease, the recommended treatment is combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Various kinds of combination of 2 modalities have been used either in sequential or concurrent setting. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy(CCRT) have been recognized to have better survival than radiation therapy alone or sequential therapy, but additional consolidation chemotherapy after CCRT is not yet to be determined for the beneficial role in survival gain. Docetaxel is an anticancer drug and has synergistic anticancer effect in various cancer with cisplatin, another anticancer drug. In the present study, randomised trial will be performed to confirm the efficacy of the consolidation chemotherapy with docetaxel and cisplatin after completing CCRT with the same chemotherapeutic agents in stage III inoperable NSCLC on progression free survival and overall survival.