Examination Of Exercise Adherence İn Lung Cancer Patients Given Calisthenic Exercise
Cancer treatments usually include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormone therapy, and/or a combination of these methods. These treatments cause many physical and psychological effects that interfere with functional independence, performing activities of daily living, and healthy quality of life. Mostly, depending on cancer and its treatment; Cognitive function, sleep pattern, functional capacity, pain state and bone mineral density are affected. Exercise compliance is the degree to which an individual's behavior is consistent with the health care provider's advice and treatment plan. According to the World Health Organization, compliance is "a measure of a person's behavior (such as following a recommended exercise program, monitoring drug intake, etc.). ) as a response to complying with recommendations deemed appropriate by health care professionals''. In the field of rehabilitation too, compliance is increasingly used in relation to the self-management of patients' health. It has been stated in the studies that the level of compliance with the recommended home exercise is generally low, which limits the benefits of exercise programs.
Exercise Addiction|Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Pyhsiohterapy and rehabilitation
Exercise compliance of patients with lung cancer who are given calisthenic exercise increases, Exercise compliance increases in patients who are given calisthenic exercises accompanied by a physiotherapist., 8 week
The functional capacity of patients with lung cancer who are given calisthenic exercise increases., The functional capacity of patients with lung cancer who are given calisthenic exercises under the guidance of a physiotherapist increases., 8 week
This study is a cross-sectional study. Lung cancer patients who applied to the Oncology Service and met the inclusion criteria will be included in the study. Patients will be randomly assigned to physical activity counseling and education groups.

Within the scope of the study, exercise compliance will be examined in patients with lung cancer who are given calisthenic exercise.

Participants will be evaluated before treatment, their functional capacities will be determined, their compliance with exercise, fatigue levels, pain levels, cognitive status, sleep and quality of life will be evaluated with questionnaires.

Home exercises will be taught to the physical activity counseling group and will be followed up under the supervision of a physiotherapist with weekly controls. Breathing exercises and calisthenic exercises will be taught to the training group, and participants will be followed under the supervision of a physiotherapist for 8 weeks, 3 days a week. Evaluations will be made before and after the treatment.

Individuals who do not agree to / give up participating in the study will be able to leave the study voluntarily.

All information belonging to individuals will be protected according to the personal data protection law.