The Effects of Ankaferd Blood Stopper
The purpose of oral care is to reduce the effect of oral pathological microbial flora and to prevent infection, pain, and bleeding associated with cancer treatment. New agents are introduced each day to be used in the prevention and treatment of mucositis in cancer treatment. One of those agents is the Ankaferd Hemostat. Ankaferd Hemostat has pleiotropic effects and anti-infective characteristics in tissue healing. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the Ankaferd Hemostat in the prevention of oral mucositis due to chemotherapy in adult patients diagnosed with colorectal cancer.

The study was designed as a randomized controlled experimental study to be conducted with patients who are recently diagnosed with colorectal cancer and will receive the first course of chemotherapyd. The data were collected using the Performance Score and the Oral Mucositis Evaluation Scale.
Colon Cancer|Oral Mucositis|Nurse's Role|Chemotherapy Effect
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Ankaferd Blood Stopper|OTHER: Bicarbonate
Personal Information Form, This form, which was created as a result of literature review by the researchers at the beginning of the study, was prepared for both the study and control group patients included in the sample. It consists of 12 questions including brushing habits and the person responsible for its care) and health status and habits (having another chronic disease, smoking and alcohol use)., day 1|ECOG Performance Score (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group), The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance scale, also known as the WHO or Zubrod performance score, was developed in 1960. On the ECOG Performance scale, 0 means normal health and 5 means death. Low scores indicate good general condition, while high scores indicate poor prognosis. '0' Normal. Can maintain normal activity before the disease, '1' Can continue his daily life with bearable tumor findings, '2', Has disturbing tumor findings but spends more than 50% of his time out of bed, '3' Is severely disturbed and spends % of his time It is evaluated as '4' Being in a very uncomfortable condition and spending all his time tied to the bed, '5' Dead, who had to stay more than 50 of them tied to the bed., Up to Day 15|Oral Care Control Chart, This form was developed by the researchers in order to ensure that patients' oral care intervals, tooth brushing and mouthwash are made and to prevent them from being forgotten. It was used to record the oral care performed by the patients in the intervention and control groups during the follow-up period. The form is a checklist to be filled by clicking after oral care., Up to Day 15
Number of participants with abnormal laboratory test results, hemoglobin, hematocrit, neutrofil, body mass index, Up to Day 15
World Health Organization (WHO) Oral Mucositis Evaluation, It is a grading system developed by WHO according to the clinical appearance and functional status of mucositis. WHO evaluates oral mucositis (OM) as subjective (patient-described pain), objective (presence of erythema and ulcerations) and functional (ability to consume liquid/solid foods by mouth or inability to eat anything). OM grade 0 (normal), grade 1 \[mild focal changes (erythematous areas) no pain and tenderness yet, can be fed orally\], grade 2 (painless ulcers, erythema, mild pain sensation), grade 3 (painful erythema, edema or ulcers) (depth \>2 mm and less than half of the mucosa) no bleeding, can only be fed orally with liquid diet) and grade 4 (erythema, edema or ulcers (more than half the mucosa), severe pain, bleeding, no nutrition, parenteral and enteral nutrition support may be required), Up to Day 15|patient education, Patients were informed about the precaution of oral hygiene. The patients were instructed to brush their teeth at least twice a day, morning and evening. Toothbrushes with soft nylon bristles with rounded ends were given to the patients. Modified Stillman method for tooth brushing was taught. The bristle ends of the brush should be placed in the apical direction, against the cervical part of the teeth and partially against the adjacent gingiva (it should be activated with a back-and-forth motion at least 4 times on each tooth at an angle of 450 and simultaneously move it in the coronal direction (from bottom to top, from right to left). announced., Up to Day 15
In patients with colorectal cancer, it is important to perform symptom management dynamically as well as specific treatments for cancer. It is extremely important for healthcare professionals to know the approaches that can be recommended to patients in the management of treatment and disease-related symptoms, in order to prevent problems that may develop in patients due to the severity of symptoms. Controlling the symptoms will increase the patient's functional capacity and quality of life.

Oral mucositis is one of the common toxic effects of chemotherapy. Pain due to mucositis causes anorexia-dysphagia development and malnutrition. As a result, systemic infections can develop, dose reduction in chemotherapy courses, increase in cost and prolongation of hospital stay. Looking at the literature, chloroxidine, glutamine, palifermin was used to prevent the development of mucositis during 5-Fu-based therapy for colon cancer. Solutions such as bicarbonate were used. Although it was determined in these studies to prevent the development of oral mucositis, the incidence of mucositis is still high. Therefore, the search for new treatments and applications to prevent mucositis continues. Ankaferd Hemostat is a herbal product used as a hemostatic agent in traditional Turkish medicine. Ankaferd Hemostat affects endothelium, blood cells, angiogenesis, cellular reproduction and vascular dynamics and stimulates mediators that lead to rapidly progressive wound healing. In addition to these, the anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antifungal and antioxidative effects of Ankaferd Hemostat are mentioned in the literature. In order to determine the effectiveness of Ankaferd Hemostat application in chemotherapy-induced oral mucositis in adult patients, there is a single study conducted on 20 patients with mucositis grade 2-3 with hematological malignancy. While it is stated in the literature that the healing time of mucositis is the week after 7-14 days, it was seen that this decreased to 6.6 (3-10) days in the study conducted by Atay.

In another study conducted in the field of dentistry, the effectiveness of Ankaferd Hemostat in preventing the development of oroantral fistula was evaluated. In a study comparing the use of Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) in one arm and Ankaferd Hemostat in the other arm, it was found that the antibacterial effect was more prominent in the Ankaferd Hemostat arm and the results of edema, bleeding and infection were similar in both arms .