Personalized Optimization of Systematic Prostate Biopsy
Targeted biopsy combined systematic biopsy is the gold standard for diagnosis of prostate cancer. Excessive cores in systematic biopsy increases the risk of puncture trauma， bleeding and infection. On the basis of establishing a model with DRS stratification to reduce the cores of systematic biopsy, we propose the (12 cores -x) model innovatively. We hope that through this prospective study to verify the efficacy of the model and provide patients with a new biopsy model with high accuracy and fewer complications.

In this study， patients with suspected prostate cancer were randomly divided into two groups. Experimental group received targeted biopsy combined personalized systematic biopsy, and the control group received targeted biopsy combined systematic biopsy. The differences of the detection rate of Prostate cancer between the two groups were compared.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Personalized Optimization of Systematic Prostate Biopsy
The detection rate of prostate cancer., According to the pathological results after biopsy, the detection rate of prostate cancer was calculated., 3 months after biopsy
In this study, patients with suspected prostate cancer were were enrolled at our institution, a public referral tertiary center. After written consent was obtained， patients were randomly assigned to either the intervention or control group in a 1:1 ratio using SPSS software by a research nurse with no clinical involvement in the trial. Once the allocation was established, neither patients nor investigators, including the member of the study who collected the data related to infectious events later, were blinded. Prior to biopsy, the following patient characteristics were obtained: age, BMI, serum PSA levels, location and size of the region of interest, and PIRADS-V2 score. Biopsy was performed by an experienced urologist using standard transperineal technique. The patient was placed in the lithotomy position and underwent either general anesthesia or local anesthesia (15 ml of 5% lidocaine was injected into the prostate capsule and apex under ultrasound guidance after the ultrasound probe was inserted transrectally for local anesthesia). Patients assigned to the experimental group were informed of the personalized systematic biopsy combined with targeted biopsy using the (12 cores -x) model (https://daringsky.shinyapps.io/prediction_v2/)， and the control group received targeted biopsy combined systematic biopsy. A biopsy core was obtained using an 18-gauge 25cm needle and a spring needle biopsy gun. The primary endpoint was the rate of prostate cancer diagnosis, including clinically significant cases. The secondary endpoints included pain scores and complications such as hematuria, perineal hematoma, urinary tract infection, and urinary retention.