Adebelimab Combined With Irinotecan Liposomal Injection, Oxaliplatin, Fluorouracil and Calcium Folinate Are Used in the First-line Treatment of Pancreatic Cancer Liver Metastasis Efficacy and Safety
1. Evaluation of adebelimab in combination with irinotecan liposomes, oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, efficacy and safety of leucovorin in the first-line treatment of advanced metastatic pancreatic cancer
2. Construct the model of immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy for the treatment of pancreatic cancer liver metastasis
Pancreatic Cancer Metastatic to Liver
DRUG: Irinotecan liposome|DRUG: Adebrelimab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Calcium folinate
ORR, The proportion of patients whose tumors shrink to a certain amount for a certain period of time and include cases of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Calculated as: (CR cases + PR cases) / FAS × 100 (%); FAS (full analysis set) refers to the case of qualified patients, administered more than one case.

Tumor remission rates are calculated according to the RECIST guidelines (version 1.1), Up to 1 year after the treatment
Pancreatic cancer is a cancer of the digestive system with a very high degree of malignancy and a very poor prognosis. In recent years, morbidity and death. The rate shows a clear upward trend at home and abroad. Global cancer statistics in 2020 show that there are new pancreas cases worldwide each year. There are about 495,000 cases of adenocarcinoma and about 466,000 deaths from pancreatic cancer each year. Statistical tables for 2020. In the United States, there are about 57,600 new cases of pancreatic cancer every year, and about 47,050 deaths due to pancreatic cancer each year. Data from pancreatic cancer collected by the National Cancer Center of China in 2019. show that the incidence of pancreatic cancer in Chinese is:6.92 per 100,000, with new cases accounting for about 4.31% of all malignant tumors; The case fatality rate is 6.16 per 100,000 and deaths per year Cases account for about 3.78% of all malignancies. The specific etiology and pathogenesis of pancreatic cancer are unclear, and most (85%). It is an adenocarcinoma originating from the ductal epithelium. Early symptoms are atypical, and most patients are diagnosed locally advanced or out. Now distant metastasis. In the past decade, the first-line treatment regimen for pancreatic cancer has been AG, FOLFIRINOX, GS as the commonly used chemotherapy regimens, and the median OS was 8.5 months, 11.1 months, and 10.1 months, respectively. First-line treatment for pancreatic cancer still needs to be explored. The advent of plastid Iriconia has changed the landscape of first-line treatments, and the NAPOLI-3 study compared NALIRINOX (liposome irinotecan, oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, leucovorin) and AG regimens in the first-line treatment of metastatic pancreatic cancer and safety, with a median follow-up of 16.1 months, showed that the median OS of NALIRINOX versus AG was respectively 11.1 versus 9.2 months (HR 0.83 \[95% CI 0.70-0.99\]; p=0.036), and the median PFS was 7.4 vs. 5.6, respectively months (HR 0.69 \[0.58-0.83\]; p\<0.0001), the ORR was 42% and 36%, respectively. Based on this research The FDA approved liposomal irinotecan in combination with oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin for the first-line treatment of metastatic pancreas Indications for adenocarcinoma.

Jiangsu Hengrui Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. developed irinotecan hydrochloride liposome injection (HR070803) has both protection Protective, long-term cyclic and passively targeted. HR070803 combination with 5-FU/LV for second-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic pancreas after failure of gemcitabine therapy Adenocarcinoma. Significantly prolonged the subject's OS compared to placebo in combination with 5-FU/LV, with a clinically meaningful difference, Significantly lower risk of death. In addition, HR070803 in combination with 5-FU/LV may also prolong the subject's PFS and TTF, and improve ORR and CA19-9 response rates. At the same time, HR070803 combined with 5-FU/LV in advanced pancreas. The type of AE observed in the treatment of adenocarcinoma is consistent with that of regular irinotecan, and there are gastrointestinal reactions, hematotoxic. It is less sexual, well tolerated, and safe and controllable.

Based on the above evidence, this study explored the efficacy and safety of adebelimab, irinotecan liposome, oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin in the first-line treatment of advanced metastatic pancreatic cancer.