Neoadjuvant Tislelizumab With Chemotherapy for the Treatment of MSS Colon Cancer
This study aims to elucidate the effects of neoadjuvant Tislelizumab combined with chemotherapy in locally advanced Microsatellite Stable (MSS) colon cancer.
Colonic Neoplasms|Neoadjuvant Therapy|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine|PROCEDURE: Colectomy
pCR, the proportion of tumor regression grades 0 (TRG0, disappearance of tumor cells) in the pathological specimens of surgically resected tumors., 3-5 days of postoperative pathological examination
R0 resection, the rate of a microscopically margin-negative resection, in which no gross or microscopic tumor remains in the primary tumor bed., 3-5 days of postoperative pathological examination|Disease-free survival (DFS), 3-year disease-free survival, From date of the patient signs the informed consent form until the date of earliest occurrence of the patient's tumor recurrence or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|Overall survival (OS), 3-year overall survival, From the date of the patient signs the informed consent form until the date of the patient's death, assessed up to 36 months.|Adverse events (AEs), the rate of adverse events, up to half a year|Immune-related adverse events (irAEs), the rate of immune-related adverse events, up to half a year|Surgical complication, the rate of surgical complication during or after operation., From the day of surgery to 30 days after the operation, including intraoperative and postoperative complications.|T lymphocyte, Cells with cellular immune function. The types and counts of T cells are analyzed using flow cytometry., up to 3 months after surgery.|Gene mutation signatures of colon cancer, Next-generation target sequencing is performed to analyze the gene mutation signatures., up to 3 months before surgery
The standard treatment for locally advanced colon cancer is complete mesocolic excision (CME) followed by adjuvant chemotherapy. The MOSAIC and 16968 studies have shown that about 30% of patients experience recurrence and metastasis within 6-7 years after surgery. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy may improve the prognosis of colon cancer patients. The significant tumor remission after neoadjuvant therapy probably indicates a better long-term survival for patients. The OPTICAL and Fluoropyrimidine Oxaliplatin and Targeted Receptor Pre-Operative Therapy (FoxTROT) studies have shown that approximately 35% of patients are resistant to oxaliplatin-containing neoadjuvant chemotherapy, with a pathological complete response (pCR) rate of less than 10% and uncertain survival improvement. Moreover, previous study shown that immunotherapy has unsatisfied efficacy for microsatellite stable (MSS) colon cancer. Therefore, it is necessary to explore more effective neoadjuvant treatment strategy for tumor therapy.

Immunogenic cell death will be enhanced by oxaliplatin-induced immunogenicity and combined with anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibodies for neoadjuvant therapy. The study will conduct 2 or 4 cycles of Tislelizumab with Oxaliplatin and Capecitabine, followed by CME surgery. The study's primary endpoint is the proportion of pCR in the pathological specimens of surgically resected tumors.