Vaccine Therapy Following Chemotherapy & Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Vaccines made from a person's cancer cells may make the body build an immune response to kill cancer cells. Vaccine therapy may be an effective treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of vaccine therapy following chemotherapy and peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients who have non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: autologous tumor cell vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: keyhole limpet hemocyanin|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy
Number of Participants With Humoral and Cellular Immune Response, evaluate the humoral immune responses and cellular immune responses to idiotype vaccine with KLH and GM-CSF adjuvant given to patients with follicular lymphoma following high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation, immune responses will be obtained prior to first immunization (baseline), prior to the 5th, 6th, 7th immunization series and 2 weeks following administration of the 7th immunization series. And then obtained annually until disease progression
Safety of Idiotype Vaccine, To evaluate the safety of idiotype vaccine with KLH and GM-CSF adjuvant in the post-transplant setting, At each immunization and at study completion|Toxicity of Idiotype Vaccine, To evaluate the toxicity of idiotype vaccine with KLH and GM-CSF adjuvant in the post-transplant setting, At each immunization and at study completion|Changes in Quantitative Bcl-2, To evaluate changes in quantitative bcl-2 of the blood and bone marrow prior to and at various time points following the series of idiotype vaccines., 1 year post transplant evaluation and then annually until disease progression
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the humoral and cellular immune responses in patients with follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with autologous lymphoma-derived idiotype vaccine with keyhole limpet hemocyanin plus sargramostim (GM-CSF).
* Determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients in the post-transplant setting.
* Determine the changes in quantitative bcl-2 in the blood and bone marrow of these patients before and at various times after the series of idiotype vaccines.

OUTLINE: Vaccinations begin at day 100 or up to 6 months after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Patients receive autologous lymphoma-derived idiotype vaccine plus keyhole limpet hemocyanin subcutaneously (SC) on day 1. Sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC is administered on days 1-4. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 4 doses, followed 12 weeks later by the fifth and final dose.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients will be accrued for this study.