Phase II Single Vs Hypofractionated Irradiation for Timely Access to Partial Breast Radiotherapy
Partial Breast Irradiation (PBI) is a targeted radiation approach commonly administered post-lumpectomy, specifically targeting the tumour bed. This targeted therapy reduces the exposure to other nearby tissues such as lungs, heart, and chest wall. However, traditional PBI treatment involves lengthy multiple fraction courses which presents a burden to patients from rural and remote communities, who must travel long distances to receive high quality cancer care. The purpose of this study is to compare single fraction (SF) PBI vs. multiple fraction (MF) PBI.
Breast Cancer Early Stage Breast Cancer (Stage 1-3)
RADIATION: Multiple Fraction PBI|RADIATION: Single Fraction PBI
Number of participants accrued, Number of participants accrued in each of the BC cancer centres over a 2-year period for randomization to 1 vs 5 fractions of radiotherapy for PBI., 2 years
Quality of life assessed using the POSI-Breast questionnaire, Prospective Outcomes and Support Initiative (POSI) for Breast Data will be used to measure and compare the quality of life of participants in both arms., Baseline, 2 weeks, 2 months, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24 months post treatment|Rates of provider-rated toxicities: Occurrences of adverse events as measured by CTCAE, Participant-Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) Data will be used to measure and compare participant-reported toxicities in both arms., Baseline, 2 weeks, 2 months, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24 months post treatment
Radiation can be delivered in multiple fractions, or doses, and can take up to several weeks or months of treatment depending on the type of cancer. Radiation can also be offered in a single fraction. Both techniques have evidence for use in clinical care. Multiple fraction is offered to reduce the amount of radiation given at a single time that could reduce late toxicities. However, single fraction radiotherapy is more cost-effective and saves patient time. With this trial, we will compare single fraction vs. multiple fraction PBI in regards to their impact on quality of life, rates of provider and participant reported toxicities, and local control.