Harvesting Health Program in Improving Diet and Physical Activity Level in Cancer Survivors
This pilot clinical trial studies the Harvesting Health Program in improving the diet and physical activity level of cancer survivors. Nutrition and physical activity classes and the opportunity to harvest fruits, vegetables, and herbs may increase participants' fruit and vegetable consumption and physical activity levels. Studying the participation rates and changes in participants' eating and physical activity habits may help doctors learn whether the program has an effect on participant lifestyle.
Cancer Survivor
OTHER: education|OTHER: nutrition intervention|BEHAVIORAL: exercise intervention|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment
Percentage of sessions attended, as measured by mobile scanner, Analyzed with standard descriptive statistics. Measures of central tendency (mean and/or median) and spread (standard deviation, quartiles, minimum and maximum) will be reported., Up to 6 months|Number of hits on the web portal, Analyzed with standard descriptive statistics. Measures of central tendency (mean and/or median) and spread (standard deviation, quartiles, minimum and maximum) will be reported., Up to 12 months
Number of web hits on portal pages, Quantitative and qualitative analysis will be performed on the harvest log to determine common themes and feedback from the participants., Up to 12 months|Program evaluation overall score, Quantitative and qualitative analysis will be performed on the harvest log to determine common themes and feedback from the participants., Up to 20 weeks|Change in behavior, measured by Nutrition & Physical Activity Scorecards, The hypothesis of no change in the overall scorecard value will be tested versus a two sided alternative using a paired T-test at alpha level 0.025 (Bonferroni corrected for 2 scorecards). Exploratory analyses may be completed to understand which components of these Scorecards are driving the improvement or degradation in scores., Baseline to 12 months|Change in biomarker levels, assessed by values for the Health & Wellness Index, Biomarkers include blood glucose, lipid panel (total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein, low-density lipoprotein, triglycerides), skin antioxidant score and bone density. The hypothesis of no change in these markers will be tested using a multivariate Hotelling's T-squared test at the 0.05 level. If a significant difference is noted, then the individual scores will be further tested with paired t-tests to determine which are significantly different. The p-values of the individual t-tests will be adjusted via a Bonferroni correction., Baseline to 6 months|Change in physical activity using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire, This questionnaire categorizes respondents into "Low", "Moderate", or "High" activity levels based upon survey responses., Baseline to 12 months|Change in nutrient intake, Viowell food frequency questionnaire, Baseline to 6 months
Change in Quality of Life using the Short Form-12 (SF-12), The SF-12 is a, Baseline to 6 months|Change in depression scale using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale Revised (CED-R), The CED-R is a screening test for depression and depressive disorder. The range of scores is between 0 and 60 and a score over 16 indicates depression., Baseline to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Measure survivor participation in regards to each aspect of the Harvesting Health Program (personalized and group education, gardening and harvesting, and utilization of novel web-based technologies).

II. Assess survivor preferences regarding key Harvesting Health Program components impacting participation (physical facilities, schedule and timing, education topics and sessions, garden access, web portal usability, etc.).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. A customized "Nutrition \& Physical Activity Scorecard" has been developed and will be implemented to evaluate pre/post measures of diet and physical activity at baseline (month 0) and at months 6, 9 and 12.

II. Participants are evaluated at baseline and at completion of the intervention for: (a) serum and body composition biomarkers of exposure and efficacy, and (b) health indices related to cancer survivorship and overall health.

III. To assess Program sustainability, follow-up questionnaires will be completed at 9 and 12 months using the Nutrition \& Physical Activity Scorecard and questionnaires regarding quality of life outcomes.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo a series of 10 education and training sessions over 1 hour every 2 weeks, comprising education on current research, evidence-based health guidelines, application techniques, reference materials specific to extended-stage cancer survivors, and recommendations and personal health goals for survivorship.