A Study of Pertuzumab in Combination With Herceptin in Patients With HER2 Positive Breast Cancer.
This 4 arm study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of 4 neoadjuvant treatment regimens in female patients with locally advanced, inflammatory or early stage HER2 positive breast cancer. Before surgery, patients will be randomized to one of 4 treatment arms, to receive 4 cycles of a)Herceptin + docetaxel b)Herceptin + docetaxel + pertuzumab c)Herceptin + pertuzumab or 4)pertuzumab + docetaxel. Pertuzumab will be administered at a loading dose of 840mg iv, then 420mg iv 3-weekly, Herceptin at a loading dose of 8mg/kg iv then 6mg/kg 3-weekly, and docetaxel at a dose of 75mg/m2 escalating to 100mg/m2 3-weekly. During the entire pre- and post-surgery period all patients will receive adequate chemotherapy as per standard of care, as well as any surgery and/or radiotherapy as required. The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months, and the target sample size is 100-500 individuals.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Herceptin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Pertuzumab
Percentage of Participants Achieving Pathological Complete Response (pCR), pCR was defined as an absence of invasive neoplastic cells at microscopic examination of the tumor remnants after surgery following primary systemic therapy. Participants with invalid/missing pCR assessments were defined as non-responders, Approximately 4 months from randomization following surgery or early withdrawal, whichever occurred first (Surgery was performed within 2 weeks after Cycle 4)|Percentage of Participants Achieving pCR by Breast Cancer Type, pCR was defined as an absence of invasive neoplastic cells at microscopic examination of the tumor remnants after surgery following primary systemic therapy. Based on the type of breast cancer participants were categorized as those with 1. Operable breast cancer, 2. Inflammatory breast cancer and 3. Locally advanced breast cancer. Participants with invalid/missing pCR assessments were defined as non-responders., Approximately 4 months from randomization following surgery or early withdrawal, whichever occurred first (Surgery was performed within 2 weeks after Cycle 4)|Percentage of Participants Achieving pCR by Hormone Receptor Status, pCR was defined as an absence of invasive neoplastic cells at microscopic examination of the tumor remnants after surgery following primary systemic therapy. Participants were classified as Estrogen and/or Progesterone positive (+ve), Estrogen and/or Progesterone negative (-ve) or receptor status unknown. Participants with invalid/missing pCR assessments were defined as non-responders., Approximately 4 months from randomization following surgery or early withdrawal, whichever occurred first (Surgery was performed within 2 weeks after Cycle 4)|Percentage of Participants Achieving pCR by Lymph Node Status, pCR was defined as an absence of invasive neoplastic cells at microscopic examination of the tumor remnants after surgery following primary systemic therapy. Lymph node status was defined as either negative lymph node at surgery or positive lymph node at surgery. Participants with invalid/missing pCR assessments were defined as non-responders., Approximately 4 months from randomization following surgery or early withdrawal, whichever occurred first (Surgery was performed within 2 weeks after Cycle 4)|Percentage of Participants Achieving pCR by Presence or Absence of Residual Intraductal Carcinoma (DCIS) / Intalobular Carcinoma (LCIS), pCR was defined as an absence of invasive neoplastic cells at microscopic examination of the tumor remnants after surgery following primary systemic therapy. Participants with invalid/missing pCR assessments were defined as non-responders., Approximately 4 months from randomization following surgery or early withdrawal, whichever occurred first (Surgery was performed within 2 weeks after Cycle 4)
Percentage of Participants Achieving Best Primary Tumor Response (Complete Response [CR], Partial Response [PR], Stable Disease [SD] or Disease Progression [PD]) During Neo-Adjuvant Treatment by X-Ray/Mammography, Tumor assessments were made based upon the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria - version 1.0. The clinical response at each cycle up to the last assessment prior to surgery was derived for primary breast tumor using the following algorithm: CR: if measurement of '0' is noted at a given cycle as compared to baseline measurement which is greater than (\>)0 at screening or cycle 1 Day 1; PR: if measurement is at least a 30 percent (%) decreased compared to baseline levels . (Reference= baseline size or sum of sizes); SD: if measurement at a given cycle is not sufficient shrinkage to qualify for neither PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD compared to baseline levels. PD: if lesion is at least a 20 % increase from measurements at baseline., Baseline up to Cycle 4 (assessed at, Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 Pre-Surgery) Up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants Achieving Best Overall Response (CR, PR, SD or PD) During Neo-Adjuvant Period by X-Ray/Mammography, Tumor assessments were made based on the RECIST criteria - version 1.0 The overall response at each cycle up to the last assessment prior to surgery was derived for: i) the primary breast lesion; (ii) across secondary breast lesions, (iii) across all breast lesions (iv) across axillary nodes (v) across supraclavicular nodes and (vi) across all nodes (vii) across all lesions (overall) using the following algorithm: CR: if measurement of '0' is noted at a given cycle as compared to baseline measurement which is \>0 at screening or cycle 1 day 1; PR: if measurement is at least a 30% decreased compared to baseline levels . (Reference= baseline size or sum of sizes); SD: if measurement at a given cycle is not sufficient shrinkage to qualify for neither PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD compared to baseline levels. PD: if lesion is at least a 20 % increase from measurements at baseline. Overall response is derived based on the sum total of breast tumors and all nodes examined., Baseline up to Cycle 4 (assessed at Baseline, Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 Pre-Surgery) Up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants Achieving Best Primary Breast Tumor Response (CR, PR, SD or PD) During Neo-Adjuvant Period by Clinical Examination, Tumor assessments were made based on the RECIST criteria - version 1.0 The clinical response at each cycle up to the last assessment prior to surgery was derived for primary breast tumor using the following algorithm: CR: if measurement of '0' is noted at a given cycle as compared to baseline measurement which is \>0 at screening or cycle 1 day 1; PR: if measurement is at least a 30% decreased compared to baseline levels . (Reference= baseline size or sum of sizes); SD: if measurement at a given cycle is not sufficient shrinkage to qualify for neither PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD compared to baseline levels. PD: if lesion is at least a 20 % increase from measurements at baseline. Overall response is derived based on the sum total of breast tumors and all nodes examined., Baseline up to Cycle 4 (assessed at Baseline, Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 Pre-Surgery) Up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants Achieving Best Overall Response (CR, PR, SD or PD) During the Neo-Adjuvant Period by Clinical Examination, Tumor assessments were made based on the RECIST criteria - version 1.0 The clinical response at each cycle up to the last assessment prior to surgery was derived for: i) the primary breast lesion; (ii) across secondary breast lesions, (iii) across all breast lesions (iv) across axillary nodes (v) across supraclavicular nodes and (vi) across all nodes (vii) across all lesions (overall) using the following algorithm: CR: if measurement of '0' is noted at a given cycle as compared to baseline measurement which is \>0 at screening or cycle 1 day 1; PR: if measurement is at least a 30% decreased compared to baseline levels . (Reference= baseline size or sum of sizes); SD: if measurement at a given cycle is not sufficient shrinkage to qualify for neither PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD compared to baseline levels. PD: if lesion is at least a 20 % increase from measurements at baseline. Overall response is derived based on the sum total of breast tumors and all nodes examined., Baseline up to Cycle 4 (assessed at Baseline, Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 Pre-Surgery) Up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants Achieving Clinical Response During Neo-Adjuvant Period by X-Ray/Mammography, Clinical response was determined based on tumor measurements by sponsor in combination with tumor response assessment by investigator. Tumor assessments were made based on the RECIST criteria - version 1.0 The clinical response at each cycle up to the last assessment prior to surgery was derived for: i) the primary breast lesion; (ii) across secondary breast lesions, (iii) across all breast lesions (iv) across axillary nodes (v) across supraclavicular nodes and (vi) across all nodes (vii) across all lesions (overall) using the following algorithm: CR: if measurement of '0' is noted at a given cycle as compared to baseline measurement which is \>0 at screening or cycle 1 day 1; PR: if measurement is at least a 30% decreased compared to baseline levels . (Reference= baseline size or sum of sizes). Clinical Responders are participants who have achieved CR or PR during the Neo-adjuvant treatment. Overall response is derived based on the sum total of breast tumors and all nodes examined., Baseline up to Cycle 4 (assessed at Baseline, Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 Pre-Surgery) Up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants Achieving Clinical Response During Neo-Adjuvant Period by Clinical Examination, Tumor assessments were made based on the RECIST criteria - version 1.0 The clinical response at each cycle up to the last assessment prior to surgery was derived for: i) the primary breast lesion; (ii) across secondary breast lesions, (iii) across all breast lesions (iv) across axillary nodes (v) across supraclavicular nodes and (vi) across all nodes (vii) across all lesions (overall) using the following algorithm: CR: if measurement of '0' is noted at a given cycle as compared to baseline measurement which is \>0 at screening or cycle 1 day 1; PR: if measurement is at least a 30% decreased compared to baseline levels . (Reference= baseline size or sum of sizes). Clinical Responders are participants who have achieved CR or PR during the Neo-adjuvant treatment. Primary breast tumor clinical response is based on primary breast tumor assessment. Overall response is derived based on the sum total of breast tumors and all nodes examined., Baseline up to Cycle 4 (assessed at Baseline, Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 Pre-Surgery) Up to approximately 24 months|Time to Clinical Response During Neo-Adjuvant Treatment Period, Time to clinical response was defined as the time from the date of first dose received to the date of assessment of clinical response. Time to Clinical response was determined by Kaplan-Meier estimates. Tumor assessments were made based on the RECIST criteria - version 1.0. The clinical response at each cycle up to the last assessment prior to surgery was derived for: i) the primary breast lesion; (ii) across secondary breast lesions, (iii) across all breast lesions (iv) across axillary nodes (v) across supraclavicular nodes and (vi) across all nodes (vii) across all lesions (overall) using the following algorithm: CR: if measurement of '0' is noted at a given cycle as compared to baseline measurement which is \>0 at screening or cycle 1 day 1; PR: if measurement is at least a 30% decreased compared to baseline levels . (Reference= baseline size or sum of sizes). Clinical Responders are participants who have achieved CR or PR during the Neo-adjuvant treatment., Baseline up to Cycle 4 (assessed at Baseline, Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 Pre-Surgery) Up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants With Progressive Disease During Neo-Adjuvant Treatment Period, Tumor assessments were made based upon the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria - version 1.0. The clinical response at each cycle up to the last assessment prior to surgery was derived for: i) the primary breast lesion; (ii) across secondary breast lesions, (iii) across all breast lesions (iv) across axillary nodes (v) across supraclavicular nodes and (vi) across all nodes (vii) across all lesions (overall) using the following algorithm: PD: if lesion is at least a 20 % increased from measurements at baseline. Percentage of participants along with 95% Confidence Interval (CI) for one sample binomial using Pearson-Clopper method were reported. Missing investigator assessments were considered as no progressive disease., Baseline up to Cycle 4 (assessed at Baseline, Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 Pre-Surgery) Up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants Achieving Breast Conserving Surgery For Whom Mastectomy Was Planned, Breast Conserving Surgery (BCS) was defined as quadrantectomy, lumpectomy, no surgery, sentinel node biopsy, axillary surgical resection or other method of avoiding mastectomy., Surgery (Within 2 weeks after Cycle 4) Up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants Who Were Progression Free and Disease Free, Disease-free survival (DFS) was defined as the time from first date of no disease to first documentation of PD or death. Participants without progression after surgery were considered Disease Free. Any evidence of contralateral disease in-situ was not considered as PD. Participants who were withdrawn from the study without documented progression and for whom evaluations were made, were censored at date of last assessment when participant was known to be disease-free. Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as time from date of randomization to first documentation of PD or death. Any evidence of contralateral disease in-situ was not considered as PD. Participants who were withdrawn from study without documented progression and for whom evaluations were made, were censored at date of last assessment when the participant was known to be free from progressive disease. Participants without post baseline assessments but known to be alive were censored at the time of randomization., Randomization up to a maximum of 329 weeks|Progression Free and Disease Free Survival, DFS was defined as the time from the first date of no disease (date of surgery) to the first documentation of PD or death. Participants without progression after surgery were considered Disease Free. Any evidence of contralateral disease in-situ was not considered as PD. PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first documentation of PD or death. Any evidence of contralateral disease in-situ was not considered as PD. DFS and PFS were determined using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Randomization up to a maximum of 329 weeks
This 4 arm study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of 4 neoadjuvant treatment regimens in female patients with locally advanced, inflammatory or early stage HER2 positive breast cancer. Before surgery, patients will be randomized to one of 4 treatment arms, to receive 4 cycles of a)Herceptin + docetaxel b)Herceptin + docetaxel + pertuzumab c)Herceptin + pertuzumab or 4)pertuzumab + docetaxel. Pertuzumab will be administered at a loading dose of 840mg iv, then 420mg iv 3-weekly, Herceptin at a loading dose of 8mg/kg iv then 6mg/kg 3-weekly, and docetaxel at a dose of 75mg/m2 escalating to 100mg/m2 3-weekly. During the entire pre- and post-surgery period all patients will receive adequate chemotherapy as per standard of care, as well as any surgery and/or radiotherapy as required. The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months, and the target sample size is 100-500 individuals.