Vaccination With PD-L1 Peptide Against Multiple Myeloma
Title: Vaccination with PD-L1 peptide with Montanide against multiple myeloma after high dose chemotherapy with stem cell support. A phase I first-in-human study.

Hypothesis: In this trial the investigators assess a new immunotherapeutic strategy targeting the immune checkpoint molecule PD-L1 to investigate the potential of vaccination against PD-L1 as a possible anticancer target.
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: PD-L1 peptide vaccine
Incidence of toxicity, CTCAE = Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v. 4.0 will be used for registration of toxicity, 12 months
Evaluation of immunological responses, Immunological assays will be used to identify immunological responses., 12 months
Clinical response, Will be described according to standard IMWG-criteria for multiple myeloma., 12 months
Background: Multiple myeloma is the second most common hematologic cancer which is despite advances in treatment is still incurable for most patients.

In this trial the investigators assess a new immunotherapeutic strategy targeting the immune checkpoint molecule PD-L1 to investigate the potential of vaccination against PD-L1 as a possible anticancer target.

PD-L1 has been recognized as an important factor in immune regulation and development of immune tolerance in the microenvironment of cancer cells. Cells that express PD-L1 on their surface are known to inhibit the immune system. As seen with the recent advances in immunotherapy against cancer with antibodies against PD-L1, the the immunosuppressive role of the molecule PD-L1 can be antagonized to the benefit of patients with cancer. PD-L1 is expressed on both cancer cells, antigen presenting cells and immunosuppressive cells in the tumor micro-environment. Vaccination against PD-L1 is therefore two sided. The investigators aim to stimulate PD-L1 specific T-cells, hence eliminating both PD-L1 positive tumor cells as well as PD-L1 positive immunosuppressive and antigen presenting cells in the tumor microenvironment. The primary endpoints are safety and toxicity evaluation. Secondary endpoint is immunological response. Clinical response will be described.