Lymphokine-Activated Killer Cells or Gliadel Wafer in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme That Can Be Removed by Surgery
RATIONALE: Biological therapies, such as lymphokine-activated killer cells, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as Gliadel wafer, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. It is not yet known whether lymphokine-activated killer cells are more effective than Gliadel wafer in treating patients with glioblastoma multiforme.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well lymphokine-activated killer cells work compared with Gliadel wafer in treating patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme that can be removed by surgery.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: lymphokine-activated killer cells|DRUG: polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant
Overall survival, 5 years or death, whichever came first.
Rate of significant surgical wound infection (grade 3 or 4), 4 weeks from date of study treatment.|Rate of grade 3 or 4 non-infectious wound complications, 4 weeks from date of study treatment.|Toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 3.0, 4 weeks from date of study treatment.
OBJECTIVES:

* To compare the side effects, including infections and/or abnormal healing at the surgery site, associated with intralesional lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells vs polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant (Gliadel® wafer) as consolidation therapy for patients with newly diagnosed resectable glioblastoma multiforme.
* To compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to age (\< 50 vs ≥ 50 years of age), Karnofsky performance status (70-80% vs 90-100%), use of corticosteroids \> 4 mg/day (yes vs no), and progressive disease during first-line therapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients undergo intracranial placement of polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant (Gliadel® wafer) at the time of therapeutic craniotomy.
* Arm II: Patients undergo leukapheresis to obtain autologous lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells, followed 3-7 days later by therapeutic craniotomy. The autologous LAK cells are then instilled into the tumor bed cavity at the time of therapeutic craniotomy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.