Clinical Research of Pomalidomide Maintenance Therapy for Primary Multiple Myeloma
The trial is a single-center, single-arm, prospective clinical study with a planned enrollment of 15 patients with primary Multiple myeloma(MM), aiming to investigate the efficacy and safety of maintenance therapy with Pomalidomide in patients with primary MM. Patients enrolled were divided into two categories: 1) patients suitable for Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation(ASCT) started pomalidomide maintenance therapy 3 months after ASCT; 2) patients not suitable for ASCT started pomalidomide maintenance therapy after induction and consolidation therapy to achieve maximum efficacy. Dosing on days 1-21, 2 mg daily for 28 days as a cycle, for a total duration of 36 months or the onset of disease progression, intolerable adverse events. 2-year progression-free survival (2y-PFS) was used as the primary study endpoint, 2-year overall survival (2y-OS), complete remission rate (CR), very good partial remission rate (VGPR), and negative rate of minimal residual disease(MRD) were secondary study endpoints, and the incidence of adverse events (AEs) was assessed.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Pomalidomide
2-year progression-free survival(2y-PFS), 2y-PFS was defined as the proportion of patients who reached at least 2 years from the first day of treatment to the time of disease progression or death., up to 24 months.
2-year overall survival(2y-OS), 2y-OS was defined as the proportion of patients with a time from the first day of treatment to death of at least 2 years., up to 24 months.|Complete remission(CR), It includes strict complete remission (sCR), CR: negative serum and urine immunofixation electrophoresis and bone marrow plasma cells \<5%; sCR: normal serum free light chain ratio and absence of clonal plasma cells in bone marrow confirmed by immunohistochemistry on the basis of meeting CR criteria;, up to 24 months.|very good partial remission(VGPR), VGPR: undetectable M protein by serum protein electrophoresis but still positive by serum and and urine immunofixation electrophoresis, or ≥90% reduction in M protein and urine M protein \<100 mg/24h., up to 24 months.|negative rate of minimal residual disease, Flow cytometry was used to detect cells with abnormal immunophenotype, and residual tumor cells \<10-4 were considered negative., up to 24 months.|adverse events, number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE 5.0, Adverse event reports are collected once a month during treatment, up to 24 months.
Maintenance regimens based on thalidomide and lenalidomide have been shown in numerous clinical trials to significantly improve PFS in patients, but the use of thalidomide is limited by adverse effects such as peripheral neurotoxicity and post-relapse drug resistance. Pomalidomide is a third-generation immunomodulator with a similar structure to thalidomide and lenalidomide, but with stronger anti-MM activity and a similar safety profile. The known mechanisms of action include (1) immunomodulatory effects (2) direct antitumor effects (3) anti-angiogenic activity. (4) Effects on the bone marrow microenvironment. The most common toxicities of pomalidomide include bone marrow suppression, skin reactions, gastrointestinal reactions, and infections, etc. Peripheral neuropathy is less common than thalidomide, and the incidence of thromboembolism is \<5%. Pomalidomide is currently used mainly in the treatment of relapsed refractory adult MM, and exploration in post-ASCT maintenance therapy is currently ongoing (NCT01745588). Several retrospective analyses suggest that low-dose pomalidomide may have potential in the maintenance treatment of patients with MM. Therefore, investigators developed a maintenance regimen of low-dose pomalidomide to assess the value of maintenance therapy in MM patients who underwent ASCT or who were not suitable for ASCT. Such regimens may reduce drug toxicity and provide greater clinical benefit for patients with MM.