Nab-Paclitaxel to Paclitaxel in Advanced Urothelial Cancer Progressing on or After Platinum Containing Regimen.
The purpose of this study is to compare the effects on urothelial cancer of nab-paclitaxel compared to paclitaxel to treat this disease.

This research is being done because currently there is no effective treatment for urothelial cancer that has progressed after prior chemotherapy.
Urothelial Cancer
DRUG: Nab-Paclitaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Progression-Free Survival, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause., 42 months
Overall Survival, Time from randomization to the date of death due to any causes, or censored at last contact date., 42 months|Clinical Benefit Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter since the treatment started. Clinical Benefit Rate = OR + SD \> 12 weeks., 42 months|Time to Response, Time from the date of randomkization to the date of objective response according to RECIST Response Criteria was first achieved., 42 months|Health Related Quality of Life Evaluated Using EORTC-C15-Pal, Quality of life will be assessed using the EORTC-C15-PAL questionnaire plus additional study specific questions.

Changes in quality of life scores while on treatment (compared to baseline scores) will be examined using descriptive analyses and inferential statistics. The primary test to compare treatment arms will be the NCIC CTG Quality of Life Committee suggested response analyses. A change score of 10 points from baseline was defined as clinically relevant. Patients were considered improved if reported a score 10-points or better than baseline at any time point in QoL assessment. Conversely, patients were considered worsened if reported a score minus 10-points or worse than baseline at any time point in QOL assessment without the above-defined improvement being observed. Patients whose scores were between 10-point changes from baseline at every QoL assessment were considered as stable., 42 months
Nab-paclitaxel is a formulation of the chemotherapeutic drug paclitaxel that is combined with a human protein called albumin. In Canada, nab-paclitaxel is currently approved for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. This drug has been tested in other cancers and has shown promising activity in lung cancer, melanoma and pancreatic cancer. Information from research studies suggests that nab-paclitaxel may be a useful treatment for urothelial cancer.