Clinical Study on the Treatment of Anorexia and Cachexia in Advanced Gastric and Esophageal Cancer With Nanosized Megestrol Acetate Combined With Immunochemotherapy
This study is a prospective, randomized, parallel-controlled, multicenter clinical study. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of nanocrystalline megestrol acetate combined with the first-line standard immunochemotherapy regimen compared with the first-line standard immunochemotherapy regimen in the treatment of anorexia and cachexia in advanced gastric and esophageal cancer. Eligible patients with gastric and esophageal cancer will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the nanocrystalline megestrol acetate combination group (referred to as the megestrol acetate group for short) or the first-line standard immunochemotherapy group (referred to as the standard control group for short).
Advanced Gastroesophageal Cancer
DRUG: Nanocrystal Megestrol Acetate in Combination with First-Line Standard Immuno-Chemotherapy Regimen|DRUG: First-Line Standard Immuno-Chemotherapy Regimen
Improvement in Quality of Life for Patients with Advanced Gastric Cancer and Esophageal Cancer, Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30; Physicians' Global Assessment score). The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), a 30-item instrument, assesses health-related quality of life in cancer patients. The scale assesses 15 domains: 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales, 6 single-item measures, and 1 global quality of life scale. Compared to baseline, a score change of ≥10 points in functional scales or the global quality of life scale indicates clinical significance (higher scores represent better functioning or quality of life). For symptom scales/single-item measures, a score increase ≥10 points signifies deterioration (higher scores indicate more severe symptoms or problems). An improvement is defined as either a ≥10-point increase in functional scale scores or a ≥10-point decrease in symptom scale scores., 1year|Changes in Body Weight Relative to Baseline in Patients with Advanced Gastric and Esophageal Cancers, 1. Body weight (kg);
2. Height (m);
3. BMI (kg/m², calculated from weight and height)., 1year
Impact on Survival Benefits in Patients with Advanced Gastric and Esophageal Cancers, Progression-Free Survival, 1year|Impact on Survival Benefits in Patients with Advanced Gastric and Esophageal Cancers, Overall Survival, 1year|Impact on Body Composition in Patients with Advanced Gastric and Esophageal Cancers, L3-CT (Skeletal Muscle）, 1year|Impact on Body Composition in Patients with Advanced Gastric and Esophageal Cancers, Appetite (Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Therapy - Anorexia/Cachexia Subscale 12, FAACT-A/CS-12), 1year
This study is a prospective, randomized, parallel-controlled, multicenter clinical study. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of nanocrystalline megestrol acetate combined with the first-line standard immunochemotherapy regimen compared with the first-line standard immunochemotherapy regimen in the treatment of anorexia and cachexia in advanced gastric and esophageal cancer. Eligible patients with gastric and esophageal cancer will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the nanocrystalline megestrol acetate combination group (referred to as the megestrol acetate group for short) or the first-line standard immunochemotherapy group (referred to as the standard control group for short).