Prevention of Doxorubicin-induced Cardiotoxicity in Breast Cancer Patients
According to the European Society of Cardiology 2022, the primary prevention of cancer therapyrelated cardiovascular toxicity during anthracycline chemotherapy include renin-angiotensin- aldosterone system blockers, beta-blockers, and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists that have shown a significant benefit in preventing left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) reduction, but with no statistical differences in the incidence on the various other clinical outcomes as overt congestive heart failure (CHF). Also, other strategies have been investigated including; adjusting the infusion time and dose intensity of anthracyclines. Dexrazoxane and liposomal anthracyclines are currently approved in patients with high and very high chemotherapy-related cardiovascular disease (CTRCD) risk or who have already received high cumulative anthracyclines doses (Lyon, 2022). The incidence is about 4% when the dose of doxorubicin is 500-550 mg/m2, 18% when the dose is 551-600 mg/m2 and 36% when the dose exceeds 600 mg/m2 (Lefrak, 1973). Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) was reported to have a cardioprotective role against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity through attenuation of oxidative stress via scavenging reactive oxygen species (ROS), regenerating endogenous antioxidants including glutathione, vitamin E, and C, its metal chelation activity and its ability to repair oxidative damage. (Werida et al, 2022)
Breast Cancer Female
DRUG: Alpha lipoic acid
Changes in echocardiographic findings, Elevation or maintenance of Ejection fraction percentage (EF %), Approximately few days ( less than a week ) before Cycle 1 "baseline" and after Cycle 4 "End Cycle" of Doxorubicin. Each cycle is 21 days.|Changes in serum levels of pro brain natriuretic peptide (pro-BNP) and cardiac troponins, Decline in serum concentration of pro brain natriuretic peptide (pro-BNP) measured in picograms per milliliter (pg/mL) and cardiac troponins measured in picograms per milliliter (pg/mL)., Just before Cycle 1 "baseline" and 1 hour after Cycle 4 "End Cycle" of Doxorubicin. Each cycle is 21 days.
Changes in the oxidative stress marker malondialdehyde (MDA), Decline in serum concentration of malondialdehyde (MDA) measured in micro mole / Litre, ust before Cycle 1 "baseline" and 1 hour after Cycle 4 "End Cycle" of Doxorubicin. Each cycle is 21 days.
ALA effectively inhibits nuclear factor-kappa B with subsequent decreasing pro- inflammatory cytokines production (TNF-α, IL-6) and increasing the release of anti- inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-10 (FahimehHaghighatdoostabMitraHariri, 2019).

Relying on the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effect of Alpha lipoic acid confirmed by a variety of studies in vitro and in vivo, ALA is selected to be studied in Egyptian breast cancer patients who will be treated with doxorubicin including regimens.

Aim of the study:

The aim of the current study is to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of ALA administration and its impact on the occurrence of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in Egyptian women with breast cancer by evaluation of the following:

1. Evaluation of the occurrence of chemotherapy induced cardiotoxicity by;

   1. Changes in echocardiographic findings and serum levels of pro brain natriuretic peptide (pro-BNP) and cardiac troponins.
   2. Severity of DIC will be evaluated by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0 For Heart Failure.
   3. Estimation of oxidative stress burden by measurement of MDA.
2. Evaluation of ALA safety by:

ALA safety will be monitored and assessed through patient face to face interviews (at the end of each cycle) and phone calls weekly about the occurrence of any of the following side effects: (Ex; insomnia, fatigue, diarrhea, and skin rash).

Patients will be followed up by monitoring of the side effect reporting card (intervention arm)