Pilot Efficacy Study of PI-88 With Docetaxel to Treat Prostate Cancer
Docetaxel (Taxotere) is an approved chemotherapeutic drug for the treatment of androgen-independent prostate cancer. The aim of the study is to investigate whether addition of the investigational drug PI-88 will increase the efficacy of docetaxel in this disease. PI-88 inhibits cancer growth by inhibiting the development of new blood vessels and starving the tumour of oxygen and nutrients (anti-angiogenic). Because PI-88 and docetaxel have different mechanisms of action, they are expected to have increased (synergistic) activity when combined.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: PI-88|DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: prednisone
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) response (incidence and duration), 70% of patients (n = 36) had a \>50% reduction in PSA from baseline., Baseline and 6-8 weeks post enrolment
Radiologic response rate in patients with measurable disease, Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. This end point was not reported., Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. This end point was not reported.|PSA progression-free survival, Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. This end point was not reported., Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. This end point was not reported.|Disease progression-free survival, Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. This end point was not reported., Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. This end point was not reported.|Overall survival, Median survival was 61 weeks and 1-year survival was 71%., Survival data collected to 100 weeks|Safety and tolerability, Recruitment was stopped due to higher than expected febrile neutropenia rate (27%). Fifty-one SAEs were reported in 33 patients, of which 7 were related to PI-88 treatment: non-neutropenic sepsis, neutropenic sepsis, pulmonary embolism, febrile dyspnoea, haematuria (x2), left middle cerebral artery infarction.

Grade 3 or 4 AEs reported in \>5% of patients comprise dehydration, fatigue, diarrhoea, nausea and thrombocytopenia.

Two patients died during the study, one due to a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, and one due to metastatic prostate cancer., Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. Safety data collected throughout duration.|Quality of life Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate questionnaire (FACT-P), Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. This end point was not reported., Recruitment was stopped early due to elevated rates of febrile neutropenia. This end point was not reported.|Exploratory predictive value of biologic parameters C-reactive protein (CRP), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), interleukin-6 (IL6), D-dimer, Change in VEGF trended towards prediction of survival (p = 0.056); pre-treatment and post-treatment levels of CRP were predictive of survival (p = 0.026, and p = 0.005 respectively) but the change in CRP was not (p = 0.999). IL-6 pretreatment levels were not predictive (p = 0.5111) but post-treatment (p = 0.0008) and change (p = 0.0020) were.

These data need to interpreted with caution due to the small patient numbers involved., Baseline and 6-8 weeks post enrolment
The trial is a multi-centre, open-label randomised phase II study in patients with androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC), with a lead-in combination tolerance study. The aim of the lead-in phase is to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of PI-88 administered either 4 days/week or 7 days/week) in combination with fixed doses of docetaxel (75 mg/m\^2 every 21 days) and prednisone (5 mg twice daily). In the randomized phase II component, patients will receive PI-88 at the MTD, either 4 days/week or 7 days/week, in combination with docetaxel and prednisone. The patients will receive up to 10 treatment cycles of the combination therapy. Response to treatment will be assessed by measuring serum levels of prostate specific antigen (PSA). Other efficacy measures will include radiological assessment, progression-free survival, overall survival and quality of life.