Relationships Among Physical and Psychological Status, Social Support, Resource Utilization, Supportive Care Needs in Patients With Gynecological Cancer
With the advancement of medical treatments and under the trend of prolonging the survival rate of gynecological cancer patients, the use of social resources and the need for supportive care are particularly important! In the past, studies on patients with gynecological cancer focused on the relation between physical and mental symptoms, intimate relationships, social support, and quality of life. There were few studies on the relationship between social support, resource utilization, and supportive care needs for this group of patients. Therefore, this study research will be conducted on these topics. The results of the study can confirm the current situation of gynecological cancer patients using social resources and the related factors that affect their supportive care needs, and can provide important empirical data for future social resource services and international research design content.
Gynecologic Cancer
Supportive Care Needs Survey., Patients' supportive care needs by Supportive Care Needs Survey.It is a 5-Point Likert Scale,higher scores mean more care needs., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.
Physical and Psychological Symptoms Scale, Patients' physical and psychological symptoms will be measured by Physical and Psychological Symptom Scale.It use Numerical Rating Scale(VRS)0-10.It is a 11 Point Likert Scale(e. g. 0 is no pain; 10 is unbearable pain) ., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey., Patients' social support by Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey(MOS-SSS).It is a 5 Point Likert Scale(0-5) ,higher scores represents receiving more social support., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|Social resource assessment ., Patients' utilization of social resource assessment scale developed by the research team. It is a 5 Point Likert Scale(0-5).The higher the score, the more frequently the resource is used.Also answer how helpful and useful the resource is(0-10),higher scores represents more helpful and useful., 1 time points: From date of approaching patient until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.
With the advancement of medical treatments and under the trend of prolonging the survival rate of gynecological cancer patients, the use of social resources and the need for supportive care are particularly important! In the past, studies on patients with gynecological cancer focused on the relation between physical and mental symptoms, intimate relationships, social support, and quality of life. There were few studies on the relationship between social support, resource utilization, and supportive care needs for this group of patients. Therefore, this study research will be conducted on these topics. The results of the study can confirm the current situation of gynecological cancer patients using social resources and the related factors that affect their supportive care needs, and can provide important empirical data for future social resource services and international research design content.