A Study of FMT in Patients With AML Allo HSCT in Recipients
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of Fecal Microbiota Transplant (FMT) in 2 independent cohorts (60 acute myeloid leukemia patients undergoing intensive chemotherapy and 60 Allo-HCT patients). Participants in each cohort will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive up to 3 treatments of FMT vs. placebo after each exposure to antibacterial antibiotics until 3 months after randomization.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation
BIOLOGICAL: Fecal Microbiota Transplant (FMT)|OTHER: Placebo
Efficacy of FMT in AML Patients and Allo-HCT Recipients - Number of Infections, Number of infections infections until 4 months after the first intervention. Monitored each visit through safety assessment., 4 Months
FMT Engraftment, Proportion of Donor Microbiome Fecal Microbiota Transplantation (FMT) Present in Transplant Recipient. Patient and donor samples analyzed with SourceTracker software., 2 Weeks after first FMT treatment|FMT Engraftment, Proportion of Donor Microbiome Fecal Microbiota Transplantation (FMT) Present in Transplant Recipient. Patient and donor samples analyzed with SourceTracker software., 4 Weeks after first FMT treatment|Percentage of Participants With Grade II-IV Acute Graft-versus-host Disease (aGVHD II-IV), Percentage of Participants with Grade II-IV Acute Graft-versus-host Disease (aGVHD II-IV). Monitored each visit through safety assessment. Grade II better, Grade IV worse., Day 180 post-HCT, up to 7 months|Number of BSI of Suspected Gut Origin, Number of BSI of suspected gut origin. Monitored each visit through safety assessment., 1 week after first FMT treatment|Number of Bacterial Infections, Number of Bacterial Infections. Monitored each visit through safety assessment., 4 Months after first FMT treatment|Number of Viral Infections, Number of Viral Infections. Monitored each visit through safety assessment., 4 Months after first FMT treatment|Number of Fungal Infections, Number of Fungal Infections. Monitored each visit through safety assessment., 4 Months after first FMT treatment
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of Fecal Microbiota Transplant (FMT) in 2 independent cohorts (60 acute myeloid leukemia patients undergoing intensive chemotherapy and 60 Allo-HCT patients). Participants in each cohort will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive up to 3 treatments of FMT vs. placebo after each exposure to antibacterial antibiotics until 3 months after randomization.