Response-Based Chemotherapy in Treating Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome in Younger Patients With Down Syndrome
This phase III trial studies response-based chemotherapy in treating newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome in younger patients with Down syndrome. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Response-based chemotherapy separates patients into different risk groups and treats them according to how they respond to the first course of treatment (Induction I). Response-based treatment may be effective in treating acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome in younger patients with Down syndrome while reducing the side effects.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Down Syndrome|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myeloid Leukemia Associated With Down Syndrome|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
DRUG: Asparaginase|DRUG: Asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride|DRUG: Thioguanine
Event-free survival (EFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate 2-year EFS separately for standard risk and high risk patients. EFS is defined as the time from the end of Induction I to failure to achieve remission at the end of Induction II, relapse, occurrence of a second malignancy, or death., Up to 2 years from study entry
Mean length on protocol therapy, The mean number of days patients spent on protocol therapy., Up to 6 months from study entry|Proportion of patients with an early death, The proportion of patients experiencing an early death in the first month., Up to 1 month from study entry|Overall survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate 2-year OS defined as the time from the end of Induction I to death., Up to 2 years from study entry|Proportion with treatment related mortality, The proportion of patients experiencing a treatment related death will be reported along with a corresponding confidence interval., Up to 6 months from study entry|Proportion of patients experiencing a relapse risk, The proportion of patients experiencing a relapse after achieving remission will be reported along with a corresponding confidence interval., Up to 2 years from study entry|Percentage of patients experiencing grade 3+ adverse events (AE), The percentage of patients experiencing grade 3 or higher AEs will be evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 6 months from study entry|Mean time to absolute neutrophil count (ANC) recovery, The mean time to recovery of ANC to at least 1000/uL will be reported., Up to 6 months from study entry|Mean duration of hospitalization, Mean number of days patients are hospitalized., Up to 6 months from study entry|Proportion of patients with at least 1 infection, The proportion of patients having at least one infection will be reported., Up to 6 months from study entry
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the 2-year event-free-survival (EFS) for children with standard risk Down syndrome (DS) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (minimal residual disease \[MRD\]-negative after one cycle of induction therapy) after elimination of high dose (HD) Ara-C (cytarabine) from the treatment regimen.

II. To determine the 2-year EFS for children with high risk DS AML (MRD-positive after one cycle of induction therapy) after intensification of treatment equivalent to that used for high risk AML in children without DS.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the feasibility and analytical characteristics of flow cytometry, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and targeted error-corrected sequencing of GATA binding protein 1 (globin transcription factor 1) (GATA1) mutations as methods to detect MRD in DS AML.

II. To establish a DS AML cell bank of viably frozen bone marrow samples collected at the end of induction and corresponding non-tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) samples collected at end of Induction 1.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION I: Patients receive cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 1 and intravenously (IV) continuously over 96 hours, daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes, and thioguanine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-4. Induction I continues for a minimum of 28 days.

Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms based on their MRD status after completion of Induction I.

ARM A (STANDARD RISK) (Closed to accrual and treatment with amendment #4A 01/07/2019):

INDUCTION II: Patients receive cytarabine IV continuously over 96 hours, daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes, and thioguanine PO BID on days 1-4. Induction II continues for a minimum of 28 days.

INDUCTION III: Patients receive cytarabine, daunorubicin hydrochloride, and thioguanine as in Induction II. Induction III continues for a minimum of 28 days.

INTENSIFICATION I: Patients receive cytarabine IV continuously over 168 hours on days 1-7 and etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1-3. Intensification I continues for a minimum of 28 days.

INTENSIFICATION II: Patients receive cytarabine and etoposide as in Intensification I. Intensification II continues for a minimum of 28 days.

ARM B (HIGH RISK):

INDUCTION II: Patients receive high dose cytarabine IV over 1-3 hours every 12 (Q12) hours on days 1-4 and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 3-6. Induction II continues for a minimum of 28 days.

INTENSIFICATION I: Patients receive high dose cytarabine IV over 1-3 hours Q12 hours and etoposide IV over 90-120 minutes on days 1-5. Intensification I continues for a minimum of 28 days.

INTENSIFICATION II: Patients receive high dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours Q12 hours on days 1, 2, 8, and 9. Patients also receive asparaginase or asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi (E. carotovora) intramuscularly (IM) or IV over 30 minutes on days 2 and 9. Intensification II continues for a minimum of 28 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, monthly for 12 months, every 3 months for 12 months, every 6 months for 3 years, annually for 10 years, and in case of relapse.