COVID-19-Study of Immune Responses Following Vaccination Against SARS-CoV-2
T-cell adaptive immunity is known to be required to sustain a long term immunoglobulin production and a long term memory against several infections. Previous results suggest a lack in the generation of T-cell responses against CoV-N, M and S proteins among cancer patients exposed to SARS-CoV-2 virus highlighting that cancer patients failed to mount a protective T-cell immunity. Given this context, our hypothesis is that COVID-19 vaccine candidates are not immunogenic in some cancer patients. Thus, the monitoring of CD4 and CD8 T-cell responses before and after vaccination might provide information related to the correlation between induction of CD4 T-cells (including helper follicular T-cells) by the vaccine and long-term IgG production (serological index). Additionally, the failure of COVID-19 vaccines in some patients should be monitor carefully in order to provide specific recommendations to avoid COVID-19 infections. The main objective is to assess humoral immune responses following COVID-19 vaccination in a population of cancer patients.
Cancer|Elderly|Healthy Aging
OTHER: Additional biological samples
Rate of virus-specific IgG at 3 months following COVID-19 vaccination measured in plasma to assess humoral immune responses, 2 years
Rate of virus-specific IgG at 6 months following COVID-19 vaccination measured in plasma to assess humoral immune responses., 2 years|Frequency of SARS-CoV-2 specific T-cell at 3 and 6 months following COVID-19 vaccination, 2 years|Magnitude of SARS-CoV-2 specific T-cell at 3 and 6 months following COVID-19 vaccination, 2 years
T-cell adaptive immunity is known to be required to sustain a long term immunoglobulin production and a long term memory against several infections. Previous results suggest a lack in the generation of T-cell responses against CoV-N, M and S proteins among cancer patients exposed to SARS-CoV-2 virus highlighting that cancer patients failed to mount a protective T-cell immunity. Given this context, our hypothesis is that COVID-19 vaccine candidates are not immunogenic in some cancer patients. Thus, the monitoring of CD4 and CD8 T-cell responses before and after vaccination might provide information related to the correlation between induction of CD4 T-cells (including helper follicular T-cells) by the vaccine and long-term IgG production (serological index). Additionally, the failure of COVID-19 vaccines in some patients should be monitor carefully in order to provide specific recommendations to avoid COVID-19 infections. The main objective is to assess humoral immune responses following COVID-19 vaccination in a population of cancer patients.