The Study of Folate Receptor-Mediated Staining Solution (FRD™) In Cervical Lesion Detection
The FRDTM is easy to perform and does not require sophisticated laboratory technology and/or experienced pathologists for test result interpretation. Compared to the Pap smear and HPV test, the FRDTM enables clinicians to obtain test results immediately (within 60 seconds) after the screening. This empowers clinicians in making timely decisions on appropriate patient management, and facilitating patient compliance with follow-up procedures. In addition, the FRDTM requires minimal training and technical support. Due to its advantage of rapid visualization of abnormal cervical lesions (CIN2+) in a cost-effective way, health care professionals can make cervical cancer detection accessible to women worldwide, especially in regions with limited medical resources. This is a cross-sectional study to evaluate the clinical performance of Folate Receptor-Mediated Epithelium Staining (FRDTM) in detecting cervical neoplastic lesions (CIN2+).
Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia Grade 2/3
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: FRD|OTHER: Cytology|OTHER: HPV testing|PROCEDURE: Colposcopy|PROCEDURE: ECC|PROCEDURE: Biospy
Subjects diagnosed with CIN2+, The primary outcome measure of the study is when the subjects' histological diagnosis is CIN2+. At that point they can exit the study., 2-4 weeks
Subjects without CIN2+ after colposcopy, The secondary outcome measures are all women \< 25 years \& women ≥25 years that were not chosen to be a part of the 10% with normal cytology, negative FRD, \& negative HPV. Women without CIN2+ after colposcopy will have to come back for a follow up visit in 6 months or 1 year. All patients can exit the study after colposcopy., 6 months - 1 year
The Folate Receptor-Mediated Staining Solution is a dye solution that stains for medical purposes used in staining cells and tissues for detecting neoplastic diseases. The main purpose of this product is to detect abnormal cervical lesions (CIN2+) during a gynecological speculum examination. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical performance of Folate Receptor-Mediated Epithelium Staining (FRDTM) in detecting cervical neoplastic lesions (CIN2+).

The subjects who are enrolled in this study will first undergo the FRD test, then cytology and HPV test. Women with abnormal cytology (≥ ASCUS/AGC), positive FRD test in either the cervix or cervical canal, and/or positive HPV test will be referred to colposcopy. In addition, 10% of the subjects who tested negative for all three tests and are ≥ 25 years old will be randomly selected to complete a colposcopy as well.

According to the colposcopy assessment, if the results show satisfied (type I) then a biopsy will be taken. Subjects with a positive FRD test for the cervical canal, unsatisfied colposcopy (type II-III), and/or detection of AGC during cytology will have to complete an ECC procedure as well. Finally, a histopathological examination will be done and used as the gold standard. Subjects with a histopathological examination result of \< CIN2 will be asked to come back for a follow up visit within 6 months or 1 year, according to the investigator's discretion. Subjects can exit the study at any time after colposcopy.