GoalKeeper: Intelligent Information Sharing for Children With Medical Complexity
This proposal addresses the major challenge of improving health outcomes for children with cancer and other complex conditions, for whom the effectiveness of outpatient care depends on care coordination across a diverse group of caregivers that includes parents, community support organizations and pediatric care providers. The investigators have developed GoalKeeper, a prototype system for supporting care coordination across multiple care providers. The primary aim of the clinical trial is to assess the potential for this new system, GoalKeeper, to improve meaningful use of goal-centered care plans in the care of children with cancer and other complex chronic conditions.
Childhood Cancer|Cerebral Palsy|Chronic Lung Disease|Congenital Heart Disease|Congenital Metabolic Disorder|Gastrostomy
OTHER: GoalKeeper|OTHER: Standard Care
Change in Parent Perception of Goal-Centered Care questionnaire from Baseline to 1-Month Follow-up, Parent perception of goal-centered care will be measured using a modified version of the "Patient Assessment of Chronic Illness Care, Goal-Setting Domain" questionnaire, using a scale of 1(Almost Never) to 5 (Almost Always) with higher values representing better goal-centered care., Baseline and 1-Month Follow-up
Count of parent participants with change in perception of goal-centered care from baseline to 3-Month Follow-up based on Investigator assessment., Change in perception in quality of goal-centered care will be assessed by Investigators based on parent baseline interviews and parent exit interviews., Baseline and 3 month follow-up
Change in parent perception of quality of shared decision making from baseline to 1 month, Parent perception will be measured using the "National Survey of Children with Special Health Care Needs Shared Decision Making Domain," which includes 4 domain items each with a scale of 1 (never), 2 (sometimes), 3 (usually) or 4 (always). Positive SDM is defined as parent report of "usually" or "always" on all 4 items. Shared decision making refers to a communication process where parents and providers participate in decision making to reach treatment plan agreement., Baseline and 1-Month Follow-up
The overarching aim of the research is to improve care coordination and goal setting for children with medical complexity (CMC). Specific aims of the pilot clinical trail are as follows: (1) To assess the efficacy of GoalKeeper on goal-setting in the health care encounter. (2) To examine the roles of parent health literacy and parent activation in moderating the effect of the intervention.

Study Population: Stanford's Primary and Subspecialty Care Clinics at Stanford Children's Health will serve as the setting for study recruitment.

The pilot randomized controlled trial will enroll 60 parents of children with medical complexity and their health-care providers. Eligibility criteria for participants will be age 18 years or older, English-speaking, and (for parents) child\<12 years old. Exclusion criteria are parent with known mental illness or neurocognitive impairment. A stepped wedge approach by provider will introduce families to GoalKeeper at different time points in the study. A pre-intervention period will occur at least 1 month before the trial start where clinical observations and baseline survey information will be obtained of each providers' practice.

Each family will be given training and 4-month access to the GoalKeeper application and participate in an exit interview at the end of study.