Capecitabine and Temozolomide for Treatment of Recurrent Pituitary Adenomas
This is an open label study to assess the efficacy of capecitabine (CAP) and temozolomide (TMZ) in recurrent pituitary adenomas. There will be a safety run-in of at least three patients to establish any dose limiting toxicities. Enrolled patients will receive treatment in 28-day cycles: capecitabine 1500mg/m2 per day (divided into two doses with maximum daily dose of 2500mg) on days 1 through 14 and oral temozolomide 150 to 200 mg/m2 on days 10 through 14. This will be followed by 14 days off treatment. MRI imaging will be completed after every two cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Recurrent Pituitary Adenomas
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Temozolomide
Number of Subjects With Radiographic Response, as Defined by the RECIST Criteria., Evaluation of Target lesions:

Complete Response (CR):

Disappearance of all target lesions.

Partial Response (PR):

At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Progressive Disease (PD):

At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum onstudy (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression).

Stable Disease (SD):

Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., 6 months
Effect of the CAP and TMZ Combination on Pituitary Function, Measured by Changes in Pituitary Hormone Secretion in Patients, Serum prolactin, IGF-1, ACTH, FSH, LH and TSH levels are used to assess changes in pituitary hormone function. These tests will only be repeated if found to be abnormal at baseline., At baseline and every 8 weeks, up to 6 months|Safety, as Measured by the Number of Subjects With at Least One AE, 6 months|Tolerability of the TMZ and Capecitabine Combination, as Measured by Number of Participants With a Dose-limiting Toxicity, 6 months|Tumor Invasiveness and Aggressiveness, Determined by Assessing the Relationship Between Select Indicators With Response to Chemotherapy, Time to Progression, and Tumor Invasiveness., Tumor invasiveness and aggressiveness, determined by assessing the relationship between select indicators (including Ki67 nuclear labelling index, p53 expression, MGMT expression/methylation status, and additional tumor genetic profiling) with response to chemotherapy, time to progression, and tumor invasiveness (based on the Knosp criteria)., 6 months
This is an open label study to assess the efficacy of capecitabine (CAP) and temozolomide (TMZ) in recurrent pituitary adenomas. There will be a safety run-in of at least three patients to establish any dose limiting toxicities. Enrolled patients will receive treatment in 28-day cycles: capecitabine 1500mg/m2 per day (divided into two doses with maximum daily dose of 2500mg) on days 1 through 14 and oral temozolomide 150 to 200 mg/m2 on days 10 through 14. This will be followed by 14 days off treatment. MRI imaging will be completed after every two cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.