Phase II Trial of Adjuvant Cisplatin and Radiation With Pembrolizumab in Resected Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and the benefit of adding pembrolizumab (a therapy that activates the immune system to fight cancer) to standard of care treatment for head and neck cancer. The standard of care treatment will include surgery followed by radiation for 6 weeks. Some patients may also receive cisplatin as standard of care once a week for 6 weeks if the cancer is found to be "high risk". High risk includes cancer that was not completely removed (positive margins) or cancer that has invaded through the outer lining of your lymph nodes.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Surgery|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Cisplatin
Number of Participants With Treatment Related Adverse Effects, Number of participants with treatment related adverse effects as assessed using CTCAE v4.0 of pembrolizumab when combined with radiation alone and chemoradiation. Compared as percentage of grade 3 and 4 adverse events with historical control percentages., All adverse events were recorded from the time the consent form is signed through 30 days following cessation of treatment. Any AE related to study drug after 30 days post treatment, subjects were followed until resolution.|Disease Free Survival in Resected High Risk Patients Treated With Adjuvant Pembrolizumab and Chemoradiation, • High risk is defined as those with biopsies that have the following features: extracapsular spread or those with positive surgical margins., 1 year|Disease Free Survival in Resected Intermediate Risk Patients Treated With Adjuvant Pembrolizumab and Radiation, • Intermediate risk is defined as those with biopsies that do not have the following features: extracapsular spread or those with positive surgical margins., 1 year
Tumor Immune Response to Pembrolizumab as Defined by PD-L1 CPS in the Baseline Tumor Tissue, Change in distribution of the tumor immune microenvironment after Pembrolizumab administration in tumor biopsy tissue using markers of T cells and T cell activation using PD-L1 CPS. PD-L1 CPS is defined as the PD-L1 combined positive score. PD-L1 CPS is defined as Combined positivity score (CPS) was calculated by summing the numbers of PD-L1-positive tumor cells and immune cells and dividing by the total number of viable tumor cells. Additionally, PD-L1 is a protein that helps the body immune system remain in control.

The denominator in this case is 72 subjects that were evaluable. Evaluable means the subject had a pre-surgery pembrolizumab and a biopsy taken. The numerators are explained below., 1 week between receiving a pre-surgery dose of pembrolizumab and surgery when the biopsy was taken|Overall Survival in Resected Intermediate Risk Patients Treated With Adjuvant Pembrolizumab and Radiation, • Intermediate risk is defined as those with biopsies that do not have the following features: extracapsular spread or those with positive surgical margins, 1 year|Overall Survival in Resected High Risk Patients Treated With Adjuvant Pembrolizumab and Chemoradiation, • High risk is defined as those with biopsies that have the following features: extracapsular spread or those with positive surgical margins., 1 year
The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and the benefit of adding pembrolizumab (a therapy that activates the immune system to fight cancer) to standard of care treatment for head and neck cancer. The standard of care treatment will include surgery followed by radiation for 6 weeks. Some patients may also receive cisplatin as standard of care once a week for 6 weeks if the cancer is found to be "high risk". High risk includes cancer that was not completely removed (positive margins) or cancer that has invaded through the outer lining of your lymph nodes.