Postoperative Radiotherapy for Patients With IIIA (N2) Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Several important international randomized trials have shown that postoperative chemotherapy contributed to the improvement on 5 year survival rate by about 4% for patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after complete resection. But the overall survival rate was relatively low and the local recurrence was still the dominant failure pattern for stage IIIA (N2) disease even these patients received the postoperative chemotherapy. Several meta-analyses have shown that postoperative radiotherapy (PORT) has no effect on the survival improvement for patients with NSCLC after complete resection. However, sub-group analysis based on the same dataset of these meta-analyses showed that the PORT with conventional radiotherapy might be beneficial for stage IIIA (N2) disease. The 3D conform radiotherapy (3D-CRT) and intensity modified radiotherapy (IMRT) can increase the radiation dose to the target volume while decreasing the dose to risk organs comparing with the conventional radiotherapy. So it is expected that PORT using 3D-CRT or IMRT after postoperative chemotherapy will improve the local control and survival for stage IIIA (N2) NSCLC. Here, the investigators designed a phase III randomized trial to compare the 3-year disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) rates in patients with completely resected stage IIIA (N2) NSCLC who receive adjuvant chemotherapy alone or adjuvant chemotherapy plus PORT.
Thoracic Neoplasms|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Postoperative 3D-CRT or IMRT
DFS, Disease free survival measures in months., 3 years
OS, Overall survival measures in months., 3 years|LRFS, Loco-regional recurrence free survival measures in months., 3 years|DMFS, Distant metastasis free survival measures in months., 3 years|Failure Patterns, Loco-regional recurrence (LR) and Distant metastasis (DM), 3 years|Toxicity of thoracic radiotherapy, CTC AE 3.0 is used to evaluate the toxicities, including radiation esophagitis (RE) and pneumonitis (RP)., 6 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary: To determine whether administering adjuvant chemotherapy (four cycles of platinum-based doublet regimen) plus PORT (50 Gy, 2 Gy once daily over 5 weeks) will improve 3-year DFS compared with adjuvant chemotherapy alone in patients with completely resected stage IIIA (N2) NSCLC.

Secondary: To compare treatment-related toxic effects, 3-year OS, failure-free survival, and the patterns of failure.

OUTLINE: Eligible patients were randomized equally, using simple randomization, to either PORT or observation group.

Arm I: Patients undergo PORT using 3D-CRT or IMRT (50 Gy, 2 Gy once daily over 5 weeks) after adjuvant chemotherapy.

Arm II: Patients undergo adjuvant chemotherapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.