Ultrasound vs. Predetermined Distance Techniques for Paravertebral Nerve Block in Patients Having Breast Surgery
The purpose of this study is to compare ultrasound and predetermined distance techniques for finding the paravertebral space to inject the local anesthetic (numbing medicine) when you are given anesthesia for surgery. The paravertebral space is located on either side of the spinal cord and contains the nerves that provide sensation to the chest wall. The predetermined distance technique is a series of measurements taken to determine the location of the paravertebral space where the local anesthetic is injected. The ultrasound technique uses direct visualization of the local anesthetic being placed in the paravertebral space. This type of anesthesia has many benefits including decreasing your pain after breast surgery.
Mastectomy|Breast Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: ultrasound|PROCEDURE: predetermined distance
Visual analog scores(VAS)for pain and perioperative opioid requirements, The VAS scores and the opioid consumption will be compared between the ultrasound group and the predetermined distance technique group., 24 hours
time, incidence of adverse events and patient satisfaction, The secondary objectives will be 1) time taken to locate the paravertebral space and inject local anesthetic 2) time from injection of local anesthetic to adequate sensory block 3) incidence of adverse events including pneumothorax, high spinal, epidural spread, direct nerve damage, paresthesias, vascular puncture, patient discomfort, respiratory depression, hypoxemia, and prolonged sensory blockade and 4) patient satisfaction., 24 hours
The purpose of this study is to compare ultrasound and predetermined distance techniques for finding the paravertebral space to inject the local anesthetic (numbing medicine) when you are given anesthesia for surgery. The paravertebral space is located on either side of the spinal cord and contains the nerves that provide sensation to the chest wall. The predetermined distance technique is a series of measurements taken to determine the location of the paravertebral space where the local anesthetic is injected. The ultrasound technique uses direct visualization of the local anesthetic being placed in the paravertebral space. This type of anesthesia has many benefits including decreasing your pain after breast surgery.