Cancer-related Fatigue Among Patients Receiving Home-based Palliative Care
Cancer-related fatigue, which significantly impacts the quality of life, is prevalent among patients with terminal cancer. The experiences of fatigue, its associated needs, and the strategies for managing it are closely linked to the individual uniqueness, cultural background, and resource availability of terminal cancer patients.
to Investigate the Level of Fatigue Among Terminal Cancer Patients Receiving Home-based Hospice Care
comparing CRF scores at baseline with those after one week,, The BFI survey was utilized to promptly assess CRF severity and its impact on daily functioning., 1 week
Fatigue is defined as any perceived or actual physical or mental tiredness that adversely affects the quality of life \[7,8\]. The multifaceted nature of fatigue means it manifests in various forms, including physical cognitive, and emotional. Fatigue may involve chronic exhaustion and reduced mobility that cannot be relieved by rest \[9,10\]. CRF is associated with cancer progression and treatment, presenting it as a painful, persistent, and subjective sensation involving physical, emotional, and cognitive tiredness or exhaustion. CRF disproportionately affects physical activities and impairs executive functions in daily life \[10,11\]. Factors contributing to CRF include cancer itself, treatment side effects, psychological factors such as personality traits (e.g., levels of optimism, anxiety, or depression), comorbid physical conditions, iatrogenic comorbidities, and lifestyle factors (e.g., physical activity levels) \[10-12\]. From the perspective of individual patients, fatigue frequently coexists with symptom clusters, such as insomnia, low mood or depression, or pain, collectively resulting in reduced daily functioning and diminished quality of life \[13\]. Various non-pharmaceutical interventions have demonstrated effectiveness in addressing CRF, including physical activity, mind-body approaches, and psychosocial interventions \[9,14,15\]. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the level of fatigue among terminal cancer patients receiving home-based hospice care, hospital-based hospice care, and hospice-shared care. The anticipated results may facilitate the enhancement of CRF management strategies