High and Low Resource Interventions to Promote HPV Vaccines
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) is a significant public health issue affecting nearly 14 million people in the United States. HPV can lead to cervical, oropharyngeal, anal, and penile cancers as well as genital warts.The purpose of this study is to test the comparative effectiveness of two interventions, AFIX only vs. AFIX + communication training, to increase Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination rates among adolescent patients in outpatient clinic settings. Providers and staff at four pediatric practices will be randomized to receive an in-person AFIX consultation or an AFIX consultation combined with communication training and commitment poster displays. Provider and parent data will be collected via a tablet computer RedCap survey. Additional practice and provider level HPV vaccination rates will be collected via patient de-identified claims data. The results of this study could contribute to the existing body of literature that suggests provider recommendations and routine vaccination assessments are key to increasing HPV vaccination uptake. This project has the potential to lead to the implementation and dissemination of low resource interventions to increase HPV vaccination rates among children and adolescents.
Human Papilloma Virus|Tdap - Tetanus, Diphtheria and Acellular Pertussis Vaccination|Meningitis, Meningococcal|Communication|Satisfaction
BEHAVIORAL: AFIX Only|BEHAVIORAL: AFIX+ Provider Communication Training
HPV vaccination rates, Practice and provider level HPV vaccination rates will be collected from patient de-identified claims data., 18 months
Parent Satisfaction, Parent satisfaction with visit will be collected using validated measures on tablet computers, 18 months
Significance: Human Papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted infection in the United States with an estimated 14 million new infections each year. While most HPV infections resolve without any symptoms or signs of infection, some HPV infections can lead to genital warts and cancer. Every year, more than 30,000 people are affected by an HPV-related cancer, including cervical, oropharyngeal, vaginal and anal cancers. Because most adults will become infected with HPV at some point in their lives, the CDC recommends routine vaccination for girls aged 11-26 and boys aged 11-21. While vaccines to prevent HPV infection have been widely available for more than a decade nearly 38% of eligible girls and 50% of eligible boys have not initiated the HPV vaccine series and more than 70% of boys and 50% of girls have not completed the full vaccine series. Rates of HPV vaccination are significantly lower than rates for other adolescent recommended vaccines including, tetanus, diptheria, and acellular pertussis (Tdap), and meningococcal conjugate (MenACWY), which range from 81 to 86 percent. There are many factors that contribute to less than optimal HPV vaccination rates but chief among them is lack of a strong provider recommendation to initiate and complete the HPV vaccine series.

Innovation: This study will be the first randomized controlled trial comparing the effectiveness of an AFIX intervention vs. an AFIX intervention combined with a provider "nudge" that includes a brief communication skills training and commitment messaging displays to increase HPV vaccination rates in pediatric outpatient settings.

Approach: 200 eligible parents (or caregivers) of adolescents between the ages of 11 and 18 will be enrolled and exposed to one of the interventions based on their clinic location. Parents will be recruited from the Children's Mercy Hospital Primary Care Clinic (CMH PCC) and Cradle Thru College Care Pediatrics in Kansas City, MO, Preferred Pediatrics in Lee's Summit, MO, and Cass County Pediatrics in Belton,MO. Practices will be randomized to receive either an in-person AFIX assessment or an in-person AFIX assessment combined with a brief, provider communication training and adolescent vaccine commitment poster displays. The primary outcome of this study is HPV vaccination rates. A secondary outcome is parent ratings of satisfaction with their child's visit with the health care provider. Data will be collected via a tablet computer administered RedCap survey in the exam room immediately following the child's visit.

Public Health Impact: This study could have a significant public health impact and contribute to meeting the Healthy People 2020 goals to reduce vaccine preventable infections by increasing vaccination rates in the pediatric population.