Acupuncture for Breast Cancer Related Lymphedema
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy of acupuncture on chronic upper limb lymphedema in patients with breast cancer surgery
Breast Cancer Lymphedema
OTHER: acupuncture|OTHER: sham acupuncture
Upper extremities volume, Volume measurement is also commonly used for the evaluation of lymphedema and the mean change in inter-limb volume difference from baseline to the end of the 7-week intervention will be included as primary outcome measure. The volume of the affected and unaffected limb will be measured by the volumetric measuring device (Baseline, America) using the water displacement method, which is considered as the most reliable method for volume measurements., 7 weeks
Upper extremities circumferences, Various assessment methods are available but circumference measure is simple, convenient with low cost, and reliable. Therefore, the primary outcome measures will be the mean change in inter-limb circumference difference from baseline to the end of the 7-week intervention. The circumference will be measured by the measurement tape (Gulick Attachment, Baseline, America) at the wrist crease,5 cm above the wrist crease,10 cm above the wrist crease,15 cm above the wrist crease,20 cm above the wrist crease,25 cm above the wrist crease,30 cm above the wrist crease,35 cm above the wrist crease,where the lymphedema is most severe and its corresponding location on the unaffected limb., 7 weeks|VAS distension score, The VAS distension score is used to assess the degree of self-distension feeling at the affected upper extremities. It is evaluated by drawing a 10 cm horizontal line on the paper. One end of the horizontal line is 0, indicating no distension feeling; the other end is 10, indicating that the distension is unbearable; the middle part indicates different degrees of swelling. Let the subject draw a mark on the horizontal line according to the feeling of self-indicating degree of distension., 7 weeks|Common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE 4.03) - edema limbs criteria, Common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE 4.03) will be used to grade the severity of swelling using the edema limbs criteria. A grading of mild, moderate or severe swelling will be assessed based on the inter-limb circumference or volume discrepancy, anatomic architecture, appearance, or activities of daily living. The CTCAE 4.03 will allow us to evaluate the clinical significance of circumference change. Stages of lymphedema from the international society of lymphology Stages of lymphedema from the international society of lymphology will be used to grade the severity of lymphedema. Staging of 0, I, II, or III will be assessed based on severity of swelling, ability to reduce swelling by elevation, and skin changes., 7 weeks|The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) Outcome Measure, Disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand (DASH) is a scale consists of two concepts: functional status (part A) andsymptoms (part B) respectively. The functional status part is further divided into three dimensions: physical, social, and psychological. The total score of the DASH ranges from 0 to 100 with higher scores representing worse symptoms and function. The DASH has good validity and responsiveness and it is recommended to assess upper extremity function in breast cancer survivors. The validated Chinese version of the DASH will be used in this study., 7 weeks|The MOS 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), The medical outcome study 36-item short-form health survey (SF-36) is a commonly used instrument to assess quality of life that has good validity. The SF-36 includes the following eight concepts: physical functioning, role limitations due to physical problems, social functioning, bodily pain, general mental health, role limitations due to emotional problems, vitality, and general health perception. The validated Chinese version of the SF-36 will be used in this study., 7 weeks
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy of acupuncture on chronic upper limb lymphedema in patients with breast cancer surgery