The Effect of Exercise and Nicotinamide Riboside Muscle Health and Insulin Resistance in Survivors of Childhood Cancer
This trial studies the effect of exercise and nicotinamide riboside on muscle health and insulin resistance in adult survivors of childhood cancer with prediabetes (elevated blood sugar level that is not high enough to be considered diabetes). Nicotinamide riboside is a dietary supplement which is similar to vitamin B3. Information collected in this study may help the future development of regimens to improve metabolic outcomes such as muscle health and insulin resistance (when the body is not normally responding to insulin) in childhood cancer survivors.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Prediabetes
OTHER: Exercise Intervention|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nicotinamide Riboside
Feasibility of a nutrition and exercise program in childhood cancer survivors (CCS), The current protocol will be considered feasible if:

1. \>= 50% of eligible patients that are approached for participation enroll onto the study,
2. \>= 70% of enrolled participants successfully complete all study assessments (i.e. physical function tests, blood draw, imaging, and questionnaires at baseline and 6 weeks, and
3. Enrolled participants demonstrate \>= 70% compliance with prescribed exercise and nicotinamide riboside.

Feasibility measures 2 and 3 will be assessed for the entire group of 20 subjects as a whole., Up to 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the feasibility of conducting a home exercise and nutrition intervention in childhood cancer survivors (CCS) with a history of prediabetes.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the association between patient demographics and treatment exposures and subsequent hyperglycemia and skeletal muscle health in childhood cancer survivors.

II. Describe the effect of exercise with or without nicotinamide riboside (NR) on hyperglycemia and skeletal muscle health in CCS with a history of prediabetes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients complete 18 home exercise sessions over 30 minutes each, 3 days per weeks for 6 weeks.

ARM II: Patients complete home exercise as in Arm I. Patients also receive nicotinamide riboside orally (PO) daily for 6 weeks.