Outcomes in Ovarian Cancer and Fallopian Tube Cancer Patients Using Complementary Alternative Medicine
RATIONALE: Chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Hypnosis, massage therapy, and healing touch may improve the quality of life of patients who are undergoing chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well giving hypnosis, massage therapy and healing touch changes outcomes in women receiving chemotherapy for newly diagnosed epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or peritoneal cavity cancer.
Ovarian Cancer|Peritoneal Primary Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer
OTHER: healing touch|OTHER: massage therapy|OTHER: hypnosis|DRUG: Standard chemotherapy
Quality of Life Comparison - Average FACT-O Scoring in Chemotherapy Alone vs. Chemotherapy Plus Complementary Alternative Medicine (CAM), Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O) questionnaire was used to assess patients' quality of life before each chemotherapy cycle. It is a standardized self-administered questionnaire measuring many aspects of quality of life (0 to 4; Not at all, A little bit, Some-what, Quite a bit, Very much) as related to patients with ovarian cancers. The quality of life measures include the total FACT-O score (minimum value 0, maximum value 200). Questionnaires are recoded in the final analysis phase so that a higher score reflected more adverse effects on quality of life., Prior to Cycle 1 (Day -2 to +1), Every 3rd cycle (1 cycle = approx 21 days) and 6 Months Post Chemotherapy|Comparison of Mental Health Inventory (MHI) Questionnaire Results - Average for Chemotherapy Alone vs. Chemotherapy Plus CAM, The MHI asks questions about how the consumer is feeling and coping with usual life activities. It provides measurable information about the consumer's wellbeing (anxiety, depression, loss of emotional control, general positive affect and emotional ties). A single score based on all items designed as high level summary index of the person's mental health status. High scores on the Mental Health Index indicate greater psychological well being and relatively less psychological distress (range is 38-240)., Prior to Cycle 1 (Day -2 to +1), Every 3rd cycle (1 cycle = approx 21 days) and 6 Months Post Chemotherapy
Number of Patients With Delays In Receiving Chemotherapy Alone, Number of patients who had to delay their chemotherapy treatments due to side effects., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Number of Patients With Delays In Receiving Chemotherapy Plus CAM, Number of patients who had to delay their chemotherapy treatments and or complementary alternative medicine due to side effects., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Average Number of Anti-Emetic Prescriptions Used After Chemotherapy Alone, Determined by averaging the total number of anti-emetic prescriptions given per patient after receiving chemotherapy., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Average Number of Anti-Emetic Prescriptions Used After Chemotherapy + CAM, Determined by averaging the total number of anti-emetic prescriptions given per patient after chemotherapy and complementary alternative medicine., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Average Anti-Emetic Dose Use After Chemotherapy Alone, Determined by averaging the total dose of anti-emetic medications given (in milligrams) per patient., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Average Anti-Emetic Dose Use After Chemotherapy Plus CAM, Determined by averaging the total dose of anti-emetic medications given (in milligrams) per patient after receiving chemotherapy and complementary alternative medicine., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Average Natural Killer Cell Count Levels Before Chemotherapy Alone, Natural killer cells are identified as CD3 (-), CD56(+) and CD16 (+). Phenotypic analysis and measurement of NK cells (NK cell count in mm\^3 drawn before chemotherapy) using flow cytometry and specific mAb., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Average Natural Killer Cell Count Levels Before Chemotherapy and CAM, Natural killer cells are identified as CD3 (-), CD56(+) and CD16 (+). Phenotypic analysis and measurement of NK cells (NK cell count in mm\^3 drawn before chemotherapy) using flow cytometry and specific mAb., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Comparison of Number of Patients Having Infection After Chemotherapy Alone vs. Chemotherapy Plus CAM, Number of patients that had infections requiring antibiotic therapy or admission to the hospital that received either chemotherapy alone or chemotherapy plus complementary alternative medicine., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Comparison of Number of Patients Who Were Hospitalized After Chemotherapy Alone vs. Chemotherapy Plus CAM, Count of patients who were admitted to the hospital after receiving chemotherapy treatment or chemotherapy plus complementary alternative medicine., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Comparison of Average White Blood Cell Count in Chemotherapy Alone vs. Chemotherapy Plus CAM, Determined from white blood cell counts collected during treatment phase of study; average applied., Prior to Chemotherapy through 6th Treatment with Chemotherapy (average 6 months)|Comparison of Average T-lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes for Chemotherapy Alone vs. Chemotherapy Plus CAM, Average count determined - collected during treatment phase of study - Includes T-helper/inducer, CD4 and CD8 cells; number of CD4 and CD8 cells (in mm\^3)., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)|Comparison of Average Salivary IgA Level in Chemotherapy Alone vs. Chemotherapy Plus CAM, Determined from collection of saliva during treatment phase of study and recorded in mg/dL units., Prior to Chemotherapy (Day -2 to +1) through Cycle 6 Chemotherapy (Approx. 168-180 Days)
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine whether quality of life is improved in patients with epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cavity cancer receiving hypnosis, massage therapy, and healing touch and standard chemotherapy as compared to patients receiving standard chemotherapy alone.

Secondary

* Determine changes in immunologic response markers, chemotherapy side effects, and complication rates in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I (standard therapy): Patients undergo standard chemotherapy for epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer.
* Arm II (standard therapy with complementary alternative medicine): Patients undergo chemotherapy as in arm I. Patients also undergo massage over approximately 30 minutes and healing touch therapy over approximately 30 minutes with each course of chemotherapy 1-6 and hypnosis over 30-60 minutes during courses 1, 2, and 4.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, during courses 3 and 6 of chemotherapy, and then 6 months after completion of study treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 months.