DKI Combined With APT for Post-treatment Assessment of Ovarian Malignancies and Correlation With XRCC2 Gene
Ovarian cancer is one of the common causes of cancer death in women worldwide. Despite the continuous development of diagnostic and treatment techniques, the survival rate of ovarian cancer patients has not improved significantly, and the important reason for the high mortality rate and poor prognosis is the lack of effective means to assess the effectiveness of treatment. The methods to monitor the effectiveness of ovarian cancer treatment and dynamic risk stratification by conventional imaging or single tumour marker levels are rather limited. In recent years, DKI and APT imaging have made some achievements in evaluating the post-treatment outcome of tumours, and the quantitative parameters of DKI combined with APT as a non-invasive biological marker are expected to be an effective way to address the limitations of assessing the treatment outcome by non-invasively detecting the changes in the signal of water protons and the diffusion information of non-normally distributed water molecules in the tumour tissue to observe the changes of protein and microstructure in the tumour cells. This project aims to collect patients who have come to our hospital for treatment. This project aims to collect patients with ovarian malignancies who come to our hospital and perform DKI, APT sequence and XRCC2 gene examination before and after treatment, and to statistically analyse the obtained parameters to assess the value of DKI combined with APT in monitoring the treatment effect of ovarian malignancies and the correlation with XRCC2 gene. This will help to promote individualised and precise treatment of ovarian cancer and improve prognosis.
Malignant Tumor of the Ovary|XRCC2 Gene Mutation
RADIATION: DKI and APT
DKI diffusion indicators and APT signal values, MK MD SI, 2 Years
Ovarian cancer is one of the common causes of cancer death in women worldwide. Despite the continuous development of diagnostic and treatment techniques, the survival rate of ovarian cancer patients has not improved significantly, and the important reason for the high mortality rate and poor prognosis is the lack of effective means to assess the effectiveness of treatment. The methods to monitor the effectiveness of ovarian cancer treatment and dynamic risk stratification by conventional imaging or single tumour marker levels are rather limited. In recent years, DKI and APT imaging have made some achievements in evaluating the post-treatment outcome of tumours, and the quantitative parameters of DKI combined with APT as a non-invasive biological marker are expected to be an effective way to address the limitations of assessing the treatment outcome by non-invasively detecting the changes in the signal of water protons and the diffusion information of non-normally distributed water molecules in the tumour tissue to observe the changes of protein and microstructure in the tumour cells. This project aims to collect patients who have come to our hospital for treatment. This project aims to collect patients with ovarian malignancies who come to our hospital and perform DKI, APT sequence and XRCC2 gene examination before and after treatment, and to statistically analyse the obtained parameters to assess the value of DKI combined with APT in monitoring the treatment effect of ovarian malignancies and the correlation with XRCC2 gene. This will help to promote individualised and precise treatment of ovarian cancer and improve prognosis.