Repeat-dose Study of Lenalidomide (Revlimid ®) Plus Dexamethasone in Patients With Lymphoblastic Leukemia
The study objectives are to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the oral administration of lenalidomide in combination with dexamethasone in the treatment of adult patients with refractory or relapsed non-Ph+ B-cell lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
Leukemia, Lymphoid|Precursor B-Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma
DRUG: Lenalidomide plus dexamethasone
Disease-Free survival (DFS), 2 years
Time to response, 28 days|Duration of response, 2 years|To determine quality of life (QOL): European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer QOL questionnaire for patients with cancer (EORTC QLQ-C30), All 28 days|Progression-free survival, 2 years|Feasibility of stem cell transplantation (SCT), in case of response, after one or more cycles of lenalidomide plus dexamethasone therapy, all 28 days|Safety of lenalidomide plus dexamethasone: adverse events (type, frequency, severity of adverse events, and relationship of adverse events to study drug)., All 28 days|To assess the efficacy of lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone: complete response (CR), complete response without platelets (CRp), partial response (PR), and overall response (CR + CRp + PR)., 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each 28-day cycle (4-weeks cycles) and after treatment, patients will be seen at least twice weekly until they attain a CR|Overall survival, 2 years
The study consists of two periods, an initial treatment period and an extended treatment period. Patients who meet all eligibility criteria will receive: Lenalidomide 25 mg p.o. once daily on days 1-21 plus Dexamethasone 40 mg p.o. once daily on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each 28-day cycle (4-weeks cycles) until CR achievement, progression of disease or intolerable toxicity. The daily dose of Lenalidomide and that of Dexamethasone will remain fixed. No dose adaptations are allowed according to the hematologic toxicity. However, in case of non-hematologic grade \> 2 toxicity, the next cycle may be delayed up to 21 days after the onset of the event until the adverse event has returned to baseline or ≤ grade 1. Patients may be allowed to receive a pre-treatment with high doses of dexamethasone for initial hyperleukocytosis at the discretion of the investigator. The use of hematopoietic growth factor (HGF) during the initial or extended treatment period is also let at the discretion of the investigator. At the end of the initial treatment period, all responding patients (without HLA compatible donor) or patients showing sufficient clinical activity will be allowed to receive extended treatment with cycles identical to the first cycle. Patients may continue to receive treatment as long as the patient is tolerating the treatment well and the patient's physician believes the patient is receiving some benefit. The severity of adverse events will be graded according to the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria. Any life-threatening adverse effects that are observed during the initial or extended treatment period, which are possibly or probably related to study drug, will require the subject to discontinue study treatment.