Assessing the Accuracy of Tumor Biopsies After Chemotherapy to Determine if Patients Can Avoid Breast Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well biopsy of breast after chemotherapy works in predicting pathologic response in patients with stage II-IIIA breast cancer undergoing breast conserving surgery. Tumor tissue collected from biopsy before surgery may help to check if chemotherapy destroyed the breast cancer cells and may be compared to the tumor removed during surgery to check if they are the same.
Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Biopsy of Breast
Proportion of patients with pCR, The proportion of tumor bed biopsies that are negative among those who are shown to have pCR at surgery will be determined. The point estimate and 95% confidence interval will be calculated., Up to 18 months
Improvement of negative predictive value, Analysis will be performed to assess the improvement in the negative predictive value of the trimodality imaging algorithm when the results of tumor bed biopsy are added., Up to 18 months|Incidence of adverse events associated with tumor bed biopsy, Descriptive analysis will be performed to determine the frequencies of adverse events associated with tumor bed biopsy., Up to 18 months|Number of needle cores performed, Descriptive analysis will be performed to determine the distribution of the number of needle cores performed and the proportion of clips retrieved., Up to 18 months|Proportion of clips retrieved, Descriptive analysis will be performed., Up to 18 months|Residual cancer burden score, Descriptive analysis will be performed to determine the distribution of residual cancer burden score., Up to 18 months|Trimodality imaging algorithm +/- biopsy as a predictor of pCR, Analysis will be performed to assess the improvement in the negative predictive value of the trimodality imaging algorithm when the results of tumor bed biopsy are added., Up to18 months
Molecular makers from tumor and blood samples, Analysis to assess the association of molecular markers with response to neoadjuvant therapy., Up to 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the accuracy of post-neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST) image-directed tumor bed biopsy for pathologic complete response (pCR), defined as resolution of both invasive disease and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), in cases of clinical and radiologic complete response with trimodality imaging.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect axillary pathology results, surgical staging methods (sentinel lymph node biopsy and/or axillary lymph node dissection), and management (surgery and/or radiation) in order to determine axillary nodal response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and its relationship to breast pCR.

II. To correlate imaging results with pathologic nodal status following neoadjuvant chemotherapy for future planning of axillary management in the next study.

III. To retrospectively assess the negative predictive value (NPV) of a trimodality imaging algorithm in combination with the tumor bed biopsy for predicting pCR.

IV. To collect all trimodality imaging data to determine which combination of the trimodality imaging best identifies the group achieving pCR.

V. To correlate the number of needle cores and tumor bed clip retrieval with the NPV of the tumor site biopsy.

VI. To determine the clinical, imaging, pathologic, and molecular tumor factors associated with the highest NPVs of post-NST tumor bed biopsies.

VII. To improve identification and selection of patients with breast and possible axillary pCR for future trial planning, routine biomarkers (estrogen receptor \[ER\], progesterone receptor \[PR\], HER2 neu, and Ki67) will be collected to allow comparison to image/clinical complete response (CR), and tumor bed biopsies.

OUTLINE:

After completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo stereotactic biopsy of breast tumor any time prior to breast conserving surgery. Patients then undergo breast conserving surgery as per standard of care. Patients may also undergo postoperative radiation therapy per standard of care or adjuvant therapy at the investigator's discretion.