Atorvastatin in Preventing Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Patients Receiving Radiotherapy From Carotid Stenosis
Patients with head and neck cancer who underwent irradiation have a higher risk of developing severe carotid stenosis, and eventually develop to transient ischemic attack or stroke. However, it's still not clear whether early intervene in vascular risk factors is benefit for patients after radiotherapy.

Our study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and safety of atorvastatin for preventing NPC patients after radiotherapy from severe carotid stenosis. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, about 324 nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) patients will be enrolled from six centers in Guangdong Province and randomized 1:1 to atorvastatin group or placebo group.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Radiation Therapy Complication
DRUG: Atorvastatin|OTHER: Placebo
Change from baseline in maximal of IMT of bilateral carotid arteries, Patients will take Ultrasound and Transcranial Color Doppler every 6 months to measure the thickness of intima-media thickness (IMT) and occurrence of plaque formation of carotid arteries. We will compare the maximal IMT of bilateral carotid arteries at 2 years from baseline., At baseline and 2 years
Incidence of sever carotid stenosis, Patients will be followed up for 2 years. We defined sever carotid stenosis as stenosis\>50% by using ultrasound and TCD., At 2 years|Incidence of cardiovascular events, Patients will be followed up for 2 years and cardiovascular events such as stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA) will be recorded., At 2 years
It is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, about 324 nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) patients will be enrolled from six centers in Guangdong Province and randomized 1:1 to atorvastatin group (20mg per night, totally 2 years) or placebo group. All Patients will be followed up for 2 years. Ultrasound and Transcranial Color Doppler (TCD) will be used to evaluate the changes of intima-media thickness (IMT) and occurrence of plaque formation of carotid arteries. Safety will be monitored every 6 months.