Combination of Sintilimab and Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy in Hepatocellular Carcinoma (ISBRT01)
Although sorafenib is the standard treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein invasion, the outcome of these patients remains very poor, with a median survival time of 5.5 to 7.2 months. It has been demonstrated that first-line treatment with transarterial chemoembolization plus radiotherapy could provide more favorable survival than sorafenib alone. However, intrahepatic dissemination and distant metastasis remains the major recurrence pattern after treatment in these patients; therefore, searching for new strategies to improve efficacy is necessary. Immunotherapy targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoints has demonstrated promising activity in advanced HCC. Combining radiotherapy with immune checkpoints showed promising response rates and improved survival in several solid tumor types. The aim of this randomized study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of stereotactic body radiotherapy followed by sintilimab (an anti-PD-1 antibody) compared with stereotactic body radiotherapy alone for hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein invasion after arterially directed therapy.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
RADIATION: stereotactic body radiotherapy|DRUG: Sintilimab
24-week progression-free survival (PFS) rate, The proportion of patients with progression disease according to mRECIST at 24 weeks from randomization., 24 weeks after radiotherapy
Progression-free survival (PFS), From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or the date of first documented disease progression whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months., 2 years from randomization|Overall survival (OS), From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months., 2 years from randomization|24-week overall response rate (ORR), The proportion of patients with complete response or partial response according to mRECIST at 24 weeks from randomization., 24 weeks after radiotherapy|24-week disease control rate (DCR), The proportion of patients with complete response, partial response or stable disease according to mRECIST at 24 weeks from randomization., 24 weeks after radiotherapy|Duration of response (DOR), From date of first CR/PR to the date of first PD according to RECIST criteria, assessed up to 24 months., 2 years from randomization|Adverse Events, Treatment-related adverse events are graded according to the Common Toxicity Criteria, version 4.0, and were registered from the date of informed consent until discontinuation of trial treatment., 2 years from randomization
A total of 116 HCC patients with portal vein invasion after arterially directed therapy (transarterial chemoembolization or hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy) will be randomized to two treatment arms using a 1:1 ratio: SBRT + PD-1 arm or SBRT alone arm. Patients in both arms will receive stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) using volumetric arc therapy. The prescribed dose is 30-54 Gy in 3-6 fractions over 1-2 weeks. In the SBRT + PD-1 arm, sintilimab is administered intravenously at 200 mg every 3 weeks for up to 1 year. The first course of sintilimab will be given within 4-6 weeks after completion of SBRT.