Preoperative Sintilimab Combined With Bevacizumab and Chemotherapy for Resectable Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery has been recommended as the standard treatment for locally advanced and resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, its efficacy remains to be improved. Drugs targeting PD-1/PD-L1 pathway have been proven to be effective for late-stage NSCLC, and anti-angiogenesis agents targeting VEGF (bevacizumab) has also been used for the first line treatment of advanced or metastatic NSCLC. Therefore, we conduct this single-arm clinical trial, which aims to investigate the safety and feasibility of neoadjuvant sintilimab combined with bevacizumab and chemotherapy followed by surgery in treating locally advanced and resectable NSCLC.
Lung Neoplasm Malignant
DRUG: sintilimab|DRUG: bevacizumab
Safety (Rate of grade 3 and higher grade treatment-related adverse events), Adverse events will be evaluated and recorded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 5.0)., From date of treatment allocation until surgery or up to at least 90 days after last dose of preoperative treatment
Feasibility (Completion rate of neoadjuvant treatment and surgery), Propotion of participants who complete neoadjuvant treatment and receive surgery within 42 days after preoperative therapies., From date of treatment allocation until surgery, assessed up to 5 months|Major Pathological Response Rate, Major pathologic response is predefined as no more than 10% of residual viable tumor cells in primary lesions., Two weeks after surgery|Radiographic Response, Radiographic response will be evaluated according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1., From date of treatment allocation and during treatment period up to 4 months
Lung cancer is one of the most common malignancies around the world. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery has been recommended as the standard treatment for locally advanced and resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, its efficacy remains to be improved. Bevacizumab targeting VEGF is a widely used antitumor drugs in different types of malignancies, including late-stage NSCLC. Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) targeting PD-1 has also been confirmed to be effective in NSCLC patients. Therefore, we conduct this prospective single-arm clinical trial, to investigate the safety and feasibility of neoadjuvant sintilimab (ICI targeting PD-1) combined with bevacizumab and chemotherapy followed by surgery in treating locally advanced and resectable NSCLC. Twenty patients with stage II-IIIA NSCLC will be enrolled. And the primary endpoint of this study is the safety of this newly developed neoadjuvant treatment. The secondary endpoints are feasibility, radiological response and rate of major pathological response.