PCRC-Supported Legacy Intervention in Pediatric Palliative Care
This trial studies how well a web-based legacy intervention works in improving the quality of life in caregivers and younger patients with cancer that has come back (recurrent) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Legacy-making, defined as doing or saying something to be remembered, may reduce the suffering of children with cancer and their caregivers. Currently, there is little information about what kinds of legacy-making activities are helpful from the perspective of children. Using a web-based digital storytelling intervention, this study may help researchers examine what children think about these legacy-making activities and what kinds of activities might be helpful to them.
Care Giver|Recurrent Malignant Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Child coping strategies, Will be measured using the Response to Stress Questionnaire (RSQ). The 57 items are rated from 1-4 indicating frequency of responses to stress, resulting in 5 factors: (a) primary control coping, (b) secondary control coping, (c) disengagement coping, (d) involuntary engagement, and (e) involuntary disengagement. The total score is the total sum of all 57 items, ranging from 57-228. The 5 factor scores are computed as the sum of the appropriate subscales., Change between baseline and 2 months post-baseline.|Child adjustment, Will be measured using 27-item Pediatric Quality of Life (PedsQL) Inventory Cancer Module to assess child quality of life. We used Child Self-Report versions for ages 5-7, 8-12, and 13-17. Parents completed Parent Proxy-Reports. Items for 7-year-olds were rated on a 3-point Likert scale. Items for children aged 8-17 years and parents were rated on a 5-point Likert scale. Multidimensional scales include pain and hurt, nausea, procedural anxiety, treatment anxiety, worry, cognitive problems, perceived physical appearance, and communication. Scores are transformed to a 0-100 scale. To calculate scores by dimensions, the mean score = sum of the items over the number of items answered. The total score is the sum of all the items over the number of items answered on all the scales. Higher scores indicate lower problems., Change between baseline and 2 months post-baseline.|Child adjustment, Will be measured using the Parent-Adolescent Communication Scale (PACS) to assess parent-child communication. Children and parents complete 20-40 items to assess parent-child communication. A total score is calculated ranging from 20-100 with higher scores indicating more positive communication., Change between baseline and 2 months post-baseline.|Parent adjustment, Will be measured using the Parent-Adolescent Communication Scale (PACS) to assess parent-child communication. Children and parents complete 20-40 items to assess parent-child communication. A total score is calculated ranging from 20-100 with higher scores indicating more positive communication., Change between baseline and 2 months post-baseline|Parent adjustment, Will be measured using the Adult Self-Report (ASR). The 126-item ASR will assess adaptive functioning and problems. Items are rated on a 3-point Likert scale. Scores in relation to norms for each gender and age are based on national probability samples. Higher scores indicate the item is true for the individual., Change between baseline and 2 months post-baseline.|Parent coping strategies, Will be measured using the Response to Stress Questionnaire (RSQ). The 57 items are rated from 1-4 indicating frequency of responses to stress, resulting in 5 factors: (a) primary control coping, (b) secondary control coping, (c) disengagement coping, (d) involuntary engagement, and (e) involuntary disengagement. The total score is the total sum of all 57 items, ranging from 57-228. The 5 factor scores are computed as the sum of the appropriate subscales., Change between baseline and 2 months post-baseline
Parent satisfaction, Will be measured using a Follow-up Parent survey that includes multiple choice and open-ended questions related to intervention benefits and suggestions for future research. Counts and frequencies will be reported for parent responses to multiple choice questions. Responses to open-ended questions will undergo thematic content analysis., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the impact of legacy-making on coping strategies and adjustment outcomes among children with refractory or relapsed cancer.

II. To examine the impact of legacy-making on coping strategies and adjustment outcomes among parent caregivers.

III. To examine the process of implementing a web-based legacy-making intervention for children with refractory or relapsed cancer and their parent caregivers by obtaining parent self-reports (e.g., What did you and your child-like/not like about the intervention? How difficult was it to complete the intervention? What made it difficult? What else you would like to teach us?).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients participate in a web-based legacy intervention by answering questions about themselves and uploading videos, photographs, and music to create a digital story within 2 weeks.

GROUP II: Patients receive standard of care. Patients have the option to participate in the web-based legacy intervention after 2 months.