MRI-guided Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) With Simultaneous Integrated Boost for Prostate Cancer
Radiation is delivered to the prostate and seminal vesicles in 5 treatment sessions (fractions). Doses ranging from 35-45 Gy in 5 fractions have demonstrated good outcomes with acceptable toxicity.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: SIBRT
Feasibility of Delivering Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy(SBRT) With Simultaneous Integrated Boost(SIB)., Feasibility of delivering stereotactic body radiotherapy(SBRT) with simultaneous integrated boost(SIB). The investigators will track the number of treatment plans(number of participants) for each dose level (37.5, 40, 42.5, or 45 Gy) that can be delivered while meeting radiation planning objectives., 2 months|Number of Participants Who Received Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy(SBRT) With Simultaneous Integrated Boost (SIB) Without Greater Than Grade 3 GU/GI Toxicities., 1month
Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) Quality of Life Questionnaires Will be Assessed in Patients., Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) measured using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) short-form questionnaire. The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) is a comprehensive instrument designed to evaluate patient function and bother after prostate cancer treatment. Scores range from 0 to 100, lower scores indicate worse outcomes and higher EPIC scores represent better outcomes., baseline, 3-6 months post treatment start|American Urological Association (AUA) Questionnaire Will be Assessed., Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) measured using the AUA assessment will occur at baseline, and at first follow up. The American Urological Association (AUA) has developed the following questionnaire to help men determine how bothersome their urinary symptoms are and to check how effective their treatment is. 0-7 is mild, 8-19 is moderate and 20-35 is severe., baseline, 3-6 months post treatment start
Prostate SBRT is a standard of care treatment for prostate cancer that has not spread to distant metastatic sites. Radiation is delivered to the prostate and seminal vesicles in 5 treatment sessions (fractions). Doses ranging from 35-45 Gy in 5 fractions have demonstrated good outcomes with acceptable toxicity. In this initial study, MRI guided treatment planning and delivery will be used to deliver 7 Gy to the entire prostate and seminal vesicles, with a selective boost of additional 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, or 2 Gy per fraction for a total dose of 37.5, 40, 42.5 or 45 Gy to biopsy-proven lesions, defined using MRI.

Hypothesis: MRI-guided treatment planning and delivery can selectively target high-risk prostate nodules and deliver a higher radiation dose, to achieve maximal local control without increasing treatment toxicity