Decitabine/Cedazuridine and Venetoclax in Combination With Ivosidenib or Enasidenib for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase Ib/II trials studies the side effects of decitabine/cedazuridine (ASTX727) and venetoclax in combination with ivosidenib or enasidenib, and how well they work in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). ASTX727 is the combination of a fixed dose of 2 drugs, cedazuridine and decitabine. Cedazuridine may slow down how fast decitabine is broken down by the body, and decitabine may block abnormal cells or cancer cells from growing. Venetoclax may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking BCL-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Enasidenib and ivosidenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving decitabine/cedazuridine and venetoclax in combination with ivosidenib or enasidenib may help control acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Decitabine and Cedazuridine|DRUG: Enasidenib|DRUG: Ivosidenib|DRUG: Venetoclax
Dose limiting toxicity (Phase Ib), Will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 by organ system., Up to 1 cycle (1 cycle = 28 days)|Overall response rate (ORR) (Phase II), Defined as complete remission (CR), CR with incomplete hematologic recovery, CR with incomplete count recovery, partial response or marrow clearance of blasts. Will estimate the ORR for the combination treatmen1t, along with the Bayesian 95% credible interval., Within 4 months of treatment|Incidence of adverse events (Phase II), Assessed using Common Toxicity Criteria version 5.0. Safety data will be summarized using frequency and percentage, by category and severity., Within 4 months of treatment
Event-free survival (EFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the probabilities of EFS. Log-rank tests will be used to compare among subgroups of patients in terms of EFS., Time interval between treatment start until disease progression, relapse/refractory, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the probabilities of OS. Log-rank tests will be used to compare among subgroups of patients in terms of OS., Time interval between treatment start until death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Duration of response, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the probabilities and log-rank tests will be used to compare among subgroups of patients., Up to 3 years|Minimal residual disease negative status, Will be summarized graphically and with descriptive statistics. The association between molecular and cellular markers and overall response and/or resistance will be assessed through logistic regression analyses. Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to assess the marker change over time., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of oral decitabine/cedazuridine (ASTX727) and venetoclax in combination with either ivosidenib (Arm A) or enasidenib (Arm B) for patients with acute myeloid leukemia. (Phase Ib) II. To determine the overall response rate (complete response \[CR\], complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery \[CRh\], morphologic leukemia-free state \[MLFS\] and partial response \[PR)\] of oral decitabine/cedazuridine (ASTX727) and venetoclax in combination with either ivosidenib (Arm A) or enasidenib (Arm B) for patients with acute myeloid leukemia. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine duration of response (DOR), event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS).

II.To evaluate occurrence of minimal residual disease (MRD) negative status by multiparameter flow cytometry and molecular evaluation.

III. To determine the overall response rate (CR, CRh, Cri, MLFS and PR)

IV. Characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of venetoclax in plasma samples (Phase 1b only)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate global gene expression profiles, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation profiles, BH3 profiling and other potential prognostic markers to explore predictors of antitumor activity and/or resistance to treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive decitabine/cedazuridine orally (PO) daily on days 1-5, venetoclax PO daily on days 1-14, and ivosidenib PO daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive decitabine/cedazuridine PO daily on days 1-5, venetoclax PO daily on days 1-14, and enasidenib PO daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.