Phase 2 Study of Study of Tesevatinib in Subjects With NSCLC and Brain or Leptomeningeal Metastases
A study to assess the activity of tesevatinib in subjects with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations who have disease progression with Brain Metastases (BM) or Leptomeningeal Metastases (LM) or who have either BM or LM at initial presentation (IP)
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Leptomeningeal Metastases|Brain Metastases
DRUG: Tesevatinib
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) of Subjects With BM, The best overall response rates (ORRs) of subjects who had brain tumors and exhibited either a complete response (CR) or a partial responder (PR) to therapy divided by the total number of subjects treated with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD. Response rates are in accordance with RECIST Version 1.1 criteria. Since such brain metastases (BM) tumors can either affect the central nervous system (CNS) or not affect the CNS (non-CNS), they were categorized into CNS and non-CNS subsets. Because leptomeningeal metastases (LM) only are considered cancer cell migration from the breast, lung, or some other part of the body to the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), analysis of CNS are not appropriate, so Cohort B is excluded., Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years, whichever occurred first|Best ORR of Subjects With LM, The best overall response rates (ORRs) of subjects who had leptomeningeal tumors and exhibited either a complete response (CR) or a partial responder (PR) to therapy divided by the total number of subjects treated with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD. Response rates are in accordance with RECIST Version 1.1 criteria. Since leptomeningeal metastases (LM) are only considered cancer cell migration from the breast, lung, or some other part of the body to the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), analysis of CNS are not appropriate, so Cohorts A and C are excluded., Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years, whichever occurred first
Median Progression-free Survival (PFS), Median duration of survival without progression of subjects treated with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD., Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years, whichever occurred first|Probability of PFS at 12 Weeks and 24 Weeks--Cohort A (BM Only) and Cohort B (LM Only), Probability that subjects with brain metastases (BM) or leptomeningeal metastases (LM) would not progress, i.e., progression-free survival (PFS) after 12 weeks (3 months) and after 24 weeks (6 months) of treatment with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD, 24 weeks (6 months)|Probability of PFS at 24 Weeks--Cohort C (BM-IP Only), Probability that subjects with brain metastases at initial presentation (BM-IP) would not progress, i.e., progression-free survival (PFS) after 24 weeks (6 months) of treatment with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD, 24 weeks (6 months)|Probability of OS at 12 Weeks and at 24 Weeks--Cohort A (BM Only) and Cohort B (LM Only), Probability that subjects with brain metastases (BM) or leptomeningeal metastases (LM) survived (overall survival \[OS\]) after 12 weeks (3 months) and after 24 weeks (6 months) of treatment with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD, 24 weeks (6 months)|Median Time to Progression (TTP)--Cohort A (BM), Cohort B (LM), Cohort C (BM-IP), Median time to the development of disease progression (TTP) for subjects in Cohort A, Cohort B and Cohort C who were treated with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD, Until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years, whichever occurred first|Probability of TTP at 12 Weeks and 24 Weeks--Non-CNS Cohort A (BM Only) and Cohort B (LM Only), Probability that the time to progression (TTP) for subjects with no metastases to the central nervous system (non-CNS) in Cohort A (brain metastases only) or Cohort B (leptomeningeal metastases only) would be at 12 weeks (3 months) and at 24 weeks (6 months) of therapy with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD. There were an insufficient number of subjects in Cohort C (brain metastases at initial presentation) who had events., 24 weeks (6 months)|Probability of TTP at 24 Weeks--CNS, Probability that the time to progression (TTP) for subjects with metastases to the central nervous system (CNS) would be at 24 weeks (6 months) of therapy with tesevatinib 300 mg PO QD., 24 weeks (6 months)|Quality of Life (QoL): Mean Change From Baseline in EORTC-QLQ-C30 Questionnaire Scores, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) Cancer 30 (C30) is a 30-question assessment composed of both multi-item scales and single-item measures: 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales, 1 global QoL scale, and 6 single items. Ratings are on a 4-point scale (not at all, a little quite a bit, very much), with scoring from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status/QoL represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptomatology/problems. The outcome measure is the mean change in the EORTC-QLQ-C30 from baseline to a visit., Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years, whichever occurred first|Quality of Life (QoL): Mean Change From Baseline in EORTC-QLQ-BN20 Questionnaire Scores, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) Cancer BN20 Questionnaire is a 20-question assessment of symptomatology based on a categorical scale (Not at all = 1; A little = 2; Quite a bit = 3; and Very much = 4). For 20 questions: minimum score = 20 and maximum score = 80. Higher scores indicate greater level of symptomatology/problems. The outcome measure is the mean change in the EORTC-QLQ-BN20 from baseline to a visit., Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years, whichever occurred first
This was a multicenter, phase 2, open-label study to assess the activity of tesevatinib, in subjects with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations, and brain metastases (BM) or leptomeningeal metastases (LM).

After completion of the screening assessments and confirmation of study eligibility, tesevatinib was orally administered to all subjects at a dose of 300 mg once daily (QD). Tumor response, both in the central nervous system (CNS) and outside the central nervous system (non-CNS), was assessed after the second cycle of treatment and then at the end of every two cycles of treatment thereafter. Subjects were treated with tesevatinib 300 mg QD until disease progression or the subject experienced unacceptable toxicity.

Subjects who discontinued tesevatinib therapy were followed for survival.

Subjects with NSCLC + EGFR mutations were assigned to one of three cohorts:

* Cohort A: Brain Metastases (BM). Subjects had progressed with BM.
* Cohort B: Leptomeningeal Metastases (LM). Subjects had initially presented or progressed with LM.
* Cohort C: Brain Metastases at Initial Presentation (BM-IP). Subjects had no prior systemic therapy.

Each of the three cohorts was to have 20 subjects, for a total of 60 subjects. All three cohorts were enrolled simultaneously.

The primary objectives were to include:

* Clinical activity of tesevatinib of subjects in Cohort A (BM) and Cohort C (BM-IP) as measured by Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 which evaluated changes in BM size.
* Clinical activity of tesevatinib of subjects in Cohort B (LM) as measured by improvement in Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 symptoms and signs.

Efficacy assessments included response to treatment using RECIST criteria, progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP), overall survival (OS), and Quality of Life (QOL) questionnaires. Safety assessments included adverse event (AE) monitoring, electrocardiogram (ECG), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, laboratory testing, physical examination, vital signs, and pregnancy testing. In addition, pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) assessments were performed.

An End of Treatment Visit occurred within 3 days after the subject's last dose of study drug. This could have occurred at the visit when disease progression was diagnosed. Subjects were continued to be followed for disease progression and survival.

A follow-up visit occurred 30 days (± 5 days) after the last dose of study drug. This visit may have occurred prior to 30 days if a new therapy was started within 30 days of last dose of study drug.

For long-term follow-up, after subjects withdrew from the active treatment portion of the study, they were contacted by telephone every 8 weeks to assess survival status and any subsequent anti-cancer treatment.