Detection of PitNET Tissue During TSS Using Bevacizumab-800CW
There is a need for improved visualization of presence and extent of pituitary neuroendocrine tumor (PitNET) tissue during transsphenoidal surgery (TSS), especially in tumors invading the cavernous sinus (CS). Optical molecular imaging of PitNET associated biomarkers is a promising technique to accommodate this need. Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF-A) is overexpressed in PitNET tissue compared to normal pituitary tissue and has proven to be a valid target for molecular imaging. Bevacizumab is an antibody that binds VEGF-A. By conjugating a fluorescent dye to this antibody, the fluorescent tracer molecule bevacizumab-800CW is created, which binds to VEGF-A. The investigators hypothesize that bevacizumab-800CW accumulates in PitNET tissue, enabling visualization using a molecular fluorescence endoscopy system. In this pilot intervention study the investigators will determine the feasibility of using microdoses (4.5, 10 and 25 mg) of bevacizumab-800CW to detect PitNET tissue intraoperatively.
Pituitary Tumor|Pituitary Adenoma|Pituitary Macroadenoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab-IRDye800CW|DEVICE: Molecular Fluorescence Endoscopy platform
Discrimination of tumorous and non-tumorous tissue based on in vivo and ex vivo fluorescence measurements from bevacizumab-800CW gained during fluorescence endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery of pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs), To determine the sensitivity of the marker bevacizumab-800CW in discriminating between tumorous and non-tumorous tissue during endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery of pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs) defined as the tumor to background ratio and intrinsic fluorescence, Three days after tracer injection|Number of participants with adverse events (AE), serious adverse events (SAE) and suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions (SUSAR), Data collection as a measure of safety and tolerability regarding administration of bevacizumab-800CW, Up to 7 days after tracer injection
The correlation of in vivo and ex vivo fluorescent signals to histopathological analysis results, Correlate the H/E images to the fluorescent images made with multiple ex vivo imaging modalities, Up to 1,5 year|Quantification of the fluorescent signal by MDSFR/SFF spectroscopy, Multi-diameter single-fiber reflectance with single-fiber fluorescence (MDSFR/SFF) spectroscopy can measure the fluorescence signal quantitatively, both in vivo and ex vivo, Up to 1,5 year|Assessment of the (sub)-cellular distribution of bevacizumab-800CW by ex vivo fluorescence microscopy, Imaging of the distribution of bevacizumab-800CW with a fluorescence microscope, Up to 1,5 year
There is a need for improved visualization of presence and extent of pituitary neuroendocrine tumor (PitNET) tissue during transsphenoidal surgery (TSS), especially in tumors invading the cavernous sinus (CS). Optical molecular imaging of PitNET associated biomarkers is a promising technique to accommodate this need. Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF-A) is overexpressed in PitNET tissue compared to normal pituitary tissue and has proven to be a valid target for molecular imaging. Bevacizumab is an antibody that binds VEGF-A. By conjugating a fluorescent dye to this antibody, the fluorescent tracer molecule bevacizumab-800CW is created, which binds to VEGF-A. The investigators hypothesize that bevacizumab-800CW accumulates in PitNET tissue, enabling visualization using a molecular fluorescence endoscopy system. In this pilot intervention study the investigators will determine the feasibility of using microdoses (4.5, 10 and 25 mg) of bevacizumab-800CW to detect PitNET tissue intraoperatively.