Trimetazidine Efficacy in Attenuating Paclitaxel-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy
This proof-of-concept study evaluated the effect of Trimetazidine on the incidence of paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with breast cancer.
Peripheral Neuropathy Due to Chemotherapy
DRUG: Trimetazidine|DRUG: Placebo
Incidence of chemotherapy induced-peripheral neuropathy using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) criteria, Number of patients reported neuropathy from paclitaxel. a 1 to 5 graded scale; where grade (1) is the minimum value and grade (5) is the maximum value, a greater grades mean greater symptomatic burden., weekly for up to 8 weeks|Patient's Quality of Life, measures the quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity FACT/GOG-NTX (Version 4) questionnaire.

A total score ranging from 0 (minimum value) to 44 (maximum value), where lower scores mean greater symptomatic burden., at baseline, at the end of 4 weeks and at the end of 8 weeks
Changes in serum levels of biomarker namely nerve growth factor (NGF)., measuring serum level of nerve growth factor using enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) Kit., at baseline and at end of 8 weeks|Adverse effects of using trimetazidine in preventing Paclitaxel Induced Peripheral Neuropathy., any adverse/ side effect will be evaluated., at baseline and weekly up to 8 week|Severity of chemotherapy induced-peripheral neuropathy., The severity of paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy using VAS visual analogue scale.

a 10-cm line that represents a continuum between "no pain" and "worst pain.", at baseline, at the end of 4 weeks and at the end of 8 weeks
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a major adverse effect of many commonly used chemotherapeutic agents that greatly affect patient quality of life. Paclitaxel (PTX), one of the main neurotoxic classes of anticancer drugs, is used to treat several types of solid tumors, including breast cancer. Development of PTX-induced peripheral neuropathy (PIPN) during cancer treatment requires dose reduction limiting its clinical benefits.

The only currently recognized prophylactic measure for chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is monitoring for pre-existing neuropathies and then the early detection of clinical symptoms of neuropathy in subjects undergoing neurotoxic chemotherapy treatment.

Preclinical data has shown that the neuroprotective effect of trimetazidine (TMZ) can attenuate PIPN.

TMZ has preclinical evidence about its preventive capacity against peripheral neuropathy. Which represents a possible prophylactic strategy for attenuating PIPN. TMZ is commercially available in various preparations that are relatively affordable and well-tolerated, making it a valid candidate for clinical evaluation.