ARCTIC: Liquid Biomarkers in the Prospective Androgen Receptor Signaling Inhibitors (ARSI) Resistance Clinical Trials
This study will follow men with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer throughout their standard of care treatment for their disease to determine if the presence of different genes or proteins can predict which patients respond to the cancer treatment they receive. As tumors grow and begin to spread, they may release cells into patients' bloodstream. These cells are called "circulating tumor cells", or CTCs. CTCs can be used to look for differences in "biomarkers" (genes or proteins that may change based on how a person is or is not responding to treatment). The purpose of this research study is to learn whether scientists can use biomarkers from CTCs to predict which tumors will respond to certain hormonal therapies. Participants will have blood collected and provide an archival sample from a previous tumor biopsy. The researchers will compare biomarkers from participants who responded well to treatment to those who responded poorly in order to answer the research question.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Cancer Metastatic|Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
Comparison of progression-free survival (PFS) between biomarker positive and negative participants, PFS which is defined as the time from date of study enrollment to radiographic or clinical progression or death. Radiographic progression will be defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria for soft tissue and bone metastases and will not include PSA changes alone. Clinical progression will be defined as clinical deterioration requiring a change in therapy, such as a pathologic fracture or symptomatic skeletal event or pain progression in the absence of imaging progression., Through completion of participant participation, up to 3 years
Comparison of overall survival between biomarker positive and negative participants, Overall survival is defined as time from date of study enrollment to date of death or last contact., Through completion of participant participation, up to 3 years|Comparison of the proportion of participants that achieve a >50% PSA declines from baseline between biomarker positive and negative participants, PSA decline will be assessed per PCWG3, Through completion of participant participation, up to 3 years|Comparison of soft tissue response between biomarker positive and negative participants, Soft tissue response will be assessed per RECIST 1.1., Through completion of participant participation, up to 3 years|Comparison of duration of therapy between biomarker positive and negative participants, Time from initiation to discontinuation of therapy, Through discontinuation of current therapy, up to 3 years|Number of emergent molecular lesions in CTCs that consistently emerge during subsequent AR therapy progression in men with mCRPC, At disease progression, up to 3 years
This study will follow men with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer throughout their standard of care treatment for their disease to determine if the presence of different genes or proteins can predict which patients respond to the cancer treatment they receive. As tumors grow and begin to spread, they may release cells into patients' bloodstream. These cells are called "circulating tumor cells", or CTCs. CTCs can be used to look for differences in "biomarkers" (genes or proteins that may change based on how a person is or is not responding to treatment). The purpose of this research study is to learn whether scientists can use biomarkers from CTCs to predict which tumors will respond to certain hormonal therapies. Participants will have blood collected and provide an archival sample from a previous tumor biopsy. The researchers will compare biomarkers from participants who responded well to treatment to those who responded poorly in order to answer the research question.