Safety Study of Whole Body Hyperthermia for Advanced Cancer
Millions of patients die of cancer every year. There are several methods to treat cancer, including surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy. Recently, hyperthermia therapy started playing a role in cancer therapy. It has shown effect in animal experiments and clinical practice. The sponsor has developed a novel device to use hyperthermia for advanced cancer. This study is to prove the safety in human patients of this device \& therapy and get the first data on efficacy.
Advanced Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer Metastatic
DEVICE: Whole body hyperthermia|DRUG: Standard of Care (SOC) chemotherapy according to the NCCN guidelines.
Incidence of adverse device events (ADEs) in relation to the medical device, 4 weeks after last treatment|Incidence of related clinically significant abnormalities on electrocardiogram (ECG), vital signs, physical examination and laboratory parameters, 4 weeks after last treatment|Incidence of adverse events (AEs) related to WBHT treatment alone or in combination with SOC chemotherapy according to the NCCN guidelines. nab-paclitaxel or gemcitabine alone, 4 weeks after last treatment
evolution of CA19-9 (U/ml), The evolution of this clinically significant biological parameter will be measured compared to baseline, 4 weeks after last treatment|evolution of CEA (ng/ml), The evolution of this clinically significant biological parameter will be measured compared to baseline, 4 weeks after last treatment|based on the three primary outcome measures, guidance will be drafted for phase II treatment duration in combination with chemotherapy dosing., 4 weeks after last treatment
Millions of patients die of cancer every year. There are several methods to treat cancer, including surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy. Recently, hyperthermia therapy started playing a role in cancer therapy. It has shown effect in animal experiments and clinical practice. The sponsor has developed a novel device to use hyperthermia for advanced cancer. This study is to prove the safety in human patients of this device \& therapy and get the first data on efficacy.