CARE Initiative: Real-world Emulation of the KEYNOTE-189 Trial [DS3]
The goal of this non-interventional study is to emulate the KEYNOTE-189 randomized controlled trial of pembrolizumab for the treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer using real-world, electronic health record data. The main questions this study aims to answer are:

1. Do patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with pemetrexed, cisplatin/carboplatin, and pembrolizumab have improved real-world overall survival (rwOS) and real-world progression-free survival (rwPFS) compared with patients treated with pemetrexed and cisplatin/carboplatin alone?
2. How do the results of this non-interventional study compare to those of the KEYNOTE-189 randomized controlled trial?
Metastatic Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Real-world overall survival (rwOS), Time from study treatment initiation to death, From study treatment initiation until the date of death from any cause or censoring, whichever came first, assessed up to 20.4 months.|Real-world progression-free survival (rwPFS), Time from study treatment initiation to disease progression or death, From study treatment initiation until the date of disease progression, death from any cause or censoring, whichever came first, assessed up to 20.4 months.
The Coalition to Advance Real-World Evidence through Randomized Controlled Trial Emulation (CARE) Initiative is a program designed to build an empirical evidence base for the use of real-world data (RWD) in clinical and regulatory decision-making. Using randomized controlled trials (RCTs) as a benchmark for causal effect estimates, a series of RCT emulations will be conducted across varying trials, real world data sources, and study design elements to better understand under what conditions non-interventional studies, using data generated during routine clinical care, can provide reliable conclusions about drug effectiveness.

In this study, real-world electronic health record (EHR) data will be used to emulate the KEYNOTE-189 efficacy trial of pembrolizumab as first-line therapy in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) sensitizing mutations. Similarly to the KEYNOTE-189 trial, this study will compare real-world overall survival (rwOS) and real-world progression-free survival (rwPFS) between patients who initiate pemetrexed, platinum-based chemotherapy, and pembrolizumab, and patients who initiate pemetrexed and platinum-based chemotherapy alone.