Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Lutathera in Patients With Grade 2 and Grade 3 Advanced GEP-NET
The aim of NETTER-2 was to determine if Lutathera in combination with long-acting octreotide prolongs progression free survival (PFS) in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (GEP-NET) patients with high proliferation rate tumors (G2 and G3), when given as a first line treatment compared to treatment with high dose (60 mg) long-acting octreotide. Somatostatin analog (SSA) naive patients were eligible, as well as patients previously treated with SSAs in the absence of progression.
Gastro-enteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor
DRUG: Lutathera|DRUG: 30 mg Octreotide long acting repeatable (LAR) (Sandostatin LAR Depot)|DRUG: 2.5% Lys-Arg sterile amino acid solution|DRUG: High dose 60 mg octreotide long-acting repeatable
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per Central Assessment, PFS is the time from randomization to the first line progression (centrally assessed according to RECIST 1.1) or death due to any cause. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor Criteria (RECIST 1.1) as a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all measured target lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions or appearance of a new lesion., from randomization to the first line progression or death due to any cause, up to approx. 42 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Per Central Assessment (Key Secondary), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with the best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1. CR = Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approx. 42 months|Time to Deteriration (TTD) Global Health Status, Diarrhea, Fatigue, Pain (EORTC QLQ-C30) (Key Secondary), TTD is defined as the first deterioration of at least 10 points from baseline in European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30): global health status, diarrhea, fatigue, and pain.

The Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 (QLQ-C30) was developed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) to assess quality of life in cancer patients. It includes five function domains (physical, emotional, social, role, cognitive), eight symptoms (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, insomnia, dyspnea, and appetite loss), as well as global health/quality-of-life and financial impact. Subjects respond on a four-point scale from "not at all" to "very much" for most items. Raw scores are linearly transformed so each score ranged a 0-100, where higher scores indicate worse symptoms (e.g., more severe/worsened) and lower scores indicate less symptoms (e.g., less severe/improvement)., Up to approx. 42 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Per Central Assessment, Disease Control Rate is the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) (centrally assessed according to RECIST 1.1). CR = Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters; SD = Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease (PD)., Up to approx. 42 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Per Central Assessment, Duration of Response defined as time from first complete or partial response to progression or death due to underlying cancer according to RECIST 1.1., Up to approx. 42 months|Rate of Adverse Events, Rate of adverse events scored according to CTCAE grade, from FPFV until end of study (about 94 months)|Rate of Laboratory Toxicities, Rate of laboratory toxicities scored according to CTCAE grade, from FPFV until end of study (about 94 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is the time from randomization date until day of death due to any cause., from FPFV until end of study (about 94 months)
The study consisted of a screening phase, a treatment phase, an optional cross-over phase for subjects assigned to the control arm, optional re-treatment phase for subjects assigned to the Lutathera arm, and a follow-up phase. This study compared treatment with Lutathera (7.4 GBq/200 mCi 4 × administrations every 8 weeks ± 1 week; cumulative dose: 29.6 GBq/800mCi) plus octreotide long-acting release (LAR) (30 mg every 8 weeks during Lutathera treatment and every 4 weeks after last Lutathera treatment) and high dose octreotide LAR (60 mg every 4 weeks).