A Study of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 With Veledimex in Subjects With Glioblastoma or Malignant Glioma
This research study involves an investigational product: Ad-RTS-hIL-12 given with veledimex for production of human IL-12. IL-12 is a protein that can improve the body's natural response to disease by enhancing the ability of the immune system to kill tumor cells and may interfere with blood flow to the tumor.

The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a single tumor injection of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 given with oral veledimex.
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ad-RTS-hIL-12|DRUG: veledimex
Safety and Tolerability of Varying Doses of Intratumoral Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and Oral Veledimex Doses in Subjects With Recurrent or Progressive Glioblastoma or Grade III Malignant Glioma, Evaluation will be based on the incidence, intensity, and type of Adverse Events (AEs). Clinically significant changes in the subjects' physical examinations, vital signs, and ECG evaluations, and clinical manifestations relevant to abnormal laboratory values will be captured as AEs., 3 years
Veledimex Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) When Given With Varying Doses of Intratumoral Ad-RTS-hIL-12, The protocol defined the MTD as the dose level below at which less than 33% of subjects, of the same cohort in a group, experienced DLTs, with an independent assessment of Group 1 and Group 2 subjects.

• The number of DLTs and the proportion of subjects with any DLT and each type of DLT were summarized by veledimex dose within each group., 3 years|Veledimex Pharmacokinetic Profile and Veledimex Concentration Ratio Between the Brain Tumor and the Blood, From the protocol: Veledimex PK parameters to be determined will include, but are not limited to, the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax), half-life (t1/2), area-under-the-concentration versus time curve (AUC), volume of distribution (Vd), and clearance (CL).

From the SAP: The PK blood sample collection was performed either pre-dose or 3-5 hours post-dose, therefore only Cmax and Ctrough will be summarized and plotted. Veledimex concentration ratio between brain tumor and blood will be assessed on Day 0 samples. There will be no parameters including time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax), half-life (t1/2), area under the curve (AUC), volume of distribution (Vd), and clearance (CL). Cmax will be determined from the maximum plasma concentration from Day 0 (post veledimex and resection/craniotomy), 3-5 hours after the veledimex dose on Day 1, and 3-5 hours after the veledimex dose on Day 14., 15 days|Cellular and Humoral Immune Responses Elicited by Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and Veledimex, Peak serum IL-12 and I downstream IFN-gamma expressions between Day 3 to Day 28 are reported by dose cohort., 28 days|Tumor Objective Response Rate (ORR), For the ORR calculation, responders are defined as those experiencing a confirmed complete response or confirmed partial response. Non-responders are those either with stable or progressive disease. Those subjects that cannot be assessed will be treated as non-responders for the purposes of deriving the percentage of responders and confidence intervals. The ORR is reported overall by treatment arm based on the investigator response at timepoints 56 days, Week 16, Week 24, and Week 48., 48 weeks|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS (progression free survival) is the time in months from the first treatment (either veledimex or Ad-RTS-hIL-12) to the first assessment on which the overall response is reported as disease progression. Subjects withdrawing from the study will be censored at their last non progressive disease response assessment. If a subject does not have a non-progressive disease response assessment, the subject will be censored on the date of the first treatment as described above., 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the duration of time from the first dose of study drug (Day 0) to the date of death from any cause in days or months. Subjects are censored based on the last date known to be alive. For example:

* Subjects who discontinue the study without documentation of additional follow-up will be censored at the date of discontinuation.
* Subjects who are lost to follow-up will be censored at last follow-up contact date.
* Subjects still alive up to 2 years from the first dose of study drug are classified as censored and as having completed all follow-up scheduling., 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, and 24 months|Veledimex Concentration Ratio Between the Brain Tumor and the Blood, From the protocol: Veledimex PK parameters to be determined will include, but are not limited to, the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax), half-life (t1/2), area-under-the-concentration versus time curve (AUC), volume of distribution (Vd), and clearance (CL).

From the SAP: The PK blood sample collection was performed either pre-dose or 3-5 hours post-dose, therefore only Cmax and Ctrough will be summarized and plotted. Veledimex concentration ratio between brain tumor and blood will be assessed on Day 0 samples. There will be no parameters including time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax), half-life (t1/2), area under the curve (AUC), volume of distribution (Vd), and clearance (CL). Cmax will be determined from the maximum plasma concentration from Day 0 (post veledimex and resection/craniotomy), 3-5 hours after the veledimex dose on Day 1, and 3-5 hours after the veledimex dose on Day 14., 15 days
Eligible patients will be stratified to one of two groups, according to clinical indication for tumor resection. Patients who are scheduled for a standard of care craniotomy and tumor resection will receive one dose of veledimex before the resection procedure. Ad-RTS-hIL-12 will be administered by free-hand injection. Patients will continue on oral veledimex for 14 days.

Patients not scheduled for tumor resection will receive Ad-RTS-hIL-12 by stereotactic injection and then will continue on oral veledimex for 14 days.

The study is divided into three periods: the screening period, the treatment period and the follow-up period.