Application of UCAD for Diagnosing Urothelial Carcinoma.
Chromosomal instability (CIN) refers to ongoing chromosome segregation errors throughout consecutive cell divisions. CIN is a hallmark of human cancer, and it is associated with poor prognosis, metastasis, and therapeutic resistance. Analyzing CIN of the DNA extracted from urothelial cells in urine samples seems a promising method for diagnosing, monitoring, and predicting the prognosis of bladder cancer patients. CIN can be assessed using experimental techniques such as bulk DNA sequencing, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), or conventional karyotyping. However, these techniques are either time-consuming or non-specific. We here intend to study whether a new method named Ultrasensitive Chromosomal Aneuploidy Detection (UCAD), which is based on low-coverage whole-genome sequencing, can be used to analyze CIN thus help diagnosing and treating bladder cancer patients.
Urothelial Carcinoma|Diagnoses Disease|Chromosomal Abnormality|Urine Marking
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Low-coverage whole-genome sequencing of urine exfoliated cells
Sensitivity of urinalysis by UCAD analysis, Number of patients "declared positive" with the UCAD test among the patients suffered from urothelial carcinoma., Up to 1 years|Specificity of urinalysis by UCAD analysis, Number of patients "declared negative" with the UCAD test among the patients without cancer., Through study completion, an average of 12 months
Comparison of the sensitivity of the UCAD analysis versus urine cytology, Number of patients "declared positive" with the UCAD analysis versus patients "declared positive" with the urine cytology., Up to 1 years|Comparison of the specificity of the UCAD analysis versus urine cytology, Number of patients "declared negative" with the UCAD analysis versus patients " declared negative " with the urine cytology., Up to 1 years
Identification of the correlation between the level of CIN and the grade of the tumor sample, Level of CIN in the urine sample compared with the grade of the tumor confirmed by histopathologic examination, Up to 1 years|Identification of the correlation between the level of CIN and the stage of the tumor sample, Level of CIN in the urine sample compared with the stage of the tumor confirmed by histopathologic examination., Up to 1 years
CIN results from errors in chromosome segregation during mitosis, leading to structural and numerical chromosomal abnormalities. It will generate genomic heterogeneity that acts as a substrate for natural selection. Furthermore, it is proved that tumors with aneuploidies and polyploidy resulting from whole-genome doubling are related with metastasis, treatment resistance, and decreased overall survival. It is estimated that 60%-80% of human tumors exhibit chromosomal abnormalities suggestive of CIN. CIN positively correlates with tumor stage and is enriched in relapsed as well as metastatic tumor specimens. Due to the ubiquity of CIN in cancer cells, it is a potentially non-invasive way to detect CIN in the urothelial cells from the urine sample for diagnosing and monitoring bladder cancer patients. UCAD is a new method to detecting CIN in the DNA sample from patients, including extracting DNA from urine, analyzing DNA by low-coverage whole-genome sequencing, processing the data by bio-information techniques, and finally optimizing the management of bladder cancer patients.

The investigators intended to conduct a prospective study by analyzing urine samples from bladder cancer patients and control groups that without any tumor in the urinary system or other organs to compare the specificity and sensitivity of UCAD test for diagnosing urothelial carcinoma to other modalities, such as urine cytology or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).