Effect of Antimullerian Hormone Levels on the Inflammatory Index, Phytochemical Index and NRF Nutrient Density
The aim of the study was to calculate the dietary inflammatory index, dietary phytochemical index and NRF nutrient density of the dietary pattern routinely consumed by women and to assess whether there is a difference between PCOS patients with high AMH levels and the group with low AMH levels.
AMH|Diet Habit|Ovarian Failure|Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
BEHAVIORAL: Dietary Inflammatory Index|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: hormone profile
AMH levels according to dietary indexes, Patients with low, normal and high AMH values are examined for differences in the indices calculated according to nutrient density., 6 months
There is currently growing interest in the relationship between lifestyle, reproductive health and fertility. Recent research emphasizes the influence of environmental and lifestyle factors such as stress, diet and nutritional status on reproductive health. Ovarian reserve refers to the number and quality of eggs and is an indicator of reproductive potential. Ovarian reserve is inversely proportional to the chronological age of the mother, which is the most important determinant of reproductive capacity and reproductive success. It has been shown that reproductive aging accelerates after the age of 35. Therefore, the assessment of ovarian reserve is an important step in both the evaluation and treatment of infertility. Markers of ovarian reserve include antral follicle count (AFC), which is determined by transvaginal ultrasound, and serum levels of various biomarkers such as anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and estradiol. Studies show that certain dietary patterns and the intake of certain nutrients are associated with endometriosis, ovarian reserve and egg quality, ovarian infertility and fertility. In addition, there is evidence that modifiable lifestyle factors, such as adherence to certain dietary habits and avoidance of environmental toxins, may also have positive effects on ovarian reserve. Recent studies have shown that women's nutritional status, body mass index and eating habits influence ovarian reserve.

The Dietary Inflammatory Index (DII) is an index developed to assess the impact of general dietary habits on inflammation. It is known that the dietary inflammatory index is high in chronic diseases associated with inflammation. The Phytochemical Index is a calculation based on the consumption of fruits high in phytochemicals, all vegetables except potatoes, legumes, whole grains and whole grain-containing foods, and oilseeds that provides information about the level of phytochemicals in the diet. The NRF Nutrient Density Index is a continuous function and represents an arithmetic combination of weighted variables. In this continuous function algorithm, the negative part (foods that should be restricted) is subtracted from the positive part (foods that should be consumed). In the calculation phase of this model, foods were scored according to their nutrient content per 100 kcal and per serving size. By calculating the nutrient density of the food consumed, the quality of the person's diet can be determined.

Based on this information, it was planned to compare these 3 nutritional indices in patients diagnosed with PCOS with an AMH level above 3.32 ng/ml, in the low ovarian reserve group without a PCOS diagnosis with an AMH level below 1.2 ng/ml and in normo-responder patients with an AMH level between these two values.