Axitinib and Avelumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma
This phase II trial studies how well axitinib and avelumab work in treating patients with adenoid cystic carcinoma that has come back or spread to other places in the body. Axitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as avelumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving axitinib and avelumab together may help to control adenoid cystic carcinoma.
Metastatic Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma|Progressive Disease|Recurrent Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma
DRUG: Avelumab|DRUG: Axitinib
Assess the Objective Response Rate (ORR) to Axitinib and Avelumab Combination According to RECIST 1.1 Criteria., All eligible patients who received at least one cycle of treatment and had at least one restaging image were considered evaluable for the primary end point. Objective response includes complete response (CR) + partial response (PR). Radiographic imaging for tumor assessment was performed at baseline and then every 8 weeks., Up to 33 months
Estimate Median Progression-free Survival, Median Overall Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the duration from start of treatment to date of progression or death, whichever occurred first. Overall survival (OS) was defined as the duration from start of treatment to death. The Kaplan-Meier approach was used to estimate the PFS and OS distributions, along with median estimates with 95% CI., up to 40 months|Estimate Progression Free Survival Rate at 6 Months After Start of Treatment, Overall Survival Rate 6 Months After Start of Treatment, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the duration from start of treatment to date of progression or death, whichever occurred first. The PFS rate at 6-month was the percentage of patients without disease progression at 6 months. Overall survival (OS) was defined as the duration from start of treatment to death. The OS rate at 6-month was the percentage of living patients at 6 months. The Kaplan-Meier approach was used to estimate the PFS and OS distributions, along with median estimates with 95% CI., completed at 6 months from start of treatment|Estimate Duration of Response, Duration of response (DoR) was measured from the date response criteria were met until the first date that progression was documented. The Kaplan-Meier approach was used to estimate the DOR distributions, along with median estimates with 95% CI., Up to 30 months|Evaluate Safety and Toxicity, Evaluated for the number of incidences for safety and toxicity for treatment related adverse events that occurred in \> 10% of patients and all grade 3 or higher treatment related adverse events., Up to 30 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the objective response rate (ORR) to axitinib and avelumab combination according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria patients with recurrent or metastatic adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) who have evidence of disease progression within 6 months prior to study enrollment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess ORR to axitinib and avelumab combination according to immune-related (ir)RECIST criteria patients with recurrent or metastatic adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC).

II. Evaluate median progression free survival (PFS), PFS rate at 6 months after start of treatment.

III. Evaluate median overall survival (OS), OS rate at 6 months after start of treatment.

IV. Evaluate duration of response (DoR). V. Evaluate safety and toxicity.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess molecular markers associated with response and resistance to the study combination using tissue and/or plasma obtained from study participants.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive axitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and avelumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days and then every 6 months thereafter.