Clinical Study to Establish the Feasibility and Usability of the EndoRings™
The purpose of this prospective clinical study is to establish the feasibility and usability of the ENDORINGS™ when used during standard colonoscopy procedure.
Colon Cancer|Bowel Cancer|Colorectal Cancer
DEVICE: EndoRings
The primary endpoint is reaching the cecum of the colon with the ENDORINGS™., 24 hours post procedure
1. Incidence of complications (number of complications), Known complications include:

* Perforation;
* Severe abdominal pain;
* Infection;
* Bleeding (other than expected minor bleeding due to therapeutic procedures e.g. polypectomy);
* Inducing inflammation of diverticulum
* Arrhythmia, bradycardia, hypotension, hypoxia
* Death A complication is defined as any one of the above complications as well as any other unexpected complication requiring medical intervention beyond that of the standard procedure. All adverse events will be reported and treated as per the standard clinical practices.

A telephone call should be made to the patient at 24 hour post- procedure, to assess post-examination adverse events., 24 hours post procedure|2. Ability to complete s therapeutic interventions as biopsies, polypectomies, APC etc., Whenever a polyp or other abnormality is detected, the endoscopist will perform biopsy, polypectomy or other evaluation or therapy as appropriate. The clinical investigator will use his/her clinical judgment on the safety of polyp removal/biopsy., 24 hours post procedure|3. Procedure time., Procedural times for each colonoscopy procedure:

1. Time for intubation to the cecum
2. Time for withdrawal from the cecum to the anal verge
3. Total procedure time, During procedure|4. Ease of scope insertion, advancement and withdrawal., Physician's subjective evaluation will be recorded in the source documents by a questionnaire., During procedure|5. Ability to center the scope inside the gastrointestinal tract., Physician's subjective evaluation will be recorded in the source documents by a questionnaire., During procedure|6. Subjective evaluation of the additional area screened by the physician., Physician's subjective evaluation will be recorded in the source documents by a questionnaire., During procedure|7. Patient satisfactory., A telephone call should be made to the patient at 24 hour post- procedure, to assess patient satisfactory by completing a VAS scale questionnaire., During procedure
The EndoAid Ltd. EndoRings is used during endoscopy procedures. The EndoRings is a short silicon rubber tube with flexible circular wings that attaches to the distal end of the endoscope to facilitate endoscopic therapy.

The EndoRings is designed to fit specific endoscopes (as designated on the packaging), and is supplied sterile following ETO sterilization and is single use only.

Indications for Use:

To be attached to the distal end of the endoscope to facilitate endoscopic therapy, to be used for the following:

* Keeping the suitable depth of endoscope's view field
* Helping the endoscope with being inserted into the gastrointestinal tract

Patient Population: The study population is comprised of patients indicated for colonoscopy.

Study Design: Single-center study. A single treatment group of 60 patients. No. of Patients: Up to sixty (60) treated patients will be enrolled in the study.

Primary Endpoints:The primary endpoint is reaching the cecum of the colon with the ENDORINGS™.

Secondary Endpoints / Other Outcomes:

1. Incidence of complications (number of complications)
2. Ability to complete s therapeutic interventions as biopsies, polypectomies, APC etc.
3. Procedure time.
4. Ease of scope insertion, advancement and withdrawal.
5. Ability to center the scope inside the gastrointestinal tract.
6. Subjective evaluation of the additional area screened by the physician (recorded in the source documents by a questionnaire).
7. Patient satisfactory (by a follow up phone-call in which questionnaire with VAS scale will be filled out).