Lenalidomide, Sunitinib, and Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Stage IV Eye Melanoma
RATIONALE: Lenalidomide may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Sunitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving lenalidomide together with sunitinib and low doses of cyclophosphamide once a day may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving lenalidomide together with sunitinib and cyclophosphamide works in treating patients with stage IV eye melanoma.
Intraocular Melanoma|Malignant Conjunctival Neoplasm
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: lenalidomide|DRUG: sunitinib malate
Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), Response was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Complete response is the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., 2 years|Toxicity, Here is the number of participants with adverse events. For a detailed list of adverse events see the adverse event module., 16 months|Overall Survival, Time from date of on study to the date of death from any cause or last follow up, up to 16 months
Progression Free Survival, Proportion of patients who progress or die after the start of treatment, up to 16 months|Changes in Gene Expression, Methylation and Protein Modification, Ribonucleic acid (RNA), deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and protein obtained from blood, urine and/or tissue was to be evaluated for changes in gene expression, methylation and/or protein modification., Baseline and end of treatment course 1 and 2, approximately 42 days
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the response rate in patients with stage IV ocular melanoma treated with lenalidomide, sunitinib malate, and low-dose metronomic cyclophosphamide.

Secondary

* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* Obtain blood, urine, and tissue samples from these patients, when easily accessible, to determine the effects of this regimen on pathways thought to have been modulated by this regimen in pre-clinical studies.

OUTLINE: This is nonrandomized, uncontrolled, open-label study.

Patients receive oral lenalidomide, oral sunitinib malate\*, and oral low-dose cyclophosphamide once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*Some patients will not receive sunitinib malate during course 1.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 4 months for 3 years and then annually thereafter.