BreastVAX: Radiation Boost to Enhance Immune Checkpoint Blockade Therapy
The primary objective is to determine the feasibility of combining pembrolizumab with a single fraction radiation boost in patients with early/ operable breast cancer. The secondary objectives are to assess clinical response on pre- and post-treatment clinical, imaging, and histology exams, and to assess immune response on pre and post treatment blood and tissue samples by tracking change in Ki67 + CD8 T cells in peripheral blood and in extent of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes. A clinically significant partial response is defined as \>30% tumor shrinkage post-clinical trial intervention.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Hypofractionated radiotherapy|DRUG: Pembrolizumab infusion|PROCEDURE: Blood and tissue sampling
Feasibility of preoperative pembrolizumab administration combined with radiation boost in patients with operable breast cancer, Feasibility is defined as patient tolerability of the investigational treatment and no excessive delay in surgery in our participants. The interval to breast-conserving surgery and mastectomy was based on review of our records in patients undergoing breast cancer surgery in 2016. The average time to breast conservation surgery is 24.3 days (80% between 9 and 51 days) and for mastectomy with reconstruction 41.6 days (80% between 10 and 67 days)., 2 years|Assess clinical response of treatment, Evaluate clinical response using the following assessments:

1. Clinical breast exam
2. Breast ultrasonography (US) imaging (optional) for tumor dimension changes.
3. Histology (pathology) exams. Pathologic response is assess histologically on post-treatment tumor tissues. A major pathologic response will be defined as \<10% viable invasive tumor in treated. A clinically significant partial response is defined as \>30% tumor shrinkage post-clinical trial intervention., 2 years
Assess immune response on pre- and post-treatment blood and tissue samples, Assess immune response on pre- and post-treatment blood and tissue samples This study will track change in Ki67 + CD8 T cells in peripheral blood and in extent of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL)., 2 years
The study has four arms. Arms 1 and 2 differ by the order of radiation boost and pembrolizumab administration. A minimum of 6 patients will be enrolled in the safety run-in portion of the study. The Phase 2 portion of the study will include Arm 3 (pembrolizumab only arm). An estimated 27 participants will be enrolled or until futility of Arm 3 is reached. Continuation of enrollment in Arms 1 or 2 will be contingent to funding availability. Arm 4 represents our control arm in which patients will follow usual care but will be consented for blood/tissue collection using a separate protocol (Penn IRB 801539).