The Efficacy and Safety of PD-1/PD-L1 Inhibitors Combined With Centipeda Minima (CM) in Lung Cancer
Lung cancer has a high global cancer morbidity and mortality. At present, PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have been approved by FDA to treat different types of lung cancer, but the efficacy is not good. There is an urgent need to develop drugs that can significantly enhance the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors to enable tumor patients to obtain lasting anti-tumor response. Centipeda minima (CM), as a commonly used traditional Chinese medicine, is relatively safe. Previous studies found that it can inhibit the growth of lung cancer cells. At the level of animal research, the combined use of CM and PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors produced a stronger anti-lung cancer effect, and did not produce obvious side effects on mice. Based on previous studies, the main purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-1/PD-L inhibitors combined with herbivorous herbivores (CM) in the treatment of lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Centipeda minima+PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor|DRUG: PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival, through study completion, an average of 2 year.|the temperature, Vital signs, through study completion, an average of 2 year.|blood pressure, Vital signs, through study completion, an average of 2 year.|complete blood count, laboratory index, through study completion, an average of 2 year.|adverse event and severe adverse event, adverse event and severe adverse event, according to NCI-CTC V5.0, through study completion, an average of 2 year.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate, through study completion, an average of 2 year.|disease control rate (DCR), disease control rate, through study completion, an average of 2 year.
Lung cancer has a high global cancer morbidity and mortality. At present, PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have been approved by FDA to treat different types of lung cancer, but the efficacy is not good. There is an urgent need to develop drugs that can significantly enhance the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors to enable tumor patients to obtain lasting anti-tumor response. Centipeda minima (CM), as a commonly used traditional Chinese medicine, is relatively safe. Previous studies found that it can inhibit the growth of lung cancer cells. At the level of animal research, the combined use of CM and PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors produced a stronger anti-lung cancer effect, and did not produce obvious side effects on mice. Based on previous studies, the main purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-1/PD-L inhibitors combined with herbivorous herbivores (CM) in the treatment of lung cancer.