Effect of Stellate Ganglion Block on Internal Mammary Artery Dynamics
This study aims to assess the effect of a stellate ganglion block on the flow and diameter of the internal mammary artery using the pulsatility index and transient time flowmetry(TTFM) in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.
Anesthesia
PROCEDURE: Left stellate ganglion block|DRUG: Topical Nitroglycerine
Effect of left stellate ganglion block on the left internal mammary artery blood flow after 10 minutes, LIMA blood flow will be measured using the pulsatility index, 10 minutes after the left Stellate Ganglion Block
Change in Left Internal Mammary Artery (LIMA) diameter after left Stellate Ganglion Block, LIMA diameter measurement using ultrasound, 10 minutes after block|Effect of left stellate ganglion block on the left internal mammary artery blood flow after cardiopulmonary bypass, Measurement of LIMA blood flow using transit time flow measurement., After cardiopulmonary bypass|Effect of left stellate ganglion block on mean blood pressure (MBP), Effect of the block on hemodynamics, During surgery: baseline, after induction of anesthesia, at time after skin incision, after sternotomy, before and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), after protamine and at the end of operation|Effect of left stellate ganglion block on heart rate (HR)), Effect of the block on hemodynamics, During surgery: baseline, after induction of anesthesia, at time after skin incision, after sternotomy, before and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), after protamine and at the end of operation
The internal mammary artery (IMA) is the preferred graft for myocardial revascularization because of its superiority over venous grafts owing to long term patency, lower mortality rates and improved post-operative outcomes.

However, conduit spasm is a recognized complication of coronary artery bypass surgery mainly affecting the arterial conduits, a major concern that can lead to acute myocardial ischemia and may contribute to reduce graft patency.

Topical application or systemic administration of many pharmacological agents has been shown to reverse or prevent graft spasm, but side effects are reported with the use of these agents.

Various vasodilators that have been tried included various organic nitrates, calcium channel blockers, sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and papaverine.

Over the last few years, there were some studies, which investigated the effect of regional anesthesia techniques such as thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA) and stellate ganglion block (SGB) for sympatholysis and studied its effects on internal mammary artery diameter .

The stellate ganglion block with local anesthetics have been widely used to provide pain relief to treat vascular spastic disorders of upper limbs, chronic pain conditions and treatment of refractory angina.

The stellate ganglion block has also been used for increasing radial artery (RA) blood flow and preventing RA spasm by sympathetic blockade in coronary artery bypass surgery.

In our study, two groups will be compared regarding IMA blood flow and diameter. The IMA pulsatility index and diameter will be measured before and after the stellate ganglion block during both the preoperative and intraoperative periods in both groups. Transit-time flowmetry (TTFM) will be used intraoperatively to assess IMA flow. Additionally, topical nitroglycerin will be applied intraoperatively in both groups, regardless of whether they received the stellate ganglion block.