Impact Dexmedetomidine on Postoperative Delirium in Patients After Intracranial Operation for Brain Tumor
Postoperative delirium is one of the most common serious complications after major surgery and is associated with undesirable consequences. Prevention of postoperative delirium is recommended in the clinical guidelines and consensus statements. Dexmedetomidine, a highly selective α2-adrenergic receptor agonist, has been investigated as a pharmacological intervention to prevent postoperative delirium. Several randomized controlled trials have shown that prophylactic use of low-dose dexmedetomidine may decrease the incidence of postoperative delirium in patients after cardiac and non-cardiac operations. However, neurosurgical patients are often excluded from previous studies due to potential consciousness and cognition impairment. The investigators design this pilot study aiming to clarify the feasibility and safety of use of low-dose dexmedetomidine for prevention of postoperative delirium in patients after intracranial operation for brain tumor.
Central Nervous System Diseases
DRUG: Dexmedetomidine|DRUG: Normal saline group
Incidence of study agent interruption during the study, Predicted adverse events in the present study included bradycardia (defined as heart rate lower than 50 beats/min), hypotension (defined as systolic blood pressure lower than 90 mmHg), tachycardia (defined as heart rate greater than 100 beats/min), hypertension (defined as systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mmHg) and hypoxemia (defined as pulse oxygen saturation lower than 90%). The treatment of adverse events was determined by the responsible attending ICU physicians, who could stop the study agent infusion when the treatment failure or other conditions deemed necessary., From the start of study agent infusion to postoperative day 1
Time from the end of operation to randomization, Time from the end of operation to randomization, From the end of operation until the randomization, assessed up to 24 hours|Duration of study agent infusion, Duration of study agent infusion, From the start of study agent infusion to postoperative day 1|Incidence of adverse events from the start of study agent infusion until 24 hours or until ICU discharge, Include bradycardia (defined as heart rate lower than 55 beats/min), hypotension (defined as systolic blood pressure lower than 90 mmHg), and hypoxemia (defined as pulse oxygen saturation lower than 90%), From the start of study agent infusion to postoperative day 1|Non-delirium complications, Include airway obstruction and apnea, respiratory failure, cardiac events, coma, epilepsy, cerebral hemorrhage or infarction, renal injury and infection, From the start of study agent infusion to postoperative day 28
Postoperative delirium is one of the most common serious complications after major surgery and is associated with undesirable consequences. Prevention of postoperative delirium is recommended in the clinical guidelines and consensus statements. Dexmedetomidine, a highly selective α2-adrenergic receptor agonist, has been investigated as a pharmacological intervention to prevent postoperative delirium. Several randomized controlled trials have shown that prophylactic use of low-dose dexmedetomidine (0.1 ug/kg/hour without loading infusion) may decrease the incidence of postoperative delirium in patients after cardiac and non-cardiac operations. However, neurosurgical patients are often excluded from previous studies due to potential consciousness and cognition impairment. The investigators design this pilot randomized controlled trial aiming to clarify the feasibility and safety of use of low-dose dexmedetomidine for prevention of postoperative delirium in patients after intracranial operation for brain tumor.