Rituximab, Fludarabine, Mitoxantrone, Dexamethasone (R-FND) Plus Zevalin for High-Risk Follicular Lymphoma
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if chemotherapy given with rituximab, followed by Ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin), and then followed by rituximab can help to control lymphoma. The safety of this treatment schedule will also be studied.

Objectives:

1. To assess whether the time to progression for these high-risk patients can be prolonged to a median of 36 months, compared to the historical expectation of approximately 24 months.
2. To assess the tolerance and efficacy of Y2B8 (Zevalin) after R-FND (rituximab, fludarabine, mitoxantrone, dexamethasone) in patients with high-risk stage III-IV follicular lymphoma
3. To assess overall response, failure-free survival, and survival of this strategy compared to our historical experience with FND (fludarabine, mitoxantrone, dexamethasone) alone or R-FND
4. To assess the tolerance and efficacy of maintenance therapy with rituximab.
5. To maximize the 12-month molecular remission rate for patients with high-risk stage III-IV follicular lymphoma
6. to correlate the results of quantitative PCR assay with classical PCR and with clinical outcome
Lymphoma
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Mitoxantrone|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Zevalin|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Number of Participants With Time to Progression (TTP), Regimen regarded as a success if median TTP can be prolonged to 36 months or greater. Time to Progression measured by the method of Kaplan and Meier, and accompanied by 95% confidence interval. Complete Response (CR) defined as those who achieve a normal state which includes no detectable evidence of disease on x-rays and Partial Response (PR) is defined as a 50% or more reduction in the sum of the products of the diameters of the 6 largest measurable lesions. No new sites of disease. av, baseline, 2 and 4 courses, approximately month 8, 9, and 12 months, then restaging every 4 months, then at 2 years every 4-6 months, then yearly until progressive disease or lost to follow up, average of 10 years
Tolerance and Efficacy of Maintenance Therapy With Yttrium-90 Ibritumomab Tiuxetan (YIT), To assess the tolerance and efficacy of maintenance therapy with YIT. CR: defined as those who achieve a normal state which includes no detectable evidence of disease on x-rays. CRu: defined as "CR unconfirmed" on the basis of minimal residual abnormalities on x-ray such as a residual mass \<25% of original measurement, and or residual indeterminate bone marrow aggregates. PR: a 50% or more reduction in the sum of the products of the diameters of the 6 largest measurable lesions. No new sites of disease. Progressive disease (PD) is also defined by the appearance of new lymph nodes, of other new or worsening sites of disease, such as \> 50% increase in the size of liver and/or spleen, or a \> 50% increase in absolute number of circulating lymphocytes., cycle 1 and every 2 weeks thereafter until completion of therapy, an average of 10 years|Tolerance and Efficacy of Maintenance Therapy With Rituximab, To assess the tolerance and efficacy of maintenance therapy with rituximab. Participants proceeded to the rituximab maintenance program of 6 treatments comprising 1 every 2 months. CR: defined as those who achieve a normal state which includes no detectable evidence of disease on x-rays. CRu: defined as "CR unconfirmed" on the basis of minimal residual abnormalities on x-ray such as a residual mass \<25% of original measurement, and or residual indeterminate bone marrow aggregates. PR: a 50% or more reduction in the sum of the products of the diameters of the 6 largest measurable lesions. No new sites of disease. Progressive disease (PD) is also defined by the appearance of new lymph nodes, of other new or worsening sites of disease, such as \> 50% increase in the size of liver and/or spleen, or a \> 50% increase in absolute number of circulating lymphocytes., cycle 1 and every 2 weeks thereafter until completion of therapy, an average of 10 years|Median Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival time is defined as time from registration/randomization to the date of progression or death from any cause. Median Progression Free Survival estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier, and accompanied by 95% confidence interval., up to 5 years|Progression Free Survival at 10 Years, Progression-free survival time is defined as time from registration/randomization to the date of progression or death from any cause. PFS was estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier, and accompanied by 95% confidence interval., 10 years|Overall Survival, OS is defined as the interval from first dose of study treatment to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death; subjects still alive will be censored at the date of the last contact. Median Overall Survival was estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier, and accompanied by 95% confidence interval., up to 5 years|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival Rate at 10 Years, OS is defined as the interval from first dose of study treatment to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death; subjects still alive will be censored at the date of the last contact. Overall Survival Rate estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier., 10 years
The treatments used in this program include several standard chemotherapy agents (fludarabine, mitoxantrone, and dexamethasone). Also, immune therapy agents will be given, including rituximab (a monoclonal antibody that attacks B-cells, which is what this type of lymphoma is made of), and Ibritumomab tiuxetan (another similar monoclonal antibody, which delivers radiation to the lymphoma cells to strengthen the attack).

You will receive rituximab on Days 1 and 8 of the first cycle, and on Day 1 only of Cycles 2-4 of the monthly cycles of chemotherapy, called R-FND. R-FND includes rituximab and fludarabine, mitoxantrone, and dexamethasone. Fludarabine will be given for 3 days, mitoxantrone for 1 day, and dexamethasone for 5 days of each 28-day cycle (FND). After 4 cycles of R-FND, you will receive Ibritumomab tiuxetan. After the Ibritumomab tiuxetan, you will receive rituximab every 2 months for 1 year. All are given by vein. Sometimes dexamethasone can be given in pill form.

During the study, you will have blood tests (about 2 tablespoons), sometimes every week. Every 2 cycles, you will have a chest x-ray and CT scans of the abdomen and pelvis. Bone marrow samples will be taken. Heart function tests will be done as needed.

If you desire, it may be possible for you to receive some of your study treatment at home (from your home doctor). Your study doctor will discuss this possibility with you. If this is the case, your home doctor will receive a letter telling him about this study and asking him if he wishes to participate in your treatments. He will be asked to provide the study doctors at M. D. Anderson specific information about your treatments and any side effects you may have. All communications between your home doctor and your study doctors will be included as part of your M. D. Anderson medical record.

After the study ends, you will return for checkups every 3 months in the first year, every 4 months in Years 2 and 3, and every 6 months in Years 4 and 5. After that, checkups will be needed once a year. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and bone marrow samples will be taken at these visits.

This is an investigational study. Ibritumomab tiuxetan and rituximab are approved by the FDA for commercial use. The other drugs used in the study are also approved for commercial use by the FDA. About 50 patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.