Radiation Therapy and Rituximab in Treating Patients With Stage I-II Grade 1 or Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma
This randomized phase I/II trial studies radiation therapy and rituximab in treating patients with stage I-II grade 1 or grade 2 follicular lymphoma. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill cancer cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving radiation therapy with rituximab may kill more cancer cells.
Ann Arbor Stage I Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage I Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma
OTHER: Clinical Observation|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Proportion of patients that remain progression free, defined as progressive disease or death due to disease, The student t-test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to compare continuous variables between two different patient groups. The chi-square test or the Fisher's exact test will then be applied to assess the association between two categorical variables. Logistic regression will be utilized to assess the effect of patient prognostic factors on the response rate. Kaplan-Meier survival curves will also be constructed., Up to 15 years
Overall survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. The Cox proportional hazards model will be utilized to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis., Up to 15 years|Progression free survival rate, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. The Cox proportional hazards model will be utilized to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis., Up to 15 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if rituximab concurrently with radiation followed by maintenance rituximab offers a superior benefit over radiation alone. Specifically looking at the progression free survival.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo radiation therapy five days a week for 2.5 weeks (12 treatments) and receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 4-6 hours weekly with the start of radiation for 4 weeks and then every 2 months for up to 4 additional doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients undergo radiation therapy five days a week for 2.5 weeks and then undergo observation.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months, every 6 months for 2 years, yearly for 3 years, and then every 2 years for 10 years.