Hispanic Adapted and Culturally Relevant Exercising Together
The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility and effects of an adapted Exercising Together, a partnered resistance training program, on the physical and mental health of prostate cancer survivors and their informal caregiver. The Exercising Together program is designed to promote teamwork during supervised group exercise classes delivered remotely through videoconferencing software. The intervention period will be 3-months with a 3-month follow-up.
Neoplasms|Prostate Cancer|Exercise|Caregiver Burden|Cancer Survivors
BEHAVIORAL: Exercising together
Acceptability measured by adherence to intervention, Acceptability will be measured by adherence to the intervention calculated as the total number of classes attended divided by the total possible schedule the patient could attend using descriptive statistics., 3 months|Appropriateness measured by retention rate, Will be determined as the retention rate- calculated as the number of dyads completing the study versus consented using descriptive statistics., 3 months|Feasibility measured by enrollment rate, Will be determined as the enrollment rate- the number of dyads enrolled out of those approached and eligible using descriptive statistics., 3 months|Implementation Success - composite measure of acceptability, appropriateness, and feasibility., Implementation success is a composite measure that will be measured by a single questionnaire that will determine the extent to which the intervention is considered acceptable, appropriate, and feasible. The single questionnaire will consist of 3 measures that will be summed into one final score, The Acceptability of Intervention Measure (AIM), Intervention Appropriateness Measure (IAM), and Feasibility of Intervention Measure (FIM). Responses from AIM, IAM, and FIM are summary scored with a possible range of 12-60; higher scores indicate greater acceptability, appropriateness, and feasibility., 3 months
Physical activity, Moderate to vigourous physical activity and sedentary time estimated using Rapid Assessment of Physical Activity (RAPA), Physical activity will be measured over a 6 month period. It will be measured at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months.|Health-Related Quality of Life (HR-QOL) for the caregiver, Measured by the 27 item Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), which includes subscales on physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being. Response items are five-point Likert scales, where higher scores indicate higher HR-QOL., HR-QOL will be measured over a 6 month period. It will be measured at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months.|Health-Related Quality of Life (HR-QOL) for the survivor, Measured by the 39 item Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P), which includes subscales on physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being and an additional subscale specific to prostate cancer. Response items are five-point Likert scales, where higher scores indicate higher HR-QOL.physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being. FACT-G is 27 items while FACT-P is 39 items. FACT-P includes an additional subscale specific to prostate cancer. Response items are five-point likert scales, where higher scores indicate higher HR-QOL., HR-QOL will be measured over a 6 month period. It will be measured at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months.|Relationship Health, Measured by the Relationship Quality Index (RQI), a six-item assessment of communication and satisfaction on a five-point likert scale., Relationship Health will be measured over a 6 month period. It will be measured at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months.|Objective Physical Function, Measured by the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) to determine ability to perform tasks of daily living independently. The SPPB includes 3 timed tests: 5 repeated chair stands, standing balance, and gait speed over 4 meters. The possible range of scores is 0-12., Objective Physical Function will be measured over a 6 month period. It will be measured at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months.
The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility and effects of an adapted Exercising Together, a partnered resistance training program, on the physical and mental health of prostate cancer survivors and their informal caregiver. The Exercising Together program is designed to promote teamwork during supervised group exercise classes delivered remotely through videoconferencing software. The intervention period will be 3-months with a 3-month follow-up.