ctDNA-MRD Guided Consolidation Toripalimab in Stage IB-IIIA NSCLC
This study aims to incorporate circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA)-minimal residual disease (MRD) to personalize the administration of consolidation toripalimab therapy in resected stage IB-IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after adjuvant therapy. Toripalimab is a humanized monoclonal antibody for human programmed cell death protein 1. Toripalimab was approved as a consolidation treatment after perioperative therapy in combination with chemotherapy for resectable stage III NSCLC.
Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell
DRUG: Toripalimab+Chemotherapy|DRUG: Toripalimab+Chemotherapy followed by consolidation toripalimab
The 2-year DFS rate of ctDNA-MRD guided consolidation toripalimab, Determine if ctDNA-MRD guided consolidation toripalimab has a non-inferior 2-year DFS to direct 13 cycles of consolidation toripalimab therapy.

2-year DFS was defined as the proportion of patients who were disease free at 2 years., Baseline to 24 months
The 2-year OS rate of ctDNA-MRD guided consolidation toripalimab, Determine if ctDNA-MRD guided consolidation toripalimab has a non-inferior 2-year OS to direct 13 cycles of consolidation toripalimab therapy.

2-year OS was defined as the proportion of patients who were alive at 2 years., Baseline to 24 months|The 2-year DFS in patients with persistently detectable ctDNA, Estimate the 2-year DFS in patients with persistently detectable ctDNA after receiving ≥6 months of consolidation toripalimab., Baseline to 24 months|Percentage of patients with undetectable ctDNA after consolidation toripalimab., Percentage of patients with undetectable ctDNA after consolidation toripalimab of 13 cycles., Baseline to 15 months|Percentage of patients with detectable ctDNA after adjuvant chemotherapy plus toripalimab., Percentage of patients with detectable ctDNA after 4 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy plus toripalimab., Baseline to 3 months|Adverse Events, Adverse Events were monitored according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0., Baseline to 36 months
Most patients with stage IB-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are managed with surgery, follow by standard-of-care adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy. However, postoperative recurrence rates remain high. Recent years, the role of checkpoint inhibitors has been proven to be effective in patients with advanced NSCLC, and even in patients with resectable NSCLC. Emerging data supports the use of consolidation checkpoint inhibitors therapy in localized NSCLC. Based on the results from Neotorch trial, consolidation toripalimab therapy led to a significant improvement in event-free survival for patients with resectable NSCLC. However, not all patients may benefit from consolidation therapy. Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) has emerged as a promising biomarker for early detection of minimal residual disease (MRD) in cancer surveillance. There is a critical need to identify MRD after curative therapies to determine which patients may benefit from consolidation toripalimab therapy. The aim of this study is to explore whether observation follow-up for patients with negative ctDNA after adjuvant therapy has a non-inferior prognosis for patients with positive ctDNA and received consolidation toripalimab therapy. This study aims to incorporate ctDNA-MRD to personalize the administration of consolidation toripalimab therapy for completely resected stage IB-IIIA NSCLC (without EGFR or ALK alterations for nonsquamous NSCLC).