Addition of Enoxaparin to Neoadjuvant Chemoradiation of Esophageal Cancer
This is a randomized, single blind, multi-center, phase two clinical trial. Inclusion criteria are consist of non-metastatic esophageal cancer who are going to receive chemo-radiotherapy. Sample size is 100 people (50 people in each group). In the intervention group, patients are going to inject an enoxaparin (40 mg) daily concurrent by chemo-radiation. Therefore patients with esophageal cancer are going to assign randomly to control group (only chemo-radiotherapy) and intervention group (chemo-radiotherapy+enoxaparin) using 1:1 allocation. Four to 6 weeks after treatment, all patients undergo upper GI endoscopy and then esophagectomy. Endoscopic and pathological findings (after esophagectomy) are considered as clinical and pathological response, respectively.
Esophageal Neoplasms
DRUG: Enoxaparin Sodium 40 MG/0.2 ML Subcutaneous Injectable|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Chemotherapeutic Combinations
clinical response, according to endoscopic findings (no lesion, primary lesion or became smaller less than 50%of primary lesion, become smaller more than 50% of primary lesion), up to 6 weeks|pathologic response, according to pathologic findings of esophageus specimen (complete Vs incomplete), up to 6 weeks|R staging (residual of tumor), according to surgeon findings when esophagectomy is done (gross residue, microscopic residue, without residue), up to 6 weeks
heparin induced thrombocytopenia, according to complete blood count, through study completion, an average of 5 weeks
This is a randomized, single blind, multi-center, phase two clinical trial. Inclusion criteria are consist of non-metastatic esophageal cancer who are going to receive chemo-radiotherapy. One hundred patients are going to assign randomly by blocked randomized allocation (1:1) to receive radiotherapy (median treatment dose will be 50.40 Gy in 25 to 32 fractions) with weekly concurrent chemotherapy (paclitaxel \[50 mg/m2\] plus carboplatin \[area under the carve=2\]) with or without enoxaparin (40 mg daily). During radiotherapy and before each course of chemotherapy, all patients are going to visit by physician and complete blood count will be checked. All patients are going to undergo gastrointestinal endoscopy and then esophagectomy, 4-6 months after completion of chemo-radiotherapy.