Randomized Comparison Between Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy and Lymph Node Dissection in Early Stage Endometrial Cancer
Through this clinical trial, the investigators aim to verify the usefulness and stability of sentinel lymph node mapping in endometrial cancer of clinical stage I-II.
Endometrial Cancer
PROCEDURE: Sentinel lymph node mapping|PROCEDURE: Routine lymph node dissection
The 3-year disease-free survival (3-year DFS), The time interval between the date of surgery and the date of recurrence will be caculated as month. The survival curve will be calculated suing Kaplan-Meir method, and survival difference will be compared using Log-rank test., 3 years
Surgery-related morbidity rate, Compare the surgery-related morbidity rate after one month of surgery., One month|Incidence of lymphocele and lymphedema, After 3 years of surgery, the incidence of lymphocele and lymphedema are compared., 3 years|The 3-year overall survival (3-year OS), The time interval between the date of surgery and the date of death of disease will be caculated as month. The survival curve will be calculated suing Kaplan-Meir method, and survival difference will be compared using Log-rank test., 3 years|The 5-year disease free survival (5-year DFS), The time interval between the date of surgery and the date of recurrence will be caculated as month. The survival curve will be calculated suing Kaplan-Meir method, and survival difference will be compared using Log-rank test., 5 years|The 5-year overall survival (5-year OS), The time interval between the date of surgery and the date of death of disease will be caculated as month. The survival curve will be calculated suing Kaplan-Meir method, and survival difference will be compared using Log-rank test., 5-years|The pattern of recurrence, Anatomic location of first recurrence, 3 years
The standard treatment for endometrial cancer is total hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, peritoneal cytology, and lymph node dissection. Pelvic lymph node dissection helps to set accurate staging and adjuvant therapy group, but it has never been proven to have therapeutic effects by itself. According to the results of two recent randomized clinical trials, routine pelvic lymph node dissection in early stage endometrial cancer doesn't improve survival rates.

Routine pelvic lymph node detection can cause complications in a large number of patients and is associated with poor quality of life. Therefore, it is important to develop a method that can check the status of the lymph node in a less invasive way. Efforts have been made to preserve other lymph nodes with significantly less potential for metastasis through less invasive methods, reducing lymph edema and complications such as bleeding and nerve damage caused by excessive surgery.

Sentinel lymph node dissection is used as a standard treatment for breast cancer and malignant melanoma, and efforts to develop it have recently continued in endometrial cancer and cervical cancer. A SENTICOL study conducted in cervical cancer patients showed a false-negative rate of 0% when both were monitored lymph node dissection. In addition, unlike routine pelvic lymph node dissection, ultra-staging through 0,2mm gas intercepts allow additional detection of less than 2mm of microtransfer or less than 0.2mm of independent tumor cells that have not been found before. In a recent large-scale prospective study of endometrial cancer, sentinel lymph node mapping using indocyanine green and fluorescent imaging was successful at 86%, and sensitivity (patient-by-patient analysis) reported 100% in diagnosis of lymph node metastasis.

As laparoscopic and robotic surgery account for most of the treatment of endometrial cancer patients, a good environment is created for monitoring lymph node exploration using ICG, and sensitivity and detection rate seem to have improved compared to the previous method. However, there has been no prospective study on the effects of patient clinical prognosis, such as a standard treatment, pelvic lymph node resection, and disease-free survival rate, and overall survival rate, so a prospective study is essential. The investigators compare survival rates in the group that does sentinel lymph node mapping and routine pelvic lymph node detection in endometrial cancer in clinical stage I-II.