Project Impact: A Culturally-Tailored Adherence Intervention for Latino Smokers
The goal of this research study is to collect information from Latino and Hispanic smokers and recent quitters about factors that are important to them when they are trying to quit. Researchers want to better understand some of the challenges and problems that Latinos and Hispanics face when they try to quit smoking, and then use that information to design a treatment for future smokers.
Tobacco Use Cessation
BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaire|BEHAVIORAL: Interview
Information Collection From Latino and Hispanic Smokers or Recent Quitters, Primary aim of this study is to conduct in-person qualitative interviews with 48 Latino smokers or recent quitters in order to gather information regarding potential elements to include in a future intervention that will target smoking cessation treatment adherence among Latino smokers. This exploratory and qualitative study will utilize thematic analyses of interview discussions to analyze and derive elements that will ultimately be included in a treatment manual.

Data analyzed using thematic analysis, enabling recurring themes from the data presented and discussed and opposing cases highlighted. Analyses facilitated by the use of N\*Vivo - a software package package specific to qualitative research. A qualitative analyses of the content of the qualitative interviews conducted separately for current smokers and recent quitters., 1 day
If participant decides to take part in this study, they will complete a questionnaire about themselves (such as their age, preferred language, and education level) and their smoking habits. This questionnaire should take about 10-15 minutes to complete.

After participant completes this questionnaire, they will be interviewed by a researcher. During this interview participant will be asked to discuss a variety of topics related to smoking and quitting, such as their experience with attempts to quit smoking and problems they may have had. This interview will last about 1 hour.

The interview will be audio-recorded. Participant's interview answers will later be transcribed (written down) without their name or any other identifying information.

Study participation will be complete after the interview.

This is an investigational study.

Up to 48 people will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.