Study of 225Ac-PSMA-617 in Men With PSMA-positive Prostate Cancer
This is a Phase 1, open-label, international, dose escalation study to evaluate the safety of \[225Ac\]Ac-PSMA-617 (225Ac-PSMA-617) in men with PSMA-positive prostate cancer who have and have not had prior exposure to \[177Lu\]Lu-PSMA-617 (177Lu-PSMA-617) or \[177Lu\]Lu-PSMA I\&T (177Lu-PSMA I\&T).
Prostatic Neoplasms, Castration-Resistant
RADIATION: 225^Ac-PSMA-617|RADIATION: 68^Ga-PSMA-11
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), The RP2D for each group (Group A, B and C) is defined as the dose level that is well tolerated (i.e., at or below the MTD) and for which there may be additional findings (e.g., longer term tolerability) effecting the RP2D decision. In the case where an MTD is not identified, even at the highest dose level tested, the RP2D may be determined on the basis of data indicating adequate tolerability and therapeutic effectiveness., 6 weeks post Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) of each dosing cohort through enrollment completion, an average of 1.5 years to determine RP2D
Percentage of Participants with treatment emergent adverse events, Safety measured by the percentage of participants with treatment emergent adverse events (events started after the first dose of study medication or events present prior to start of treatment but increased in severity based on preferred term)., Day 1/Infusion Day up to 60 days post infusion|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of participants with best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as measured by RECIST v1.1., Every 8 weeks after first dose of 225Ac-PSMA-617 for the first 24 weeks, then every 12 weeks through the end of treatment visit, on average 2.5 years|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of Response (DOR) is the time from the date of the first documented response (CR or PR) to the date of the first radiologically documented disease progression or death due to disease according to RECIST v1.1., Every 8 weeks after first dose of 225Ac-PSMA-617 for the first 24 weeks, then every 12 weeks through the end of treatment visit, on average 2.5 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR) is the percentage of participants with a best overall response of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) according to RECIST v1.1., Every 8 weeks after first dose of 225Ac-PSMA-617 for the first 24 weeks, then every 12 weeks through the end of treatment visit, on average 2.5 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) to the first of radiographic, clinical, or prostate-specific antigen \[PSA\] progression-free survival, or censorship with events defined as follows:

1. Radiographic disease progression as determined from bone scans and contrast CT/MRI as outlined in Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) and RECIST 1.1
2. Unequivocal clinical progression
3. PSA progression, defined as the date that a ≥ 25% increase in PSA and an absolute increase of 2 ng/mL or more from the nadir is documented and confirmed by a second consecutive value obtained 3 or more weeks later. Rises in PSA within the first 12 weeks will be ignored. Where no decline from baseline is documented, baseline PSA is the nadir. The date of progression is date of first occurrence, not date of confirmation (PCWG3 Guidance)., Every 8 weeks after first dose of 225Ac-PSMA-617 for the first 24 weeks, then every 12 weeks through the end of treatment visit, on average 2.5 years|Percentage of Participants with Biochemical Response as measured by Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), Prostate-specific antigen is a glycoprotein considered as a biomarker for the response to therapy in men with prostate cancer. A 50 percent (%) decline in PSA from Baseline to the PSA level at End of Study was considered as a PSA response., Baseline, Days 1, 15, 29 and 43 of each Cycle (1 cycle = 8 weeks +/- 1 week), End of Treatment and every 3 months during the 12-month follow-up period|Notable Changes in Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) levels, Safety measured by the notable post-baseline changes in Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) levels compared to baseline., Baseline, Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (Weekly), Cycle 3 to Cycle 6 (Bi-weekly) (1 cycle = 8 weeks +/- 1 week)|Notable Changes in Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels, Safety measured by the notable post-baseline changes in Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels compared to baseline., Baseline, Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (Weekly), Cycle 3 to Cycle 6 (Bi-weekly) (1 cycle = 8 weeks +/- 1 week)|Change from Baseline in European Quality of Life (EuroQol) - 5 Domain 5 Level scale (EQ-5D-5L), EQ-5D-5L is a standardized participant completed questionnaire that measures health-related quality of life and translates that score into an index value or utility score. EQ-5D-5L consists of two components: a health state profile and an optional visual analogue scale (VAS). EQ-5D health state profile is comprised of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: 1= no problems, 2= slight problems, 3= moderate problems, 4= severe problems, and 5= extreme problems. Higher scores indicated greater levels of problems across each of the five dimensions., Baseline, Day 1 of each Cycle (1 cycle = 8 weeks +/- week), End of Treatment, on average 2.5 years|Change from Baseline in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P) Questionnaire, FACT-P assesses symptoms/problems related to prostate carcinoma and its treatment. It is a combination of the FACT- General + the Prostate Cancer Subscale (PCS). The FACT-General (FACT-G) is a 27 item Quality of Life (QoL) measure that provides a total score as well as subscale scores: Physical (0-28), Functional (0-28), Social (0-28), and Emotional Well-being (0-24). The total score range is between 1-108, higher scores indicates better for total score and subscale scores. PCS is a 12-item prostate cancer subscale that asks about symptoms and problems specific to prostate cancer (Range 0-48, higher scores better). The FACT-P total score is the sum of all 5 subscale scores of the FACT-P questionnaire and ranges from 0-156. Higher scores indicate higher degree of functioning and better quality of life., Baseline, Day 1 of each Cycle (1 cycle = 8 weeks +/- week), End of Treatment, on average 2.5 years|Change from Baseline in Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF) Questionnaire: Pain Severity Score, The BPI-SF is a publicly available instrument to assess the pain and includes severity and interference scores. BPI-SF is an 11-item self-report questionnaire that is designed to assess the severity and impact of pain on daily functions of a participant. Pain severity score is a mean value for BPI-SF questions 3, 4, 5 and 6 (questions inquiring about the extent of pain, where the extent is ranked from 0 \[no pain\] to 10 \[pain as bad as you can imagine\]). Pain severity progression is defined as an increase in score of 30% or greater from baseline without decrease in analgesic use., Baseline, Day 1 of each Cycle (1 cycle = 8 weeks +/- week), End of Treatment, on average 2.5 years|Change from Baseline in Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF) Questionnaire: Pain Interference Score, The BPI-SF is a publicly available instrument to assess the pain and includes severity and interference scores. BPI-SF is an 11-item self-report questionnaire that is designed to assess the severity and impact of pain on daily functions of a participant. Pain interference score is mean value for the 7 BPI-SF questions (questions inquiring about the extent of interference with activities by pain) where the extent is ranked from 0 (does not interfere) to 10 (completely interferes). Pain interference progression is defined as an increase in score of 50% or greater from baseline without decrease in analgesic use., Baseline, Day 1 of each Cycle (1 cycle = 8 weeks +/- week), End of Treatment, on average 2.5 years|Change from Baseline in Xerostomia-Related Quality of Life Scale (XeQOLS), The XeQOLS is a validated patient reported 15-item assessment scale with 4 domains: physical functioning, pain/discomfort, personal/psychologic functioning, and social functioning. The score is the average of all responses of all domains and can range from 0 to 4, with higher scores indicating increased xerostomia burden. A negative change from Baseline indicates an improvement of the xerostomia burden., Baseline, Day 1 of each Cycle (1 cycle = 8 weeks +/- 1 week), End of Treatment and every 3 months during the 12-month follow-up period
Total duration of study participation of each participant is approximately 18-24 months (12 months from enrollment to end of each treatment (EOT) plus 12 months of long-term follow up (LTFU). The total duration of the study, from first patient in (FPI) to last LTFU will be approximately 48 months.

A minimum of 3 patients will be treated in each patient group at each dose level and evaluated for the occurrence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first 6 weeks of treatment before consideration will be given to enrolling patients into the next dose level. Dose modifications for toxicity are allowed and defined per protocol.

No more than 6 cycles of 225Ac-PSMA-617 will be administered. Patients may receive less than 6 cycles if they have disease progression, intolerable toxicity, started other anticancer therapy, or have withdrawn from treatment per participant or physician decision.

Participants may also receive supportive care therapy, as determined by the study physician, however, participants cannot receive concurrent investigational agents, cytotoxic chemotherapy, biological agents, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, other systemic radioisotopes, and hemi-body radiotherapy until completion of treatment with 225Ac-PSMA-617.