Ruxolitinib in Thrombocythemia and Polycythemia Vera
This research is being done to see if the drug ruxolitinib is effective in reducing the symptoms caused by low-risk essential thrombocythemia (ET) and polycythemia vera (PV).

- This research study involves the study drug Ruxolitinib.
Essential Thrombocythemia|Polycythemia Vera
DRUG: Ruxolitinib
Percentage of patients who achieve >50% reduction from baseline to Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Total Symptom Score, Percentage of patients with \>50% change in Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Total Symptom Score (MPN-SAF TSS), which has use in major clinical trials and as symptom assessment in all patients in clinical practice. Modeling has established baseline MPN-SAF TSS cut-off scores (total MPN-SAF TSS \>20 or an individual component score \>5) at which symptomatic treatment would be significantly beneficial, baseline to 12 weeks
Proportion of patients achieving complete hematologic rate at week 12, Evaluate the efficacy of ruxolitinib in improving hematologic remission rates, as measured by International Working Group (IWG) working criteria ET: Platelet count ≤ 400 x 109/L, WBC count \<10 x 109/L, and absence of leukoerythroblastosis PV: hematocrit \<45% and WBC count \<10 x 109/L, Week 12|Proportion of patients achieving complete hematologic rate at 24 Weeks, Evaluate the efficacy of ruxolitinib in improving hematologic remission rates, as measured by International Working Group (IWG) working criteria ET: Platelet count ≤ 400 x 109/L, WBC count \<10 x 109/L, and absence of leukoerythroblastosis PV: hematocrit \<45% and WBC count \<10 x 109/L, Week 24|Best MPN-SAF TSS score, Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Total Symptom Score (MPN-SAF TSS) for use in major clinical trials and as symptom assessment in all patients in clinical practice. Modeling has established baseline MPN-SAF TSS cut-off scores (total MPN-SAF TSS \>20 or an individual component score \>5) at which symptomatic treatment would be significantly beneficial. Scale title includes absence of symptom (0) and worst imaginable symptoms (10) per question, with minimum score 0 and maximum score 100. Higher scores indicate worse outcomes., 12 Weeks|Best MPN-SAF TSS score, Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Total Symptom Score (MPN-SAF TSS) for use in major clinical trials and as symptom assessment in all patients in clinical practice. Modeling has established baseline MPN-SAF TSS cut-off scores (total MPN-SAF TSS \>20 or an individual component score \>5) at which symptomatic treatment would be significantly beneficial. . Scale title includes absence of symptom (0) and worst imaginable symptoms (10) per question, with minimum score 0 and maximum score 100. Higher scores indicate worse outcomes., 24 Weeks|Percentage of change in Spleen Volume, Spleen volume reduction will be measured as the change in percentage spleen volume from baseline at 12 weeks as measured by CT, or MRI in patients with medical contraindication to CT. Summary statistics will be used to describe changes in spleen volume. Volume will be calculated by a computer-assisted perimeter method based on Sorenson et al. Spleen and liver volume will be obtained by outlining the circumference of the organ and determining the volume using the validated technique of least squares, baseline to 12 weeks|Number of Participants with Treatment Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v 5.0, descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be utilized for AE reporting, All patients who initiate treatment with study drug up to 60 months
This is a multi-center, non-randomized, two-stage phase II clinical trial evaluating ruxolitinib in low-risk but symptomatic essential thrombocythemia (ET) and polycythemia vera (PV) patients. This research is being done to see if Ruxolitinib is effective in reducing the symptoms people with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and polycythemia vera (PV) are experiencing. Ruxolitinib is a type of drug that blocks the specific proteins that may be causing the symptoms people with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and polycythemia vera (PV are experiencing.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment, including evaluations and follow up visits.

- Participants will receive Ruxolitinib for approximately 6 months and if benefitting from it may continue to receive Ruxolitinib for as long as there is no unacceptable side effects or disease progression.

It is expected that about 60 people will take part in this research study.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved Ruxolitinib for polycythemia vera (PV) but not for people with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and polycythemia vera (PV).

Incyte, a biopharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing funding for the study, including the study drug.