Study of TVEC in Patients With Cutaneous Squamous Cell Cancer
This is single arm Phase 2, single center study of talimogene laherparepvec (TVEC) to treat low risk cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas (cSCC).
Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Skin Cancer|Keratoacanthoma|Cutaneous Tumor|Skin Cancer, Squamous Cell|Lesion Skin
DRUG: Injection of TVEC into target lesions - week 1-2|DRUG: Injection of TVEC into target lesions 3wks after 1st injection|DRUG: Injection of TVEC into target lesions 2wks after 2nd injection|DRUG: Injection of TVEC into target lesions 2wks after 3rd injection
Overall Response Rate, The primary end point is to evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) defined as proportion of subjects who achieved complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) in the cSCC Target injected lesions (TILs)., 8.5-10.5 months
Number of Participants With Events Requiring the Discontinuation of Study Drug, 1. Number of participants with events requiring the discontinuation of study drug

1. 75% or greater number of Target injection lesions (TILs) meeting criteria for withdrawal.
2. Identification of high-risk features in one or more TILs during study participation.
3. Persistent discomfort (consecutive weeks of lesion pain, burning, or itching of Grade 2 or more)., 8.5-10.5 months|Time of Response., To measure time of response in cSCC individual TILs., 8.5-10.5 months|Duration of Overall Response., To measure the duration of overall response (DOR) of individual TILs., 8.5-10.5 months|Assess Durable Response., Assess durable response rate (DRR) of TILs. DRR was assessed when the time of CR or PR with response lasting continuously for at least 6 months., 8.5-10.5 months|Time to Progression., To measure the time to progression (TTP) of individual TILs., 8.5-10.5 months|Overall Response Rate by Ultrasound., Overall response rate (ORR) (CR+PR) assessed by imaging technique (high frequency ultrasound). The subjects received ultrasound assessments of their TILs at baseline/screening visit (0), and at visit 6 (first follow up visit, approximately 4-5 months from baseline).The tumor volume change was assessed between the 2 visits, and percent of subjects with tumor volume reduction was reported., Baseline and 4-5 months|Overall Clinical Response Rate - Targeted Lesions., Overall clinical response rate (CR+PR) of individual TILs with talimogene laherparepvec (not as overall subject response)., 8.5-10.5 months|Percentage of Participants With Overall Clinical Response Rate - Non-injected Lesion(s)., Percentage of Participants with overall clinical response rate (CR+PR) in cSCC Target non-injected lesion(s) (TNILs)., 8.5-10.5 months|Number of Safety Adverse Events (SAE) as Assessed According to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0, 1. Number of safety adverse events (SAE) as assessed according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0

a. Clinically significant laboratory values i. Clinically significant laboratory values are based on participant condition and side effect. These will vary and will be determined by the clinical judgement of the research healthcare provider. Note: laboratory values will be collected for initial participant screening and side effects only, no other clinical laboratory values are scheduled in this protocol., 8.5-10.5 months
The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of Talimogene laherparepvec (TVEC) in patients diagnosed with lower risk cSCC in need of alternative therapeutic approaches.

Immune recognition and cytotoxic responses play an important role in the pathogenesis and progression of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). TVEC is an HSV-1 oncolytic immunological agent FDA approved for the local treatment of unresectable recurrent melanoma. It is proposed that T-VEC directly destroys cancer cells and induces production of GM-CSF to enhance systemic antitumor immune priming. This proposed mechanism of action supports the novel approach to implement TVEC in the management of cSCC. Particularly, in patients with increased burden of primary tumors.

The study subjects enrolled in the study were Immunocompetent, \> 18 years of age, and diagnosed with at least one histologically confirmed primary low-risk cSCC according to the Brigham and Women staging system. Unresectable lesions or patients unable/unwilling to undergo standard of care treatment were eligible to participate. Study lesions included target lesions injected (TLIs) and target non-injected lesions (TNILs). TNILs were selected to evaluate for abscopal effect when feasible. The TLIs were treated according to TVEC FDA approved protocol and followed for 1yr after the 1st injection. The primary endpoint of the study was to evaluate the overall response rate, defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved complete response and partial response in the TLIs. Safety and adverse effect profile (AEs), duration of response, time to response, durable response rate, and time to progression, were the some of the secondary endpoints included.