Pom-dex Versus Pom-Cyclo-dex in MM Patients With Biochemical or Clinical Relapse, During Lena Maintenance Treatment
The combination lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone (Rd) is an active treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MM) patients, both at diagnosis and at relapse.

Pomalidomide, is an immunomodulatory molecule (IMID), derivative of thalidomide, developed to improve the efficacy and reduce the toxicity of the parent molecule. Pomalidomide and dexamethasone (pom-dex) proved to be an effective and safe treatment in MM patients refractory to lenalidomide and refractory/intolerant to bortezomib.

The addition of chemotherapy to novel drugs has been evaluated both at diagnosis and at relapse. The combination of pomalidomide-cyclophosphamide-prednisone proved to be safe and effective in relapsed/refractory MM patients. The combination pomalidomide-cyclophosphamide-dexamethasone (pom-cyclo-dex) was tested in a phase II study in patients with relapsed and refractory MM, demonstrating a good tolerability using pomalidomide at the dose of 4 mg. Pom-cyclo-dex resulted in a superior response rate and Progression-Free Survival (PFS) compared to pom-dex. The increased hematologic toxicities, as a result of the addition of oral cyclophosphamide, were manageable. With an overall response rate of 65% the combination demonstrated a promising efficacy.The first aim of our trial, is to compare the combination of pom-cyclo-dex vs pom-dex.

Relapsed myeloma is defined as previously treated myeloma that progresses and requires the initiation of salvage therapy.

According to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) recommendation, biochemical relapse is defined as an increase of ≥ 25% of tumor burden from lowest value, without any CRAB feature (CRAB is defined as the onset of clinical symptoms: hypercalcemia, renal failure, anemia and bone lesions) and detected in 2 consecutive determinations.

Clinical relapse requires one or more direct indicators of progressive disease and end organ dysfunction (CRAB features).

Treatment at relapse should start in case of clinical relapse or a significant paraprotein increase (doubling of M-component in 2 months).

In case of biochemical relapse the standard is observation only, as in case of asymptomatic MM at diagnosis.

However, a recently published trial, showed improved PFS and OS for newly diagnosed asymptomatic patients treated with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in comparison with observation only. Our hypothesis is that similarly, in the relapse setting, patients may benefit from an early intervention, meaning a treatment at biochemical relapse and not only in case of clinical relapse or rapid increase of M-component.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall Survival (OS), defined as the time from the date of random disclosure to the date of death from any cause for the comparisons B vs A, 57 months|Overall Survival, defined as the time from the date of random disclosure to the date of death from any cause for the comparisons II vs I, 57 months
Clinical Progression, defined as the time from random assignment to the early or late strategy to the date of onset of CRAB symptoms or death.

Clinical relapse requires one or more direct indicators of progressive disease and end organ dysfunction (CRAB features). Evidence of end organ damage that can be attributed to the underlying plasma cell proliferative disorder:

* hypercalcaemia
* renal insufficiency
* anaemia
* bone lesions

Any one or more of the following biomarkers of malignancy:

* clonal bone marrow plasma cell percentage ≥60%
* involved:uninvolved serum free light chain ratio ≥100
* \>1 focal lesions on MRI studies (each focal lesion must be 5 mm or more in size)

Progresson was defined accoring to IMWG criteria as reported before, 57 months|Progression Free-survival (PFS), PFS for the comparison B vs A will be measured from the date of randomization disclosure to the date of first observation of PD, or death from any cause as an event. Subjects who have not progressed or who withdraw from the study will be censored at the time of the last complete disease assessment. All subjects who were lost to Follow Up (FU) will also be censored at the time of last complete disease assessment, 57 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS for the comparison II vs I will be measured from the date of randomization disclosure to the date of first observation of PD, or death from any cause as an event. Subjects who have not progressed or who withdraw from the study will be censored at the time of the last complete disease assessment. All subjects who were lost to FU will also be censored at the time of last complete disease assessment, 57 months|Progression Free-survival 2(PFS2), PFS for the comparison B vs A will be measured from the date of randomization disclosure to the date of first observation of PD in second line therapy, or death from any cause as an event. Subjects who have not progressed or who withdraw from the study will be censored at the time of the last complete disease assessment. All subjects who were lost to FU will also be censored at the time of last complete disease assessment, 57 months|Progression Free Survival 2(PFS2), PFS for the comparison II vs I will be measured from the date of randomization disclosure to the date of first observation of PD in second line therapy, or death from any cause as an event. Subjects who have not progressed or who withdraw from the study will be censored at the time of the last complete disease assessment. All subjects who were lost to FU will also be censored at the time of last complete disease assessment, 57 months|Objective Overall Response Rate for the Comparison B vs A, in terms of partial response (PR), very good partial response (VGPR), complete response (CR).and stringent complete response (sCR) according to IMWG response crieria (https://www.myeloma.org/resource-library/international-myeloma-working-group-imwg-uniform-response-criteria-multiple)., 57 months|Objective Overall Response Rate for the Comparison II vs I, in terms of partial response (PR), very good partial response (VGPR), complete response (CR).and stringent complete response (sCR) according to IMWG response crieria (https://www.myeloma.org/resource-library/international-myeloma-working-group-imwg-uniform-response-criteria-multiple)., 57 months|Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) With EORTC-QLQ-C30, outcome will be measured with EORTC-QLQ-C30 at baseline, every 2 months during the first year, and then every 6 months for the comparison B vs B and I vs II., 57 months|Quality of Life With QLQ-MY(Myeloma)24, outcome will be measured with QLQ-MY24 at baseline, every 2 months during the first year, and then every 6 months for the comparison B vs B and I vs II., 57 months
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a neoplastic disease of older adults, with a higher incidence in elderly patients: 26% are aged 65-74 years, and 37% are older than 75 years. The annual prevalence of MM is approximately 31 cases per 100,000 people in patients aged 65-74 years, and it increases to 46 cases per 100,000 people in patients aged ≥75 years. The prevalence of myeloma is likely to increase due to the extended survival and the growing life expectancy of the general population.

Recently, the introduction of novel agents such as thalidomide, lenalidomide, pomalidomide and bortezomib, has changed the treatment paradigm of MM and extended survival.

The prognosis of patients who are refractory to novel agents is especially poor. A retrospective study has recently demonstrated that patients with relapsed MM, who were refractory to bortezomib and were relapsed following, refractory to or ineligible to receive treatment with an IMiD, had a median overall survival (OS) and event free survival (EFS) of 9 and 5 months, respectively.

STUDY DESIGN When patients experience biochemical relapse during lenalidomide maintenance, they will stop lenalidomide, as established in the related experimental protocol. Afterwards, patients can be considered for the enrollment in the present study if all inclusion and exclusion criteria are met.

This is a multicenter, randomized, open label phase III study designed to assess the safety and the efficacy of two different pomalidomide combinations as salvage treatment in multiple myeloma (MM) patients.

Patients will be evaluated at scheduled visits in up to 3 study periods: pre-treatment, treatment and long-term follow-up (LTFU).

The pre-treatment period includes screening visits, performed at study entry. After providing written informed consent to participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for study eligibility. The screening period includes the availability of inclusion criteria described above.

The treatment period includes administration of pomalidomide and dexamethasone in arm A and pomalidomide combined with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in arm B. The response will be assessed after each cycle. Patients will be randomized to receive treatment at biochemical relapse (ARM I) or at clinical relapse (ARM II).

The LTFU periods will start after development of confirmed progression disease (PD), all patients are to be followed for survival during the LTFU period every 3 months via telephone or office visit.