S1304, Carfilzomib and Dexamethasone for Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Myeloma
This randomized phase II trial compares how well two different doses of carfilzomib work when given with dexamethasone in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back after a period of improvement or has not responded to treatment. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving carfilzomib together with dexamethasone may kill more cancer cells. It is not yet known whether a higher or lower dose of carfilzomib works better when given with dexamethasone.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Progression-free Survival, Assessed in each arm using the method of Kaplan Meier and compared between arms using the stratified long-rank test. Progression is defined using the International Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma as new or increase in size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas; or development of hypercalcemia attributable solely to MM; or ≥ 25% increase from baseline or lowest response level of either serum M protein, urine M protein, difference in involved \& uninvolved serum free light chain level or bone marrow plasma cell percentage., From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Overall Survival, Assessed in each arm using the method of Kaplan Meier and compared between arms using the stratified log-rank test., From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Best Overall Response - Partial Response (PR), Very Good Partial Response (VGPR), Unconfirmed PR (uPR), Stable Disease (SD) Progression (PROG), Per International Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma PR- ≥ 50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytomas \& plasma cells; ≥ 50% decrease in serum \& reduction in urine M protein ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24hr or ≥ 50% decrease in difference in uninvolved \& involved serum free light chain levels; VGPR- PR + Serum and urine M proteins detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M protein \& urine M protein \< 100 mg/24 hrs; uPR- 1 objective status of PR, but confirmation studies are not done, or do not meet the requirements necessary to confirm response; SD- does not meet criteria for sCR, CR, VGPR, PR or PROG; PROG- new or increase in size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas/ development of hypercalcemia attributable solely to MM/ ≥ 25% increase from baseline/ lowest response level of either serum or Urine M protein, difference in involved \& uninvolved serum free light chain level or bone marrow plasma cell percentage., From date of registration to date of best response while on study treatment|Progression-free Survival of Crossover Group, Assessed in the crossover arm using the method of Kaplan Meier. Progression is defined using the International Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma as new or increase in size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas; or development of hypercalcemia attributable solely to MM; or ≥ 25% increase from baseline or lowest response level of either serum M protein, urine M protein, difference in involved \& uninvolved serum free light chain level or bone marrow plasma cell percentage., From date of crossover to date of subsequent documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years from randomization|Overall Survival Crossover Group, Assessed in the crossover arm using the method of Kaplan Meier., From date of crossover to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years from randomization
Gene Expression Profiles, Bone marrow compared to that of an aspirate taken at the site of the EMP. Data will be log-transformed before analysis. Exploratory analyses will examine underlying distributions using boxplots, density plots, scatter plots, etc. For differential expression analysis of the two sample types t-tests will be conducted on genes. False discovery rate will be used to control the average false positive proportions among selected genes. Genes will be ranked by their q-value and pathway analysis conducted upon selected genes to determine biological plausibility and relevance to molecular functionality., Up to 3 years|Incidence of CR by PET, Defined as the Disappearance of All Focal Lesions and the Resolution of EMD, Univariate and multivariate logistic regression will be used to determine the impact of biochemical CR on CR by PET. In the multivariate analysis adjustment for standard prognostic factors such as age, albumin, beta-2 microglobulin, serum creatinine, c-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase will be included., Up to week 45
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate and compare progression free survival (PFS) of two different doses of carfilzomib with dexamethasone in multiple myeloma (MM) patients with relapsed and/or refractory disease.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate and compare response rates (RR) for each arm. II. To evaluate response rates (RR) for patients that relapse on low dose carfilzomib and subsequently cross-over to high dose carfilzomib.

III. To evaluate the safety of this combination for this patient population. IV. To evaluate overall survival (OS).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the molecular variability in MM cells obtained from extramedullary bone marrow relapse sites.

II. To explore the role of positron emission tomography (PET) scanning in assessing disease burden and as a tool to assess treatment response.

III. To explore changes in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma treated with low dose carfilzomib or high dose carfilzomib plus dexamethasone.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive dexamethasone intravenously (IV) and low-dose carfilzomib IV over 2-10 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16. Patients with progression cross-over to Arm II.

ARM II: Patients receive dexamethasone IV and high-dose carfilzomib IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16.

Note that for the first course of treatment on both arms carfilzomib is given at a reduced rate to assess toxicity.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years from initial registration.