Photographic Rhinometry Following Derm/Mohs Surgery for Skin Cancers
Dermatological surgeons and patients routinely notice alterations in nasal shape and size following surgery and reconstruction. There is no uniform approach to objectively measure these changes. Anthropometric measurements are routinely used in rhinoplasty to assess outcomes, but they are time consuming and have not been reported as being used by dermatological surgeons. Soft-tissue measurements in profile photographs have been demonstrated to be useful for objective measurement of nasal change following surgery. This is a follow up study of the pilot study to assess the feasibility of photographic rhinometry as an objective tool, and (ii) to quantify changes following common dermatological surgical procedures on the nose. This follow-up study will aim to recruit a larger population sample to better quantify some of the changes occurring post-operatively.
Skin Cancer
The primary outcome is to quantify changes following common dermatological surgical procedures on the nose., Photographs will be taken with a camera in fixed zoom setting with a ruler placed in different anatomical sites before and after surgery., "baseline, pre-intervention/procedure/surgery" and "immediately after the intervention/procedure/surgery"
Dermatological surgeons and patients routinely notice alterations in nasal shape and size following surgery and reconstruction. There is no uniform approach to objectively measure these changes. Anthropometric measurements are routinely used in rhinoplasty to assess outcomes, but they are time consuming and have not been reported as being used by dermatological surgeons. Soft-tissue measurements in profile photographs have been demonstrated to be useful for objective measurement of nasal change following surgery. This is a follow up study of the pilot study to assess the feasibility of photographic rhinometry as an objective tool, and (ii) to quantify changes following common dermatological surgical procedures on the nose. This follow-up study will aim to recruit a larger population sample to better quantify some of the changes occurring post-operatively.