Phase 2 Study of TAC-101 Combined With Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization (TACE) Versus TACE Alone in Japanese Patients With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to determine whether TAC-101 combined with Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization (TACE) is more effective than TACE alone in slowing tumor activity in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. The study is also looking at the safety of TAC-101 in combination with TACE.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: TAC-101|DRUG: Placebo
Time to Appearance of New Lesions (TTNL), TTNL was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of appearance of a new lesion. Participants who had no appearance of new lesions had their TTNL censored at the date of their last tumor assessment., From randomization (within 14 days prior to first TACE) assessed every 9 weeks after first TACE to date of appearance of a new lesion or until cut-off date (22-Dec-2009) (up to approximately 20 months)
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death. Participants who were still alive at the time of analysis had their survival time censored at the last date known to be alive., From randomization (within 14 days prior to first TACE) assessed every 9 weeks after first TACE until cut-off date of 22 Dec 2009 (up to approximately 20 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of disease progression (radiological, only)., From randomization (within 14 days prior to first TACE) assessed every 9 weeks after first TACE until cut-off date of 22 Dec 2009 (up to approximately 20 months)|Objective Tumor Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with objective evidence of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 millimeters (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30 percent decrease in the sum of diameters of the target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters., From randomization (within 14 days prior to first TACE) assessed every 9 weeks after first TACE until cut-off date of 22 Dec 2009 (up to approximately 20 months)|Change From Baseline in Plasma Levels of Tumor Marker Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), AFP was known as a tumor marker for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and was recognized as useful for following the course of HCC. Changes in serum AFP parallel the clinical course of HCC, where elevations can precede clinical deterioration and tumor recurrence., Baseline, End of treatment (last dose of study medication, i.e., approximately 7 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment-Emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs), Any untoward medical condition that occurs in a participants while participating in a clinical study and does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the use of the study drug was considered an adverse event (AE). A serious adverse event (SAE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death, life-threatening, required initial or prolonged in-patient hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect, or considered as medically important event. TEAEs: AEs that occur from the initiation of any study treatment administration, and do not necessarily have a causal relationship to the use of the study drug., From first dose of study drug up to 30 days after last dose of study drug or until the start of new anti-tumor therapy, whichever was earlier (up to approximately 8.5 months)
Advanced metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is not treatable by surgical approaches or locoregional therapies such as hepatic artery hemoembolization or radiofrequency ablation (RFA) which are effective in controlling localized tumors. Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the most commonly performed procedure in the treatment of unresectable liver tumors for selected patients. The TACE procedure delivers highly concentrated drugs to the tumor itself and arrests blood flow. Most patients will have intrahepatic recurrence of their tumors following TACE. Studies of TAC-101, a synthetic retinoid, indicate that although TAC-101 may not induce tumor regression, it appears to have a stabilizing effect, prolonging survival over what was expected historically. This study is designed as a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, phase 2 study in patients with advanced HCC who have undergone a TACE procedure, which will be conducted at multiple sites in Japan, to determine if administration of TAC-101 will enhance the benefits of the TACE procedure.