Photodynamic Therapy in Treating Patients With Refractory Mycosis Fungoides
This pilot phase II trial studies how well photodynamic therapy works in treating patients with mycosis fungoides that does not respond to treatment. Photodynamic therapy uses a drug, such as aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride, that becomes active when it is exposed to light. The activated drug may kill cancer cells.
Refractory Mycosis Fungoides
DRUG: Aminolevulinic Acid Hydrochloride|DRUG: Photodynamic Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Complete clinical response, Will be determined by Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Severity (CAILS) and Physician Global Assessment (PGA)., At 24 weeks
Change in CAILS score, Will be conducted and summarized using means, standard deviations and 95% confidence intervals. Statistical tests on endpoints (t-test for continuous data; Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Fisher?s exact test, or Chi-square test for ordinal data) will be utilized to determine differences at any particular time point. Graphical displays will be produced, such as mean profile plots or bar charts., Baseline up to week 24|Change in field of treatment, Will be conducted and summarized using means, standard deviations and 95% confidence intervals. Statistical tests on endpoints (t-test for continuous data; Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Fisher?s exact test, or Chi-square test for ordinal data) will be utilized to determine differences at any particular time point. Graphical displays will be produced, such as mean profile plots or bar charts., Baseline up to week 24|Change in Skindex-16 score, Will be conducted and summarized using means, standard deviations and 95% confidence intervals. Statistical tests on endpoints (t-test for continuous data; Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Fisher?s exact test, or Chi-square test for ordinal data) will be utilized to determine differences at any particular time point. Graphical displays will be produced, such as mean profile plots or bar charts., Baseline up to week 24|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. AE incidence and severity as measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.0., Up to 2 years
Patient-reported outcomes, Patient-reported symptoms will be described at each time point using the mean, confidence interval, median, and range. Graphical procedures will include stream plots of individual patient scores and plots of average values over time. Correlational analyses will be done to determine the relationships among patients-reported symptoms, as well as with clinical outcomes (response) and clinician-assessed symptoms (National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] CTCAE v4)., Up to 2 years|Quality of life (QOL), Patient-reported symptoms and QOL will be described at each time point using the mean, confidence interval, median, and range. Graphical procedures will include stream plots of individual patient scores and plots of average values over time. Correlational analyses will be done to determine the relationships among patients-reported symptoms and QOL, as well as with clinical outcomes (response) and clinician-assessed symptoms (NCI CTCAE v4)., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of photodynamic therapy (PDT) in refractory tumors and plaques of mycosis fungoides (MF).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effects of sequential PDT and radiation therapy (RT). II. To determine the side effect profile of PDT in MF.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the quality of life during and after treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride topically and undergo photodynamic therapy on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning at week 24, patients undergo radiation therapy daily for 4 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 8 weeks.