Nivolumab in Nasopharyngeal Cancer With Progression During or After Platinum-based Treatment
Multicentre , non-randomized, prospective clinical trial to assess efficacy of Nivolumab in treatment of nasopharyngeal cancer who progressed during or after platinum-based chemotherapy . Patients disqualified from radical therapy . The total number of patients was estimated for 32.
Nasopharyngeal Cancer
DRUG: Opdivo
Objective response rate (ORR), Percentage of objective responses (partial and complete responses combined /partial response (PR)+ complete response(CR)/ by immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (iRECIST) response criteria) in MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) after 12 weeks.

1. Partial response - at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD(longest diameter) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD(longest diameter)
2. Complete response (CR)- disappearance of all target lesions and short dimension of all lymph nodes \< 10 mm, 12 weeks
1.Progression- free survival (PFS) by iRECIST( immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours) criteria- from the beginning of treatment to the progression of disease or death., Progression will be evaluated in MRI(Magnetic Resonance Imaging) and defined according to iRECIST(immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours) criteria:

* least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study) and the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.
* the appearance of one or more new lesions, 6 month of treatment phase|Overall survival (OS) rate- time of total survival, at 6 months (treatment phase), 12 months and 18 months (6th month and 12th month of long term follow up)|DCR(disease control rate) per RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours), Defined as not meeting the criteria for progression and PR(partial response), through study completion, an average of 6 months|DoR(duration of response) per RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours), Measured in MRI(Magnetic Resonance Imaging) from the time when measurement criteria for complete/ partial response are met till time when progression of the disease is documented., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Change in quality of life in EORTC QLQ-C30(European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire) (version 3.0) .A high scale score represents a higher response level., from first infusion to last follow up ( 3 month, 6 month, 9 month,12month follow up)|Safety assessment of treatment with Nivolumab measured by excesive toxity, Each visit during treatment phase -12 cycles of investigation product's infusion (around 6 month of treatment).
Multicentre , non-randomized, prospective clinical trial to assess efficacy of Nivolumab in treatment of nasopharyngeal cancer who progressed during or after platinum-based chemotherapy . Patients disqualified from radical therapy . The total number of patients was estimated for 32.