Brentuximab Vedotin Combined With Bendamustine Supercharge, a Low-toxicity and Efficient Salvage Regimen for Primary Refractory or First-relapsed Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma: Long-term Results of a Retrospective Monocenter Study.
This is a retrospective, monocenter and non-interventional study. Data were retrospectively collected from all patients who completed the BV-Bs scheme in the time period between 1 September 2013 and 1 September 2023.
Hodgkin Lymphoma
OTHER: observational
Overall survival, survival, 10 year period
Progression overall survival, survival, 10 year period|Response to treatment, Complete Metabolic Remission rate, at end of 4 cycles treatment (each cycle of 28 days)|Incidence of treatment emergent adverse events, side effect to regimen related to both Brentuximab and bendamustine, during 4 cycles of treatment (each cycle of 28 days)
This is a retrospective, monocenter and non-interventional study. Data were retrospectively collected from all patients who completed the BV-Bs scheme in the time period between 1 September 2013 and 1 September 2023.

The regimen consisted of 3-day outpatient intravenous infusions of 1.8 mg/kg Bv on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle (as established by Younes and colleagues) sequentially combined with bendamustine (at least 24 hours after Bv, precisely on days 2 and 3 of the treatment cycle; as reported by Picardi et al) at a fixed dose of 120 mg/m2 per day.

All patients who achieved at least partial remission were considered eligible for peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) collection (performed with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor \[G-CSF\] and endoxan or plerixafor, if necessary) and proceeded to ASCT at any time beyond cycle 4.

The anti-tumor activity of this treatment regimen was assessed according to the Lugano criteria at the end of the combination treatment.

Prior to the first cycle of Bv-Bs, all patients underwent a clinical evaluation that included assessment of B symptoms, World Health Organization performance status, and measurement of palpable lesions. In particular, imaging procedures were conducted after the second and fourth cycles or prior to ASCT. The response was based on international criteria (Cheson et al, 2016). PET scans were considered positive or negative based on the Deauville 5-point scale criteria.