Feasiblity and Safety of Home-based Intensive Chemotherapy
a multicenter single-arm feasibility and safety study of home-based intensive chemotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia and their quality of life and psychological wellbeing. This national study included patients from six sites in Denmark who received intensive chemotherapy on programmed CADD Solis infusion pumps through a central venous catheter and were also managed as outpatients during treatment-induced pancytopenia.
Acute Leukemia
OTHER: Home-based chemotherapy
Recruitment rate, Number of participants included from eligible patients, up to 3 years|Adherence to intervention, Number of weeks completed out of planned weeks of intervention, Up to 24 weeks|Hospital admissions, Data will be collected from medical charts, Up to 24 weeks|Infections (days), Data will be collected from medical charts, Up to 24 weeks|Infections (type), Data will be collected from medical charts, Up to 24 weeks|Number of days home during treatment, Data will be collected from medical charts, Up to 24 weeks|Number of contacts to hospital during treatment, Data will be collected from medical charts, Up to 24 weeks|Number of removed CVK, Data will be collected from medical charts, Up to 24 weeks
Psychological wellbeing, Measured using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Change measures (baseline, 12 weeks, 24 and 36 weeks)|Quality of Life in participants, Measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Leukemia (FACT-LEU), Change measures (baseline, 12 weeks, 24 and 36 weeks)|Quality of Life in participants, Measured with the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), Change measures (baseline, 12 weeks, 24 and 36 weeks)
This national single-arm feasibility cohort study was conducted at six hematology departments at six university hospitals in Denmark: Copenhagen University Hospital, Rigshospitalet; Herlev/Gentofte Hospital; Zealand University Hospital, Roskilde; Odense University Hospital; Aarhus University Hospital, and Aalborg University Hospital.

The project nurse at each site approached and recruited participants from October 2017 to August 2020. The participants were explicitly evaluated for their ability to manage their symptoms, administer oral medication, eat and drink sufficiently, and practice good personal hygiene. Eligible participants received oral and written information and provided written informed consent before inclusion.

Included participants received intensive chemotherapy treatment on a CADD pump through their CVC. The CADD pump is unique because it is portable, carried in a small bag or backpack, and applicable for home-based treatment due to its intuitive and user-friendly interface.

A patient educational program based on strategic patient involvement was integrated into supportive care practice during induction treatment at each hematology department. The program included guidance and training to the patient and/or their primary caregiver in managing the care of their CVC including drawing blood samples, how to use a positive expiratory pressure whistle, functionality of the infusion pump, how to manage and react on pump alarm, and precautions when receiving treatment while being home.

The participants could contact the hematological department from where they received their treatment 24 hours a day by telephone. They were instructed to contact their respective department immediately if fever (\>38.0 Celcius) or any pump report alarm occurred. The nurses would then guide the participant to solve the problem from home or recommend they seek help at the department to solve the problem or get evaluated by a doctor.

Adverse events were categorized into non-serious adverse events and serious adverse events. Non-serious adverse events were any pump infusion alarms that could not be solved by phone and required a visit to the hospital. Serious adverse events were any adverse reactions during treatment at home, which resulted in the following outcomes: death or septic shock.