Tumor-Informed ctDNA Testing of Head & Neck Intent Treatment of Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This is a single-center, non-interventional, observational study that evaluates the correlation of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) testing to cancer relapse for participants with head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNC) after curative-intent primary radiation or surgery.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
PROCEDURE: Blood Specimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Tumor Tissue Collection|OTHER: Medical Record Review
Cumulative incidence rate of ctDNA, Cumulative incidence will be estimated by evaluating the cumulative incidence of positive ctDNA (non-zero) with death as a competing risk., Up to 2 years
Proportion of participants at diagnosis with a positive (non-zero) ctDNA result., The prevalence of detectable ctDNA at initial diagnosis in participants with locally-advanced head and neck cancer will be reported as the proportion of participants at diagnosis with a positive (non-zero) ctDNA result., Up to 2 years|Association of association of quantitative ctDNA levels with overall survival (OS), The Spearman's correlation coefficient (rs) measures the strength and direction of association between two variables. The Spearman correlation coefficient, rs, can take values from +1 to -1 where a value of +1 indicates a perfect association, an rs of 0 indicates no association and an rs of -1 indicates a perfect negative association. The closer rs is to 0, the weaker the association. This correlation will be used to determine the association of quantitative ctDNA levels with overall survival (OS)., Up to 2 years|Association of association of quantitative ctDNA levels with disease-free survival (DFS), The Spearman's correlation coefficient (rs) measures the strength and direction of association between two variables. The Spearman correlation coefficient, rs, can take values from +1 to -1 where a value of +1 indicates a perfect association, an rs of 0 indicates no association and an rs of -1 indicates a perfect negative association. The closer rs is to 0, the weaker the association. This correlation will be used to determine the association of quantitative ctDNA levels with overall survival (OS)., Up to 2 years|Association of association of quantitative ctDNA levels with time to recurrence (TTR), The Pearson correlation coefficient (r) measures the strength and direction of association between two variables. The Pearson correlation coefficient (r) can take values from +1 to -1 where a value of +1 indicates a perfect association, a value of 0 indicates no association, and a value of -1 indicates a perfect negative association. The closer r is to 0, the weaker the association. This correlation will be used to determine the association of quantitative ctDNA levels with TTR., Up to 2 years|Association of quantitative ctDNA levels with follow-up imaging tumor volume., The Pearson correlation coefficient (r) measures the strength and direction of association between two variables. The Pearson correlation coefficient (r) can take values from +1 to -1 where a value of +1 indicates a perfect association, a value of 0 indicates no association, and a value of -1 indicates a perfect negative association. The closer r is to 0, the weaker the association. This correlation will be used to determine the association of quantitative ctDNA levels with tumor volume., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the rates of detectable ctDNA within two years of participants treated with curative-intent surgery or radiation-based treatment for HNC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To describe the prevalence of detectable ctDNA at initial diagnosis in participants with HNC.
2. To describe the association of quantitative ctDNA levels with time-to-event outcomes (overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), and time to recurrence (TTR)).
3. To describe the association of quantitative ctDNA levels with follow-up imaging tumor volume.

OUTLINE:

Participants will have tissue samples collected at screening and blood samples collected for analysis before, during, and after non-investigational, standard of care treatment for cancer for up to 2 years