Pegaspargase Combined With Gemcitabine, Etoposide, Liposomal Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride and Dexamethasone (P-GEMD) in the Treatment of Untreated Early Non-upper Respiratory Tract or Advanced Extranodal NK/T-cell Lymphoma
NK/T-cell lymphoma (NKTCL) is one of the most common types of extranodal lymphoma.NKTCL originates from NK cells and T lymphocytes and is highly invasive. There is a lack of efficient and specific treatment methods in clinical practice, and the prognosis is poor. The molecular heterogeneity of NKTCL is strong, and molecular typing and risk stratification are of great significance for understanding the disease and improving the curative effect.Based on the preclinical studies of mitoxantrone liposomes, the investigators put forward a hypothesis: mitoxantrone liposome injection combined with pegaspargase, gemcitabine, and dexamethasone (P-GEMD) in the treatment of early non-upper respiratory digestive tract It is safe and can improve the therapeutic effect in patients with gastric or advanced extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma.
NK-T-Cell Lymphoma, Extranodal
DRUG: Pegaspargase Combined With Gemcitabine, Etoposide, Liposomal Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride and Dexamethasone (P-GEMD) regimen
CRR, Complete Response Rate, 6 months
ORR, Objective Response Rate, 6 months|DoR, Duration of remission, 1 years|1 year PFS rate, 1 year PFS rate, 1 years|1 year OS rate, 1 year OS rate, 1 years
NK/T-cell lymphoma (NKTCL) is one of the most common types of extranodal lymphoma.NKTCL originates from NK cells and T lymphocytes and is highly invasive. There is a lack of efficient and specific treatment methods in clinical practice, and the prognosis is poor. The molecular heterogeneity of NKTCL is strong, and molecular typing and risk stratification are of great significance for understanding the disease and improving the curative effect.

In the phase II clinical study of mitoxantrone liposome, 108 patients with relapsed and refractory PTCL received mitoxantrone liposome monotherapy, and the IRC evaluation ORR was 41.7% \[32.3%, 51.5%\] , the CR rate was 23.1% (25/108), the median PFS was 8.5 months, and the median OS was 22.8 months. The safety was tolerable and the efficacy was definite. Based on this, Mitoxantrone liposome was approved for marketing , for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory PTCL.

Based on the preclinical studies of mitoxantrone liposomes, the investigators put forward a hypothesis: mitoxantrone liposome injection combined with pegaspargase, gemcitabine, and dexamethasone (P-GEMD) in the treatment of early non-upper respiratory digestive tract It is safe and can improve the therapeutic effect in patients with gastric or advanced extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma.