CART-meso Long-term Follow-up
This is a non-therapeutic, long-term follow-up (LTFU) study of subjects who have received retroviral-based gene therapy products in cancer studies. All subjects in this LTFU protocol have received lentiviral modified T cells engineered to express an anti-mesothelin scFv Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR). This gene therapy product is called CART-meso. Lentiviruses are a subfamily of retroviruses. This protocol is designed in adherence with the November 2006 Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Guidance for Industry, "Monitoring for Delayed Adverse Events" and "Supplemental Guidance on Testing for Replication Competent Retrovirus in Retroviral Vector Based Gene Therapy Products and During Follow-up of Patients in Clinical Trials Using Retroviral Vectors " and involves up to 15 years of monitoring of subjects who have been exposed to retrovirus-mediated gene transfer. Subjects will undergo biannual visits for a blood test evaluating persistence of cells with retroviral vector sequences, chemistry, hematology and tumor markers (as applicable). On annual visits, subjects will further undergo a physical exam and medical history (including concomitant medications and adverse events) with careful attention to features possibly related to retrovirus-induced diseases
Subjects Who Have Received Lentiviral-based CART-meso Therapy
BIOLOGICAL: lentiviral-based CART meso therapy
Number of Adverse Events, At each visit until study completion, up to 15 years
This is a non-therapeutic, long-term follow-up (LTFU) study of subjects who have received retroviral-based gene therapy products in cancer studies. All subjects in this LTFU protocol have received lentiviral modified T cells engineered to express an anti-mesothelin scFv Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR). This gene therapy product is called CART-meso. Lentiviruses are a subfamily of retroviruses. This protocol is designed in adherence with the November 2006 Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Guidance for Industry, "Monitoring for Delayed Adverse Events" and "Supplemental Guidance on Testing for Replication Competent Retrovirus in Retroviral Vector Based Gene Therapy Products and During Follow-up of Patients in Clinical Trials Using Retroviral Vectors " and involves up to 15 years of monitoring of subjects who have been exposed to retrovirus-mediated gene transfer. Subjects will undergo biannual visits for a blood test evaluating persistence of cells with retroviral vector sequences, chemistry, hematology and tumor markers (as applicable). On annual visits, subjects will further undergo a physical exam and medical history (including concomitant medications and adverse events) with careful attention to features possibly related to retrovirus-induced diseases