Dexamethasone Prior to Re-treatment With Enzalutamide in Treating Patients With Metastatic Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer Previously Treated With Enzalutamide and Docetaxel
This pilot trial studies how well dexamethasone and re-treatment with enzalutamide work in treating patients with prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic), does not respond to hormone therapy (hormone-resistant), and was previously treated with enzalutamide and docetaxel. Dexamethasone treatment may be able to reverse one resistance mechanism to enzalutamide therapy (overabundance of receptors for dexamethasone and other glucocorticoids inside cancer cells) and allow for renewed therapeutic sensitivity to enzalutamide. Androgens (a type of male hormone) can bind to androgen receptors found inside prostate cancer cells, which may cause the cancer cells to grow. Enzalutamide may stop the growth of prostate cancer cells by blocking the activity of the cancer cell androgen receptors. Giving dexamethasone prior to re-treatment with enzalutamide may be a treatment for prostate cancer.
Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Enzalutamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
PSA Response Rate, PSA response rate is defined as the proportion of subjects with a \>= 50% PSA decline from baseline level when starting enzalutamide and maintained for \>= 4 weeks at any time-point after receiving enzalutamide. Will determine its corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
Changes in Quality of Life Assessment Scores, Assessed Using FACIT-Fatigue Scale and RANDSF-36 Surveys, Summary statistics of the scores will be reported at baseline before starting dexamethasone and each follow-up time during the treatment of dexamethasone and enzalutamide. Changes in quality of life scores over the course of the study will be computed and their significance will be evaluated by paired-sample t-tests., Baseline to up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Objective Response Rate to Enzalutamide in Patients With Measurable Disease on CT Scan, Will estimate 95% confidence interval., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Response Rate With Dexamethasone by AR-V7 Status at Study Entry, Baseline|Response Rate With Enzalutamide by AR-V7 Status at Study Entry, Baseline|Time to PSA Progression, Based Upon PCWG2 Criteria, for Treatment With Dexamethasone, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier approach., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Time to Radiographic Progression for Treatment With Dexamethasone, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier approach., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate to enzalutamide (Enza) after treatment with dexamethasone (Dex) therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Objective response rate to Enza in patients with measurable disease on computed tomography (CT) scan using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

II. Time to PSA progression (based upon Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 \[PCWG2\] criteria) for treatment with Dex.

III. Effect of each treatment on quality of life as assessed by patient completion of validated instruments (Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy \[FACIT\]-Fatigue Scale, RAND Short Form-36 \[RANDSF-36\]).

IV. PSA response rates to Dex for patients who are androgen receptor splice variant 7 (AR-V7) positive and AR-V7 negative, respectively, at study entry.

V. Response rates to Enza for patients who are AR-V7 positive and AR-V7 negative, respectively, at study entry.

VI. Percentage of patients who are AR-V7 positive at study entry who are AR-V7 negative at time of initiation of Enza, or vice-versa.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive dexamethasone orally (PO) once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity until there is evidence of PSA progression, clinical disease progression, or radiographic disease progression. At time of progression, dexamethasone will be stopped via a rapid taper over one week if patients were treated for over 30 days. Patients then receive enzalutamide PO once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of clinical disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.