Study of Glembatumumab Vedotin in gpNMB-Expressing, Advanced or Metastatic SCC of the Lung
Patients with advanced or metastatic, gpNMB-expressing Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) of the lung who have failed a prior platinum-based chemotherapy regimen will receive glembatumumab vedotin.

Glembatumumab vedotin consists of an antibody (a type of human protein) attached to a drug called Monomethyl Auristatin E (MMAE) that can kill cancer cells. Glembatumumab vedotin is intended to work by specifically directing the drug to the cancer cell. It attaches to a molecule on the cancer cell called gpNMB, and then releases the MMAE inside the tumor cell, which in turn causes the cell to die.

The purpose of this study is to see whether glembatumumab vedotin is effective in treating people who have advanced or metastatic squamous cell lung cancer that contains gpNMB, to examine how the body handles the drug and the side effects associated with glembatumumab vedotin.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lung
DRUG: Phase I: Glembatumumab Vedotin|DRUG: Phase II: Glembatumumab Vedotin
Phase I: Determine Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), To determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) by number of participants with DLTs., 42 (±3) days|Phase II: Objective Response Rate (ORR), Determine the anti-tumor activity, as assessed by ORR in accordance with RECIST 1.1, of the MTD of glembatumumab vedotin in patients with advanced gpNMB-expressing SCC of the lung., 40 months
Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0., To further characterize the safety of glembatumumab vedotin by the number of participants with abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events related to treatment (including Serious Adverse Events and Other Adverse Events)., 23 months|Duration of Objective Response (DOR), DOR assessed in accordance with RECIST 1.1., 23 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS assessed in accordance with RECIST 1.1., 23 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS assessed in accordance with RECIST 1.1., 23 months
Lung cancer is the most frequent cancer in the world, with annual cases worldwide currently estimated at one million and increasing to 10 million by the year 2025. In the United States, despite the declining incidence in white males in recent years, lung cancer is still the second most frequent cancer in both men (next to prostate) and women (next to breast cancer).

This is an open-label, single arm study of glembatumumab vedotin, a fully-human IgG2 monoclonal antibody. The activity of glembatumumab vedotin may be greatest in patients who overexpress the target, gpNMB.

This study will include a dose-escalation phase to determine the maximum safe and tolerated dose. This will be followed by a 2-stage Phase II expansion. During Phase II Stage 1, approximately 20 eligible, treated patients will be enrolled. If ≥ 2 patients achieve a tumor response \[Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR)\]; an additional 15 eligible, treated patients will be enrolled in Stage 2, for a maximum total of 35 eligible, treated patients.

Glembatumumab vedotin will be administered once every 3 weeks, as a 90-minute intravenous (IV) infusion.

Patients will continue treatment until disease progression or intolerance. Tumor assessments will be performed every six (±1) weeks for six months, and every nine (±2) weeks thereafter, until progression.

A tumor tissue sample (i.e., obtained during a previous procedure or biopsy) will be sent to a central laboratory and tested for gpNMB. Research blood samples will also be required.