RADIO FREQUENCY ABLATION IN UNRESECTABLE MALIGNANT BILIARY OBSTRUCTION
Endoscopic retrograde cholangio pancreatography procedure will performed as per local standard procedure.After common bile duct cannulation,cholangiography will be performed (to confirm the stricture) followed by biliary sphincterotomy. All biliary strictures(Bismuth Type I/II/III/IV) will be enrolled for the study.

Patient opting for Uncovered self expandable metallic stent / Plastic stent will undergo biliary stent placement and considered under control arm Patient opting for radio frequency ablation + Uncovered SEMS/Plastic stent will undergo radio frequency ablation and biliary stent placement and considered under Study arm The RFA probe will be inserted into the bile duct alongwith the guidewire. Keeping the electrode overlapping the stricture, RFA will be performed using a power of 10W for 120 seconds. The electrode will be kept at the ablation site for an additional 1 minute to allow the RFA probe to cool before removal to prevent thermal injury of normal tissue and/or endoscope accessory channel. If the stricture is more than 3 cm, step-by-step RFA will be performed from the superior to inferior aspect. After RFA application, an uncovered SEMS/Plastic stent will be placed.
Bile Duct Neoplasms|Gall Bladder Carcinoma
DEVICE: Radio frequency ablation
Prospectively evaluate the safety and efficacy of combining intraductal Radio frequency ablation with biliary metal/ plastic stent placement for patients with malignant biliary obstruction., satety of radio frequency ablation assessed by complications/adverse effects post procedure and efficacy of the procedure will be assessed by stent patency at the end of one month, 12 months
Stent patency at 1 year, Stent patency will be estimated by bio chemical parameters (Total bilirubin, Alkaline phosphatase) or ultra sound abdomen scan, 12 months
Placement of self expandable metallic stent is the standard of care in the palliative management of patients with malignant biliary strictures . Relieves biliary obstruction and jaundice.

Self expandable metallic stent provide efficient drainage and have superior patency rates compared with the plastic stents Endoscopic radio frequency ablation combined with stent placement can significantly prolong survival and the stent patency period without increasing the incidence of adverse events in patients with extra hepatic cholangiocarcinoma patient.

Compared to plastic/ metal stent placement alone the addition of radio frequency ablation to stent placement would have better outcomes.