Cediranib Maleate and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Biliary Cancers
This phase II trial is studying how well giving cediranib maleate together with combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with advanced biliary cancers. Cediranib maleate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth or by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving cediranib maleate together with combination chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Primary Cholangiocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma of the Extrahepatic Bile Duct|Cholangiocarcinoma of the Gallbladder|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Periampullary Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Recurrent Gallbladder Cancer|Unresectable Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Unresectable Gallbladder Cancer
DRUG: cediranib maleate|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: fluorouracil
The Response Rate of Patients Evaluated Using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, The number of patients with a Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters; Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions); Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to 3 years
Tabulation of the Toxicity Profile of the Combination Therapy, Number of patients that experienced \>/= grade 3 treatment related toxicities (definite, probable, possible)., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival, Time in months that evaluable subjects survived progression free, Up to 3 years|Estimation of Overall Survival, Time of overall response, Up to 3 years|Identification of Factors That Predict Survival, Factors that predict survival will be identified by Cox model or extended Cox model., Up to three years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate to AZD2171 (cediranib maleate) and modified folinic acid-fluorouracil-oxaliplatin-6 regimen (FOLFOX 6) in subjects with advanced biliary cancers.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine overall assessment of toxicity of AZD2171 and modified FOLFOX6. II. To determine the progression-free survival of subjects with advanced biliary cancers treated with AZD2171 and modified FOLFOX6.

III. To determine overall survival of subjects with advanced biliary cancers treated with AZD2171 and modified FOLFOX6.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 and modified FOLFOX6 comprising oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.