A Study of Enzalutamide Versus Bicalutamide in Castrate Men With Metastatic Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy and safety of oral enzalutamide compared to bicalutamide in castrate men with metastatic prostate cancer who have progressed while on Luteinizing Hormone Receptor Hormone (LHRH) agonist/antagonist or after receiving a bilateral orchiectomy.
Prostatic Neoplasms
DRUG: enzalutamide|DRUG: bicalutamide
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Based on Independent Central Review (ICR) Assessment, PFS is the time from randomization to the date of the first progression event detected. A progression event was defined as objective evidence of radiographic disease progression based on the assessments by the ICR, skeletal-related event, initiation of new antineoplastic therapy or death by any cause, whichever occurred first. Radiographic disease progression was defined as either a progression in soft tissue on computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, and/or a progression in bone lesions on bone scan (≥ 2 new bone lesions) confirmed by the next bone scan. A skeletal-related event was any radiation therapy or surgery to bone, pathologic bone fracture, spinal cord compression or change in antineoplastic therapy to treat bone pain. The initiation of new antineoplastic therapy included any new therapy for the treatment of disease progression after the study drug administration started., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.
PFS Based on Investigator Assessment, PFS was calculated as the time from randomization to the date of the first progression event detected. A progression event was defined as objective evidence of radiographic disease progression based on the assessments by investigators, skeletal-related event, initiation of new antineoplastic therapy or death by any cause, whichever occurred first. Radiographic disease progression was defined as either a progression in soft tissue on CT/MRI scan according to RECIST 1.1, and/or a progression in bone lesions on bone scan (≥ 2 new bone lesions) confirmed by the next bone scan. A skeletal-related event was defined as radiation therapy or surgery to bone, pathologic bone fracture, spinal cord compression or change in antineoplastic therapy to treat bone pain. The initiation of new antineoplastic therapy included any new therapy for the treatment of disease progression after the study drug administration started., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Response by Week 13, The PSA response by Week 13 was defined as the percentage change from Baseline to the smallest PSA value after Baseline (i.e., a decrease of 100% represents the largest possible decrease to a value below the lower limit of quantification) and on or before day 99 (i.e., upper boundary of the Week 13 visit window). For participants with no decrease in PSA post-baseline by Week 13, the PSA response by Week 13 was the smallest increase in PSA up to day 99. For participants with no post-baseline PSA values up to day 99, the PSA response by Week 13 was set to missing. PSA was analyzed at a central laboratory., Baseline to Week 13|Best PSA Response, The best PSA response was defined as the percentage change from Baseline to the smallest PSA value after Baseline including PSA results from samples taken after the study drug was stopped. For participants with no decrease in PSA post-baseline, the best PSA response was the smallest increase in PSA. For participants with no post-baseline PSA values, the PSA response was set to missing. PSA was analyzed at a central laboratory., Baseline to the data cutoff date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Time to PSA Progression, Time to PSA progression was calculated as the time interval from the date of randomization to the date of first observation of PSA progression. PSA progression was defined as a ≥ 25% increase and an absolute increase of ≥ 2 ng/mL above the nadir (or above the baseline value for participants who did not have a decline in PSA post-baseline values), and confirmed by a second consecutive PSA assessment at least 3 weeks later. For participants with no documented PSA progression, the time to PSA progression was censored on the date the last PSA sample was taken., From randomization until the data cutoff date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Time to PSA ≤ 4 ng/mL, Time to PSA ≤ 4 ng/mL was defined as the time interval from the date of randomization to the first date a decline in PSA to a result of 4 ng/mL or below was recorded. In participants without PSA results ≤ 4 ng/mL, the time to PSA ≤ 4 ng/mL was censored on the date of the last PSA sample taken. Participants with a PSA result ≤ 4 ng/mL at Baseline, participants with no Baseline PSA and participants with no post-baseline PSA results were censored on the date of randomization, From randomization until the data cutoff date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Time to ≥ 30% PSA Decline From Baseline, The time to ≥ 30% PSA decline from Baseline was defined as the time interval from the date of randomization to the first date a PSA decline from Baseline of at least 30% was recorded. In participants without ≥ 30% PSA decline from Baseline, the time to ≥ 30% PSA decline from Baseline was censored on the date of the last PSA sample taken. Participants who had no Baseline PSA and participants with no post-baseline PSA results were censored on the date of randomization., From randomization until the data cutoff date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Time to ≥ 50% PSA Decline From Baseline, The time to ≥ 50% PSA decline from Baseline was defined as the time interval from the date of randomization to the first date a PSA decline from Baseline of at least 50% was recorded. In participants without ≥ 50% PSA decline from Baseline, the time to ≥ 50% PSA decline from Baseline was censored on the date of the last PSA sample taken. Participants who had no Baseline PSA and participants with no post-baseline PSA results were censored on the date of randomization., From randomization until the data cutoff date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Time to ≥ 90% PSA Decline From Baseline, The time to ≥ 90% PSA decline from Baseline was defined as the time interval from the date of randomization to the first date a PSA decline from Baseline of at least 90% was recorded. In participants without ≥ 90% PSA decline from Baseline, the time to ≥ 90% PSA decline from Baseline was censored on the date of the last PSA sample taken. Participants who had no Baseline PSA and participants with no post-baseline PSA results were censored on the date of randomization., From randomization until the data cutoff date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Radiographic PFS Based on ICR Assessment, Radiographic PFS was calculated as the time interval from the date of randomization to the first date of radiographic disease progression. Radiographic disease progression was defined as either a progression in soft tissue on CT/MRI scan according to RECIST 1.1, and/or a progression in bone lesions (a minimum of 2 new bone lesions as compared to previous scan) on bone scan and confirmed by the next bone scan., From randomization until the data cutoff date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Percentage of Participants With an Objective Response, Response assessments were reported by ICR for target lesions in soft tissues and non-target lesions in soft tissues based on CT and/or MRI according to RECIST version 1.1. Objective response was defined as the number of participants achieving either a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) based on participant's best overall response assessed at the end of the treatment., From randomization until the data cutoff date of 19 October 2014, median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in the enzalutamide arm and 5.8 months in the bicalutamide arm.|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, A serious adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: ● Resulted in death ● Was life threatening ● Resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity ● Resulted in congenital anomaly or birth defect ● Required inpatient hospitalization or led to prolongation of hospitalization ● Other medically important events. Treatment-related indicates adverse events assessed by the Investigator as probably or possibly related to study treatment. Treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were defined as adverse events (AEs) that started or worsened after starting administration of study drug through end of the study (i.e., the treatment-emergent period)., From initiation of study drug up to 30 days after last dose of study drug or the 30-day safety follow-up visit, whichever was last (Median duration of treatment was 11.6 months in enzalutamide arm and 5.8 in bicalutamide arm, 12.6 in the total arm).
An open-label period was added to the main protocol. Following unblinding at the end of the double-blind period and demonstration of a statistically significant advantage of enzalutamide over bicalutamide as assessed by the primary endpoint, all ongoing enzalutamide treated participants and ongoing or previous bicalutamide treated participants that met entry criteria were offered open-label enzalutamide at the discretion of the participant and study investigators.