Enhancing Access to Supportive Services for Women of Color with Metastatic Breast Cancer
Black and Latina women experience disparities in supportive and palliative care access and outcomes. The goal of the proposed pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of a community navigator delivered supportive care intervention for historically underserved populations of women with metastatic breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC V7
BEHAVIORAL: ACCESS Supportive Care|BEHAVIORAL: Phone sessions
Number of participants recruited, Acceptability evaluates if patients accept the intervention through the ability to recruit 60 participants in 1.5 years and a \<20% dropout rate at 9 months, at 9 months|Number of participants remaining in study, Acceptability evaluates if patients accept the intervention through a \<20% dropout rate at 9 months, at 9 months|Number of times navigator communicates with oncology team, Integration evaluates if the navigator can communicate with the supportive oncology and medical oncology team at least 80% of the time., 9 months|Number of times participants connect to resources, Integration evaluates if at least 80% of patients can connect to community and clinical resources., 9 months|Number of visits, Practicality evaluates if the navigator is able to deliver the intervention in person or virtual. Successful practicality benchmarks include \> 80% of the visits conducted., 6 months|Number of phone calls, Practicality evaluates if the navigator is able to deliver the intervention in person or virtual. Successful practicality benchmarks include \>80% of follow up phone calls conducted., 9 months|Number of visits conducted according to the ACCESS manual, Fidelity: This is indicated if \>80% of the visits are conducted according to the ACCESS manual., 9 months|Change in The Impact of Event Scale - Revised (IES-R) scores, Cancer-related distress will be measured through the Impact of Event Scale - Revised (IES-R) is a 22-item instrument to assess distress. Each item is scored 0-4, with full scale from 0-22. Higher scores indicate greater severity of symptoms related to distress.

Efficacy assessed by mean differences at 9 months as compared to baseline., Baseline and 9 months|Change in The Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale (MSAS), Symptom Burden will be measured through the Memorial Symptom Assessment (MSAS) is a 32 item instrument. Each item is scored from 0 to 4 with full scale from 0-128. A higher score indicates a greater level of symptom distress., Baseline and 9 months
Primary Objectives:

1. Establish the feasibility and acceptability of an adapted navigator delivered supportive care model called ACCESS to address supportive care needs for Black and Latina women with Metastatic Breast Cancer.
2. Determine the potential impact of ACCESS on cancer related distress, symptom burden, and utilization of supportive care services.

OUTLINE: Participants (N=60) are randomized to 1 of 2 groups:

GROUP 1/Intervention Group: Participants complete 6 individualized behavioral/educational sessions focused on social determinants of health and supportive care with a trained community navigator followed by monthly phone call check ins for 4 months. Participants complete questionnaires over the phone with a research coordinator at baseline, 6 and 9 months.

GROUP 2/Attention Control group: Participants complete 6 phone calls with a research coordinator focused on supportive care resources followed by monthly phone call check ins for 4 months. Participants complete questionnaires over the phone with a research coordinator at baseline, 6 months and 9 months.

.