A Prospective Feasibility Study for TAMIS
Most recently, the Transanal Minimally Invasive Surgery (TAMIS) approach combined with single-port technology has allowed that pelvic surgery can be laparoendocopically performed from both its abdominal and perineal aspects.Previously, a strong negative association between medium- and long-term survival and male gender with narrow pelvis have been reported. TAMIS has a significant potantial for improving the quality of the surgical resection of rectal tumors in men with visceral obesity and narrow pelvis. This group of patients have also a high rate of conversion to open surgery. Focusing on improvement in intraoperative conditions and surgical techniques rather than routine conventional procedures may be the way to go concerning favorable short- and long-term outcomes. The selection of adequate surgical approach to the high-risk patients with visceral obesity and a bulky mesentery may prevent or limit the risk for anastomotic leakage and improve oncologic margin clearence. This is a prospective observational feasability study of the TAMIS-procedure.
Rectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: laparoscopic assisted transanal surgery (TAMIS)
morbidity, Clavien-Dindo, 30-days
mortality, death within 30-days, 30-days|short-term oncological result, cancer-free resection margins, 30-days
Most recently, the Transanal Minimally Invasive Surgery (TAMIS) approach combined with single-port technology has allowed that pelvic surgery can be laparoendocopically performed from both its abdominal and perineal aspects.Previously, a strong negative association between medium- and long-term survival and male gender with narrow pelvis have been reported. TAMIS has a significant potantial for improving the quality of the surgical resection of rectal tumors in men with visceral obesity and narrow pelvis. This group of patients have also a high rate of conversion to open surgery. Focusing on improvement in intraoperative conditions and surgical techniques rather than routine conventional procedures may be the way to go concerning favorable short- and long-term outcomes. The selection of adequate surgical approach to the high-risk patients with visceral obesity and a bulky mesentery may prevent or limit the risk for anastomotic leakage and improve oncologic margin clearence. This is a prospective observational feasability study of the TAMIS-procedure.