Stereotactic Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Liver Cancer
This is a phase I trial studying the side effects and best dose of stereotactic radiation therapy (SRT) in treating patients with advanced liver cancer. Stereotactic radiation therapy may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Liver Cancer
RADIATION: stereotactic body radiation therapy
The Safety of Hypofractionated Stereotactic Radiotherapy in Patients With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0 (Adverse Events). Due to delayed toxicities attributable to radiotherapy, all toxicities observed within 1 month after SRT will be scored. Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as any of following toxicities, that is possibly, probably or definitely related to Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (SRT) occurring within 1 month from the start of treatment:

1. grade 4 or 5 hepatic
2. grade 4 or 5 gastrointestinal
3. grade 4 or 5 thrombocytopenia
4. grade 4 hepatic liver enzyme elevations persisting for ≥ 5 days
5. any adverse event requiring interruption of therapy by ≥ 2 weeks (14 calendar days)., Up to 1 month after Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (SRT) treatment
Response at 1-month Post SRT, Response rate from tumor measurement at 1-month post-SRT, Measured from first day of SRT to 1-month post SRT.
This is a phase I trial studying the side effects and best dose of stereotactic radiation therapy (SRT) in treating patients with advanced liver cancer. Stereotactic radiation therapy may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue. Participants must have pathologically confirmed hepatocellular carcinoma with at least one tumor with a maximum diameter of ≤ 8 cm and must have Karnofsky performance status ≥ 60% and a life expectancy of at least 12 weeks.

The primary objective is determining the safety of hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma by using toxicity profiles described in the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V.3.0. Secondary objectives are determining the maximal tolerable SRT dose, objective tumor response rate, the value of 4-Dimensional Computed Tomography (4DCT) in liver cancer planning, and the value of breath gating in liver cancer stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT). After completion of study therapy, participants are followed at 1 and 3 months.