Spanish Registry of Digestive Tumours RETUD
The aim of this observational study is to assess the current state of digestive tumours in Spain. By doing so, it seeks to enhance the quality of care, optimize the diagnosis and treatment of digestive tumours, and identify opportunities for improvement that can benefit patients.

The study will investigate the epidemiological, biological, and clinical characteristics of digestive tumors diagnosed in patients aged 18 and older across healthcare centres in Spain. It also aims to generate knowledge and scientific evidence for events and situations that may impact on patients with digestive tumours (e.g. COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic).

Furthermore, subject to the patient's consent, biological samples may be collected for use in translational research projects and for the identification of molecular markers that may be useful in healthcare decision-making.
Digestive Cancers|Bile Duct Cancer|Hepatocellular Cancer (HCC)|Colorectal Cancer (CRC)|Pancreatic Cancer|Rectal Cancer
Situation of digestive tumours in Spain, Understanding the situation of digestive tumours in Spain, their epidemiology (risk factors, age, sex), biology and clinical manifestations in order to improve the quality of care, optimise diagnosis and treatment, and identify areas for improvement that can benefit patients., For each cohort, an annual data cut-off (12 months) is planned. Epidemiology, therapy and efficacy parameters are analyzed from date of diagnosis to outcome or cut-off date, for registry population (at least baseline visit completed)
Knowledge about situations that can impact digestive tumours, Generate knowledge and scientific evidence on events and situations that may impact on digestive tumours (e.g. COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic)., An annual data cut-off (12 months) per cohort is planned. Upon specific situations (i.e COVID-19), specific cohorts are open to capture related data|Biological substudies for translational reseach of tumor diagestive diseases, Subjects may consent in translational projects (i.e. biomarkers determination, NGS or DNA analysis, etc), with banked biological samples, Frequency of translational projects is defined for each indivial substudy, with data captured from firts´subject diagnosis to last subject´s outcome at time of database|Determination of molecular markers, Determination of molecular markers that may be useful healthcare decision-making in patients diagnosed with digestive tumours., Frequency of translational projects is defined for each indivial substudy, with data captured from firts´subject diagnosis to last subject´s outcome at time of database
Data will be collected ambispectively, recording those patients who were diagnosed with digestive tumours before the start of the study (from 2017) and also those who are diagnosed after the start of the study.