Comparing the Prognosis of Patients With HCC and PVTT Treated With Surgery Versus Locoregional Therapy.
Hepatocellular carcinoma is prone to invade the portal vein and form portal vein thrombosis, and patients in this period are directly included in the advanced stages, i.e. Barcelona clinical liver cancer stage C. For the treatment of PVTT, there are differences between Eastern and Western guidelines, with systemic drugs being the standard of care in Western countries, while surgical treatment is often actively practiced in the Asia-Pacific region. More research is needed to explore the differences between these two approaches.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Liver resection|PROCEDURE: Locoregional therapy
Overall survival, Overall survival was defined as the period from study inclusion until death from any cause., From date of include in this research until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months.
Adverse effects, Adverse reactions are defined as any reaction during treatment that is inconsistent with the purpose of the treatment., 12 months
Hepatocellular carcinoma is prone to invade the portal vein and form portal vein thrombosis, and patients in this period are directly included in the advanced stages, i.e. Barcelona clinical liver cancer stage C. For the treatment of PVTT, there are differences between Eastern and Western guidelines, with systemic drugs being the standard of care in Western countries, while surgical treatment is often actively practiced in the Asia-Pacific region. In recent years, breakthroughs have been made in the treatment of advanced HCC, and systemic drug combinations such as PD-1 inhibitors combined with targeted therapies, and local area therapy combined with systemic therapy have shown excellent anti-tumor effects. Postoperative adjuvant therapy is also advancing, and the combination of adjuvant systemic medications for patients after PVTT has also been effective in reducing postoperative recurrence. Which approach is better for PVTT patients needs to be explored in depth.