Pembrolizumab and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate a new drug Pembrolizumab in combination with chemotherapy, for Relapsed/Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma. The chemotherapy regimen is called "ICE" and includes three drugs: ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide. Pembrolizumab is currently Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for the treatment of some patients with melanoma, lung cancer and head and neck cancer, but has not yet been approved for the treatment of Relapsed/Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma. The 'ICE' regimen of chemotherapy is currently FDA approved for the treatment of Relapsed/Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma, but has not yet been investigated in combination with pembrolizumab for this disease. For patients who have a relapse of their Hodgkin's lymphoma, retreatment with chemotherapy followed by a stem cell transplant is recommended. We know that obtaining a complete remission (not able to detect any disease on scans) is very important prior to proceeding to the stem cell transplant. Patients with negative scans have a lower chance of the disease coming back and a higher chance of achieving a long-term cure.
Lymphocyte-Rich Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Lymphocyte-Depleted Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Mixed Cellularity Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Nodular Sclerosis Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Lymphocyte-Depleted Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Mixed Cellularity Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Nodular Sclerosis Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ifosfamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Complete Response Rate, To determine the complete response rate by FDG-PET/CT prior to AHSCT with the combination of pembrolizumab and ICE salvage chemotherapy for relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma. Response was assessed using Lugano criteria 2014.

To address the primary aim, the proportion of patients with complete responses was calculated(defined as FDG-PET/CT Deauville score ≤ 3) as (number of responders) / (number of evaluable patients)., Up to 59 days
Incidence of Adverse Events, Evaluate the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in combination with ICE salvage high-dose chemotherapy by measuring the frequency and severity of adverse events by type, severity (grade), timing, and attribution to pembrolizumab which will be assessed according the NCI-CTCAE version 4.03., Up to 2 years|Event Free Survival (EFS), EFS will be defined as the length of time from treatment on protocol until the first occurrence of disease relapse, progression, re-initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy, or death due to disease, or until last contact if the patient did not experience any of these, assessed up to 2 years., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS will be defined as time from study enrollment until death, or until last contact if the patient did not die, assessed up to 2 years., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete response rate by fludeoxyglucose- positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) prior to autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant (AHSCT) with the combination of pembrolizumab and ifosfamide, carboplatin, etoposide (ICE) salvage chemotherapy for relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in combination with salvage high-dose chemotherapy according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03.

II. To estimate the event free survival (EFS) at 2 years from start of treatment.

III. To estimate the overall survival (OS) at 2 years from start of treatment.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize PD-1 pathway specific expression and correlate with response.

II. To characterize serum biomarkers of immune and inflammatory response during treatment.

III. To characterize levels of soluble PD-L1 related to treatment with pembrolizumab.

IV. To characterize T-lymphocyte subset changes to treatment with pembrolizumab.

V. To investigate the prevalence and clinical correlation of chromosome 9p24.1 mutations for this population.

VI. To evaluate the effect on stem cell harvest following treatment with pembrolizumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days 1-3 of courses 1-2, carboplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 2 of courses 1-2, and ifosfamide IV over 24 hours on day 2 of courses 1-2. Pembrolizumab in combination with ICE chemotherapy repeats every 21 days for 2 courses, patients will then receive pembrolizumab as monotherapy on course 3.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for 2 years.