A Multi Center Study of Sexual Toxicities After Radiotherapy
The purpose of this research is to understand how radiotherapy and other cancer treatments impact sexual function in female cancer patients and to try to answer a question about why some patients who receive radiotherapy are more likely to have side effects than others. The results of this study may improve our understanding of why sexual side effects occur and in turn develop predictive models and biomarkers of sexual side effects and other side effects that may impact sexual function. The results of this study may also lead to improvements in the techniques used to deliver radiotherapy or the development of interventions that will prevent or reduce sexual side effects and improve quality of life for female patients with cancer.
Malignant Neoplasms
OTHER: No intervention
Establish Sexual Quality of Life Cohort, Establish a cohort of patients with female sexual organs receiving radiotherapy, 2 years
Describe sexual quality of life, Describe sexual quality of life for patients with female sexual organs receiving radiotherapy, 2 years|Describe dosimetric predictors of sexual outcomes, Describe the dosimetric predictors of sexual outcomes for patients with female sexual organs receiving radiotherapy, 2 years|Describe imaging predictors of sexual outcomes, Describe the imaging predictors of sexual outcomes for patients with female sexual organs receiving radiotherapy, 2 years|Describe microbiome predictors of sexual outcomes, Describe the microbiome predictors of sexual outcomes for patients with female sexual organs receiving radiotherapy, 2 years
Participants will be asked too:

* Give consent for past and future access to medical record information. At each timepoint, the study team will collect data from electronic medical record about (demographics), health conditions and treatments, studies (labs, imaging) and outcomes (response to treatment and toxicity).
* Quality of Life/Toxicity Questionnaires (Cohort: STAR\*QOL): The study staff will administer (in clinic, by phone, or by email) health and quality of life/toxicity questionnaires that will ask questions about general well-being and side effects from treatment, which will take approximately fifteen minutes each time. These questionnaires are required to participate in the study. The questionnaires will be completed before treatment, after treatment, then every six months for two years. In addition, the study team would like participants to complete a questionnaire every year thereafter and will continue to ask participants to complete the questionnaires as long as they are enrolled, unless they decide no longer to participate.
* Blood Sample Collection (Cohort: STAR\*QOL): a small amount of blood will be drawn from participants arm (one specimen up to 45 mL or about 3 tablespoons). The blood may be drawn at the same time as routine blood draw for medical care, as part of their participation in another research study, or solely for this study. Biological blood samples will be collected by the treatment team before treatment, at the end of treatment, 5 weeks after treatment and every 6 months thereafter for two years. Participants may be asked if they would like to continue annually after 2 years.
* Microbiome Sample Collection (Cohort: STAR\*QOL): If participants choose to participate, biological microbiome samples (a vaginal and stool sample) will be collected at home using a home collection kit before treatment, after treatment and annually for two years.Participants may be asked if they would like to continue annually thereafter.

The research on biospecimens may include whole genome sequencing (determining the order of DNA building blocks (nucleotides) in their genetic code) and other studies on the DNA such as how DNA is modified or turned in to proteins.

Ultrasound Imaging (Cohort: STAR\*Biomarker):

If participants choose to participate, ultrasound images will be collected by the treatment team before treatment, after treatment and every 6 months for two years thereafter, and can be performed at their scheduled office visit for their cancer care rather than requiring an additional visit. Additional imaging time may also be added onto their standard MRI scans to allow for additional images to be captured. Participants may be asked if they would like to continue annually after 2 years.