Treatment of Non-Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Humans by Increasing Gabaergic Activity: A Pilot Study
Recent studies indicate that liver cancer cells possess a receptor called the GABA-B receptor that when activated, inhibits the spread of cancer cells in test tubes. One of the drugs that activate these receptors is Baclofen, an agent that was originally developed to treat patients with various neurologic disorders. In this study, patients with recently identified liver cancer will be treated with Baclofen in an attempt to prevent or delay spread of the cancer beyond the liver. The time it takes for liver cancer to spread in the patients will be compared to the results obtained from patients enrolled in previous studies where Baclofen was not used.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Baclofen
Document and Compare the effects of the GABAb receptor agonist Baclofen on the time to develop tumor metastasis in patients with non-metastatic HCC at diagnosis who subsequently undergo surgical resection, ablation or chemoembolization., 6 years
Document and compare the effects of the GABAb receptor agonist Baclofen on changes in serum tumor markers ( alpha-fetoprotein andd CA19-9 levels) in patients with no-metastatic HCC at diagnosis., 6 years
A total of 47 consecutive patients with radiologic or histologic evidence of non metastatic liver cancer will be enrolled over a 2-4 year period. Subjects will receive oral Baclofen at the manufacturer's suggested maximal dose. Clinical, hematologic, biochemical, and radiologic features of liver function, tumor metastasis and recurrence will be monitored at regular time intervals over a 2 year treatment period. The primary study end point will be the event of interest (time to metastasis or recurrence). Secondary end points will include time to metastasis following recurrence, objective tumor responses (complete, partial and non response), response duration, survival and safety. It is hoped the results of this study will permit liver cancer patients to remain candidates for surgical resection and transplantation longer than would otherwise have been the case.