Ixazomib Citrate, Pomalidomide, Dexamethasone, Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well ixazomib citrate, pomalidomide, dexamethasone, and stem cell transplantation works in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back or does not respond to treatment. Giving chemotherapy, such as pomalidomide and dexamethasone, before a stem cell transplant helps kill any cancer cells that are in the body and helps make room in the patient?s bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells) to grow. After treatment, stem cells are collected from the patient's blood and stored. More chemotherapy is then given to prepare the bone marrow for the stem cell transplant. The stem cells are then returned to the patient to replace the blood-forming cells that were destroyed by the chemotherapy. Giving ixazomib citrate in addition to pomalidomide, dexamethasone, and stem cell transplantation may work better in treating patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Ixazomib Citrate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pomalidomide
Progression-free Survival at 18 Months (PFS18) Defined as the Proportion of Patients Alive and Free From Disease Progression at 18 Months From Study Entry, The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated. If patients are censored prior to 18 months post registration, a Kaplan Meier (Kaplan, E. and Meier, P., 1958) estimate for PFS18 along with the 95% confidence intervals will be reported., 18 months
Percentage of Participants With Greater Than or Equal to (>=) Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) Rate, Will be estimated by the number of patients who achieve a stringent complete response (sCR), complete response CR, or VGPR divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall \>= VGPR will be calculated., 30 months|Number of Patients Experiencing Adverse Events Graded According to the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) Version (v) 12.1, The number of patients experiencing a grade 3 or greater adverse event will be reported. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., 36 months|Overall Response Rate, Will be estimated by the number of patients who achieve a stringent complete response (sCR), complete response CR, very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR) divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., 30 months|Percent of Patients Alive at 30 Months, The distribution of overall survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., 30 months
Change in Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) in Bone Marrow Assessed by Flow Cytometry, The proportion of patients who achieve MRD negative status will be estimated by the number of patients who are MRD negative divided by the total number of evaluable patients who achieve a stringent complete response (sCR) or complete response (CR). Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true MRD negative rate will be calculated., Baseline up to 1 year from initiation of maintenance therapy|Engraftment Kinetics (White Blood Cells [WBC] and Platelet) Following Single Salvage Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation (ASCT), Will be measured by assessing the timing of recovery of bone marrow function. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the rate of progression free survival at 18 months from study entry after therapy with ixazomib citrate (ixazomib \[MLN9708\]) in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone followed by a single autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) and consolidation with ixazomib in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone and maintenance with ixazomib in relapsed refractory ASCT naive multiple myeloma (MM) patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the best overall response rates (\>= partial response \[PR\]) and deep responses (very good partial response \[VGPR\], complete response \[CR\], stringent complete response \[sCR\]) at various stages of treatment: after induction, after stem cell transplantation (SCT), after consolidation and during maintenance.

II. To determine the overall survival from study entry.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assessment of minimal residual disease (MRD) by flow cytometry at various stages of treatment: after induction, day # 100 after SCT, after consolidation and during maintenance at year 1 and 2 from initiation of maintenance therapy.

II. To determine the engraftment kinetics (white blood cells \[WBC\] and platelet) following single salvage ASCT for relapsed disease.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION (COURSES 1-4): Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15, pomalidomide (PO) on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days (courses 1-3) and 56 days (course 4) for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

TRANSPLANTATION (COURSE 5): Between 2-4 weeks following Induction, patients undergo ASCT.

CONSOLIDATION (COURSES 6-9): Beginning 60-120 days following ASCT, patients receive ixazomib citrate, pomalidomide, and dexamethasone as in Induction. Treatment repeats every 28 days (courses 6-8) and 56 days (course 9) for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE (COURSES 10+): Beginning 0-4 weeks following Consolidation, patients receive ixazomib citrate as in Induction. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until progressive disease, and then every 6 months for 3 years.