PARP Inhibition During Pre-surgical Window in Breast/Ovary Cancer
Study involves surgery for cytoreduction or laparoscopy to determine if you are a candidate for tumor debulking or a tissue biopsy. Following this surgery you will receive chemotherapy. This study will administer 7 days of treatment with a targeted therapy called Lynparza. Lynparza and/or other PARP inhibitors have been FDA approved for the treatment of ovarian and breast cancer. Tissue biopsy will be done before a 7 day course of Lynparza in order to correlate molecular changes to response to treatment. Participation in this trial will require an additional tumor biopsy which will occur either before or after treatment of Lynparza.
Ovarian Cancer|Breast Cancer
DRUG: Lynparza
Measure DNA damage response to PARP inhibition, Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to examine if there is a significant change in ADP ribosylated proteome, DNA damage, apoptosis and change in RAD 51 foci between pre-and post-treatment cancer specimens., Following 7 days of Lynparza|Characterize changes in ADP ribosylation to PARP inhibition, Spearman rank correlation will be computed to estimate the correlation between the changes in ADP ribosylation with the response (measured by immunohistochemistry: γH2AX and caspase -3 cleavage), Following 7 days of Lynparza|Correlate DNA damage response to ADP ribosylated proteome, Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to examine if there is a significant change in ADP ribosylated proteome, DNA damage, apoptosis and change in RAD 51 foci between pre-and post-treatment cancer specimens, Following 7 days of Lynparza
Study involves surgery for cytoreduction or laparoscopy to determine if you are a candidate for tumor debulking or a tissue biopsy. Following this surgery you will receive chemotherapy. This study will administer 7 days of treatment with a targeted therapy called Lynparza. Lynparza and/or other PARP inhibitors have been FDA approved for the treatment of ovarian and breast cancer. Tissue biopsy will be done before a 7 day course of Lynparza in order to correlate molecular changes to response to treatment. Participation in this trial will require an additional tumor biopsy which will occur either before or after treatment of Lynparza.