Testing the Biological Effects of DS-8201a on Patients With Advanced Cancer
This phase I trial studies the biological effects of DS-8201a on patients with HER2 positive cancer that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced). DS-8201a works by binding to a protein called HER2 that is present on the surface of tumor cells. This allows DS-8201a to kill the tumor cells by damaging their deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), resulting in tumor cell death. This study looks at how DS-8201a may affect the levels of certain proteins and immune cells in tumors and how well the drug works against tumor cells by examining cells from a small piece tumor taken before and after DS-8201a is given.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|HER2-Positive Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Deruxtecan
Early topoisomerase 1 cleavable complex (Top1cc)/deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage response (DDR), Up to day 1 of cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days) or optionally, up to time of disease progression or restaging follow-up|Tumor immune microenvironment response, Up to day 1 of cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days) or optionally, up to time of disease progression or restaging follow-up
Association between serum concentrations of DS-8201a and Top1cc formation, The association between serum concentrations of DS-8201a and Top1cc formation will be assessed by computing the sample correlation between the area under the DS-8201a serum concentration curve (AUC) and the initial change in Top1cc (from baseline to cycle 1 day 7 \[C1D7\]). Will also compute the sample correlation between the maximum serum concentration of DS-8201a and the initial change in Top1cc (from baseline to C1D7). These relationships will also be summarized graphically using scatterplots and overlaid LOWESS curves., Up to day 1 of cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days) or optionally, up to time of disease progression or restaging follow-up|Incidence of adverse events, Descriptive analyses of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events data will be performed, as will analysis of anti-drug antibodies., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Overall response rate, Will estimate the overall response rate (complete response + partial response) among eligible patients who have received at least one dose of DS-8201a. A 95% confidence interval for this response rate will also be computed. For this analysis, response classifications will follow Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 guidelines., From the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence
Pharmacokinetic analysis, Cycle 1 day 1, prior to DS-8201a administration, at end of infusion, and at 5 hours post-infusion; at time of the cycle 1 day 7 biopsy; on day 1 of cycles 2, 3, and 4: prior to DS-8201a administration and at end of infusion|Pharmacodynamic analysis, Baseline, cycle 1 day 7, cycle 3 day 1, prior to DS-8201a administration, optionally at time of disease progression or "restaging follow-up"
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the effects of trastuzumab deruxtecan (DS-8201a) on total Top1 levels in biopsy specimens from patients with HER2-expressing advanced solid tumors, at early and late post-treatment time points, thereby establishing the degree and duration of DS-8201 target engagement.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess any associations between serum concentrations of DS-8201a and the effects of DS-8201a on total Top1 levels in tumor biopsy specimens.

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of DS-8201a administered intravenously every 3 weeks, in 21-day cycles, at a dose of 5.4 mg/kg.

III. To determine the overall response rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) for patients administered intravenously with DS-8201a every 3 weeks, in 21-day cycles, at a dose of 5.4 mg/kg.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effects of DS-8201a on CD8+ T cell infiltration and activation in tumor, tumor PD-L1 and HER2 expression, and DDR signaling (for example: gamma H2AX, RAD51, and phosphorylated \[p\]NBS1) in biopsy specimens.

II. To examine genomic alterations in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) that may be associated with DS-8201a response or resistance.

III. To examine any associations between baseline tumor HER2 amplification or HER2 expression level and response to DS-8201a.

IV. To evaluate the effects of DS-8201a on tumor levels of HER2 and DDR-associated proteins.

V. To examine any tumor genomic alterations that may be associated with resistance to DS-8201a.

VI. To evaluate anti-drug antibodies following administration of DS-8201a.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA), computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), biopsies, and collection of blood samples throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 40 days.