Acupuncture for the Immune System in Radiation Cancer Patients
Purpose/Goal: To investigate how long course radiation therapy (RT), both with or without chemotherapy, affects the immune system, and to determine if acupuncture can modify these effects in patients undergoing curative radiation therapy for gastrointestinal (GI) or genitourinary (GU) cancers.

Clinical or Research Questions:

1. Does RT reduce immune biomarkers in treated subjects?
2. Which biomarkers are most affected by treatment?
3. Is acupuncture a feasible option to help ameliorate any biomarker effects?
4. Does RT affect subject symptoms?
5. Is acupuncture a feasible option to help ameliorate any symptom effects?
Gastrointestinal Neoplasms|Urogenital Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Medical Acupuncture
Changes in immune biomarker levels, Change in 21 immune cell types after RT (levels before RT - levels 1st follow up) will be analyzed for controls (to determine if RT reduces immune markers) and experimentals (to determine if acupuncture ameliorates RT effects). Results will be analyzed to determine which biomarkers experienced the largest changes for controls (to identify biomarkers affected by RT) and experimentals (to determine which biomarkers are particularly improved by acupuncture). Change in cell levels during follow up (levels 1st follow up - levels 2nd follow up), will be analyzed to determine duration of changes., As measured using 3 blood samples collected: before radiation; at 1st follow up 4-10 weeks after radiation completion; at second follow up 6 months after 1st follow up
Changes in Symptom Scores, The change in ESAS following treatment (ESAS before treatment - ESAS at first follow up) will be analyzed for control subjects (to determine if RT affects subject symptoms) and experimental subjects (to determine if acupuncture ameliorates any symptom effects). For each subject, results will be analyzed for the change in the total ESAS after treatment, as well as the largest change in ESAS for any single symptom. Also, change in ESAS in the follow up period (ESAS at first follow up - ESAS at second follow up), will be analyzed in order to determine the duration of any changes., As measured using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scores (ESAS) completed: before radiation; at 1st follow up 4-10 weeks after radiation completion; at second follow up 6 months after 1st follow up
Research indicates that patients undergoing curative RT for various cancers experience adverse immune effects, as indicated by reduced biomarker levels and activity. RT has been observed to cause a striking reduction in total lymphocyte count, affecting mainly the T-cells. Furthermore, the reduction in the lymphocyte count after RT has been correlated with poorer outcome for bladder cancer, head and neck cancer, uterine cancer, and brain metastases.

Research into the use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) has been conducted to determine the utility of these treatments in addressing the unmet needs of many patients with cancer. There is preliminary evidence that acupuncture, in particular, is successful at improving many cancer and treatment associated effects. Earlier studies have indicated that acupuncture can play a role in regulating immune system response to various morbidities, including chemotherapy induced immunosuppression. However, little research has examined is potential for radiation therapy patients

This pilot study aims to assess a wide range of general immune biomarkers to identify biomarkers most affected by RT. Through use of a symptom assessment survey, changes in self reported symptoms will also be recorded. The feasibility of acupuncture as a strategy to ameliorate any adverse immune or symptom effects will also be examined. This information could be very useful in planning future studies on RT and the immune system, or the potential immune benefits of acupuncture.