The Yield of Artificial Intelligence (GI Genius) in Lynch Syndrome - A Randomized Tandem-colonoscopy Trial
We aim to investigate the incremental detection rate of polyps using AI- assisted colonoscopy compared with high-definition white-light endoscopy (HD-WLE).

We will conduct a single-center randomized tandem colonoscopy trial of patients with Lynch syndrome with and without AI. Patients will undergo tandem colonoscopy, the second colonoscopy with either HD-WLE or an AI- assisted device.
Lynch Syndrome
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: artificial intelligence
adenoma incremental detection rate, per lesion analysis, the incremental detection rate will be calculated, defined as the number of lesions detected during the second colonoscopy divided by the total number of lesions detected during first and second colonoscopy combined., At the date of enrollment, from the start of colonoscopy until the end of the colonoscopy, in which number of lesions will be detected.
incremental detection rate for advanced neoplasia and any polyp, per lesion analysis, the incremental detection rate for advance neoplasia and any polyp. In the per patient analysis, the increment in adenoma detection rate and any polyp detection rate., At the date of enrollment, from the start of colonoscopy until the end of the colonoscopy.|The increment in adenoma detection rate / polyp detection rate, per lesion analysis, the incremental detection rate for advance neoplasia and any polyp. In the per patient analysis, the increment in adenoma detection rate and any polyp detection rate., At the date of enrollment, from the start of colonoscopy until the end of the colonoscopy.
We will include patients with a known pathogenic variant (PV) / likely PV in one of the MMR genes, who are undergoing endoscopic screening and surveillance in our institute. Patients will undergo a first colonoscopy with HD-WLE, and will be randomized at 1:1 ratio to undergo a second colonoscopy with either HD-WLE or an AI- assisted device. All visualized polyps will be removed and size, histology and numbers of polyps detected on each exam will be recorded. We will evaluate the adenoma detection rate and polyp detection rate in each arm and the number of adenomas / polyps in each arm.