Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy in the Treatment of Advanced, Non-resectable and/or Symptomatic Tumors With SSTR Overexpression
This is a non-randomized phase II , open label, comparative study. Patients with advanced non-resectable and/or progressive gastro-entero-pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumours - GEP-NET, (G1, G2 and G3), Broncho-pulmonary Carcinoids (BPCs Atypical-AC or Typical-TC), pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma (PPGLs) and neuroendocrine tumours of unknown primary (NET-CUP) with overexpression of somatostatin receptor (SSTR positive) will be enrolled in the study and will be treated using Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) initially with Yttrium-90 (90Y) DOTATATE (DOTA-0-Tyr3-Octreotate), and then compare to Lutecium-177 (177Lu) DOTATATE or mix of both Yttrium-90 (90Y) and Lutecium-177 (177Lu) DOTATATE. Total maximum activity for Yttrium-90 up to 4x3,7GBq, for Lutecium-177 up to 4x5,55GBq (Lu-177) and for both (mix) 4x3,7GBq (90Y and 177Lu 50% each).
Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: 90Y-DOTATATE|DRUG: (177Lu-DOTAOTyr3)Octreotate|DRUG: 90Y DOTATATE and 177Lu DOTATATE (mix each of 50%)
PFS - Progression Free Survival (time - months), PFS is the time from the date of the start therapy to the date of first observation of documented disease progression or death due to any cause. Patients without tumor progression at the time of analysis will be censored at their last date of tumor evaluation.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions.

CT or MRI tumour assessment will be used to response evaluation. CT/MRI tumour assessment will be performed before start of PRRT and then after 6+2 weeks after last PRRT session followed by 6 months intervals during first 3 years of follow-up, after that annually. The measurement of PFS will be calculated in months., up to 8 years
OS - Overall Survival (time months), Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of the start therapy to the date of death due to any cause or the date of last contact (censored observation) at the date of data cut-off. The measurement of OS will be calculated in months., up to 8 years|Performance Status (PS) - evaluation criteria, Clinical response based on physical performance status (PS) using standard evaluation based on WHO/ECOG criteria. It will be assessed before each treatment cycle and then followed by 6 weeks after completion of therapy and then at three-month intervals. The measurement will be in the scale as follows: 0-asymptomatic, 1=symptomatic but completely ambulatory, 2=Symptomatic \<50% in bed during the day, 3= Symptomatic \>50% in bed during the day; 4=Bedbound; 5=Death., up to 8 years|Cancer Related Symptoms - assessment of clinical criteria, Clinical response based on potential relief in the initial phase before PRRT during and after PRRT. Items will be assessed, including: appetite, malaise, pain associated with the disease, nausea, vomiting, fever, wheezing and abdominal pain or any other symptoms of advanced cancer. All of the above will be assessed as yes / no. Intensity will be recorded in the quality assessment.

It will be evaluated before treatment, before each treatment cycle, and then 6 weeks after the end of therapy, and then at three-month intervals. The measurement will be made in the qualitative data set and categorized as improvement, stabilization or disease progression., From date of first enrollment to the end of the follow-up, overall up to 8 years.|Hormonal overproduction symptoms - assessment of clinical criteria, Hormonal response based on relief of symptoms of hormonal overproduction, which will be compare to clinical symptoms before PRRT, during and after PRRT during clinical follow-up. The presence of specific symptoms with hormone overproduction including: 1. Carcinoid syndrome (CS) - initial intensity of diarrhea and potential relief after PRRT (number per day), initial intensity of flushing and potential relief after PRRT (number per day). 2. Presence of heartburn in case of NET with ZES (Zollinger-Elisson syndrome) initial intensity and potential relief during PRRT and after finished PRRT during clinical follow-up. 3. Presence of hypoglycemia in case of NET with insulin overproduction (insulinoma), initial intensity of hypoglycemia before PRRT and potential relief after PRRT during clinical follow-up. The measurement will be made in a set of the qualitative data as improvement, stabilization or disease progression., From date of first enrollment to the end of the follow-up, overall up to 8 years.|ORR - Objective Response Rate - evaluation criteria, The evaluation of objective response will be utilized by multiphase structural imaging before and after i.v. contrast enhancement (CT or MRI). The radiological response will be based on RECIST 1.0 using standard terminology of objective response, performed before start of PRRT and then after 6+2 weeks after last PRRT therapy followed by 6 months intervals during first 3 years of follow-up, after that annually. The measurement will be made in a set of quantitative data as partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) or disease progression (DP)., from date of first enrollment to the end of the follow-up, overall up to 8 years.|Safety Assessments - Laboratory Parameters - evaluation criteria: CTCAEs ver. 4.0, Changes from Baseline in Hematology (WBC, RBC, platelets, haemoglobin), Blood chemistry (BUN, serum creatinine and creatinine clearance, uric acid, albumin, total bilirubin, AP, aspartate aminotransferase \[AST/ASAT\], alanine aminotransferase \[ALT/ALAT\], gamma-glutamyl transferase \[γ-GT\], \[Na\], \[K\], lactic dehydrogenase \[LDH\], glycosylated hemoglobin/hemoglobin A1c \[glycoHb\] and specific biomarkers Chromogranin-A (CgA) in the serum and 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the urine.

The measurement will be made in a set of quantitative data, based on CTCAEs ver. 4.0. https://www.eortc.be/services/doc/ctc/CTCAE_4.03_2010-06-14_QuickReference_5x7.pdf, from date of first enrollment to the end of the follow-up, overall up to 8 years.|Vital Signs - heart rate - physiological parameter, heart rate (beats per minute), from date of first enrollment to the end of the follow-up, overall up to 8 years.|Systolic and diastolic blood pressure - physiological parameter, mmHg., from date of first enrollment to the end of the follow-up, overall up to 8 years.|BMI - Body Mass Index - physiological parameter, weight (kg), height (m) Body Mass Index (BMI kg/m2). The measurement will be made in a set of quantitative data., from date of first enrollment to the end of the follow-up, overall up to 8 years.|ECG - physiological parameter, ECG analysis during each therapy session and clinical follow-up, including: P Wave, QRS Complex, QT Interval. The measurement will be made in a set of quantitative data., from date of first enrollment to the end of the follow-up, overall up to 8 years.
This is a non-randomized phase II, open-label, comparative study. Patients with advanced, unresectable and/or progressive Gastro-Entero-Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors - GEP-NET, (histological grade G1, G2 and G3), Broncho-Pulmonary Carcinoids (BPCs), including typical carcinoid (AC) and typical carcinoid (TC), pheochromocytoma/paragangliomas (PPGLs) and neuroendocrine tumors (cancers) of unknown primary (NET-CUP). All with overexpression of somatostatin receptor (SSTR positive) based on somatostatin receptor imaging (scintigraphy or PET), will be enrolled in this study.

Initially patients will be assigned to single arm of PRRT using yttrium-90 (90Y) DOTATATE (DOTA-0-Tyr3-Octreotate) and then patients will be non-randomly assigned to one of the two groups lutecium-177 (177Lu) DOTATATE or mix yttrium (90Y) DOTATATE and lutecium-177 (177Lu) DOTATATE (50% each). The dosages (total activity used in each group of treated patients will be as follows:

1. Total activity of 90Y DOTATATE 4x3,7GBq (14,8 GBq) for 4 cycles at 8 ± 2 weeks (400mCi)
2. Total activity of 177Lu DOTATATE 4x5,55GBq (22,2 GBq for 4 cycles at 8 ± 2 weeks (600 mCi)
3. Total activity of mix both 90Y DOTATATE and 177Lu DOTATATE (50 each) 4x3,7 GBq for 4 cycles at 8 ± 2 weeks (400mCi).

The non-randomized, phase II study design, allows for proposed initial active treatment arm using standard dose of 90Y DOTATATE and experimental treatment arm which composed of two options of PRRT with lutecium-177 DOTATATE or mix 90Y and 177Lu DOTATATE. The experimental therapy arm will be consisting of randomly allocated patients.

Subjects including in this study will be evaluated in the mixed patients' population, including GEP-NET, bronchopulmonary carcinoid (BPCs), paraganglioma/pheochromocytomas (PPGLs) and NET of unknown origin (NET-CUP).

Estimates of the original goals of the study can be assessed for each scheme separately using a two-step design using an external standard for comparison (the investigator's previous published results include standard PRRT using 90Y DOTATATE in subjects with GEP-NET).

Although the sample size in this study is not based on any specific statistical hypothesis to compare separate groups of patients those with PRRT using 90Y DOTATATE, next those with 177Lu DOTATATE and those who will receive mix 90Y and 177Lu DOTATATE.

This study design allows an objective set of clinical efficacy results in terms of PRRT responses and safety in these three treatment regimens in the same patient population, even different groups of tumors, which may be useful when planning next generation of the clinical trial using PRRT.