Pemetrexed Disodium and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells of by stopping them from dividing. Pemetrexed disodium may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of giving pemetrexed disodium and docetaxel together in treating patients with advanced solid tumors.
Breast Cancer|Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer|Lung Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Taxotere (Docetaxel)|DRUG: Alimta (Pemetrexed)
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of combination ALIMTA and Taxotere, From first dose of the study drug until 30 days after the last administration of study medication
Toxicity, From first dose of the study drug until 30 days after the last administration of study medication|Antitumor activity, From first dose of the study drug until 30 days after the last administration of study medication
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the maximum-tolerated dose of the combination of pemetrexed disodium and docetaxel when administered on a day 1 and day 15 dosing schedule.

Secondary

* To specifically characterize the toxicity profile for the combination of biweekly pemetrexed disodium and docetaxel.
* To investigate the antitumor activity in patients with advanced solid tumors as measured by RECIST criteria for patients with measurable disease or tumor markers for patients with non-measurable disease.
* To determine the recommended phase II dose of the combination of pemetrexed disodium and docetaxel on a biweekly dosing schedule.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and docetaxel IV on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.