BN Brachyury and Radiation in Chordoma
The goal of this study is to determine if the combination of BN-Brachyury plus radiation therapy can induce objective radiographic response rate (ORR) in patients, using a Simon 2-stage optimal design. In stage 1, a minimum of threshold of activity is needed to proceed to stage 2.
Chordoma
BIOLOGICAL: BN-Brachyury plus radiation
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Rate of subjects achieving a best response of either Complete Response or Partial Response per modified RECIST v1.1. A modified RECIST v1.1 assessment is based on targeted radiated lesion(s). Progression of a non-target lesion does not result in disease progression by the modified RECIST evaluation for this trial. Assessment for targeted radiated lesion(s): Complete Response (CR)=Disappearance of all target radiated lesions; Partial Response (PR)= \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target radiated lesions; Progressive Disease (PD) = \>=20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target radiated lesions, Stable Disease (SD)=-30%\<sum of the longest diameter of target radiated lesions\<20%., Within 12 months post-completion of radiation on target lesion(s) based on modified RECIST v1.1
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier of the time interval from first treatment to objective tumor progression based on modified RECIST v1.1 or death. A modified Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) based on targeted radiated lesion(s) will be used. Progression will be defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target radiated lesions in this trial, and a progression of a non-target lesion does not result in disease progression by the modified RECIST evaluation used for this trial., Time from the day of first treatment to the start of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first up to 30 days after last tumor assessment visit. Data were collected up to 29 months.|Baseline and Overall Treatment Period Change From Baseline Brief Pain Improvement-Short Form Best Observed Scores, Pain intensity and pain interference scores are summarized. Pain intensity scores includes pain items "Worst Pain in the Last Week", "Least Pain in the Last Week", and "Average Pain in the Last Week" and "Pain Right Now". Composite pain severity score (a mean severity score of the four pain items listed before). Composite pain interference score (a mean of the seven interference items). This will be calculated if at least four of the seven interference items have been completed on a given administration. Pain scores range from 0 to 10 with a score of 10 is the worst pain imaginable and a score of 0 is no pain. Best observed scores is the lowest score value observed., Overall Treatment Period: The time from the day of first treatment to the last scheduled trial visit, approximately 30 days after the last treatment visit. Data were collected up to 29 months.|Baseline and Overall Treatment Period Change From Baseline Brief Pain Improvement-Short Form Worst Observed Scores, Pain intensity and pain interference scores are summarized. Pain intensity scores includes pain items "Worst Pain in the Last Week", "Least Pain in the Last Week", and "Average Pain in the Last Week" and "Pain Right Now". Composite pain severity score (a mean severity score of the four pain items listed before). Composite pain interference score (a mean of the seven interference items). This will be calculated if at least four of the seven interference items have been completed on a given administration. Pain scores range from 0 to 10 with a score of 10 is the worst pain imaginable and a score of 0 is no pain. Worst observed scores is the highest score value observed., Overall Treatment Period: The time from the day of first treatment to the last scheduled trial visit, approximately 30 days after the last treatment visit. Data were collected up to 29 months.
Number of Participants With Injection Site Reaction Adverse Events by Preferred Term, Includes Adverse Events that have injection site reactions indicated as the Adverse Event High Level Terms, All AEs that are presented during or following initiation of trial treatment or worsens in severity are collected through the last scheduled visit (approximately 30 days after the last dose of treatment). Data were collected up to 29 months.|Frequencies of Participants With Occurrence, Severity and Seriousness of Adverse Events, Occurrence is defined as the number of participants who experienced an AE. Related SAEs are defined as those for which causality to trial vaccine was considered possible, probable, definite, or was missing. Intensity is defined per CTCAE v4.03 grade., All AEs that are presented during or following initiation of trial treatment or worsens in severity are collected through the last scheduled visit (approximately 30 days after the last dose of treatment). Data were collected up to 29 months.|Worst CTCAE Toxicity Grade Shift From Baseline in Laboratory Results (Hematology and Serum Chemistry), For hematology and chemistry laboratory parameters with CTCAE grading scales, toxicity grade shift is defined to evaluated categorical changes from baseline results to post-treatment results with respect to dichotomized CTCAE grading value (\<= Grade 2, \>= Grade 3). Grade 0=No adverse event or within normal limits; Grade 1=Mild adverse event; Grade 2=Moderate adverse event; Grade 3=Severe and undesirable adverse event; Grade 4=Life-threatening or disabling adverse event; Grade 5=Death related to adverse event. Higher scores mean worse outcome., Overall Treatment Period: The time from the day of first treatment to the last scheduled trial visit, approximately 30 days after the last treatment visit. Data were collected up to 29 months.
The goal of this study is to determine if the combination of BN-Brachyury plus radiation therapy can induce objective radiographic response rate (ORR) in patients, using a Simon 2-stage optimal design. In stage 1, a minimum of threshold of activity is needed to proceed to stage 2.