Study to Evaluate Safety, Pharmacokinetics, and Efficacy of Rociletinib (CO-1686) in Previously Treated Mutant Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Patients
Rociletinib is a novel, potent, small molecule irreversible tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that selectively targets mutant forms of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) while sparing wild-type (WT) EGFR. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) and safety profile of oral rociletinib; to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of oral rociletinib; to assess the safety and efficacy of rociletinib in previously treated NSCLC patients known to have the T790M EGFR mutation.
Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Rociletinib|DRUG: Rociletinib|DRUG: Rociletinib|DRUG: Rociletinib|DRUG: Rociletinib|DRUG: Rociletinib
Percentage of T790M Positive Patients With Confirmed Response Per Investigator, Percentage of patients with a T790M mutation (determined by central lab) with a best overall confirmed response of partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression or recurrence. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions, defined by and assessed as: Complete Response (CR), is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. Partial Response (PR),at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of longest diameter., Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 42 months|Duration of Response (DOR) in T790M Positive Patients According to RECIST Version 1.1 as Determined by Investigator Assessment, Duration of Response in patients with a T790M mutation (determined by central lab) with confirmed response per investigator. The DOR for complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) was measured from the date that any of these best responses is first recorded until the first date that progressive disease (PD) is objectively documented. For patients who continue treatment post-progression, the first date of progression was used for the analysis., Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 36 months|Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) Incidence, The number of Phase 1 patients who experienced dose limiting toxicities after one cycle (21 days) of study drug., Cycle 1 Day 1 to Cycle 1 Day 21
Overall Survival (OS) Determined by Investigator Assessment, Overall survival was calculated as 1+ the number of days from the first dose of study drug to death due to any cause. Patients without a documented date of death were censored on the date the patient was last known to be alive., Cycle 1 Day 1 to date of death, assessed up to 42 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST Version 1.1 as Determined by Investigator Review (invPFS), Progression-free survival was calculated as the number of days from the date of the first dose of study drug to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause + 1. Patients without a documented event of disease progression were censored on the date of their last adequate tumor assessment (i.e., radiologic assessment) or date of first dose of study drug if no tumor assessments have been performed. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 42 months|PK Profile of Rociletinib - Cmax, Cmax = maximum concentration following administration of rociletinib, Cycle 1 Day 1 to Cycle 1 Day 15, or approximately 15 days|PK Profile of Rociletinib - Tmax, Tmax = time to maximum concentration following administration of rociletinib, Cycle 1 Day 1 to Cycle 1 Day 15, or approximately 15 days|PK Profile of Rociletinib - AUC 0-24, AUC 0-24 = area under the curve from 0 to 24 hours, Cycle 1 Day 1 to Cycle 1 Day 15, or approximately 15 days|PK Profile of Rociletinib - T 1/2, T 1/2 = elimination half-life following administration of rociletinib, Cycle 1 Day 1 to Cycle 1 Day 15, or approximately 15 days|Food Effect on PK of Rociletinib - Cmax, Cmax = maximum concentration following administration of rociletinib. The effect of food on rociletinib PK parameters was assessed over a 24-hour period in blood samples from a subset of 3 patients. These patients were given a single dose of rociletinib 150mg FB 1 week prior (Day -7) to the start of continuous daily dosing after fasting. On Day 1 of Cycle 1, patients consumed a high-fat, high-calorie breakfast at the study site prior to receiving rociletinib. On each day, patients underwent blood sampling for PK at the specified time points., Day -7 prior to Cycle 1 Day 1, or approximately 7 days|Food Effect on PK of Rociletinib - Tmax, Tmax = time to maximum concentration following administration of rociletinib. The effect of food on rociletinib PK parameters was assessed over a 24-hour period in blood samples from a subset of 3 patients. These patients were given a single dose of rociletinib 150mg FB 1 week prior (Day -7) to the start of continuous daily dosing after fasting. On Day 1 of Cycle 1, patients consumed a high-fat, high-calorie breakfast at the study site prior to receiving rociletinib. On each day, patients underwent blood sampling for PK at the specified time points., Day -7 prior to Cycle 1 Day 1, or approximately 7 days|Food Effect on PK of Rociletinib - AUC 0-24, AUC 0-24 = area under the curve from 0 to 24 hours. The effect of food on rociletinib PK parameters was assessed over a 24-hour period in blood samples from a subset of 3 patients. These patients were given a single dose of rociletinib 150mg FB 1 week prior (Day -7) to the start of continuous daily dosing after fasting. On Day 1 of Cycle 1, patients consumed a high-fat, high-calorie breakfast at the study site prior to receiving rociletinib. On each day, patients underwent blood sampling for PK at the specified time points., Day -7 prior to Cycle 1 Day 1, or approximately 7 days|Food Effect on PK of Rociletinib - C24, C24 = rociletinib plasma concentration at 24 hours post the morning dose. The effect of food on rociletinib PK parameters was assessed over a 24-hour period in blood samples from a subset of 3 patients. These patients were given a single dose of rociletinib 150mg FB 1 week prior (Day -7) to the start of continuous daily dosing after fasting. On Day 1 of Cycle 1, patients consumed a high-fat, high-calorie breakfast at the study site prior to receiving rociletinib. On each day, patients underwent blood sampling for PK at the specified time points., Day -7 prior to Cycle 1 Day 1, or approximately 7 days|Food Effect on PK of Rociletinib - T 1/2, T 1/2 = elimination half-life following administration of rociletinib. The effect of food on rociletinib PK parameters was assessed over a 24-hour period in blood samples from a subset of 3 patients. These patients were given a single dose of rociletinib 150mg FB 1 week prior (Day -7) to the start of continuous daily dosing after fasting. On Day 1 of Cycle 1, patients consumed a high-fat, high-calorie breakfast at the study site prior to receiving rociletinib. On each day, patients underwent blood sampling for PK at the specified time points., Day -7 prior to Cycle 1 Day 1, or approximately 7 days|QTcF Values Post Baseline by Daily Dose, Frequency of QT interval prolongation by daily dose (corrected using Fridericia's method, QTcF). To evaluate the effects of rociletinib on the QT (interval from Q wave to T wave)/QTc (interval corrected for heart rate) interval, all patients underwent serial ECG monitoring at Baseline, on Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 15, on Day 1 of all subsequent cycles, at the EOT Visit, and as clinically indicated. Worst post-baseline QTcF value was used to categorize each patient., Screening to End of Treatment, up to approximately 42 months|QTcF Value Change From Baseline, QTcF value change from baseline by daily dose (corrected using Fridericia's method, QTcF). To evaluate the effects of rociletinib on the QT (interval from Q wave to T wave)/QTc (interval corrected for heart rate) interval, all patients underwent serial ECG monitoring at Baseline, on Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 15, on Day 1 of all subsequent cycles, at the EOT Visit, and as clinically indicated. Worst post-baseline QTcF value was used to categorize each patient., Screening to End of Treatment, up to approximately 42 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Duration of Response (DOR) and Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST Version 1.1 as Determined by IRR, Objective response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR) and progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST Version 1.1 as determined by independent radiology review (IRR), Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment / End of Follow-up
Lung cancer remains the most common cancer worldwide with non-small cell lung cancer accounting for 85% of cases. Cytotoxic chemotherapy has been the mainstay of patients with NSCLC; however, survival rates remain low and toxicity is significant. Molecularly targeted therapies have proven to be superior to chemotherapy for NSCLC patients whose tumors have mutations in EGFR. Recent studies have established tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) as the gold standard for treating EGFR-mutation-positive NCSLC. However, patients on TKIs eventually progress, and in approximately 50% of cases, progression is due to development of an additional mutation called T790M. There are currently no approved therapies for patients who progress on TKIs. Rociletinib may provide an effective therapy for a patient population with few alternative treatment options. Nonclinical data demonstrate that rociletinib inhibits T790M. It is anticipated that rociletinib may promote cell death in tumor cells with the T790M mutation, thus providing possible therapeutic benefit in patients who have developed T790M-mediated resistance to first generation TKIs.

This is a two-part, open-label study of oral rociletinib administered daily in previously treated NSCLC patients who have documented evidence of an activating mutation in the EGFR gene and have failed treatment with an EGFR inhibitor such as erlotinib, gefitinib or afatinib.

This study will include 2 parts:

Phase 1: Dose-escalation Period with 21-day cycles; optional Treatment Extension Period starting on Day 22

Phase 2: Evaluation of activity and safety in patients with the T790M EGFR mutation who have:

Cohort A - Progressed on EGFR directed therapy (irrespective of the number and order of previous lines of NSCLC therapy) or Cohort B - Progression on the first single agent EGFR directed therapy received and also had no more than one previous line of chemotherapy or Cohort C - Patients with discordance between local (T790M positive) and central (T790M negative) T790M results, or had no central test result due to inadequacy of the tissue specimen and known to be T790M positive by local test