SB-715992 in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well SB-715992 works in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as SB-715992, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.
Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary|Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IV Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVB Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVC Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity
DRUG: ispinesib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Antitumor Activity of SB-715992 Using Objective Response Rates (Partial and Complete Responses), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesion, Up to 18 months
Duration of Objective Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesion, Up to 18 months|Number of Participants With Clinical and Objective Stable Disease, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for a Partial Response nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progression of Disease., Up to 18 months|Median Overall Survival of SB-715992, Overall survival is defined as the time from enrolment until death due to any cause. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate overall survival., Up to 18 months|Median Time to Progression, Time to progression (TTP) is defined as the time from enrolment onto the study until progression or death. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate TTP., Up to 18 months
1 Year Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from enrolment until death due to any cause. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate overall survival., 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the antitumor activity of SB-715992 in recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck using objective response rates (partial and complete responses).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of objective response, rate and duration of stable disease, progression-free, median and overall survival rates of SB-715992 in recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

II. To document the safety and tolerability of SB-715992 in recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

III. To characterize the population pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of SB-715992 including an assessment of significant covariates on SB-715992 PK and an assessment of the potential relationships between the pharmacokinetics of SB-715992 and relevant safety and efficacy endpoints.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized, multicenter study.

Patients receive SB-715992 IV over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed for survival.