A Trial of a Botanical Drug Containing East Indian Sandalwood Oil (EISO) for the Treatment of Oral Mucositis
The initial proposed clinical study will be conducted in adult head and neck cancer subjects. This will be an open-labeled, proof of concept trial to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of EISO in a form of oral rinse as adjunctive therapy to standard of care. Santalis believes that the proposed study is a prudent and appropriate approach to investigate the potential of their product to prevent or improve oral mucositis symptoms commonly seen in subjects undergoing radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy.
Oral Mucositis
DRUG: 0.25% EISO mouth rinse
Patients Achieving Less Than or Equal to "2" RTOG Score At Visit 9, The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) is the measure of anatomical changes associated with oral mucositis. Patients scores will be compared to historical data of patient progression.

RTOG Scoring Criteria- Grade 0(none)- No change over baseline Grade 1(mild)- Irritation, may experience slight pain, not requiring analgesic Grade 2(moderate)- Patchy mucositis that may produce inflammatory serosanguinitis discharge; may experience moderate pain requiring analgesia Grade 3(severe) -Confluent, fibrinous mucositis, may include severe pain requiring narcotic Grade 4(life-threatening)-Ulceration, hemorrhage, or necrosis, Up to ten (10) weeks
Subject Self Reporting Burning or Irritation, Calculated by the number and percentage of subjects self reporting irritation of grade 1 (mild) or higher., Up to ten (10) weeks|NRPS (Numerical Rating Pain Scale), Severity of pain in the oral cavity/oropharynx was measured using the numerical rating pain scale (NRPS) at each study visit. The NRPS is an 11-point scale from 0-10:

0 = No pain 10 = The most intense pain imaginable., Up to ten (10) weeks
Safety Will be Assessed Based on the Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events., Adverse Events (AEs) will be assessed in accordance the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). The number of patients experiencing adverse events possibly, or probably related to the study product will be reported.

Possibly related: A clinical event, including laboratory test abnormality (if applicable), with a reasonable time sequence to administration of the drug, but which could also be explained by concurrent disease or other drugs or chemicals.

Probably related: A clinical event, including laboratory test abnormality (if applicable), with a reasonable time sequence to administration of the drug, unlikely to be attributed to concurrent disease or other drugs or chemicals, and which follows a clinically reasonable response on withdrawal., [ Time Frame: Up to ten (10) weeks ]
The objectives of this proof of concept trial are: to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of SAN005 when administered to adults for the prevention and treatment of radiation induced oral mucositis.

Subjects will be instructed on the administration of study medication thrice daily till oral mucositis resolves. Subjects will return to the clinic once a week while receiving radiation and then once every two weeks once their radiation has been completed and then until their mucositis has resolved for the Final Study Visit.

Preliminary Efficacy Evaluation will be the severity of pain rated by the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NRPS) and mucositis grade by Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) criteria at Visit 7 (Day 36). Additional secondary efficacy evaluations will include the severity of pain rated by the NRPS and mucositis grade by RTOG criteria at each study visit, frequency of the percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube for feeding during the duration of treatment and weight loss from baseline through Visit 5 and 7. The time of mucositis onset and duration will also be used in assessing efficacy. Additional secondary and exploratory endpoints will be outlined in the statistical analysis plan. The overall efficacy is determined by comparing the data to historical controls. Safety will be assessed by evaluating adverse events (AEs) with respect to severity, duration, and relationship to study drug. In addition, tolerability evaluations will be performed at each study visit.