Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Advanced Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase II trial is studying how well vorinostat works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory advanced Hodgkin's lymphoma. Vorinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adult Favorable Prognosis Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Lymphocyte Depletion Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Lymphocyte Predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Mixed Cellularity Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Nodular Sclerosis Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Unfavorable Prognosis Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: vorinostat|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Assess Number of Patients Who Achieve Confirmed and Unconfirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), Complete Response(CR) is a complete disappearance of all disease with the exception of nodes. No new lesions. previously enlarged organs must have regressed and not be palpable. Bone marrow(BM) must be negative if positive at baseline. Normalization of markers. CR Unconfirmed (CRU) does not qualify for CR above, due to a residual nodal mass or an indeterminate BM. Partial Response(PR) is a 50% decrease in the SPD for up to 6 identified dominant lesions, including spleenic and hepatic nodules from baseline. No new lesions and no increase in the size of liver, spleen or other nodes., after every 3 cycles on treatment
Progression-Free Survival, Measured from date of registration to date of first observation of progression or death, or last contact date. Progression is defined as a 50% increase in sum of products of greatest diameters (SPD) of target measurable lesions over the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease during therapy) using the same techniques as baseline; appearance of a new lesion/site; unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease in the opinion of the treating physician; death due to disease without prior documentation of progression., after every 3 cycles on treatment, then every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for a total of 5 years.|Overall Survival, Measured from date of registration to death, or last contact date, after every 3 cycles on treatment, then every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for a total of 5 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response probability (complete, complete unconfirmed, and partial) in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.

II. To estimate 1-year progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with SAHA.

III. To assess the toxicity profile of SAHA in this patient population. IV. To perform gene expression profiling on tumor tissue before and after treatment in order to explore in a preliminary manner the association between response and specific gene expression results.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral vorinostat twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses of therapy beyond CR.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for 3 years.