Small Cell Lung Cancer Community Engagement to Eliminate Research Discepancies
This study will evaluate if a direct-to-patient, de-centralized, remote approach will improve clinical research outreach and engagement for patients with SCLC, in the context of a bio-specimen collection study. The study will also assess self-reported preferences and needs of patients with SCLC, regarding choosing and accessing novel therapies in research or standard clinical care settings and supportive gaps in this area, through an initial and 3 month follow up survey.
Small-cell Lung Cancer
Feasibility of conducting trial in SCLC population, Percentage of overall eligible subjects enrolled. Percentage of primary SCLC eligible subjects enrolled. Percentage of tSCLC eligible subjects enrolled. Percentage of SCLC eligible subjects enrolled compared to percentage of tSCLC eligible subjects enrolled. Percentage of primary SCLC enrolled subjects completed. Percentage of tSCLC enrolled subjects completed. Percentage of SCLC enrolled subjects completed compared to percentage of tSCLC enrolled subjects completed. Overall reasons for early termination. Reasons for early termination from trial in primary SCLC enrolled. Reasons for early termination from trial in tSCLC enrolled., 12 months
Bio-specimen collection, Percentage of blood collections during trial in overall enrolled and in SCLC enrolled compared to in tSCLC enrolled.

Reasons for failure to obtain blood collections. Percentage of successful blood collections during trial (Overall and in SCLC compared to tSCLC).

Reasons for failure to obtain blood collections. Percentage of successful blood collections during trial (Overall and in SCLC compared to tSCLC). Reasons for failure to obtain blood collections., 12 months|Subject Surveys (baseline and at 3 months), Percentage of successful Survey completions; at baseline; at Month 3. Reasons for failure to complete Survey(s)., 3 months
This is a non-interventional, non-treatment, non-randomized, single coordinating center, study to determine the feasibility of decentralized bio-specimen collection in USA-based adult subjects with SCLC, to be conducted in conformance with Good Clinical Practices. Potential study subjects will be referred to contact staff through a dedicated study webpage form or dedicated study phone hotline at the coordinating center (ALCMI) who will handle informed consent, coordinate remote blood sample collection with study subjects, and collect medical records to confirm diagnosis and treatment history. Subjects will also be asked to complete a baseline and follow up questionnaire/survey documenting their self-report diagnosis, treatment history, factors impacting care and quality of life, and needs/preferences regarding supportive resources.

Patients who have been diagnosed with either extensive stage primary SCLC or patients diagnosed with primary NSCLC who experienced histological "transformation" with a SCLC component after initial diagnosis and subsequent treatment (transformed SCLC; tSCLC) will be invited to volunteer for this study.