Effect of Magnesium Sulphate Infusion on Lung Mechanics and Oxygenation in COPD Patients Undergoing Total Laryngeal
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease \[COPD\] is a major cause of chronic morbidity and mortality worldwide. COPD is characterized by persistent progressive airflow limitation that adversely affects the ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) matching and mechanics of the respiratory muscles and leads to hypoventilation and reduced gas transfer. COPD was identified as a significant comorbidity associated with increased incidences of postoperative pulmonary complications and prolonged hospital stay. MgSO4 either intravenous or inhalational has been shown to promote bronchodilation and to improve lung function in asthmatic patients. MgSO4 either intravenous or inhalational has been shown to promote bronchodilation and to improve lung function in asthmatic patients. Administration of MgSO4 in patients with stable COPD was associated with reduced lung hyperinflation and improvement of respiratory muscle strength. This randomized control trial is designed to assess the effect of intravenous MgSO4 infusion on oxygenation and pulmonary mechanics and incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications and length of hospital stay in patients with COPD undergoing cancer larynx surgery.
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Diseases
DRUG: Magnesium Sulphate
lung oxygenation, PaO2/FiO2 immediately after arrival to the PACU, over a period of 6-8 hours, from the time of induction of general anesthesia until time of patients discharge from the PACU.
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease \[COPD\] is a major cause of chronic morbidity and mortality worldwide. COPD is characterized by persistent progressive airflow limitation that adversely affects the ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) matching and mechanics of the respiratory muscles and leads to hypoventilation and reduced gas transfer. COPD was identified as a significant comorbidity associated with increased incidences of postoperative pulmonary complications and prolonged hospital stay. MgSO4 either intravenous or inhalational has been shown to promote bronchodilation and to improve lung function in asthmatic patients. MgSO4 either intravenous or inhalational has been shown to promote bronchodilation and to improve lung function in asthmatic patients. Administration of MgSO4 in patients with stable COPD was associated with reduced lung hyperinflation and improvement of respiratory muscle strength. This randomized control trial is designed to assess the effect of intravenous MgSO4 infusion on oxygenation and pulmonary mechanics and incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications and length of hospital stay in patients with COPD undergoing cancer larynx surgery.