Alisertib in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well alisertib works in treating patients with sarcoma that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced) or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Alisertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Myxofibrosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Leiomyosarcoma|Recurrent Liposarcoma|Recurrent Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor|Recurrent Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma|Stage III Soft Tissue Sarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Soft Tissue Sarcoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Alisertib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
The Primary Endpoint for This Trial Was the Percent of Confirmed Tumor Responses. Confirmed Tumor Response to Treatment Was Defined as a Complete or Partial Response(Per RECIST 1.1) on Two Consecutive Evaluations at Least 6 Weeks Apart., The primary endpoint was estimated by the number of confirmed responses divided by the total number of evaluable patients per cohort. The study used a two stage Simon design to assess the primary endpoint. A confirmed tumor response rate of 5% was considered not promising; an observed confirmed response rate of 25% was considered promising. One confirmed response within the initial 9 patients enrolled within each cohort, expanded enrollment to 24 patients in that cohort. 3 out of 24 patients with confirmed tumor responses was considered evidence that this treatment could be recommended for further testing. This study design yielded 90% power to detect a true confirmed response rate of at least 25% at .10 level of significance if the true rate is at most 5%. There was a 63% chance of stopping early if the true confirmed response rate was 5%., Up to 18 months
Overall Survival (OS), The distribution will be estimated by the methods of Kaplan and Meier. The estimates of survival at specific time points will be calculated (eg, median, 6 month survival)., The time between registration and death, assessed up to 18 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The distribution will be estimated by the methods of Kaplan and Meier. The estimates of PFS at specific time points will be calculated (eg, median, 1 year PFS)., The time between registration to disease progression or death, assessed up to 18 months|Adverse Events, Adverse Events: Incidence of adverse events, assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Adverse events were collected every cycle during treatment and up to one month after treatment. Adverse events were summarized using summary statistics and frequency tables for each separate cohort. Per protocol, analysis was descriptive in nature. In this section, the number of patients that reported a grade 4 or higher event are summarized. A complete listing of Adverse Events is provided in the Adverse Events section below., During treatment and up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) assessed for patients within each cohort: liposarcoma (cohort 1); leiomyosarcoma (non-uterine) (cohort 2); undifferentiated sarcoma (including pleomorphic undifferentiated sarcoma, formerly known as malignant fibrous histiocytoma, and myxofibrosarcoma) (cohort 3); malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (cohort 4); and other sarcomas (cohort 5).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients treated with MLN8237 (alisertib) in each cohort.

II. To assess the adverse events associated with patients treated with MLN8237 in each cohort.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate potential clinical benefit with markers of aurora kinase inhibition in pre- and post-treatment tumor biopsies.

II. To correlate clinical outcome with change in fluorine F 18 fluorothymidine (FLT)-positron emission tomography (PET) uptake at baseline versus after one week of treatment (ie, week 2 of cycle 1).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 18 months.