Activity & Safety Study of KX2-391 Ointment in Participants With Actinic Keratosis on the Face or Scalp
In this study, the activity, safety, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of KX2-391 Ointment was evaluated in adult participants with a clinical diagnosis of stable, clinically typical actinic keratosis (AK) on the face or scalp.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: 50 mg of KX2-391 Ointment 1%|DRUG: 50 mg of KX2-391 Ointment 1%
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response of Actinic Keratosis, Complete response rate was defined as the percentage of participants achieving 100% clearance in the treatment area on the face or scalp at Day 57., Day 57
Percentage of Participants With Partial Response of Actinic Keratosis, Partial response rate was defined as the percentage of participants achieving more than or equal to 75% clearance in the treatment area on the face or scalp at Day 57., Day 57|Overall Change From Baseline in Actinic Keratosis Lesion Counts at Day 8, 15, 29 and 57, Overall changes from baseline in actinic keratosis lesion counts has been reported., Baseline, Days 8, 15, 29 and 57|Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered an investigational Product (IP). An AE did not necessarily have a causal relationship with the medicinal product. An SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose, resulted in death, was life-threatening (i.e, the participant was at immediate risk of death from the AE as it occurred; this did not include an event that, had it occurred in a more severe form or was allowed to continue, might have caused death), required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect (in the child of a participant who was exposed to the study drug). TEAEs were defined as either those AEs with an onset after dosing or those pre-existing conditions that worsened after dosing. TEAEs included both serious and non-serious TEAEs., Baseline up to Day 57 (Treatment and follow-up period)|Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Events During Recurrence Follow-up Period, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered an IP. An AE did not necessarily have a causal relationship with the medicinal product. An SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose, resulted in death, was life-threatening (i.e, the participant was at immediate risk of death from the AE as it occurred; this did not include an event that, had it occurred in a more severe form or was allowed to continue, might have caused death), required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect (in the child of a participant who was exposed to the study drug). TEAEs were defined as either those AEs with an onset after dosing or those pre-existing conditions that worsened after dosing. TEAEs included both serious and non-serious TEAEs., From Day 57 up to 12-months post-Day 57 (Recurrence follow-up period)|Number of Participants With Maximal Post Baseline Local Skin Reactions (LSRs), Maximal post baseline LSR was defined as the highest grade of any LSR reported at any post baseline visits for a participant. Local skin reactions assessment included signs of erythema, flaking/scaling, crusting, swelling, vesiculation/pustulation, and erosion/ulceration on the treatment area. These signs were assessed using a 5-point grading scale ranging from 0 (not present) to 4 (worst), where (grade 0 = absent, grade 1 = slight, grade 2 = moderate, grade 3 = severe, grade 4 = very severe)., Day 57|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Laboratory, Laboratory parameters included hematology, blood chemistry and urinalysis. Clinical significance was determined by the investigator., Baseline to Day 57|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Vital Signs, Vital signs included measurement of pulse rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, respiratory rate, and body temperature. Clinical significance was determined by the investigator., Baseline up to Day 57|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Electrocardiograms (ECGs), ECG parameters included heart rhythm, heart rate, QRS intervals, QT intervals, RR intervals and corrected QT (QTc) intervals. Clinical significance was determined by the investigator., Baseline up to Day 57|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Physical Examination (PE), A physical examination included weight and height measurements was performed. Clinical significance was determined by the investigator., Baseline up to Day 57|Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of KX2-391 of KX2-391, Cmax was defined as the maximum observed plasma concentration obtained directly from the concentration versus time curve., Pre-dose, 0.5, 1 and 4 hours post-dose on Days 1, 3 (Cohort 2) and 5 (Cohort 1)|Area Under the Plasma Concentration Time Curve From Time 0 to the Last Sampling Time (AUCt) of KX2-391, Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time zero to the last sampling time (t) at which the concentration is at or above the LLOQ. AUC(0-t) was calculated according to the mixed log-linear trapezoidal rule., Pre-dose, 0.5, 1 and 4 hours post-dose on Days 1, 3 (Cohort 2) and 5 (Cohort 1)|Minimum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmin) of KX2-391, Cmin was defined as minimum observed plasma concentration obtained directly from the concentration versus time curve., Pre-dose, 0.5, 1 and 4 hours post-dose on Days 1, 3 (Cohort 2) and 5 (Cohort 1)|Accumulation Ratio (R), Ratio calculated from AUC and Cmax found on the last day of treatment and Day 1., Pre-dose, 0.5, 1 and 4 hours post-dose on Days 1, 3 (Cohort 2) and 5 (Cohort 1)
This study was an open-label, multicenter, activity, safety, tolerability, and PK study of KX2-391 Ointment administered topically to the face or scalp of participants with AK.

The study consists of Screening, Treatment, and Follow-up Periods. Eligible participants were received 3 or 5 consecutive days of topical treatment, applied at the study site. Blood samples for PK analysis were collected. Activity (lesion counts) and safety evaluations were performed.