History of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome in First-degree Relatives
The aim of this study was to investigate the semen analysis results of male patients with first-degree relatives meeting the diagnostic criteria for PCOS.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: spermiogram test
The results of male factors in male patients with first-degree female relatives who fulfill the diagnostic criteria for PCOS, sperm count, 6 months
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is an endocrine metabolic disorder characterised by menstrual irregularity, anovulation, clinical and/or biochemical signs of hyper androgenism (hirsutism and/or acne), micropolycystic ovaries and metabolic abnormalities.

This syndrome is clustered in family members and appears to be inherited through an oligogenic mechanism (1,2). As a result of familial clustering of the PCOS phenotype, metabolic risks have been shown to increase in family members, independent of gender.

The presence of a genetic background in the etiopathogenesis of PCOS means that men may also have signs and symptoms equivalent to PCOS. In addition, the genes responsible for PCOS susceptibility in women are also transferred to male relatives of these individuals. Hormonal and metabolic abnormalities have been identified in male relatives of women with PCOS. These men have shown a higher prevalence of early-onset (\<35 years) androgenetic alopecia (AGA), type 2 DM and cardivascular diseases. In addition, prostate cancer, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostatitis have also been defined more frequently in this group of individuals (1,3).

In addition, differences in responses to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and FSH and LH levels were found in the brothers of women with PCOS compared to control groups.

According to genome studies (GWAS), FSHB gene on chromosome 11p14.1 represents the PCOS susceptibility focus in women (1). Genetic variations in FSHB affect male reproductive function. In fact, polymorphisms of the FSHB promoter have been associated with lower sperm count, higher LH, lower FSH and lower testicular volume (3,4).

In the light of this information, in this study, it was planned to evaluate the comparison of semen analysis results of male patients with a first-degree relative diagnosed with PCOS with the control group.