Therapeutic Listening in Patients With Colorectal Cancer
This is a randomized clinical trial that aims to investigate the effect of therapeutic listening anxiety and preoperative fear of patients hospitalized for surgical treatment of colorectal cancer. Physiological variables will be evaluated (heart rate, blood pressure and respiratory rate), cortisol and salivary amylase and anxiety scores by State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and fear for Surgery Fear Questionnaire. The data of the variables will be compared at two different times (before and after the intervention).
Anxiety|Fear
OTHER: Therapeutic listening
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Change in STAI, a questionnaire to assess anxiety levels., Patients will be followed on three occasions during the preoperative period, an average of 24 hours before surgery.
Blood pressure, Change in Blood Pressure (Systolic and diastolic) (Unit: mmHg)., Patients will be followed on two occasions during the preoperative period, an average of 24 hours before surgery.|Heart rate, Change in radial pulse (Unit: bpm)., Patients will be followed on two occasions during the preoperative period, an average of 24 hours before surgery.|Respiratory rate, Change in thoracic breathing movements (Unit: bpm)., Patients will be followed on two occasions during the preoperative period, an average of 24 hours before surgery.|Salivary cortisol, Change in salivary cortisol levels. For the collection of saliva was used Salivette Tube, cotton swab to determine cortisol (Unit: μg/dL)., Patients will be followed on four occasions during the preoperative period, an average of 24 hours before surgery.|Salivary amylase, Change in salivary amylase levels. The system for the collection and analysis of salivary amylase comprises a disposable test strip and a portable analyzer, the Cocoro Meter (Unit: KU/L)., Patients will be followed on two occasions during the preoperative period, an average of 24 hours before surgery.|Surgical Fear Questionnaire (SFQ), Change in SFQ, a questionnaire to assess the levels of fear of surgery., Patients will be followed on two occasions during the preoperative period, an average of 24 hours before surgery.
To calculate the sample size was chosen when using numerical scale IDATE. Considering that you want to detect a difference of 10 points (δ) in the range with a significance level of 5% (Z1-α = 1.96), a power of 80% (Z1-β = 1.96). The result obtained was 25 subjects for each group. Information related to variances of control and intervention groups were obtained through the pilot study and a correlation of 0.5 was assumed.