Testing the Use of the Combination of Selumetinib and Olaparib or Selumetinib Alone Targeted Treatment for RAS Pathway Mutant Recurrent or Persistent Ovarian and Endometrial Cancers, A ComboMATCH Treatment Trial
This phase II ComboMATCH treatment trial compares selumetinib plus olaparib to selumetinib alone in women with endometrial or ovarian (fallopian tube and primary peritoneal) cancer that has come back (recurrent) or that remains despite treatment (persistent) and harbors a mutation in the RAS pathway. Selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Olaparib is an inhibitor of PARP, an enzyme that helps repair deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) when it becomes damaged. Blocking PARP may help keep tumor cells from repairing their damaged DNA, causing them to die. PARP inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy. The addition of olaparib to selumetinib could increase the percentage of tumors that shrink as well as lengthen the time that the tumors remain stable (without progression) as compared to selumetinib alone.
Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Selumetinib Sulfate
Progression-free survival (PFS), Disease progression will be defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 criteria, as determined by the treating physician. The primary analyses will be based on logrank tests stratified by the stratification factors as recorded at randomization. All enrolled patients will be included, regardless of compliance with their assigned study regimen. Patients will be grouped by their randomized treatment for intention-to-treat analyses. Treatment hazard ratios and 90% confidence intervals will be estimated using proportional hazards models specified with a main-effect for the randomized treatment assignment (experimental versus \[vs\] reference), and stratified using the stratification factors recorded at randomization. Treatment group differences will be graphed using Kaplan-Meier methods., The duration of time from enrollment to the date of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years
Incidence of adverse events (AE), The safety population will support these analyses. The nature, frequency, and degree of toxicity will be tabulated at the System Organ Class and AE-specific term levels using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0. Each patient will be represented according to the maximum grade observed for each term. Tabulations will show the number and percentage of patients by maximum grade, within the treatment group received, regardless of the randomized treatment assignment., Up to 5 years|Objective response rate (ORR) between two arms, ORR is defined as the binomial proportion of evaluable patients with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (by RECIST 1.1) within 6 months of the date of the last enrollment. Responses reported by the treating physician will be used for these analyses. The ORR estimates by treatment arm will be supported by their 2-sided, 95% Wilson-Score confidence intervals. The relative odds of response in the experimental arm (vs the reference arm) will be estimated using a multivariable logistic regression model specified with main effects for the randomized treatment assignment and covariate adjustments for the stratification factors reported at baseline., Within 6 months of the date of last enrollment|ORR in crossover patients, Determined by RECIST 1.1. The crossover population will support these analyses. The same evaluation criteria for ORR in the measurable disease population will be applied to the crossover population. These analyses will be done separately for each cohort., Up to 5 years|Duration of response of both arms, These analyses will be supported by patients in the measurable disease population who have a best overall response of PR or CR. Treatment group differences in response duration will be graphed using Kaplan-Meier methods and compared using logrank tests, stratified by the stratification factors defined at randomization. The relative hazards of progression or death in the experimental group (vs the reference group) will be estimated using a multivariable proportional hazards regression model specified with main effects for the treatment indicators and covariate adjustments for the stratification factors reported at baseline. These analyses will be done separately for each cohort., The time from documentation of either PR or CR until disease progression or death, whichever is observed first, assessed up to 5 years
ORR, Defined as the binomial proportion of patients with a best overall response of CR or PR. Defined using RECIST 1.1 criteria. Roughly 10 genomic and transcriptomic measures are expected to present as dichotomous factors. When 3 or more levels are presented, the relatively small sample sizes will likely require collapsing down to 2 levels. If presented as continuous variables, the median of the observed values will classify evaluable patients as having wild-type (WT) or mutated expression., Up to 5 years|Resistance to therapy, Defined as the proportion of patients with best overall response of disease progression. Defined using RECIST 1.1 criteria. Roughly 10 genomic and transcriptomic measures are expected to present as dichotomous factors. When 3 or more levels are presented, the relatively small sample sizes will likely require collapsing down to 2 levels. If presented as continuous variables, the median of the observed values will classify evaluable patients as having WT or mutated expression., Up to 5 years|Concordance between the diagnostic tumor mutation profile, biopsy mutations, and pre-treatment circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) mutations, Assess the concordance of the diagnostic tumor mutation profile generated by the designated laboratory, the pre-treatment biopsy mutation profile, and the pre-treatment ctDNA mutation profile., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare progression free survival of combination of olaparib and selumetinib sulfate (selumetinib) to selumetinib alone in patients with RAS mutant ovarian cancer. (Cohort 1) II. Compare progression free survival of combination of olaparib and selumetinib to selumetinib alone in patients with RAS mutant endometrial cancer. (Cohort 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine safety of both arms per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0.

II. Compare objective response rate per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 between the two arms.

III. Determine rate of objective response per RECIST 1.1 in those patients that crossover from the single agent arm to the combination arm.

IV. Report duration of response of the two treatment arms. V. Collect tissue and provide it to the ComboMATCH Registration protocol to assess concordance between the diagnostic tumor mutation profile generated by the designated laboratories, the pre-treatment biopsy mutation profile, and the pre-treatment circulating tumor (ct)DNA mutation profile from plasma, as described in ComboMATCH Registration protocol. For this treatment substudy, the outcome objective will be to report the proportion of cases providing sufficient tissue for that integrated scientific activity in the ComboMATCH Registration protocol.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess association of baseline genomic and transcriptomic status with response and resistance to therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients in both cohorts are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and olaparib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo a tumor biopsy and blood collection during screening and on study, as well as echocardiogram (ECHO) or multigated acquisition (MUGA), and computed tomography (CT) scans throughout the trial. Patients may undergo bone marrow aspiration or biopsy as clinically indicated.

ARM II: Patients receive selumetinib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who experience progression may elect to cross over to Arm I provided they have not had dose limiting toxicities to monotherapy selumetinib. Patients also undergo a tumor biopsy and blood collection during screening and on study, as well as ECHO or MUGA, and CT scans throughout the trial. Patients may undergo bone marrow aspiration or biopsy as clinically indicated.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.