To Establish a Molecular Typing System for Early Diagnosis of Lung Cancer
This topic to take large multicenter study real world, the advanced liquid biopsy will ctDNA methylation detection technique is applied to pulmonary nodules differential diagnosis and early lung cancer screening, validation of early lung cancer screening and diagnosis of molecular classification system model, the feasibility of the development of early lung cancer screening and diagnosis of molecular classification system, improve its early screening early detection accuracy and efficiency, Improve the survival status of lung cancer high-risk population. At the same time, this project combined AI analysis technology of LDCT image results with ctDNA methylation detection, so as to overcome false negatives caused by the deficiency of ctDNA methylation detection technology in sensitivity, specificity, stability and flux, and correct false positive results that may be caused by AI analysis technology of LDCT image results. The combination of the two can avoid missed diagnosis and over - examination and over - treatment.
Lung Cancer
To develop a molecular typing system for early screening and diagnosis of lung cancer, The feasibility of the molecular typing system model for early screening and diagnosis of lung cancer was verified through clinical studies, which significantly improved the accuracy and efficiency of early screening and early diagnosis, and improved the survival status of high-risk population of lung cancer., assessed up to 36 months|AI technology was combined with ctDNA methylation detection technology, In addition to overcoming false negatives caused by deficiencies in sensitivity, specificity, stability and flux of ctDNA methylation detection technology, and correcting false positive results that may be caused by AI, the combination of the two can avoid missed diagnosis, over-examination and over-treatment., assessed up to 36 months
1. All patients underwent low-dose CT pulmonary nodule AI detection and peripheral blood ctDNA methylation detection at baseline
2. Follow-up plan: Low-risk and medium-risk nodules and some high-risk nodules (5-10mm) were followed up. 10ml peripheral blood was collected from each follow-up and stored for testing until the end of the study. The high-risk nodules over 10mm were evaluated by the expert group and the patients were informed by biopsy or surgical resection. Histopathological diagnosis was made and compared with ctDNA methylation results to analyze the sensitivity and specificity of ctDNA methylation markers of lung cancer.
3. Endpoint: Tissue samples were pathologically diagnosed as benign or malignant.